"this \"fix\" is a no brainer."
"back to the top.why ccp? why?"
"i support this idea! yes yes yes"
"not sure what would be the best way to implement a 4th bonus, but i totally agree they need their due 4th bonus."
"i was sad when nobody responded to my concept, but here is my idea for how to fix up blasters:the problem of hybrids"
"/supported"
"lol you guys, we've got like 6 people who say they support this but didn't hit the support button. it's right there beneath your text box, and it's what the csm looks at. :)i want to take another look at the drone subsystem, since i don't know too much about it...historically, amarr have been the secondary drone race after gallente. actually they're the secondary race of several things but that's fine because laser damage is so very limited. in any case, there has been one ceiling placed on amarr ships to keep them in second place behind gallente, and that is their bandwidth.\"no amarr ship with drone bonuses shall wield heavy drones or sentries,\" is the rule ccp set when they started giving amarr ships drones, and i actually agree with them. i like that the curse and pilgrim have a good amount of drone damage but they can't go over it, it's a hard ceiling. still, it's kind of sad for the legion to be dealing the same damage as a pilgrim. 4 unbonused lasers is pitiful and nobody will fit them even if the drone subsystem swaps a medium slot out for a low slot.so this is the bonus i propose:15% drone damage per level (up from 10%, it still won't be dealing much damage)5% drone hitpoints per level (gallente get to be king of drone durability)5% drone mwd speed.i considered 10% drone speed but that's probably too much. the reasoning is that a proteus or ishtar can drop sentries when the enemy is far away, but the legion cannot. also, drone legions almost always have energy neuts instead of guns, but without a range bonus they need to get in close. in this situation the drone bonus is all but useless as you don't need your drones to travel.this is just a suggestion, please give your support if you think the original post is a step in the right direction. then let me know what you think of ideas like this one."
"as expected gankbears would be totally against this idea."
"i've never understood why concord pay npc bounties anyway. concord are there to police the capsuleers, not the npcs. if any thing the bounties should be paid by the empires whose space the npc's are in. yes that means i'm in favour of pulling all npc bounties from 0.0.on security status i think the op is on the right lines but actually security status is only lost by killing capsuleers, why should it be regained at all by shooting npc's? security status is concord's method of recognising which capsuleers have performed criminal acts against other capsuleers so why not shift the regain of security status to acts against other capsuleers also?basically if you want your security status back, find and terminate some other capsuleer who has a criminal record. should be a good way of generating pvp encounters should it not?"
"it is far to easy to exploit."
"supported. give people reason to go to lowsec, and remove the strange fact that you can't really lose sec status in null by being bad, but you can gain it quickly.edit: adding a thumbs up for the proposal and an entirely different finger gesture to the poster below me."
"hey dignus, you do realize that if you support something in the assembly hall, throwing a thumbs up helps.and as far as null sec, please tell me who exactly maintains said naughty list. i personally do not care.edit:actually this would create massive chaos and tears. not to mention the jewbear population would just cave. i am all for this sort of strife."
"having lived the majority of my time in lowsec as a flashy pirate (and living off of my kills/ransoms)i always found that the casual, weekend warrior type, pvp'ers were my bread and butter. both in terms of income and \"good fights\". a large percentage of those players ran solo or in 2-3man gangs and, as such, were a source of greater fun than getting 1-2kills before having to gtfo because of the 5-15man gang trailing the tackle.by making lowsec the only place you can work off the sec hits of casual pvp, you will only see less and less casual players. do you honestly think that the people who run missions in highsec 75% of the time (and can work off the small sec hits via thier l4's) will spend as much time making pew pew in lowsec if they risk not getting back to thier mission systems? imo, the op's idea is really a disincentive in the long run.as those players start to diminish,so do the players like me because there are other options that are more fun. eventually lowsec becomes nothing but gank corps, fw, and nullsec moon mining/logistics. given the already large numbers of these in low space, i assume these are not the \"targets\" you were hoping to have.while i can appreciate the drive to get more people into the belts, i do not think the op was particularly well thought out in terms of long-term consequences.maybe i am just a gankbear though edit- i might get behind removing the sec gains from null, but definately not from high."
"i really don't think you want the null sec factions not only taking up all the low sec moons but also creating safe areas in low sec where they can grind sec status up after taking someone else's pos.this would increase traffic in low sec, but it wouldn't provide the benefit you seem to think it would. the low sec pirates simply do not have the numbers to mess with null sec alliances. you don't want a turf war with them."
"pfft, 1 low-seccer = 10 null-seccers.bring it carebear besides, the whole point is not just to get low traffic but to actually make sec. gain not quite so trivial. it is a completely wasted 'feature' when one can pirate on the weekends and be back in the black from bog standard ratting deep within a sea of cyno jammed systems .. might as well remove security gain for all its worth and let people press a button when they want back into jita.besides, it makes perfect rp sense: community service in to seek redemption from past crimes high-sec gain can stay, it is such obscenely low numbers as it is that it can only really be used to correct a point or two before driving a person insane."
"not supported in the original op.the topic suggestion is a covered try to get victims to low sec. if the author is authentic about punishment the only way would be to get less sec boost in low sec and no boost from null sec. the logic behind it sounds fair as well. in \"no sec\" area no security is needed and therefore no sec status gain for shooting rats. as the rats still are \"enemies\" to the factions, bountys are ok.in the end i agree with the author that regainin sec status is to easy. for example ganking a hulk and recovering doesnt take nearly as long as re-earning the money for the miner. miner are mostly newer players who arent as wealthy. probably go broken with a gank. therefore ganking a hulk should lead to 3 weeks or more hard ratting in low sec, similar to re-earning the ship."
"agreed. do the crime, do the time in a genuinely dangerous area, not in your safe, cynojammed station system."
"i brought it last night and all the little low sec babies ran. no, i didn't bring a blob, just 8 ships. the 15 man low sec gang (which included two faction ships) made excuses that the two logistics ships in my fleet meant i really didn't want a fight. i honestly thought we were about to lose the gang to them but they ran to high sec from us.i lived in low sec for almost 2 years. i still raid low sec to this day. you can say what you want, we mop you guys up easily. with < 10 ships. again, you really don't want null seccers sticking around for extended time in low sec because it will be bad for newer players... and it will inevitably end up with more escalations to hot drops in low sec which is bad for everyone."
"it is a reasonable request, considering that those who pvp in 0.0 get no sec penalties. so for pure 0.0 alliance people, it doesn't matter at all. those that choose to kill in empire should deal with the consequences in empire."
"have you considered that we can farm a low sec system for sec status the same way we can a null sec system? my corp controlled (dominated) a low sec system for about a month when we were between alliances, and we are mostly industrials. that is what would happen to fairly big chunks of low sec. null sec pilots have resources and manpower to throw at such things.no one is pure 0.0 pvp anymore with tech moons in low sec. you will end up with piles of cap pilots needing sec, which means you'll end up with systems populated by a bunch of caps and super caps grinding standings back up after a weekend of unpleasant pos bashes."
"make sec status mean something!!!111oneonedo the crime do the time!!!1111eleventyoneyeah because the multiple nerfs to sec status and recouping of sec status over the years have worked soooooo well at penalizing players who violence boats in highsec and lowsec! more of the same is evidently needed to combat the current-day onslaught of negative security people!!!"
"my experience shows that sniper loki is very effective at killing dramiels.it's achieved without webs or even warp scrambling. simply 1-2 shot them as they try chase you. i got me 5 dramiel kills in 1 week that way.that's not to justify anything, i'm merely presenting a viable tactic for current situation."
"yeah, too bad the idea is to get some semblance of 1v1 balance back to the frigate class as well as give interceptors (and to some extent, afs) their viability back... fact is, lots of things kill dramiels, you don't need to alpha them in a 500 mil t3 (that would 1-2 shot most other frigates as well, duh!), 50 mil is sufficient for the job tbh. but it doesn't change the fact that as it stands the dramiel is dominating the frigate arena way too much and it's making the game *very* boring by now..."
"pikacat speaks the truth, nerf without making it boring or useless ftw."
"it's not about counters or tactics. everyone knows that counters and tactics exist. but it does not necessarily follow that frigates are balanced.i'd do something like keeping the speed but reducing the agility (such that interceptors could outrun a dramiel over a short sprint?) and ehp/dps significantly. speed is fine as long as the appropriate sacrifices are made for it - but the combination of great speed and great agility is very powerful, and adding decent ehp and dps on top is excessive."
"i still believe that balance to the frigate scene can be returned by significantly restricting supply of dramiels, resulting in significant cost increase for the superior ship.that way when people lose dramiels, they lose a lot of money, making it unsustainable for bad pvp pilots. the same form of balance we have with officer mods in pvp."
"might have made sense 3 years ago before eve got all those insane isk making addition: pi, moons, incursions, low-sec bs rats, sanctums etc.isk was not a balancing factor back then and should certainly not be one now that anyone can put together half a billion in a week .. look at the explosion in super-capitals and t3's flying around, we are richer than ever before.supply should be brought down to dd level at least, but not for balancing purposes but because it is the right thing to do .. ship will still be op in the frigate realm no matter what it costs."
"i don't like the proliferation of supercaps. but i really like that many people use t3 for pvp. people invest 500+ mil and a few days training into pvp ships - that's a very good thing.use of expensive stuff in pvp makes it more exciting for everyone - for both sides, those who fly it, and those who eventually get to kill it. it is one of the things that allows eve to maintain interest of long term player. without it, pvp gets boring in a year or less.ccp should do more to encourage people to pvp with expensive ships. they should also make sure that super-cheap alternatives (such as drake and hurricane) cannot dominate the battlefield. people should choose - either be powerful and fly something expensive, or be weak and cheap, and gain strength through numbers (blob tactics).there should always be something \"elite\" for long term players to pursue, something rare and expensive. and it is wrong to assume that the end game is all in the mega alliance supercapitol stuff. the small gang people need goals too.dramiel can be raised above all frigs, not one of them any longer, but something special. and as such, it should be more rare and much more expensive."
"as hy says isk has never been a balancing factor. think of all the people who used to dump a bil into thier vagas. most were not crazy good pilots, many lost multiple ships/month due to sneaky tactics and being over confident. and yet they still kept fitting the same.if something is out of balance, it is out of balance. making it more expensive just means that only rich people get to have unbalanced ships. making them cheap means everyone can have an unbalanced ship.unfortunately only nerfing the dram doesnt really change things. nerfing the dram just moves the fotm the next \"best\" ship. there has to be a wholistic approach if you want balance. then again- balance is something few people really want. they just want \"diffferent\". if you nerf the dram then the ship that takes its place will be the next thing people complain about in a year or two."
"isk plays integral part in game balance of eve. just a few major changes to costs of various things can totally **** this game up.as any game with economy, as with real life, there will be rich people and there will be \"unbalanced\" benefits that rich people buy. that's just the nature of economics.the real question we should be asking is: does destroying rich guy's ship hurts him or not? can a smarter, more prepared group of people destroy the rich guy's source of wealth? for most things, eve allows you to destroy somebody, except when:*) they employ bot army*) they run level 4's in high sec*) they won the t2 bpo lottery years agoalliance moon goo stuff pretty close to being invulnerable too. eve should have more ways to disrupt logistics involved in transferring the goods from 0.0 to empire markets.if we are really interested in perfectly balanced pvp game, then we should erase economy completely. all ships and fittings should be available for free. all unbalanced things such as officer mods should be eliminated.but as long as there is money involved, unbalanced things must exist."
"so if ccp introduced a ship that was totally invulnerable, but made the cost of that ship sufficiently high enough, it would be balanced?cool story bro.as an aside- your diatribe sounds really really familiar. did you used to post under a different name? like 3-4 years ago?"
"ccp already introduced such a ship - check out some of the jove ships - like enigma.they exist, yet nobody complains.why?because impossibly overpowered ship is impossible to get.simple extension of the principle that crappy ship is easy to get. strong ship is hard to get. the power to cost ratio should make a geometric curve."
"more kills means nothing. the point is you're an alt troll and have no knowledge, at all, of what you're talking about. the number of kills isn't the determining factor, but knowledge. and minigin lying and trolling, is simply a fact. minigin generally doesn't post if he's not trolling (witness the \"so any change in game mechanics breaks the sandbox?\" lie/troll combo)see, this is the kind of lying and trolling i'm talking about. first, you know full well that i have stated facts and you can't refute them, so you lie and call them opinions when you're not simply ignoring them. you also know that my arguments have not been rebutted, which is why you deliberately ignore them and lie in order to troll. much like you know that i've never stated that maps are \"lies\", and you are trolling. what i actually stated was that simply pointing to a map in order to fearmonger doesn't prove anything, especially when the actual facts and logic of how jb's are used in the game disprove the fearmongering. naturally, you are lying in order to troll, again. seriously, anybody reading along should look at the last several posts i made in response to this alt, and notice how many times she's lied in order to try to troll me. then realize that you can't trust a single thing she says, and that the fact is that i object to trolling, which is her only mode of argument, so she lies and claims that simple \"disagreement\" is equal to trolling in my book. likewise, posters should note that rafia is again lying in order to troll. he is posting with an alt, it simply happens to be a newly created alt. in fact, he admitted that he no longer uses his main and is using this alt char instead. anybody can check its creation date and stats easily, so this is a rather sad lie that rafia is using. this is because she doesn't care if she gets caught lying and trolling, she's just in it to troll same deal. rafia is making a claim, guess whether or not it's true?also, she doesn't understand what analogies are and certainly not what ad homs or appeals authority are. standard lying in order to troll. never said it, of course.but if rafia is arguing a position, chances are it's based on a lie. more lying in order to troll. killboard stats for small gang pvp do not evince experience with nullsec warfare. and the fact that minigin is a troll is due to his relentless trolling. i even asked him to stop, but he then creepily demanded to hear my voice, record me and get my ip address or he wouldn't post honestly because he hates the forums (and yet for some reasons posts all over them trolling people). more lying in order to troll. rafia first lied about what \"ccp\" said. then lied about what greyscale said. now she's lying about what i've said because the fact is that it was an informal spitballing session and not an official policy decision from ccp.seriously, anybody reading this thread should realize that when someone can't even post with their main, and lies constantly on an alt to troll, that their argument obviously cannot be suppor"
"obviously. but the anti-bridge crowd aren't about enriching pvp, despite their slogans. they're about trying to use out of game methods to hurt opponents they can't fight in the game. if they're too small/ineffective to fight sov holders with jb networks, they want ccp to fix things for them. they can't go the pl route of actually being competent and fighting effectively even when outnumbered, so they want ccp to help them. if they thought that they could convince ccp to make it so that their enemies couldn't even cooperate, they would. (minigin in fact famously tried to argue that we should actually remove red/blue standings from the game so he could gank whoever he wanted and people couldn't cooperate against him). of course jb's allow fleet combat, which is eve's main selling point and one they emphasize in pr bit after pr bit. but this is an issue where people want ccp to funnel targets into their guns and make it easier to gank people with gatecamps. likewise, people actually want to try to make eve less fun and an actual job for people, and they claim this will make it more fun. it's, of course, because they don't have those moons and want to try to hurt those who do, rather than forming up a fleet and doing something about it. it's forum warfare over fleet warfare. the forum warfare crowd doesn't realize this. they hope that, with bridges removed, all of a sudden their opponents won't cooperate and finally they'll be able to fight them. but not more time consuming and tedious for the forum warfare advocates, so to them it's just fine. and it might funnel targets into their guns, and they can't manage to camp jb's (or object to the fact that once targets are aware that they're there, they might have to move and exert effort to kill targets on another jb), so they'd prefer some easy ganks. of course, if they actually got the change implemented and managed to claim space if their opponents magically all fell apart without bridges, all of a sudden we'd be hearing about how awful logistics in eve are and how people need to play it like it's their job."
"holy ****, i've posted in this thread like 1-2 months ago and haven't read it since then. i've just read the last page of the thread and you are still making the same dumb arguments. like just cause you say \"they don't\" doesn't mean that you are right. in fact, this is not an argument at all.you keep talking about jb camp being equivalent to gate camps. which is totally bs.1) once the jb camp is reported everyone simply uses another jb. ---> once a camp of a bottleneck system/gate is reported, well you still can't use another gate or you would at least have to make a really long detour in order to avoid it. 2) at a jb there are usually pos guns --> there are no guns at a gate in 0.0 (yes they can be incapped)3) jbs need to be scanned down first --> the gates are not that hard to find.4) at jb there is a safe pos shield bubble ---> there is no such thing at a gateand the probably most important argument against the jbs the ability of force projection. though, i won't explain this for the (pick a number) time.. p.s: use some **** references in your arguments and i say you are the toon of glenn beck...."
"for one reason alone ccp should keep bridges.gate lag uhhmm."
"the differences are mostly minor, matter of implementation and easy to change.i wouldn't say that anyone is arguing that jump bridge mechanics should remain intact. the point is, neither of the arguments support the jump bridges removal. removing a feature means there is a conceptual flaw and with no way for fix. that does not apply to jump bridges though thus whole bridge removal agenda is very much absurd and indeed lacking reasoning to justify such action. major part of the 'issue' is failed sov revamp and sacrifiing jump bridges isn't going to help anything. supporting this type of band-aids only encourage ccp in their lousy development..."
"no ****. (and i notice that you somehow neglected to mention that simply claiming that they exacerbate problems isn't proof, either.) maybe the detailed, fact based argument that i've presented time and again as to why they don't actually exacerbate the problems listed is the argument that i've made. ya think?nah, it was probably those two words. you really believe that, too. blatant fiction. i've stated that both can be camped, but obviously an armed pos is not a gate. which again proves that it's perfectly possible to effect area denial of jb networks and also ignores the fact that not only is there not always a separate arm of a jb network you can use, but you can actually camp more than one jb pipeline. ~gasp~ a pos is not a gate? alert the media!!!oh no, :effort:! csaa's aren't fair either, i guess, they're also at pos's, have to be scanned down, and you can't even incap them without incapping the entire pos. no fair!i've also heard that ccp is thinking of implementing some sort of structure where people can store all their assets, totally risk free, which grants an invulnerability timer when you leave it and which takes herculean effort to take possession of and which pilots can simply return to and be in complete safety.i think they're planning on calling it an inpost. no... that's not right. transpost? sidepost? probably not outpost though. which has already been identified as fearmongering. there was force projection before jb's. there's still force projection without them today. hell, the drone regions were recnetly invaded by alliances which largely set up shop at a forward hq and didn't use jb's at all in the day to day conflict. additionally even the longest jb chains save something like 15-20 minutes (and those are only the longest). to suggest that you can raise a fleet of hundreds upon hundreds of pilots to project force, but then they have an additional 15 minutes of travel time so they all go home?well... it's not particularly convincing, is all. (not that the \"ayieeee, glenn beck!!!\" ad hominem troll isn't awesome. clearly if you're getting your head handed to you on the facts and logic, vomiting on the guy eviscerating your argument has to be better than, well... i'm not sure what it's better than. but probably something or another, boy howdy)."
"1) it is much harder to camp an armed pos with jb, to bubble a jb you need to incap the guns first which reuires a considerable fleet2) while you could stop the traffic between certain constellation by camping only one or two gates, you would mostly have to camp more jbs for the same effect + the gates. 3) how can a hostile entity know how many jbs you have and how they are connected? well one could use spies.this brings us to the bottomline...jb camps req more intelligence, bigger numbers + more fleets. on top of that they give the defender the ability to blob the system in order to crash the camp withing minutes after forming up. this would be more difficult without jbs especially for big alliences due to lack of motivation to do 10j just to crash a gate camp.yes, the differences are only minor honestly, you must be the toon of glenn beck! if you don't have any counter-argument, just write somekind of unrelated bs or does ccp plan to introduce an outpost upgrade that allows you to use it as a gate or a jb? or can csaas create some kind of wormholes that teleport you to a certain system?how can it be identified as fearmonging if i see the proof for it almost every day? on our last road trip we moved like 25 jumps away from our home systems to fight another alliance. the problem was that we had to travel back in order to rat when we needed to replace lost ships. plus another alliance attacked us in our home systems at some point which meant we had to travel 25 jumps through low sec in a sr bs blob just to discover that the enemy didn't show up. after 2 weeks our leadership had to cancel the operations due to pilots losing motivation, don't showing up to ctas and going offline as soon as a fleet is announced where everybody is expected to participate if he is online."
"indeed, they are minor.troll less please..."
"yes, only an idiot would deny that jb's offer an advantage and that they're not the same as gates. we've been over this though. so what? it's not as easy to camp many jb's as it is most gates. so what? again, :effort:so what? :effort: plus a defensive bonus for defenders. what is the world coming to?!?\"hey guys, i know you're all spinning your ships and bored, but we've found a stationary camp only 10 minutes away and we're going to go gank the **** out of them. who wants killmails?\" and you respond with ad hominem trolling when your argument is debunked. after i offer a point by point counter-argument, instead of addressing it, you babble about glenn beck and troll about how i don't have a counter argument. it's obvious you don't understand, so i'll explain it to you (again): the properties of jb's which annoy you aren't unique to jb's and aren't extreme in relation to the rest of game mechanics. the only thing you've come up with is that they're more difficult to camp than gates. duh. and, yet again, changing jb functionality is world's apart from completely and totally removing them from the game. the irony here is delicious. of course, as it's been debunked on factual and logical grounds (we've already done the whole \"gasp! look at how you can save almost 15 minutes on an op that might see hundreds if not thousands of people who can prepare far in advance for well known timers!\" thing)not to mention the fact that the dreaded nc jb network (ayieee!!!) didn't allow the nc to defend it's home and attack the drf, so claims that they let you fight on two fronts are false. and much of the nc deployed to forward hq's from which they launched their attacks into drf space, also totally without jb's. even looking at vale the actual travel time saves was a handfull of minutes. and again, there was force projection long before there were ever jb's. coalitions, too. jump clones. market alts. pve alts. you didn't have to travel back at all. and even if you actually did, pilots can easily rotate out for a few hours of ratting and afford pretty much any non-faction subcap ship in the game. the plural of anecdote is not evidence. i could just as easily point out that we deployed all the way across the galactic map, to a region where we have zero jb's but our enemies have their own networks, and we routinely go on 25+ jump roams all over the place, because we like it. but neither anecdote has anything to do with the fact that simply posting up maps and ignoring the facts and logic involved doesn't justify the fearmongering inherent in the \"zomg, you can save 15 minutes of travel time! eve is dooooooomed! see, i have a map!\""
"don't have the time for a long answer right now, but this is remarkable.you have basically confirmed all of my arguments and your single counter-argument was \"so what?\"you really are a great argument debunker! and you really expect me to adress your \"so what?\" argument?let me test something...- the world is running out of oil, we should invest into green technologies.yes you are right gas will be more expensive in the future, but we don't need new green technologies. get a better paying job! so what?- global warming...we don't need to reduce the carbondioxite emissions, just get yourself some sun lotion! but this will make sea levels rise. oooh effort... so what?- dictators...yes dictators aren't nice, everyone knows that. but you can still adapt to the system. so what?- war...yes living in peace is nicer, but you can still survive a war if you hide. so what?hey it works... thx!!!!well, ok i stop trolling. so your counter-argument is basically: yes you are right, but i don't care! and there is really no point in arguing with you about that. there is actually no reason why you should care, since you belong to the entity that profits form the jb network the most."
"ah, that explains everything. i can't have your cake so i whine to devs to take the cake from you..."
"yes totally true, you got me! i mean i live in 0.0 as well and we also do have jbs which make.. oh wait..."
"well, then you obviously do not understand the substance of logical argument. it isn't enough to identify a fact and then point angrily at it, the \"so what\" part is what actuay makes an argument. a given is impotent without logical conclusions. the fact that jb's are not gates is immaterial if you cannot posit, and then support, \"so what?\"this is logic 101.the fact that your only response is this bluster would seem to suggest that your argument does not or can not rise above angrily pointing at facts and hoping that a qed will materialize out of thin air.of course not. i expect you to be utterly unable to take a set of givens all the way through to a qed, and for you then to rant about glenn beck. so far you are performing as expected.- dioxide. carbondioxide. one c atom two o atoms.don't say that i've never done anything for ya.you misspelled \"you are pointing to isolated facts and then doing absolutely no work to build a cogent analysis which proves anything about the relevance or impact of those facts, much less what should be done about them.\"easy typo to make.also funny troling about how i \"belong\" to anybody.like i've pointed out: fiction, fallacy, fearmongering and failure."
"actually i thought it is needless to explain that, since many people tried already to explain that to you + it is in the csm notes.but ok, bacause jbs != gates, they can be considered as tools that support the creation of big power blocks which increase the problem with blobbing. because jbs make it easier to form big fleets. you said earlier about that something like... this is bs because jbs can be camped too.and it is again surprising to me how you first say that jbs are not special cause they can be camped and so on... but then you simply say, yes of course they are not gates and much harder to camp but why are we talking about this stupd fact? i don't care anyway. and by the way you guys are all stupid trolling ******s cause you can't spell words properly. and every argument i don't like is illogial."
"make each jump thru the jb cost 10 million isk from user's wallet.that can bring some balance to the current situation. it's like a toll gate for a super highway.most unbalanced things in eve can be brought in order by economic adjustments."
"got some folks to agree with me in a big way, so adding my own support.this would imo kinda detract from the fact that the freighter is the only ship class in the game 100% dependent upon skills, and nothing else. i believe it is meant to be that way so we cannot haul cap ships, and is easier on the devs to keep it this way.consider this, sir. way back when the freighter was created, eve did not have an easy way to warp directly to gates, meaning the 5% increase in max velocity was actually a useful boost. now that you can warp to zero in any system you travel in, this boost no longer has any significant use. in our current universe as it is, an agility boost will actually make the second skill effect useful once again."
"not suppoted.i'm an active freighter pilot... most of the time. i own 2 charon (heck, i own all the bpo).losing the speed bonus for agility would mean freighters could reach warp speed faster, which is not where they spend most of their time.most of the time traveling in a freighter is spent on the 12.5 km distance to the gate and in warp.for example, despite the fact that an orca travels in warp a lot faster (2.7 au/s vs. 0.75 au/s), the orca has a lower top speed than a freighter. the orca actually takes a lot longer to travel those 12.5 km than a freighter. the end result is that a freighter travels faster than an orca. i've \"raced\" them on some long routes to verify it.if you want to buff freighters for everyone, increase their speed in warp to say 2.0 au/s"
"true, a warp speed increase would benefit any freighter. and since you are mentioning the 12.5km to gate distance, this means you tend to autopilot. yes, switching from a max velocity boost to an agility boost would make an ap pilot slower overall. an agility boost would benefit active, non-afk pilots only. so, at this point, i guess the big question would be, should the skill benefit an active pilot more, an afk pilot more, or both?oh yes, and in case you have always used autopilot, there is a nice selected item icon that allows you to warp directly to a gate at 0km."
"rewarding afk autopiloting is bad. you want fast travel time, don't autopilot.definitely support a bonus to agility instead of velocity.*edit: a freighter can carry 4x-5x as much as an orca. it should be slower than one, but that isn't what this thread is about."
"i support the principle of not rewarding afk pilots with higher speeds. rather than higher agility, what about higher structure resists?"
"i actually gave that one thought and came to the following conclusion:1) if someone is trying to suicide you you either a) have some really dumb gankers that will not succeed, or b) have some really valuable cargo that makes it worth losing 10-20 battleships2) if you are wardecced and you are flying a freighter you are either a) not the sharpest tool in the shed b) being really expensive bait c) just don't care about a 750mil isk ship, or d) all of the above3) if you are flying your freighter in lowsecsee answers a,b,c and d for scenario 2.any of the situations that would result in the need for extra hull tank are generally better mitigated by smarter piloting, or using another ship for the job, and an extra 25% ehp prolly won't save you anyhow. so, although better resists would be better than higher max velocity, my preference would be for agility instead.the exception to this may be for jump freighters, in which case the extra resist may end up buying you enough time for reinforcements... maybe."
"this would indeed make flying a freighter less of a pain and probably help jita congestion."
"25% extra ehp means 25% more ships in the suicide tank fleet, which means you can carry more valuable cargo.then again, that means more cargo per trip, which makes eve smaller and increases the incentive for everyone to trade in jita. so scratch that idea :)higher agility would make eve smaller too."
"^ this."
"oh, i'm sorry, i misunderstood. i thought this was about unnecessarily boosting a ship simply to make people's lives easier. now i realise that the problem is solely a wasted bonus because people don't ap in their freighters.so i'd be very happy to support reducing freighters' agility by 20%, then changing the bonus to 5% agility per level. i don't see what this would achieve apart from to annoy non-existent apers and people without freighter v, but that's your argument."
"i support this idea completely.while i can understand the benefits of autopiloting in a freighter (say, a quick biobreak?), then yeah, a bit of autopiloting can be helpful. doing it for the entire trip? if you've played the station spinning game long enough, you should know that that is a -bad- idea. gankers like people who don't instawarp onto the gates, methinks.this might have already been harped on before, but what could also benefit freighter pilots is a 5% increase on that race's tank per level, in order to protect against said gankers.sure, a freighter is a gigantic box in space... but does it have to be a gigantic, wet, cardboard box in space?"
"seriously? nobody wants mines back at all? or is it that too many people here are too young in eve to remember them? supporting my own post...mines are awesome!"
"hell, i'm a new player and never heard about mines, but that seems an awesome idea!"
"i don't think they were removed for a lack of love.i think they did two different things that were problematic:1. they created a massive amount of new objects the servers had to keep track of.2. they created situations where someone might leave mines in low sec or null sec and they would pop someone while the character leaving mines was in high sec, thus calling in the wrath of concord."
"i know, make it so the mines disappear when you log out, and reappear when you log in.i can see goonswarm logging 1000 people in simultaneously with mines in the same spot to nuke a titan.seriously though, mines would need a lot of reworking if they were to re-enter the game. i don't support your idea per se, but ccp needs to start designing new weapons for combat again."
"not to call attention to \"another mmo\", but sto has mines.difference being... they launch, they deploy, they float. if someone comes close enough to trigger them, they move to intercept and detonate. if no one approaches for a few minutes, they die.who says mines have to be placed and left forever. treat them like an interdictor bubble. something that's kicked out in the middle of a battle, instead of arranged ahead of time.sure, you can't mine your happy sov system into impenetrability, but you can still use them for kms.ooh! or just tie them into sov?can only be used in systems where you hold sov?"
"if they functioned more like sto, meh, okay. however, unlike that game, there is no front/side/rear to ships in eve, all directions are equally vulnerable and part of the firing arc. so, there is little reason to have such a weapon. if someone is chasing you and gaining, they are in a fast ship so the mines won't/shouldn't catch them. that is the only situation i can think of for the use of such weapons."
"someone didn't read my thread...but yeah...make them like smartbombs and bombs...the use of which in empire gets you concorded. or restrict them entirely...but put them in 0.0 with the restrictions i stipulated in my original post."
"and it's perfectly possible for ccp to make there be actual rewards to leaving your hangar and going into a station besides playing space barbie in second space life. in fact, the lack of any meaty content for it is one of the main points in my op here and many of the proposals i made in the linked mechanics thread. fair enough, i misread that bit. yes, but again, your argument was that you wouldn't leave your hangar and go into a station if there was any risk at all. that means only zero, not non-zero. if, then, your objection is that on 'high security decks' (or however it's implemented) it should be very unlikely that you can be killed, that's fine. why don't you suggest some mechanics to achieve that in the linked mechanics thread? well, concord is punitive, not prohibitive. the whole philosophy behind highsec is that there's no such thing as 'safe' space, only safeer space, and you can be killed at any point, but your attacker will also be taken down, guaranteed. there's no real contradiction, then, with cops in stations blowing your brains out if you aggress someone else, and it being very hard to kill someone on a high security deck, but it not being utterly impossible. remember, even if weapons aren't allowed, you can still drop rat poison into someone's drink (just as an example). you are misunderstanding the dynamic. the payout is higher than the cost of the insurance, but much lower than the cost of the ship's hull, to say nothing of modules. it is not injecting isk into the economy. it's allowing a small portion of the ship's cost to be retained rather than lost. there is no new isk at all being injected into the economy. for example, (i haven't checked market prices in a long while as i get my recons for free, so this is just off the top of my head): an arazu hull costs about 80 million isk. let's say a properly fit arazu costs 95 mil. insurance costs about 10 mil and the payout is about 20. that's 95 mil cost, plus 10 mil insurance, for 105 total cost. out of that you get back 20 mil, for a total loss of 85 mil. even if you weren't fitting the ship and just insurance frauding it, you'd still lose 60 mil on deal. that's part of why ccp changed how insurance worked, because people actually were making isk off of insurance frauding some battlecruisers where the formula was messed up and you could make a profit off of buying a hull on the market and then insuring and destroying it. isk isn't being injected into the economy. the lost isk is being mitigated."
"well honestly as long as there is some sort of insurance on implants and as long as the penalties are as severe as podding then i guess i wouldn't have much of a problem.it's sort of off topic but i'm going to have to disagree on this part though:the cost of the ship is going to another player, so that isk is never leaving the game and the amount of isk in the economy is unchanged. the difference between the insurance payout and the cost is isk being injected into the economy by an npc entity."
"op - i support your proposal(with some very severe restrictions), but could you try *not* supporting it for a while?your trolling the thread is not helping.oh, and no more insurance. insurance was a bad idea, and adding more makes it worse."
"serra: see, the general idea is sound and now the only thing that really needs to be do is hammer out mechanics. if you could check the support box that'd be cool.other person: talk sense. how can i possibly be trolling my own thread, and what could possibly be gained from it? and, if course, there's the fact that i'm not trolling. you also forgot to check the support box."
"that may very well be. i think, however, that it's important to hold ccp's feet to the fire and let them know that we want eve's core content to carry over to any new expansion, and not be waved off with second space life where we get to play space barbie and accessorize."
"i completely disagree...on both of your posts. not sure why this topic needed two...and from the same person i might add. walking in stations is not meant to be pvp of any kind. nor should it be. it is simply a refinement of what we already have with a few tweaks and perks. if you wanna kill someone while walking around then wait for dust to release."
"rather poor trolling, and obvious i might add.as already pointed out something like a half dozen times, the chair of the csm suggested that i start a second, \"elevator proposal\" thread that didn't focus on mechanics.thanks for the free bump though."
"thanks shoopa."
"supported i guess, didn't know this was an issue.if nothing happens, why not go to an internet cafe/friends house and do it there?"
"b/c would be nice if balanced right where it wouldn't be to over powering but the pirate/faction destroyer idea does sound good."
"as long as it costs around 500 million (definitely not less than 400) then i have no problems with this idea.we also need officer modified medium weapons - probably cost 500-1000 million each"
"i was very surprised to learn there were no pirate/faction battle cruiser, would be awesome if ccp introduced them."
"while it would be nice to havesome more faction ships, i hate seeing command ships becoming more and more useless.so i approve under the condition that faction bcs are set apart in some way of cs. while at it, cs could use a small buff and tier 2 bcs could a small nerf..."
"which part of 'market price is determined by supply vs demand' do you not comprehend?"
"first fix both classes. the tier 2 bc's need fixing as in neutering, the destroyers need fixing as in duct tape."
"this^"
"the profit margin is determined by free market. but the base cost is set by ccp in form of loyalty point + isk requirement for item bpc at faction lp store. and ccp manipulate the supply by setting drop percentages on faction spawns."
"i believe the pirate faction ships were introduced before destroyers and bcs were introduced. this is why there aren't faction destroyers or bcs. a few years back, this topic was discussed though (this was before they beefed up the faction ships).i support this only if the guristas actually put a little effort in and come up with something more than a new paint job. guardian angels and blood raiders have at least one unique hull design. sansha and angel cartel have a complete line of unique hulls. guristas are apparently just lazy."
"is there a way that we could consider talking about having a jump command added much the way that dock works now when you're warp distances away from a station? people could still warp to within and autopilot would still stop 12km short, but if you're physically at the keyboard, it would be nice to just jump from wherever instead of having to warp to the gate and then jumping."
"nah.all i can think of is some poor twit in nullsec accidentally pressing the \"warpjump\" button and making the fc really mad.if we want to reduce the number of buttons we have to push, why don't we put in a 'launch all drones' button?"
"this is what i have heard as well. however, there is an easy solution. remove the current billboard models from space. don't \"fix\" the old ones at all -- make new ones. make the new ones deployable objects by players, like cans. require anchoring 5 and have some sort of new marketting skill that can't be used on trial accounts. make them consume charters. use a preapproved library of text, images, and animated backgrounds and give a simple system for players to make their own 30 second scripted sequences. allow players to rent their billboard space out to other corps and organizations. awesomeness will ensue."
"i have to agree with most of your ideas but they cannot be deployable objects. the griefing potential for such a system is endless. there should be set slots that they can be placed in such as where they are already as well as off to the side of station launch tubes.scrapping the original code could also have an assortment of issues. how connected to the bounty system is the original coding? should they reprogram the bounty system as well? what's the potential for screwing up an entirely different section of the game and is the development time sink worth it?"
"i came across a problem the other day where a thief came into my mission and stole a mission objective from a pre-spawned can. usually, if a thief steals something from your mission they will get red flagged (am i correct) so you can shoot them, scramble them, whatever. well because the thief stole from the prespawned objective can, they do not get red flagged. in my opinion this is not legitimate as you have no chance of stopping the thief otherwise you would get ganked by concorde. can we change this so they get red flagged?"
"i've never had people invading my mission space, but if this is the case, i definitely support this. it's silly that any normal loot in the mission gives em red flags, yet the stuff you're after for the mission they can take and concord will take their side in the matter."
"hello, i believe that any sort of balancing/nerfing/tweeking of items is likely to anger one set of group, and only benefit one set.what i propose are ui mechanics that improve gameplay for a majority while limiting negative impact to only a certain few.selecting items:right now you can ctrl a, or ctrl click to click multiple items. this is a pain for someone who has 800 items and has to sort through them each time.i propose a way tag individual items, or group of items for current and future interactions, and then be able to quickly filter by those groups to only see those items in inventory. also these filters would be exportable.example:i have 800 items in my inventory, and 40 of those items are items i buy low sell high, 40 i buy low to refine, and the rest are just random inventory.you would be able to right click an item, add tag and then type in sell, refine ect. then somewhere on the inventory interface, be able to filter to certain categories. in this example i would filter to sell and then see the 40 items i tagged for sell. i then sell all those items.so now i no longer have any items tagged sell in my inventory. so i log off for the night, come back in the morning and because of my buy orders being fulfilled , i select my filter sell and now can see any of those items i got from my buy orders that had previously been tagged sell.benefits: anyone who has to manage a lot of items for different categories and gets new supplies constantly. this would also benefit quicker processing, quicker selling.proposed: be able to select your private orders for view to public.a basic toggle that would allow you to right click a finished private contract and select make public. doing so would allow anyone searching you to see that contract. the only thing that would be blocked out would be the sellers name, unless they to toggle to make it publicly viewable. another way, would be allow that to be selected at the contract creation screen. while it could be a private auction/item order others would be able to view the history after completion.benefits: contracts are a good way of showing your reputation/history. although it makes sense that you would want to hide some transactions (like say, the fact that you are secretly buying bulk minerals from a member of a corp you are at war with). mainly this would help people who buy and sell items in bulk. lets say you are someone who buys bulk moon minerals from independent people. since some people are hesitant to say what minerals they have (for fear of someone just asking around to acquire intel on peoples moons, ect). the buyer can be say look at my contract history and see all the contracts ive completed for moon minerals. this makes it easier for the buyer to prove his intent, and the seller to gain trust quicker.proposed: notation to mark containers that have items in them.a simple notation (maybe a green circle on lower left) that would identify that a container had items in it. optimally, it would be rest if you could see to what percentage it is full, however that might require a lot loading.benefit: everyonehow many times have you been hauling/looking at assets, see a container and go \"hmm, i don't remember that did i put something in there\". to open it and find it is empty."
"resereved"
"/signed.why isn't this thread more popular. maybe adding [proposal] to the front will help? i dunno."
"been requested for ages, still hasn't happened.=)"
"this."
"or just fit a hull repper in your utility mids as you're armor tanked with low slots"
"i think that's too small of a niche when you consider how many ships are hybrid weapon platforms (over 1/3 of the combat ships). they really need something that provides a benefit in fleet fights, something the bleed proposal does not provide them."
"definitely. a better alternative would be a simple allow/disallow list e.g mailing list or channel options. tie it as an option to the command center and make it so."
"suggesting spell check before posting."
"hello every oneas we all know 0.0 atm is stagnent and boring for every one involved the deffenders and the attackers, hence it kills moral and it will kill this game in the long run if things arnt changed.the current mechanics allow and need allainces and players to be in one system, and with a huge amount of ehp on all the structures.i propose a change, a change that means you ill have to achive objectives and give the attackers and the deffenders the options that you would expect.we need to stop looking at indeviduel systems and look more onto a consteltion objective.now this is going to need work ofc, but maybe its a step in the right direction and with some of ccp's input on what can and can not be achived then we will know.so here we go.the way sov will work is still much the same but the way it is taken is different and it should break down like this :-constelation - attacking alliances will need to block the gates into the constelation, so instead of sbu we have cbu's (constelation bloackade units), these will take an hour to online and 100% of the gates to the constelation will need to be coverd.once coverd you then have your options within the constelation and these can be achieved by sbu's that have to be anchored at one of the planets, these again will take an hour to online and as it has the cbu's become vuln.this way we are splitting the fight among the constelation and not just in the system.stations will have duel rf timers as allways but the tcu's will have one.i-hubs should not be allowed to be destroyed unless the new sov holders want it to be.this is an idea and im sure with the input of the eve members this could turn into some much bigger.my 2 cents hope it helps.jayro"
"says the person with what experience in null sec? also, making it more difficult to take space isn't going to make null less stagnant. it will make it more stagnant. i do hope this was just a troll."
"you need to break up the blob or at least make it less viable (like removing ehp sovereignty entirely) if you want to get rid of the stench of decay in null.brain fart: objective based system.1. anchor siege units.2. number of with size restricted \"plexes\" become available for scanning (think fw).3. plexes can involve hacking, blowing **** up or something entirely different (think incursions).4. complete xx number of plexes and system reinforces or some next level becomes vulnerable .. could probably even make anchoring siege units in one system spawn plexes throughout a constellation to really throw a wrench in the brute force/blob approach.add to that the ability to directly influence sovereignty indices with small fleets/gangs and being able to blob for 6 hours a day no longer means you are 100% safe from all comers.would mean that the regionally exclusive alliances either die or hire people from other timezones, but when was diversity ever a bad thing?in short: take away the ehp based sovereignty and the uber-blob loses a lot of its reason for being."
"it should still be tied to pvp, not some npc/plex/mission stuff. that has been resoundingly regarded as a bad idea in fw.if you want the blobs to decrease in size, the objectives need to be less... time based. the timers are the reason for blobs. everyone knows when a potential fight will occur because of the timers. so both sides build fleets just before the timer ends. if one side can't get the numbers, they leave it be. if both sides get the numbers, they fight.vulnerability should be based on small fleet actions. then bring in caps to pound on structures. it is my understanding that this was originally part of the plan for dominion, but they never finished it."
"depends on if ccp wants it to be like that or not. there's no way to know without a dev response, which is why i didn't bother filing a bug report yet."
"i believe the channels for dealing with a problem go like this:1. file bug report2. if no reasonable response, post on ah3. in no reasonable response, fly to iceland and bribe devs with booze.hope this helps."
"for the moment, we can only set destination and/or add waypoint for a single location. if we want to compare distances, we have to add them all individually, and then optimize for the closest one.this works great if you're clicking in assets, to make a pickup route or something.but what if you're just trying to get to the closest location out of a catagory.1) despite the futuristic setting, we don't have the internet. we can't order from amazon, and we can't buy from ebay. so when we want to accept a contract, we have to be in the same zip code as the item offered.instead of setting destination for the target system, why not add the option to set for the region itself, and head for the closest system in that region. then you can get to the contract quicker.2) incursions are starting to highlight constellations, where previously there was no real significance. everything was focused on systems or regions. as above, how about adding the ability to target the closest system in a particular constellation.3) along with incursions, is an increase in concord lp spending. apparently they can appear anywhere in high sec, but only have stations in a few systems. as above, how about adding the ability to select the closest station of a particular corp. not only would it apply to concord and incursion profits, but to missioning for particular corps overall.ideas?"
"yay me!"
"being able to set waypoints to regions/constellations would be nice.regarding 1): we are amazon. want something delivered to you? make a want-to-buy contract.i don't like the idea of everyone being able to accept contracts everywhere.however, i wouldn't object to a skill that works similar to procurment or daytrading - just for contracts and regions.supported with reservations."
"something that has bugged me for a while with the tengu. it is not an issue of stats but what i believe to be a graphical error and should be a quick easy fix. the magnetic infusion basin is designed for use with rails or hybrids and yet only has one turret point graphically on the fins of the subsystem. the accellerated ejection bay is made for missile damage and yet it has 3 turret points graphically on the fins of the subsystem. this just seems a little dumb. the simple fix being to just swap the looks of the two modules.also...fix the legion."
"i'll update the op a bit with suggestions regarding other methods of gathering intel like skills, modules or changes/additions to the scanners, both probes and directional."
"shameless selfbump"
"please get this done. really annoying if you need to install 20+ jobs and inconsistent with the other filters."
"have you checked mineral prices lately? try looking at noxcium.the main sources for this stuff is hemorphite, hedbergite and jaspet, all low sec ores.and mining abcm in null sec is still very profitable, just not as profitable as some people would like it, due to overmining/bots/etc."
"0.0 mining used to be more enticing before w-space happened. lowsec mining was never a good idea for as long as i've played, and from what i gather that was because of the drone regions. if you want to talk risk vs reward, then lowsec should pay more than 0.0, especially for miners. i guess the question is if mining can be fixed by simply increasing the payout, or if it's conceptually broken to begin with."
"not supported."
"+1 bots must die"
"csm are sov null alliance pets. if ccp listens to them 95% of us would be in big trouble."
"goons no longer threat as mittens neuters them.."
"i call this spam ... pfft guys keep it clean *serious elf is serious!\""
"i support this product and/or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and/or service!"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"soe share holder postingi support this product and or service"
"this post is seriously lacking in space cat"
"i support this product and or service."
"i support this product and or service."
"i support this product and or service.:d"
"this doesn't address the situation where you are called away from the pc at all though. if my kid is upstairs crying or my wife needs my help waiting 15 minutes for an agro timer to clear isn't an option. i need to be able to warp to a safe and immediately cloak up so that i can go deal with the real-life emergency. rl > eve and always will be.i agree that afk camping systems is 'teh lame' (i've personally never done it. because i feel it's a lame tactic... and yes... to those who are currently hostile to me... that means if i'm in system i'm actually there and actually waiting for you to do something stupid so i can kill you ) but you need to remember that 'waiting for aggro timers' doesn't help those of us who have to run afk *now* when you are talking about changes to the system.personally i think having cloaks do 2 things: 1 use cap... 2 disable cap recharge. make the cap drain small so that you could cloak for up to an hour or so but once that's done you need to de-cloak to recharge your cap. it solvs the 'afk camper' issue while allowing those who have to suddenly run afk to do so. they can always come back within 1hr or so and log off."
"capacitor drain while cloaking sounds good to me, still exceptions should be made for cov-ops and maybe recons."
"that's not a bad idea. will add that to the options that should be presented to ccp. i agree that the cap drain on 'official' cloaking ships should be lower."
"you have my vote"
"good luck, prom. if you do get elected, your only real opportunity to put your issues on the table for transparent and \"official\" discussion with ccp will be in summit sessions related to those issues. since the csm (at least during csm5) drives the summit agenda for the most part (assuming they don't just passively let ccp do that), you should be able to request a session or two be added to the agenda related to your interests. same as i did with low sec back in june. assuming of course that csm6 operates in the same democratic manner regarding summit planning that csm5 did."
"renowned solo pvp'er runs for csm? no question, you have my vote. good luck."
"i'm thinking that with every proposal you will, at least, consider: \"will this proposal promote small gang and solo pvp, or hurt it?\" imo this is what eve desperately needs. we need someone who can start explicitly thinking about proposals in this light so solo and small gang pvp doesn't get stealth nerfed out of the game. at this point, i can't see why i would vote for anyone else."
"what you're saying is, we should add more **** to the backlog that will never be addressed, right?"
"no, but the solution is not to vote one that says that \"i'm a real man, i'm going to fix it\", and then when someone says \"how!\", he replies with \"oh, don't worry, i'm going to be subtle and act circumstantially, because you know, i am mittani thus i can\".you're going to yell, silently. you will stare them, and change their mind, because mittani can.or you're just going to act as every good csm candidate."
"for those not familiar with british comedy shows of a certain age, sir humphrey appeared as a civil servant in the series yes, minister and later yes, prime minister. he was an arch-manipulator who had as his main aim the protection of his own special interests (the power of the civil service) and whose primary tool for achieving this aim was the use of misdirection and sometimes deceit on the democratically elected politicians he worked alongside.naturally, the mittani would heroise such a figure."
"the mittani: considering that a great many people live in hisec and lowsec and are naturally drawn towards candidates that will push the issues they care about, rather than what the giant powerblocs have to concern themselves with?don't get me wrong; you guys gotta push for what you guys need (jumpbridges and supercapital fixes and whatever else giant billions-of-isk-per-month alliances in nullsec have to deal with), but let's face it, this crisis that you're perceiving with the jumpbridges et al, even if it really is this giant game-changer that's a terrible idea, really means very little to the average empire player who's wondering when we'll be able to get some team pve missions in hisec that don't require super-duper ships or guys involved in factional warfare that are just disappointed with how much better it could be or the industrialist with the myriad concerns that they deal with.i asked another 0.0-focused goon csm candidate the same question, and his response did make sense given the platform he's running on. it seems, however, that your platform focuses more on the csm itself than it does for the game.so, when the rest of eve looks at the mittani running for csm, and consider the benefits of voting you in, what should we be thinking about?"
"well, when you put it that way...maybe i should be clearer. i understand that making wild empty promises to pander to our dreams is silly. there are indeed many candidates promising those in high- and low- sec players \"oh i'll fix this for you and improve this and do that\", but those aren't the people i (or any other thinking eve citizen) consider as better options.it's the other candidates who recognize the need to be realistic, but as empire-experienced and empire-dwelling players also understand and are directly interested in improving the parts of the game that those who aren't in null-sec are very concerned about.because, let's face it: even if the mittani and co. fix the csm, they're going to try as hard as possible to address the issues that concern them most--the things that are the biggest and most unbalanced issues... for them. that's all well and good, and the 0.0 people should have every reason to vote for him (them?). however, the rest of us are ideally looking for someone who isn't about making empty promises, but at least has the concerns of empire players dear to their hearts. so sure, even if we've \"seen the light\" and are disillusioned about csm candidates who promise to \"fix game feature x\" and \"improve game detail y\", we still look at the mittani and see... someone who cares very much about eve... as it applies to him living in 0.0. so in this context (and not \"promise to fix this or that\"), i ask: in what ways would the average empire player see the benefits of voting for you? how will a csm with the mittani in it help alleviate the issues that are relatively unique to the space of gate guns and concord?"
"it's been stated multiple times that the csm isn't for solving issues or really bringing them up with ccp (again, the massive backlog). it's a sounding board that ccp bounces ideas off of. also, we know how empire currently is as most of us have alts that live in empire along with ours in 0.0 (this is because you can't live in 0.0 without empire due to the currently broken mechanics of 0.0) so it's not like anyone would advocate ccp trying to dismantle empire or nerf it."
"that may be true, but i have serious issues if this is the entirety of the mittani's official stance regarding my concerns."
"throwing around words that don't mean what you think doesn't make you look smart.goons can't gerrymander the election. they can vote as a bloc, but so can any group of players with a cohesive membership and a candidate to stand behind. fearmongering is for crappy u.s. news networks. leave it there \"boogaloo\".do you even know how sov warfare works in either the present or past iterations? it was a dead horse - but they owned fountain, delve, and querious for months in that state, and the only reason they still don't is because the cf went and brought down the rickety framework holding up the it scarecrow. four months? i'm pretty sure the fountain/delve invasion started in january (or at most late december), that's two (at most three) months by those of us who still live on a gregorian calendar, and the last month hasn't been filled with battles, it's been filled with mops and buckets.on topic, i find the attitude of the mittani refreshing, and no, my main isn't a goon or a testie. if you paid attention to the blogs of the csm v folks, and their attitudes even here in the forums, you would realize that his position is much closer to reality than the \"i'm going to save losec for my pirate buddies\" candidates. although i think he'll still come back beaten down by the internal bs of a game development corporation, he's going to last longer than the others with the attitude he's got. in addition, goons aren't here to ruin eve. they claim to love playing the game. in fact, former goons even work at ccp already, so their love of the game itself isn't in question. if you don't like the fact that nullsec is tired of being trod upon by an empire-focused csm, that says more about your lack of understanding of a huge aspect of this game, than their desire to enjoy a game they pay to play."
"i support this product and/or service."
"hello mittanii want to know why you hate free speech and democrazy and if you believe that your hate for free speech makes you a good csm candidate?will you allow other goons to pick their goon-candidates in the future or will you continue to tell everyone who to vote like this year?will you allow other goons to write in the goonforum about their csm campaign in the future or will you continue to threat them with a kick out of goonswarm because you hate free speech and democrazy?edit:mittani, could you please explain why you destroyed the tradition of goon primary elections just to make sure that you can boost your ego on a 2nd class flight to iceland guaranteed?please explain why you support botting in the goon region and how you supporting botting could affect your csm run and your relationship to ccp who are against botting?"
"the assertion that the csm is nothing but a focus group is flat-out wrong. csm is a stakeholder, a status given it by ccp. as such, the csm has an obligation to be proactive--which can be very tough given the communications obstacles that must often be dealt with. but the csm being proactive can get results. off the top of my head, a few examples: skill queue (csm4), recent ui changes, prioritization crowdsourcing which prompted the allocation of team bff to spend the current development cycle fixing annoying potholes, and limiting of microtransactions to vanity items. the csm pushed for these things convincingly and ccp responded positively (despite initial resistance in some cases). while such victories may not have been as frequent as we would have liked, csm5 proved that proactive, professional behavior combined with appropriate pressure management can get **** done.no doubt there are some within ccp that would prefer the csm be just a focus group, but until or unless ccp diminishes csm's status from stakeholder to focus group, proactive efforts to bring issues to ccp's attention and insistence on participating in discussion about how to address them is not only the csm's prerogative as a stakeholder, but its obligation as a representative of the community."
"mittani for csm the no bs approach is better than all the rest"
"wait...people actually believe this?"
"by \"people\" you mean the current chair of the csm?i'm thinking mynxee would be in a pretty good position to know..."
"the mittani has my vote. he's an attractive and passionate man."
"i added 20 lbs. & an extra chin to my mental image of this person with every piece of poetry i read."
"let's just say that since ccp gave us the name, we were determined to try and play the csm game accordingly--even severely hampered by a lot of factors that don't affect any other stakeholder group inside ccp and well aware of the differences between all of them and the csm. it will be interesting to see how csm6's take on \"stakeholder\" status shapes up after they take office and how they choose to leverage it...or not."
"i support this product and/or service...... because, i, too, want a special hulk that fires disco lasers while it mines."
"how could they leverage it? there is no mechanism in place to do so. the whole stakeholder thing is a meaningless gesture by ccp and in real-world terms it has zero effect on the future of the game."
"shame that the 'no bs' approach mittani desperately claims to have doesn't extend to being honest about the fact that he and his cronies are trying to stitch up the csm for their own political interests.but hey, if you're criminally gullible and want to believe him then more fool you. i don't thinks he's actually managed to clearly express what 'lies' he thinks the csm has been telling to date..."
"hi mittens fanboi! shame you only know one of the definitions of the word jerrymandering.vb1. (government, politics & diplomacy) to divide the constituencies of (a voting area) so as to give one party an unfair advantage2. to manipulate or adapt to one's advantagehaha, you look stupid on an internet forum!"
"dear page seven: did you look at this yet? the purpose of my candidacy is to attempt to fix the csm itself by trying to solve the ccp/csm communication problems, either through chutzpah or bastardry, i'm not sure which. if you're a 'features' voter you're not going to vote for me; you're going to vote for some guy who will promise you features to be upvoted, which will promptly be upvoted into the backlog and forgotten. what you might ask yourself is this: what nifty empire-related features have already been upvoted by csm1-csm5 that are languishing in development hell because the csm isn't an effective advocate? mynxee points out that the csm is nominally a stakeholder in ccp's eyes. yet in practice it is only treated like a stakeholder when it suits ccp to do so. that power could be grown into a real voice, depending on how it's played. the idea of you vibrating with frustration as you mashed that out on your keyboard just brought a smile to my face; i can only hope that this reply equally enrages youoff the top of my head: personal lobbying of sympathetic devsincreasing dev/csm communication on both the csm forums and elsewheregetting the forum mod rules changed such that discussion of csm-related activities aren't mired in this backwater subforummedia relations: spotlighting issues and problems the csm is encounteringcrushing scandals and idiocy from the csm itself so that they don't distract from the messageit's pretty easy for ccp to blow off the csm if people are stockpiling thulium or trying to yoink corporate secrets, let's not delude ourselves by suggesting that past csms are 'perfect victims' of ccp"
"dear pubbies,i can compare this years csm election to a perilous time in american history where a subset of the population was discriminated upon for their lack of education, their cheap work ethic and even the color of their skin. this period of history was class warfare at its finest and two regions of the united states waged a terrible and costly war to settle on the right of the state to endure the law of the united republic where democracy was said to reign supreme. this terrible war wages on at ccp and you, pubbies, are the slaves. democracy has failed you, much like your forefathers. you are slave to a game about internet spaceships, this eve online. you are chained to its features, to its content, and to its bugs. when ccp fails you, you have no recourse except to sing your low sorrowful song. when ccp breaks the database, your cries for freedom go unheard. when the logs show nothing, you, dear pubbie, are powerless to redress. let our candidate empower you. elect a honest mitten to stand on his no bs policy and declare your rights to ccp.you deserve a great game. you deserve a real wage, not slavery. you need someone to stand up for you and fight for what is right. you need a mitten that will unite this previously paralyzed circle of incompetents known as the csm. the csm can be strong with the right direction but all previous actions are for naught. i have analyzed the results of those attempts, i have seen what the previous councils have done for you. they have done nothing but appease your smallish immediate desires. if you want real change, you will elect someone strong, someone honest, someone who will not turn his back at ford's theater to receive a bullet to the head, but rather meet your adversaries head on with guns blazing while riding a bear made of spite and steel. you need this. put aside your trolling, put aside your anger, and channel true change for the game we all love, this cottonpicking eve online."
"digital herpes"
"+1 vote from me"
"i'd just like to take a moment to point out to anyone reading this thread to look over the endorsements of both present and running csm candidates. that's not just a display of respect.. trebor has earned it.give him another go in iceland i say.. he's masochistic enough to put himself through it after all!"
"not masochistic, just married with children. toughens even the weakest of men to no end"
"i am conflicted; duty says i should vote trebor but wallet demands another tyrannis-like expansion."
"actually, being the father of two extremely intelligent, but incredibly petulant teenage boys makes me uniquely qualified to be chairman of the csm......and it might also help when dealing with ccp as well..."
"you may be able to fool the people slobbering all over you due to your high visibility, but those of us in the know are quite aware that you are completely unqualified to act as anything as a secretary for csm. your knowledge of game mechanics is abysmal and this is what qualifies a csm, not how much ass kissing, log rolling, and baby holding you've done."
"i must be fair to say that i had extremely ****ty opinion of him as a player while he was leading old mc. luckily i was privileged to meet him in rl, tho again from the opposite side of the table - now as a ccp employee. one of the most constructive talks i ever had (despite long and intimate sex talks with ccp explorer) with any ccp dev was with seleene both during csm summits and fanfest. he was extremely dedicated to the game (tho on the wrong side) as a player, later as a eve developer and i am sure he will be the same as csm delegate."
"seleene is a very good candidate for the csm. i can think of no other person better suited. his knowledge of the game inside and out from a player and producer standpoint far exceeds any other candidate. he has been actively playing the game since beta. he was on the inside for 3 years and got to see how the machine ticks. he is passionate reasonable and his approach is measured carefully. he has my vote."
"i'm trapped in a nyx and can never leave to do anything fun, but draco hauls iteron v's full of **** and beer to me. he's just that nice of a guy."
"draco is cool and has taken much input from our forums to integrate into his campaign, has valid points and i personally trust him.so vote for him"
"even though i only pay for this game so that i can post on these forums, i do believe that you should vote for this guy, he has some valid ideas that are worth a place in the csm"
"i have to say having heard draco's ideas, i fully support his candidacy and believe everyone should, null sec has a voice, vote draco and it shall be heard!!!"
"i think a lot of the people who say things like \"get rid of jump bridges\" don't necessarily want movement to be tedious and boring (hey let's go 30 jumps to do anything), they are really saying \"let's expose movement to attack so we can increase pvp instead of having easy mechanisms used to avoid it\".i don't think it's necessary to go back in time back to the days where movement was irritating in order to accomplish this however."
"why is kalrand not allowed to post about his csm campaign on the goonforum or tell other goons about it?do mittani and you hate free speech and democrazy that much?dont you think that your hate for free speech makes you a bad csm candidate?"
"kalrand already has my not vote.edit: where is this argument you're basing this on that he's not allowed to run as a candidate for csm?"
"thanks for the free bump!while i wish i could run on a platform of improving the quality of posting here on eve-o some goals are beyond achievement."
"you should read my post again."
"and you're wrong :)"
"also that platform has been taken"
"t&b is a funny guy and a good poster."
"then quote the part where i wrote that he is not allowed to run as a candidate for csm please.@vile ratdo you think your popularity in goonswarm is so low that you fear competing with kalrand in the goonforum?will you tell the mittani to consider allowing kalrand to post there about his csm run or will the mittani and you continue to behave like gaddafi and his bootlicker?you should fight for free speech to show that you are a worthy csm candidate!"
"you should totally vote for this guy. i'd know!"
"i already answered your question. you're wrong about him not allowed to post on the goonfleet forum. ask any spy (lol who needs to spy on goonfleet anyways?) that have access to the goonfleet boards :)"
"since you earned yourself a 0/10 for reading comprehension again, i bolded and underlined a few words for you."
"what is your position on your positioning on vile rat's arm?"
"who says he can't post about his csm run?"
"the mittani will kick kalrand out of goonswarm if he tells people to vote for him. thats why the mittani cancelled the tradition of goon primary elections to make sure that only he and his puppet vile rat get the vote and thats why kalrand is only allowed to tell people to not vote for him on the goonforum. the mittani and his puppet vile rat hate free speech and democratic competition. they dont hesitate to destroy everything what goons and sa stand for, just to get their little ego boost for beeing in csm."
"tbh anyone who believed the crap mitanni was spouting about \"straight talking\" and \"champion of the people\" was thick as pig poo, but if this is true it really is pathetic, mittens."
"you have (read my lips) zero evidence that he is not allowed to post there about his csm run. of course we're having a laugh at your frustrated anger that is directed at goonfleet's communist dictatorship."
"well, we do have your frothy-mouthed goon ragepost, which is starting to convince me..."
"now now i'm deaf however i do talk. so at times i do have saliva in my throat or the back of my mouth which i need to clear out so people can understand me when i talk but frothy? never had that problem. in fact people who have that issue do annoy the heck out of me when i have to read their lips to understand them."
"perhaps he was mistaken, and you have sand on your lips?"
"chapstick actually."
"you really think that a guy who's a member of the something awful forum community is going to kick another guy who is also a member of the something awful forum community out of his internet space guild because of a post on the forums? really? i could understand if you were thinking of someone who's a bad poster like myself, but either you think that kalrand is also a bad poster or you have no idea how goon culture works."
"i am actively pursuing goon votes and have received no threats from the directorate. i know where they live, you see."
"your stupidity knows no limit. my guess is that you never left jita."
"capsuleers, pirates, traders, miners, warriors, and care-bares!i hear about all these plans from the other candidates on how they are going to fix this or fix that. and then the critics come out and \"critique them\". personally, i have no grand scheme, or 11 point plan (or plex survey contest, or any other vote producing scheme. if i wanted to do that, then i would just give everyone that vote for me 1m isk! ) no, i want to hear from you, the player. what do you want? questions like the one above \"should drakes be nerfed?\" great question! because bottom line, my only agenda is representing the player. eve is so dynamic, i do not (or could not) possibly know every little scathing detail about every profession or feature. and that is why there is a representative on the csm to ccp, to channel your concerns. so rather than me tell you blah blah blah how i am going to fix (insert topic here, which honestly, would be my agenda), tell me what you want fixed.and for the critics out there, i hate you too, and i said it first! (i am sure i will pay for that remark, but eh, take a joke!)vote for butch!"
"if i, too, make a video of me flying around in a drake set to the inception soundtrack, can i be your chief advisor?"
"sure can! (even with the misspellings kinda neat huh? i have the soundtrack in my eve playlist!)but even more important: anyone's avatar that looks like dolph lundgren, i want as my chief advisor!thanks for the reply!vote for butch!"
"ok clearly our strong suit here is making eve videos with music shamelessly lifted from movie soundtracks.i recommend:flying around in a caracal doing a mission to the soundtrack from toy story 3trading in a station (make it dramatic somehow) using music from black swanmining in a rokh to sound from law abiding citizengetting podded, to whatever the soundtrack to just go with it has on it."
"sounds good, when you posting it?in the meantime, anyone have any questions for me?vote for butch!!"
"roc the vote!!!!"
"bumped"
"finneganobviously if jump bridges are the begin all and end all to your eve, roc is probably not going to be your candidate. but there are players who really don't care much about jumpbridges. so this issue isn't important to them and they will vote for things they care about. it's democracy 101.as for his personal business well its his personal business. just because he spent time on something related to eve instead of apps that have nothing to do with eve that doesn't change. have you always offered your work products for free? do you think the eve community has some sort of natural right to have people give away their work for free  unless it comes from ccp? yes i know that is how ccp currently wants it but is that right or good?personally i think eve would be better off if they allowed 3rd parties to profit from their work. yes i know that may sound horrible to some. being able to profit from your work is so mercenary.i wish he would speak up about this because i think players would benefit, but it seems it is not on his platform. so be it."
"fyi, and has already stated in the articles linked on page 1. capsuleer was a join venture between two people. this inherently makes it more difficult to release code that isn't owned by a single person."
"sadly roc, i can't back your candidacy.i looked over your campaign, and i'm just not sure you recognize the difference between what you should and should not get involved in. you hit on all the \"hot topics\" of the forums, but not on the wisest approaches, and i never saw you say, simply, \"i don't know enough to have an opinion\"sometimes knowing your limitations is the most important feature of a candidate.good luck anyway."
"actually, i've said that many times. there are many areas of eve i don't know about. my mandate is the communication of issues, keeping the dialogue ongoing.i appreciate your honesty and candor, and believe you should support the candidate you feel best suited to the role. i'm sorry it's not me, but am thankful you took the time to drop me a note."
"i support manalapan because she appears to be the only person that looks for balance when most of csm are either high sec carebear focused or 0.0 puppets."
"supported make eve stronger"
"you lost all credibility when you said \"i'll refuse to answer these questions merely because you come from an alliance that happens to irk me somewhat\"i hope you get negative votes tbh"
"just to answer your lv 4 missioning thing, you make more doing anomlies in 0.0 than you do in missioning. constant respawn + chance of a faction spawn and a escaltion makes 0.0 more lucrative than high sec if you got the logistical backbone to do so .. or are extremly good friends with alliance leaders of the power blocs...."
"as a matter of fact, i did answer kalrand's questions.now, i don't have anything against the goons personally, but when you see them invade and troll almost every single csm candidate thread on the forums it really becomes obvious that answering their questions is an exercise in futility in most cases."
"bumping this filthy pubbie"
"vote for this guy, he is not here on a hidden 0.0 goon agenda."
"fight for democrazy and free speech by voting for kalrand!show the free speech haters mittani and vile rat a lesson!"
"i second what raw wrote. kalrand is the only csm candidate who's a regular poster in the md forum and seems to care about the economic part of the game.i also support kalrand's candidacy."
"if anyone has any more questions, please ask away.cheers"
"so who are you actually?"
"thank you for the question. who, am i really. i'm assuming you have read my website and post about me playing for 7 years. i have had quite a few (mains) as people call them. some in large 0.0 alliances and some in empire corps etc. the reason i did not run for csm on one of those characters is i wanted to keep those (lives) separate from my csm application. as i said on my website their are too many csm runners being backed by large alliances, and most of them do just tell their members to vote for their alliance rep. now in my eyes that isn't helping the general public in eve, its just having someone in a csm position because you are a large alliance and want a place their.so who am i, well i'm eve truth, and i intend to represent the whole of eve not just one area.thank you again for your questioneve truth"
"doesn't answer my question so you have my not vote.at least you are aware that you are going to be publicly announced who you actually are irl by ccp, good luck though."
"sooooooooo, you want us to trust you based on the fact that you told us that you're married and have a kid, rather than the one thing that actually matters when we're talking about reputation in eve online, that of course being who you are in eve online.i mean i suppose it's possible that you're genuinely concerned about keeping distance between your obligations to your alliance and your candidacy, but it appears to be much more likely that, you know, you're lying.i mean it's great and all that you're taking a bold step and trying to get on the csm but what kind of response are you expecting when you're announcing your candidacy as an alt?"
"thank you for your post.first off, i am distancing myself from my (main's) in-game. i have quite openly said that i have other characters who do different things in eve. i'm doing this simply because if i put on here my main's names, then i will be immediately be put under a banner of an alliance or corp. i'm not running on be half of any corp or any alliance and i do not intend to become a csm pawn for any of them. like i have said before i intend to represent every member of eve not just the large power-bases. as for trust in eve, i completely agree with you. the only way i will earn your trust is to try and answer you questions as well and honest as i can. you have no idea who i am in game, that is a very true. unless you know one of my mains in an alliance or corp their is very little other ways i can prove myself to you. i have gone down this route of an alt simply to distance myself from any alliance or corp, probably not the most popular route i could have chosen, but to represent everyone i have to be seen as an independent individual.hope this goes a little way to answer your questions.eve truth"
"i don't see why hiding your main allows people to trust that you are not a pawn of the 0.0 powerbloc attempt to control the csm.if anything, it may make people believe the worst."
"if i was a pawn of a 0.0 alliance why would i say i wasn't. surely if i was i would be robbing myself of said alliances votes by not having that link?"
"...unless of course the alliance is told via other means.see, either you're lying really poorly about being part of an alliance conspiracy, or you honestly don't realize that an alliance can post in their own forums, which presumably means you have no clue about how alliances work.i'm not sure which one is a more powerful reason to not vote for you..."
"to be honest you have made a good point. i never thought of it that way. i know i am not going to be able to stand up and give you a response that will change your mind, and to be honest i'm not sure how i could.i set out wanting to become a csm member to try and relay peoples need in eve, not just large power base's. i don't think a game like eve should be represented from one point of view (0.0 alliance warfare etc.) yes that is a big part of it but their is tens of thousands of players who don't live in 0.0 and are happy with not being their. that doesn't mean they should be excluded from the decision making of their game.if i was going to get a load of votes from an alliance etc then why try so hard to explain why i want to be csm? if i'm going to get their votes anyway why not just sit back and when the voting is announced (tomorrow) and then just let them vote for me.eve if rife with people looking for hidden meaning behind everything, and that everyone has some alterior motives. i just want to try and help peoples voices be heard rather that them being told to post a thread on the forums and then ccp will looks at it in five years time. all i can ask is that people will carry on asking questions and if you wish keep on pushing for hidden meanings behind my csm application please do. i will try and respond to everything that you ask me. thank you for your post, and for making me see some things in a slightly different light.eve truth"
"hello all serious internet spaceship pilots.\"i'm a man of few words, any questions?\"nah maybe a few words then :) but i won't go on for page after page, about all the things i will make better in eve online if i get elected to the csm.my approach angle to running for csm is that eve online is a great game. i really love playing eve, i like it's complexity and that everyone is playing in the same sandbox.but i get a little sad every time ccp makes the sandbox bigger and they forget to put more sand into the sandbox. that why i say, lets try not to put more new content into eve, but lets try to make what we already have really really good. i know there is alot of ppl saying that null sec isnt worth the effort any more or other's that want the drake nerfed to get rid of drake blob and probably every eve player have an idea about what needs to be done. im not the one to tell ccp how to nerf the drake to balance out pew pew.i'm the one thats gonna tell cpp to make the lag monster go hide under the bed, and stop for an iteration or 2, and just make eve what is suppose to be.-miops. here some comma's \",,,,,,\" dont use then all in the same place :) and im hanging out in the \"galaxy pub\" somewhere around the bar if you wanna get a campaign beer."
"friendly greetings capsuleers!i will not bore you with long speeches, ill just tell what i can do and will do. time for action and some serious work!* 14 years experience with modding from lots of pc games (games like c&c series, gta series, fallout 3 and new vegas and lots more)* second life volunteer for 4 years (technical, translations, (visual) disability aid and more)* i have asperger syndrome and with that a high iq, i think up solutions and ideas in no time. also this gives me the whole day for this specific job, i don't have a job at this moment that may mess with csm 6.* adding a few new ships and fitting as small update (think about new tech 2 items/ships and tech 3!)* working on several world types, like walking around on a station and a planet, and a corporation office (when office is rented) as start.* getting the eve time cards back in stores. currently a lot of stores do not have this, some members have only plex left due to financial problems and so not able to pay for online time cards. this makes it on long term more expansive for all of us, there for this idea.* adding a in-world office hour where capsuleers can talk to some of the ccp and csm people. for ideas, problems, suggestions and when possible to talk about released information from things to come (something like a q&a hour, but better)* finding a way to keep pirates out of 1.0 and 0.9 space, this due to new players being targeted for no good reason and there for leaving the game thanks to the pirate actions. there needs to be something to improve this.* adding in-world stores (you need to walk/run to them in a station or on a planet). stores that offer clothing, jewelery, etc. all to buy with isk* i have a lot more ideas that may be great to have."
"hi everyone,this is my candidacy for csm6!but, who am i? no 0.0 alliance to support me? no, there is not. i'm a rather young hi/low-sec player, interested in every aspect of the game, and free from 0.0 powerbloc influences.in eve i mostly hunt pirates and help my industrial friends during their wars, but keep in mind i'm not biased towards these playstiles. i need pirates to hunt them, for instance. i do not want greedy industrials to be absolutely freed from risks in hi-sec either. as for my pvp activities, i fly every race of ship, i fc quite a lot in 5-20 gangs. battleclinic for those who want to know more.in real life i am 23 years old, i studied mathematics, science in general, and sociology.what i would like is eve to be better for as many playstyles as possible, and that's why i am willing to be part of csm6. i really admire the work of the previous csm, the \"ccp commits to excellence\" thing was awesome, and csm6 should, in my opinion, keep working that way.what can i bring to csm6? first of all, a voice from empire, and not from 0.0. however hard they might try, most of 0.0 old players running for csm just don't understand empire anymore (apart from their alt effortlessly printing isks from t2 bpo's), and being supported by their powerbloc, they could not even if they wanted.every thing i will ever do as a csm member will be run by my logical sense and my wish for eve to get even better. i will not leave the csm because of a disagreement with ccp on incarna, jump portals or whatever (well, unless they just intentionnally eradicate small gang pvp, which i doubt will happen), your votes have a meaning, and your opinions too, i will listen to all of you carefully.i will not promise anything apart from this \"runned by logic and love for eve\" thing. i know i cannot fix anything on my own, i have lots of ideas, but csm is not about bringing fancy ideas to ccp, it's about making eve player's voices loud enough and organized enough for ccp to take them in account.i am willing to work as a part of the csm team, i think that's how we, csm as a whole, could make meaningful changes happen, and not only patches or fixes. no more spoongate :)yet, in front of a csm made of 0.0 powerbloc members (how many nc candidates already?) willing to protect some of their priviledges at any cost, i will make sure empire players of all kind are never forgotten nor put at a disadvantage. i won't try to put some kind of player at a disadvantage on behalf though, but it does not mean i will not try to act against some inconsistents priviledges.feel free to ask for my opinion on any subject you want, i'll answer giving both my personnal opinion (even if it is not really relevant: csm is not about personal opinions) and why i think csm should or should not bring the subject to ccp.and just a quick reviews of some general subjects i think should be discussed at csm meetings (if they are not already) : * supercapital balance, jump bridges and capital fleet projection (these matters are tightly linked) * hi sec pvp, wars, neutral remotes * keep improving ui, corp and pos ui, and small fixes everywhere * low sec pvp, bounty hunting, killrights, factional warfare * more hi sec incursions (sanshas should aim for well populated systems), make lvl5 missions useful again * dominion was meant to bring small alliance to 0.0. not to bring pets to big alliances. something didn't work. * eve should be more dynamic. agents sending people in less populated systems is good. office renting prices changing with system population is good. sovereignty bringing more npc, belts and sigs in a static system is utter nonsense. jita station owners should higher taxes, poor systems should have no taxes at all, etc"
"reserved"
"reserved"
"peter is a committed guy, he has worked on lots of sexy tools and stuff for finfleet.i'm sure if he puts as much effort into being a csm rep as he does to improving the game for his mates, then he will be a worthy addition to the team.my only regret? there is only one peter powers in finfleet.he has my personal unreserved seal of approval."
"top notch guy, knows his stuff, fully behind him."
"i will wait for the announced csm candidates before i reveal more stuff, like mittanis open acceptance of botting where he encourages members to bot in venal and was the one who encouraged test to bot becausefrom moon goo exploits to encouraging botting, what other eula violations are nc going to promote, it would explain why he doesnt mention anything about botting in his campaign :d"
"faking logs didn't work for teredrum son, it won't work for you either"
"when you say \"open acceptance\", everyone assumes searchable by google or on k.com which neither have that fake quote you just made up. nice try. put up with evidence or shut up. especially when the csm candidates are subjected to scrutiny by ccp so mittani is pretty clear on this so you're desperate to lie, kalle.edit: the grammar in that fake quote no way matches mittani's writing style either.this would be a good fake quote at the very least. goes to show how bad your grammar is, kalle."
"like i said, lets wait for the announcement first, wouldnt want to put effort on a sociopath unless there is a reason"
"have you seen the crap they use as \"platforms\"? i wouldn't worry too much, they'll only be getting the votes they coerce or pay their bot-handlers to give."
"you're trying to deflect from the liar you are. that quote is 100% fake and you know it, bismaru. prove it or shut up.this quote is 100% true and i'm willing to provide proof after the announcement. you can't prove me wrong, bismaru."
"as we proved,(unfortunately), even opposing a manifestly unstable candidate who later got herself thrown off the csm for an nda violation, and doing so with well researched facts and cogent arguments, did nothing. if anything, it helped raise her name recognition. as you are attacking mittens with bull**** and idiotic spew, you don't even have the whole \"facts and logic\" thing going for you. i think he'd make a great chair, and i appreciate your work to get him elected. keep this thread bumped."
"so let me get this correct, you are comparing mittani to ankh? well thats nice to know, but i think most people were already aware of his incompetence.oh and i never once said he wasnt going to be elected, if anything i have stuck by the fact that he will, with 50k people brown nosing him only because of his ticker, i dont doubt for a second he will get in.him having any influence on ccp, thats a different story oh and as for the bumps you and mittani's lapdog are doing a fine job of bumping this thread, maybe vuk should just run for csm again, at least that way people will already have facts on how nc are useless.all this because ccp will nerf jump bridges hahaha  thats the funny part of all of this, because in the end jump bridges will happen and there isnt a damn thing you can do so you agree that north korea aka nc are on a mission to control all of the csm seats so jump bridges stay intact so they can continue with rmt in peacethanks for confirming that, as for me being a liar, well doesnt really matter what i say anymore you just confirmed everything in this thread, well done i guess theres no reason for me to post if you have just confirmed what everyone was thinking anyway.good luck having all seats in the csm but dont think it means anything"
"wow, i never confirmed anything because i was sarcastically backing up my fake quote by you and yet you're twisting some fantasy in your head that i'm confirming something that isn't even true. i'm just a regular joe blow with no position of power nor do i have \"sekrat access\" to anything. so if you want to confirm your fantasy from some guy that has no influence whatsoever, fine with me. i don't care. it goes to show how gullible you are.thank you kalle demos / bismaru for confirming that it is indeed you. by the way, have you figured out what \"goonion\" means yet despite the obvious play on words?"
"goonion - state of the goonswhere goons rp and pretend mittani is obama and they are in fact fighting for usa, there is a thread about this already, however derailing the thread because you are threatened by the truth isnt really a good strategy.so lets go back to how nc want to control all csm seats so they can 'try to' protect their jump bridges, end pvp in 0.0 and punish anyone that isnt nc"
"the different nc candidates seem to be bickering more than they are agreeing. of course that could just be some very coordinated sleight of hand.can someone please explain what exactly is going on? how many goon/nc/whoever else is with them candidates are there? how many are working together?shed more light please."
"oh my god, seriously? how dense are you? i already know what it means. you really don't get sarcasm, do you? why don't you pm me ingame and we can have a fun conversation together for the hell of it, if you want.(disclaimer: i am not a director with sekrat access)"
"i would rather be tied to a chair having my eyes scratched out"
"red dragon style?"
"yes jump bridges need a nerf. (as do jump portal on titans)removing completly no.jump frieghters dont need altering.ive been thinking about both sides of this argument for a while.the anwsers. jump bridges need a range nerf and a reduction to one per system(from 2) this would mean gate travel would be required between bridges but it wouldnt make logistics take the mic.jump freighters should remain un altered i know that for loads of corps and alliances who live very deep in 0.0 they are the only way to get things into and out of system. they already have to jump through hostile space to get them out.titan jump portal this should be nerfed to not allow capital size ships through. or any ship with jump capability for that matter. the reason for this is that if two fleets meet and one jumps in itself the other using the portal one would arrive full cap one with less that a thid unbalancing the combat.in making these few changes 0.0 would be a balance between pvp and carebear."
"i know of six goons running:the mittani, vile rat, helen highwater, avalloc, myself, and apparently twig andberries.the only two that are part of the whole 0.0 csm superblock megatakeover whatever project are the mittani and vile rat."
"i won't vote for mittani but i might vote for the box of melted snowballs."
"we can deliver on that! let me put down some extractors to give you melted snowballs."
"im not really sure where the jump bridge suggestion initially came from, i guess ccp looked at 0.0 and accepted the fact it is broken, based on the csm minutes in the csm reports ccp suggested changing the following things.1. jump bridges (with no csm including vuk lau, queen of nc against the idea of removing jump bridges completely)2. number warfare, where numbers control the outcomes and skill is unnecessary3. supercap lameage, where supercarriers fill most roles and titans well, enough are produced to the point where subcaps are getting dddand various other things.while ccp havent decided on what they will do they have already confirmed these are things they will look into and naturally got a positive reaction (exception being nc). now nc are against changes 1 and 2 because it directly affects them and their income, jump bridges makes blobbing easier and number warfare makes nc in effect the powerhouse of 0.0 (though not by skill in any way or form).the nc csm campaign is pretty funny though, considering ccp have said (feel free to check the last csm minutes to confirm this or anything i have written) that 0.0 is broken and they will fix it, when however is a different story. nc may hold the most space, naps and blues but when the minutes were revealed only nc and nc alts were against the issues and majority welcomed the proposed changes even vuk lau (queen of nc).you cant really blame nc for hating pvp and wanting to make 0.0 safer, the funny thing is not one of their csm has even commented on the fact that dust will affect sov, perhaps they should read the minutes again ;) and stop focusing on jump bridge changes only"
"lolyou get my vote for that response alone"
"how will you go about doing these things?"
"i cannot, in good conscience, vote for such a bad poster."
"well, mittens, my posts have been good enough for you to dedicate 25% of your alt's lifetime posting energy into replying."
"itt, if you don't vote for general windypops then you are literally the mittani."
"killer2 has my full support.after playing together with killer2 for more then couple of years i had a chance to expand our internet spaceship relation into real friendship. he posses everything csm delegate should have - not just the deep ingame knowledge, but extraordinary inter-personal skills, something without you cant achieve much in relation both with other csm delegates and ccp.he will have full support of elvenlord and myself in order to keep continuity of 0.0 representatives in csm.he has a hot fianc<U+FFFD>e too."
"i've known killer for years and cant think of a better advocate for the masses. i encourage everyone to support him."
"killer2 has my full support and will do a great job should be get the cms post. gogo killer2!"
"k2 has my full support. he has a level head and the ability to look at issues from various angles. go k2!"
"killer2 you have my vote."
"good luck k2, you have my vote. o7"
"you have my vote man, theres much potential in this game and this community so i hope you wil be able to highlight and grow the strenghts and fun parts!"
"to answer the many emails and private comments i've had about this, eldaec is not an alt of mine or of anyone connected to me."
"enjoy the quiet, slow death of your thread in jita park"
"lol and besides md should support an md elite: manalapan"
"the only time you post in md is when you're running for csm. so once a year, like clockwork."
"trying to figure this out. clearly goons can see your threads here. aren't the ceos of goon just kind of letting you do your thing? also, let's say you win and are coupled with the other goon candidates... will you continue your obstinacy (did i use that word correctly) and voice your own opinion, even if it does conflict with what the other goons want?"
"rule 0: there is no cabal.rule 1: you do not talk about the cabal.your cabal membership is thus revoked."
"on this board, yes. please remember that the goons have their own forum.obstinate, stubborn, and independent are good ways to describe me, and especially my posts.if anything, my goal is to bring an economics into the discussion to all of the csm proposals and meetings. that's not limited to things that are purely economics, but includes any discussion on any topic related to the game. in that way, its not a matter of being for or against any particular desires that the 0.0 block may have, but a matter of changing the frame of discussion when the csm debates and presents those issues."
"there are many aspects of eve that are being discussed in other threads, however one of the most important topics that has so far been neglected by most candidates is the topic of the economy of eve.the economy of eve has always been central to the distinctiveness, it is one element that has traditionally stood head and shoulders above it's competitors. those competitors have never been able to boast that their economy is even half way as sophisticated as the economy of eve. however eve is losing that lead, the economic model of eve is being increasingly crippled in important areas, moon production imbalances, planetary interaction unprofitably, botting, overly centralised market, ore & ice products, markets undermined by the belief ths some stuff is free.question 1:what is your policy to ensure the eve economy continues as the most sophisticated of any mmog against the steadily rising tide.question 2:assuming that ccp are effective in reducing botting, what impact will this have on the economy and what would be your proposals ensure a smooth transition?additional questions will be added later."
"this is all an attempt to make kalrand look awesome by having the most economic knowledge about eve than any of the candidates, isn't it?"
"my policy is simply that the economy of eve is the single most important part of this game. in my overview thread, i first posted publicly my overriding policy:i've talked extensively on the market discussion forum about every aspect of the eve economy, from game mechanics, to share sales, to market manipulations, to the ineffective mechanics that players have used in the past to \"secure\" investments in other players.in answer to how my policy would serve me on the csm, it is simply the way i look at issues. not merely \"how will this mechanic affect the part of the game it is designed for\" but also \"what is it replacing\", \"what is it crowding out\", and the mechanics that those second order effects have on the immediate economy, and how those secondary changes will affect the manufacture, use, and demand curve for the components of, and products of, those items will be affected.i've pointed out eleven points that would be examples of directly and tangentially economic issues that i'd like to see addressed, but the real benefit that i think i would bring to the csm is the ability to model, understand, and see the effects of proposed changes, and to bring an economic outlook to player proposals."
"heh. this thread is the kalrand equivalent to asking \"what would you do to make 0.0 more awesome?\" and waiting for the mittani to show up."
"the economy is the engine that drives eve. almost every change to the game can be boiled down to an economic level - logistics, balance, sovereignty, pos mechanics and pi all fuel the huge and intricate machine that is the eve marketplace. i have a lot of experience in the industrial and economic game and it's been endlessly frustrating for me to see ccp continuously drop the ball. the pi launch was hilariously badly handled and in the last csm i dogged ccp about it to really drive home to them what happens when they don't do their homework. over the course of my last term i've worked with a lot of finance guys in and out of the alliance to make sure that the feedback i give to ccp is well-informed and accurate. i don't intend to stop doing that."
"oh, the tears of unfathomable sadness! mm-yummy! the only people who advocate getting rid of afk cloaking are sad carebears who have it used against them all day"
"+1 vote for mazz"
"i have decided to have a second campaign promise. i will lobby to remove the gallente faction in its entirety."
"would anyone notice?"
"supported"
"1.0"
"/supported"
"very cool idea. it would need some testing to see how effective it would be, but, assuming it works as i think it would, this would be a great way to help reduce the lameage of large fleet fights."
"i think will be better to solve the lag but i think is better than wait 40 minutes to see that you are in a pod. i support it."
"supported!!!"
"supported!"
"yeah."
"real men just smart-bomb raven outside of jita 4-4 and then live the rest of their life in null vov+1"
"not sure if it should go to these extremes. maybe something like restricting to belt rats only, and giving 100% sec status update in hisec (or even 125%, only small fish there in belts anyway), 75% in lowsec, and 25% in nullsec?in general worth exploring though, sec status loss is too easy to regain currently."
"sounds pretty good to me. how soon could we make this start happening?"
"it is called 'wow mentality'..."
"you can't destroy other people's assets in wow, so it has no bearing on this discussion at all.all my power / cost arguments are laid on fundamental principle that everything dies in eve. if it cannot be destroyed, it shouldn't exist and i won't defend it."
"i thought about laughing at your avoidance, but i will give you the benefit of the doubt and reframe the question:if ccp offered a ship to the playing public, sold through npc station or something, that put out 100kk dps, had billions of ehp, and could tank (active) any sub 500man fleet (meaning it was nearly impossible to kill but not totally) would that ship be \"balanced\" so long as ccp had a sufficiently high isk price?a simple yes or no will suffice :)"
"simple answer - yes. if the costs were astronomical, something in order of 5 trillion isk - and that's only if it was possible to blob kill it with 100~ people.i made a little graph that illustrates my way of thinking better than words:please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"overpowered' is subjective here, and people are looking at the whole thing from the wrong angle. there are frigates (even cheaper ones) that have equal or better target selection, while having worse combat avoidance ability.combat avoidance ability doesnt mean much in frigate combat if you dont land in a heavy camp with a brick frigate or get caught in a bubble.if we are honest for a second, the truth lies somewhere entirely different. the dramiel may be the fastest frigate with still decent firepower.now compare that to the machariel, a *battleship* that does outrun not only other battleships, but does outrun the fastest battlecruisers, and even most cruisers! without using anything but t2 modules. while having a solid battleship grade tank, impressive damage output and flexibility in range. if any angel ship needs a good whack with the nerfbat, the machariel needs it first no doubt.so what is different, why is this absurdity of a battleship not seen as a problem? the answer is simple, the entry level barrier is much higher, the mere peons cant afford it."
"same damage as other af or faction frigs = checkedsame hp as other af or faction frigs = checked50% or more faster than other af or faction ships, faster even than inties = checkedno drawback = checkedthere isn't anything subjective here. it is clear and simple."
"players have never had more isk than now, the only barrier in regards to ships like the machariel is time (sp).reason why the machariel is not a problem and why the cynabal is often glossed over as well is \"available counters within its class\".anything and everything sub-capital goes against the mach .. that is a lot of options, cynabal can have everything sub-bs/bc thrown at it which again is a ton of options.when you hit the frigate/destroyer level the amount of options dwindle to less than a handful if that, which is why the dramiel represents the biggest problem."
"yeah. it takes some isk to buy hull and submods. sadly you only need tech 2 fitting to make them more effective than tech 2. which means you don't need so good fittings there. imho it's more like +/- 0. a bit like marauders. less modules to loot, more effectiveness. isk is tied to hull which explodes. funnily enough salvage does not seem that good either. common evelogic. it's ok to spend isk on ship as long as no one gets loot.i may be just bitter.these battlecruisers are hardly only alternative if you get creative. it is actually good thing there is useful cost effective ships for newbies to fly. imho."
"ephemeron, i cant get it. are you defending the dramiel in its current state?dramiels dominate frigate pvp.some people arent dumb (dont participate in blob warfare only) and they want to roam solo and get some goodfights / fun. no ship should dominate any ship class in eve.also nothing should be killable only by ships fit specifically for this situation, so no \"hurf durf but this counters dramiels\". this is not rigt.bump and moar +support for this idea, please"
"drams should be nerfed."
"signed ~long overdue"
"relvant image:please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"oh for the love of... do you not understand that you need to do more than voice the same debunked bits of bull that've been regurgitated again and again? what, are you people on rotation, every few days one of you swings by and revises the same debunked nonsense? that something is \"considered\" something doesn't prove that there's a problem with it, or that the solution is total removal. you can consider anything to be anything you want. and you can consider your aunt to be a yeti, that doesn't make her a sasquatch. yet again (again) (again) (again), coalitions/large fleets arose before jb's were ever created. they are independent of them. they will continue to exist after this, because of the evils of math and the horror of human cooperation (). massive fleets can be and are raised without the use of jb's. the example of forward staging hq's in the invasion of the drf is something that's only been used, what, forty times now? you missed it?no. i have rebutted nonsense some have spewed about how jb's provide total safety. your bull is bull because it's not true. and you still can't offer an actual argument. yes jb's are harder to camp than simple gates. again so what? nobody has denied that an armed pos is different than a gate. but all you're doing is repeating the same basic fact over again and pointing angrily. see, it's harder to camp a jb. it's not as easy. it's more difficult. it's of a different order of complexity. it's... no ****. now why does that mean that we should remove them from the game?"
"and just how would i be able to bring my capital ships into a cyno jammed system for refits? i don't like this change."
"you wouldn't.you sit on the toilets you assume whatever will happen"
"oh no, don't hold your self back, mr. forum alt and finish it.i help you a bit.finn lives in 0.0 and benefits from jump bridges 'the most', you supposedly live in 0.0 and you also benefit from jump bridges 'the most'. in fact, every established entity living in 0.0 benefits from jump bridges 'the most', it looks like that everyone in 0.0 is happy and fine with jump bridges. they came into 0.0, fight for their space, upgrade, defend and expand it. their successful effort was rewarded. i guess the only 0.0 entity that does not benefit from bridges are forum alts..."
"oh wait, so all the pilots traveled all the way to drf staging hq's without using a single jf? i don't think so. just because you had to travel a couple of jumps through low (probably with a titan bridge) after you were able to travel through jbs for the most part of the may does not mean that you haven't benefitet from the jbs and thet they didn't support your invasion. just because you keep ignoring/refusing to understand an argument does not mean there is non. jb let you travel very safetly through your own space. i would even say that it is more dagerous to travel through high sec. this makes big space holding alliances quite invulnerable against small gangs. it is a very simple argument. you haven't debunked it. for some reason you just keep getting mad and talking (mostly) bs instead.thus my proposal still is (or something in that direction)in my opinion jbs should be removed and the jump drive of capitals and super capitals should be removed (gate travel) or nerfed.the timer system should be reworked.- when a tower is reinforced, it can only keep up the big ff for 1-2h afterwards the ff shriks so that it only protects the tower.- after the ff has shrunck, the anchored modules can be either hacked and stolen or destroyed.because right now, the defending/attacking entity can defend/attack a target that comes out the rf, and be 15 minutes later in a completly different corner of the eve universe and attack/defend the next target. <-- problem with force projection.while it would still be possible to form large blobs it will be much harder to deal with a two front war. it would create more strategic opportunities, and make the supply lines more vulnerable (no very safe jb routes anymore).this was, and still is my argument. you now can try to present some valid counter-arguments or simply ignore it. but please stop to bs."
"yet a lot (not yet majority, but getting there) think that bridges does more harm than good in the grand scheme of things.the staunchest defenders of the teleporters are all members of bloat empires as far as i can tell, so one can only assume that they feel their \"way of life\" is threatened by the suggestion which directly contradicts the arguments that it would have no effect on coalition size and such.bridges certainly have a place, but as a supplement to regular gates not a complete replacement which is where they are now.null-sec life should neither be easier nor safer than high-sec life, with hard work and cooperation it should be able to approach but never exceed .. not with the null isk potential intact as it demolishes the risk/reward concept.if the safety net is so important then one could always adjust the other side of the coin:- interference from the bridge network prevents pirates from establishing anything but the smallest of bases (no more sanctums for the slow people).- moon yields are halved due to unfortunate chemical reactions caused by sub-space radiation from bridges.how about that then? bridge bloat and be poor but 100% safe, or accept some risks and be loaded."
"nope, on the grand scheme of the things it is more and more clear that those who cry for jump bridges removal are mostly those who do not own 0.0 space wanting to nerf the game of others to make it easier for them to reach the cake...if i successfully fight for a space +40 jumps from jita, it is fine that people who fought for their own space get tools to overcome extensive distances and so exploited riches as well as personal and corporate assets can be transported in reasonable fashion.i understand it may make some gate huggers unhappy and i don't give a damn. they did not fight for the space they are camping. the idea that you put the alliance together, fight over a system and manage to keep it just in order to turn your space into 'piwat' enticement is ******ed."
"no. it doesnt allow you to travel safely. you must be completely stupid. remember you still have to get that fleet together. just because you can get to a destination quickly doesnt mean that you will get there quickly. jb routes are not very safe. can you stop your bs?"
"signed - we didn't have them back in the day (jump bridges) and 0.0 was fine - more than that it was dare i say it, fun. we actually had to travel around and you know, occasionally fight our way through 0.0do it ccp"
"csm all owns carriers or simply lives in that 'do-not-bubble' area. truth is, you will **** over so many 0.0 residents trying to make some isk or simply get their stuff around. powerblocks already have their titans jumping in fleets and freighters all over 0.0, they could care less.people usually can't be bothered to light a cyno let alone do a few carrier jumps. you think putting more emphasis on logistics will make 0.0 more fun?or let me put this simply; 0.0 is barely pvp between blobs, now it's going to be no pvp, barely better than empire pve, and griefing small people doing logistics."
"while we at it, why not just remove all jb's and stargates from 0.0. make some random unstable wormholes that link all 0.0 areas together randomly with occasional wormhole to lowsec / highsec.also new module to titan or what ever, wormhole generator. produces wormhole from 0.0 to anohter 0.0 system if theres a special wormholecyno on the other end. wormhole stays up for 15min and is bi-directional. and free to use for everyone. also this wormhole is easily scannable or needs to be put near systems star. also carrier is the largest ship that can move trough this hole.rest of the jump capable ships stays as they are. starmap stays as it is with all 0.0 stargates removed and routes removed. that would mixup the bucket of tears and overhaul the null as we know it. if you have to overhaul null, overkill it!or what ever. ( it's not that im lazy, i just really don't care)"
"these are your arguments? really? so everytime i say something you will simply say: \"no it is not true and you are stupid!\" ?"
"this!supported"
"i am always shocked when players build sand castles in their sandbox game. so insolent..."
"just came back from a long hiatus- bought my first kronos to start making plex money, and was immediately smacked in the face by the fact that rails are still bad. in fairness i know my skills still suck a bit for the kronos, and the new ship is a learning process for me. this doesn't change that hybrids are still a mediocre weapon system. this issue is old. like ancient.there isn't much that i can say about it without writing a book that's been written many, many times, for years now. hybrid weapons just \"feel bad\" to use, and the ships that specialize in their use are suffering as a result. i trimmed as much fat out of this post as i possibly could to get down to that bare statement. hybrids simply don't feel good to use, in almost any situation."
"afk piloting in any kind of hauler is just a good way of serving your ship up for brunch. i fully support the proposal of swapping velocity for agility."
"agillity or whatever but make freighters look less like gigantick ultra slow easy ganking bricks.there are two activities i've tested and can't do them for any reward you can awford me:freight or mining with something less than an hulk.franckly what's the puropose of those activities in eve's universe?- nothing moore sleeping than those ones."
"sorry miss, i dont really care weather it's easier on the devs or not.what i care about when flying my charon is not being ganged.i would be nice to fit a couble of warp core stabilizers and other defensive modules and rigs.actually, it dosent make sense at all that we cannot fit freighters - allmost every other ship can be fitted."
"point taken, but i could settle for a small improvement that would be easier to implement for now. many wars are won not by blitz tactics, but by small incremental steps that eventually lead to your goal. by this way you can also avoid overdoing it. we already have at least one detractor in here who says that this single light step is too much"
"i'd like the idea of having mines to deploy, but i dont really see the point in doing so if they will disintegrate after 5 minutes. i think stealth bombers can do the same job just as well.i'd be all for \"proper\" mines that u can deploy for a long period of time. these could have many uses that can't be done with current mechanics.and sure, make them 0.0 only, there'd be no end to all the crying in high/lowsec."
"could be cool to have mines back.../supported"
"i like the idea would be great for hunting ratting bots :ddeploy mines in a bunch of the belts leave system and let the bots kill themselves on the mines :d"
"bump, baby please support this guys, it concerns everybody!!!"
"altho i think i look much better now, i support this."
"fully support"
"can't even imagine someone stupid enough to build those ones anyway.edit: support hit box :green:"
"supported!!! i agree with the op on all points raised"
"some design goals were:increase number of people a system can supportincrease maintenance cost (in activity) on systemsincentivize smaller bordersincentivize small gang corps and roamsadd layer of topography to null sec"
"thanks for the support zirse.if i had a local friend who played eve (or was even a gamer) or had an internet cafe within a 50-mile radius, i would. unfortunately, neither holds true for me and probably many others. the only person that i know personally who plays eve is my brother who lives across the country from me and who is not puter savy enough to set up a remote for me on an xp system (and got all paranoid about it when i suggested it ).the point is though, that we shouldn't have to be finding ways around this. ccp should at least tell us why this issue exists (like what system requirements are needed for the cc) and put the option for a random portrait outside of the cc instead of on the inside. at least then we could continue playing (with a portrait no matter how bad) and we would know what we need in the way of upgrades or new/used systems before incarna launches this summer."
"drone control is not intuitive as it could be. common. no one cares? two simple suggestions. bump."
"shortcuts, i have ctrl+1 for engage, ctrl+2 for return and orbit and ctrl+3 for return to dronebay.though i do agree the entire drone ai and control structure needs to be looked at. sadly this issue is years old and will not be looked at for another few set of years. (ccp doesnt care)"
"same.you people can't have:frigs able to take down bs's (whenever)cruisers defenitivly taking down bs'sbc's chewig bs'sand -> bs's being chewd by any cap shipimo frigs, cruisers and bc's t1 to 3hulls should already cost over 5 to 10 times their price.wy?- reward vs riskatm you risk nothing for the rewards you can get.time to change this and make eve become something realy harsh.where a frig is a frig and cant shi't on bigger than cruiser same for cruiser and then bc's can mabe shi't on bs's but they'll neeed to be a certain important number to shi't on their shoes like bs's need now to shi't on cap's shoes.ccp tearing about too much isk in the game?make scum use real ships and this will never happen again."
"as it stands, the owners of t2 bpos are making billions of isk uncontested and practically hold a free monopoly on the t2 market.the problem is it costs less to make a bpc of a t2 bpo then it does to invent a t1 bpc into a t2 bpc.solution:require the act of copying a t2 bpo to require 150% value (scaling upward to 400% with the difficulty of invention chance) of the datacores it costs to invent said t1 bpc.i.e. it costs more to now copy a t2 bpo then it does to invent a t1 bpc, but you will always get the bpc.this should at least help those who invested the sp towards invention to gain a small (instead of negative) profit on invention of items that currently have t2 bpos out.alternate solution:removal of t2 bpos. owners of these bpos have profited enough on these. this will help the invention marked substantially at the cost of a very marginal amount of whining.alternate solution:re-seed t2 bpos and use the invention idea for t3 (upcoming?). invention is a great idea, its just unfortunate that theres no profit in it. especially with all the sp required for it."
"i can hear the pirates complaining already...and i agree not supported, sorry."
"improving the user experience. supported."
"this. besides, you can do a variation on this already. set destination. warp to 0. while in warp, turn on autopilot. when your ship arrives on gate (as long as it wasn't a short warp), it will instantly jump for you."
"absolutely needed+1"
"allow the billboards to be bid for at a monthly automated auction by corporations/alliances then let the corp manage the ads.rule-breaking ads have a three-strikes and you've just lost your bid, and also your corp/alliance is not permitted to bid for a period of time. the corp can either use them for self advertising, or to promote others (and profit from the billboard).let's create advertising corporations, and outsource the work to someone who might enjoy the business."
"it'd be a nice vanity item for the microtransactions that ccp wants."
"you are probably better off submitting a bug report than to raise this via csm."
"yeah, i can't imagine this is the way the game is supposed to work. if it is, then i support changing it so stealing from the mission can causes the player to be flagged."
"i<U+FFFD>ve just updated the first message."
"we already have jump drives. if your suggestion is more jump drive capable ships, people might be okay with that. what you are asking for is... bad game design."
"ok if you think is bad, all comments are welcome but, please: explain why it can't work. this is good or this is bad are not arguments.explain yourself, thanks."
"i know it's just a game but your proposal doesn't hold any realism.the only way to accomplish it is to put jump drives on all ships.think about our galaxy, our real life galaxy. alpha centauri is the closest system to us and it's a mere 4.37 light years away. that translates to 276,363.6 au. a raven, at 3 au/sec would take 25.5 hours to get there. an obelisk would take over 100 hours.edit: yeah, i didn't read all the posts. goes to show the brilliance of other posters."
"problem one (biggest problem): the way eve gets around the multiple shard thing is by breaking up the galaxy into systems. this allows systems to float between processors to balance the load. currently, if you fly from one system directly to another system (by warping), you will remain in the system you started in and never arrive at the other system and that would require a loading screen and possible the transfer of all of your information from one node to another node. this would be a huge problem to overcome.problem two: ccp does not want people to be able to access jove space. this mechanic would allow people to access jove space.problem three: this mechanic would allow people to wander through deep space, something that decreases player interaction. this, and some mechanics things, ccp and many players are against (as can be seen with the removal of deep safe spots).problem four: it should take a silly long time to get from one system to another at warp speed. if it didn't, it would be a bad mechanic, if it did, it would be a bad mechanic."
"agreed. there are wrecks already created for many of the ships. i've seen them in plexes and missions. put them in game. but we should also have an option to not render them (similar to drones) for heavy load situations."
"this. this is not a good idea. why? maybe because half or more of the reward of a mission comes from looting and salvaging the wreck. and how do poeple do that? they complete the mission, then warp to a bookmarked wreck, and salvage everything. but what if wrecks continue flying? they have to chase them around?then i'll ask you a question... what's the use of a noctis? salvaging missions. just salvaging missions... if wrecks are flying away from your bookmark, what do you do? will you chase them? really? in a sluggish noctis? if they don't slow down until they desappear, they probably are still faster than you...that's why i won't support this proposal. modify this point and i'll (maybe) think about it."
"hmmm... clearly, i didn't read the entire post. this part of the idea is bad."
"then how about if this part of the idea is scrapped and replaced with quickly decelerating main wrecks, while the bits fly off? that way it won't look so wierd when a frigate going 1km/s+ it doesent look so wierd when it suddenly has no momentum, but it will also allow for salvage operation to not cover a hundred cubic kilometers.thanks for pointing it out, i didnt realize that that would be a salvage problem till you guys mentioned it."
"/signed"
"optionali don't need it, i don't want it - simple as that..."
"compulsory , just for the tears it will create."
"discussion. now. both ships are useless in pvp, unless only being augmented to a fleet as dps. even then they are useless.add a second mid slot, no questions asked, just do it."
"i agree 100%these ships need to have 2 mid slots(a prop mod, and a point.)currently in eve every ship needs a propulsion mod, especially a ship unable to mount a web(may get away without a prop mod but they often use a web and a point.).these ships have far far far less ues than the other ships of their class and there relative power is not anough to offset this.a retribution is not signifgantly better than any other assault frigate to warent it's in ability to tackle or take advatage of it's speed it's ship class gives it.the amar destroy fails as an anti frigate plat form due to ti's inability to keep a ship eather pointed or within range. these ships have no use in a fleet.at most the destroyer is used to do level 1-2 faster until the person can fly a cruiser.this needs to be fixed."
"if anything give them an extra low."
"to the csm candidates who get voted in.the following limits should be put in place. no more than 2 pilots from the same corp or alliance, can be seated members on the csm.benefitsthis will prevent from any singular corporation or alliance from having control over the csm, ie be able to pass the issues they want vs what the community wants."
"you seem to be confused as to what the csm can and can't do.you should probably read up on it, as i think your estimates of their abilities to change the game are a little more than wrong.they can't dictate game changes, merely suggestions, which usually get shelved in some way, and or seriously altered by the game devs when they finally go through them. basically a corp or alliance could have every member of the csm and the game probably wouldn't be altered at all from the way you see it now."
"the csm is useless so who gives a **** who the members are."
"we now get useful information about what damage a drone is doing. this is low hanging, and very tasty, fruit."
"+1 for a recurring proposal."
"/supported"
"good idea...would be nice if carriers could also slowly repair their drones as well."
"supported"
"yes please!"
"lol... what started out as a rough idea on hybrids is coming together quite nicely tbh =)lovin peoples opinions about this, good and bad so keep posting! especially if you can back ur criticism up with something rock solid (numbers) and logical/rational explanations!thinking of fleet fights and the limitations of blasters vs rails, i dont think the changes proposed to hybrid ammo and their damage profiles should be either blaster only or railgun only. but the way the bleedthrough is calculated should be tied to the ammos range. i'll be crunching numbers to support this soon bt in the mean time plz post ur thoughts, comments, criticisms and ideas=) cheers!"
"endeed, in real world at least.railguns are a very special weapon system that uses energy to propulse the ammo but it doesn't loads it on other kind of energy than the one related to the speed/mass of the same ammo wich can make us think this simply:-kinetic: for the mass speed/impact-thermic: acumulated energy by the mass with speed delivered at the impactbut also:-explosive - whenever you've used real guns you know that you can get explosive charges or piercing charges just by choosing different materials: the explosive effect is a calculation between the density/mass of the employed materials the speed induced and the target's resistance techs.so the piercing effect is not unreal or \"eve's\" impossible and the different types of dmg including em is perfectly rp, it's just a matter of ccp's will."
"okay i think ive found a nice balancing point for railgun long range and short range ammo types.ive compiled this using bs fleet examples, as most sub cap large scale fleet engagements tend to use alpha strike bs's.-----------------my proposal is a 5% bleed-through using t1 railgun turrets and a 10% bleed-through using t2 railgun turrets.this is in conjunction with t2 railgun ammo, an additional 3% bleed-through per skill level of railgun specialisation. -----------------what this means is maxxed skills and a balanced railgun bs fit (using a rokh for this example), short range alpha is around 2600 using t2 ammo and 1500 using long range ammo.as everyone who's looked closely at railguns vs artillery, the differences are rather large.however with my proposed bleed-through railguns would have a bleed-through of at max 25%. using an example fleet consisting of 20 or so, railgun bs's short range alpha is around 52,000, where as a comparable ranged arty bs would be around 150,000. 25% of the railguns alpha would bleed through to armour = 13,000hpusing a sensible fleet setup maelstrom lowest resist armor and hull ehp works out to be around 25,000hp.now although this wont pop a maelstrom from a first volley alpha strike alone, railgun rate of fire is considerably faster than artillery, so requiring a second volley to finish off a target is not out of the question.it can be argued that logistic support may get to the targeted ship before a second volley is received, although, rof could possibly defeat initial repping cycles. the same typical maelstrom 20 man alpha fleet would have a comparable alpha of 150,000, able to alpha most buffer fit bs's off the field.example fleet sizes were chosen to show the average tipping point where combined alpha would be just enough to insta-pop ships. the general fleet doctrine when it comes to alpha fleet setups.the 20 man railgun bs's using this concept wont insta-pop bs's through pure alpha alone, it does demonstrate the ability to penetrate through its main tank enough to defeat a ship using the bleed through concept.the same railgun bs setup at long ranges would require a ship number increase of 75% to achieve the same results but at an optimal of twice the short range.it can be argued that no other long range alpha setup can achieve this. re-cementing railguns as the optimum long range alpha ship.btw i am sorry for the wall of txt, just plz read it entirely b4 criticising it in one sentence. thankyouplease!"
"supported."
"i support this product and/or service"
"accidentally double clicked support of this service."
"please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"the most scary to eve with this whole thread is the alt's umber with the \"blah blah blah product\" and the whole silly pictures, can't see anything realy interesting realted with the game.if you realy want ccp's beer and barbecue i realy think you don't need to become csm member, take a ticket to the fantest."
"i support this product and or service."
"i support this product and or service"
"that's rich! (not) t'amber supports himself! for everyone who isn't aware of this - t'amber = serious internet politician. you can compare yourselves: members of the fourth csmcandidate listing for the 6th csm electionshonestly though, it was obvious for quite some time now. i supported t'amber so far. i'm strongly opposed to mt as well. i was hoping that t'amber's formal resignation as 1st alternate was somewhat more meaningful, but it turned out that it was just attention-whoring. however, the main reason i won't be voting for t'amber(aka sip) is this post on shc. let me quote this for you: i urge everyone to consider if they really want to be \"tricked\" into voting for that person."
"first, my blog -"
"doing what, exactly? what have you been doing all this time? what does that mean? did you cause / fix the boot.ini thing?"
"lol. big question. i started of as a miner in celestial horizon corporation, joining their empire combat arm and fighting in a number of wars (vs bdci/sharks, mercenary frigates/forces, dvn, votf) before moving to 0.0 and basing in vngj-u in feythabolis where i initially ran the ice mining department and flew in and fc'ed local defense gang's (in more wars like the 5, and a number of other wars after the formation of ascendant frontier - ascn, where i was a member of teh high command). i got promoted (or was that demoted) into running parts of our pos defense and industry supply chain (running freighter loads of passive targetters from empire to 0.0 after building them in high sec). was involved in the logistics for most of cls's outpost deployments as well as the titan deployment.i became the ceo of cls after the collapse of ascn and the retirement of cyvok. it was my job to oversee the evacuation of feythabolis after brokering a final surrender and ceasefire with blacklight. we then moved to the dorne regions where i handed over the ceo to samuraijack when i became a dev and my characters got renamed and i was no longer allowed to associate with my previous corp mates on an in-game level. i moved my toons into an alt-corp that i had had hanging about and turned it into a small scale production corp that grew to run a reseach pos and invested heavily into capitalship bpo's, researching them and running endless copies for sale. i also build tech 1 ships for sale from this corp, mainly battleships and battle cruisers but some other ships as well.when i left ccp i re-established my contacts with cls and rejoined the corp while still keeping the other corp running as a smaller going concern and isk generation enterprise. while in cls i became the sales manager for the tech 2 department for about 18 months. this involved the selling of all the produce from cls controlled tech 2 bpo's and the results of their invention onto the markets in jita, ammar, oursleart(sp?) and rens as well as some sales into drone regions. i did some experiments with wormholes and such as it was one of the features i was involved with just before i left ccp.after this i got a bit of eve burnout and left cls back to my small corp and took a break. i returned about 4 months ago and have been very active again (my joy of playing is as strong as ever again), i have refocused on industry and have committed deeply into pi (high sec based at this time but that may be changing soon hopefully) and have also started doing some more market manipulation and sovereignty structure development.actually fix boot.ini? no but i was one of the 2 qa people on shift when it was deployed (the other being ccp mindstar) when it was discovered. i remember having to call my boss at 1am and wake him up, but he went back to sleep thinking it was a practical joke, so i called in the cto and did most of the organising of the 'fix' effort until higher-ups where called in, even them ccp mindstar and i where often consulted on the state of the issue as we had the most experience with it. i think ccp mindstar and i did a 36 hour straight stint discoving the issue (from reports on the forums and in the irc channel's) finding the actual circumstances of the issue and breaking a number of ccp forum posting rules around not modifying players posts, which we where doing when someone posted incorrect information on the issue as it began causing additional problems with the false information going round (i was later 'slapped on the wrist as i broke the rules, but as i did it for the right reasons all was forgiven). i even hillmar the ceo buy ccp mindstar and i a drink later to thank us for our quick action."
"prometheus, your arguments and opinions are reasonably sound. you have me convinced as someone who can carry on the torch from csm5. you have my vote."
"amen, brother you have my vote. .... where do i vote?"
"seriously though..... where do i vote?"
"also, while you are a csm i would like you to address the issue of the retribution and the coercer, give them a second mid slot. :( ccp its not even funny anymore. again you have my vote."
"this, plus be able to explain in detail the how and why."
"direct voting link: click herehi,after serving on csm 2, 3, 4 and 5, i'm running again for csm 6. as a member of the csm i have been able to contribute into making the csm what it is today.i am a balanced candidate, one with deep knowledge in all areas of the game, from pvp to industry, wormholes, lowsec, highsec, 0.0, mining, plexing, missions running, fw.since i take part in all eve has to offer, i favor no aspect over another, and am one of the few csm members to have continuously looked for unintended consequences, and taken into consideration how changes might impact the play styles that were not the ones targeted by the proposals. indeed, i am in an industrial corporation in a small but renowned pvp alliance, rooks and kings. this unlikely combination gives me ample opportunity to take part in any game play i chose.considering the limited resources available for things other than incarna, i intend to focus on providing as many small but much-needed game improvements that benefit everyone for the first part of the term, and helping ccp get rid of bots (preferably also by making those areas that are heavily macroed more engaging) then assisting ccp in giving much needed love to those existing areas of the game that have been all but left aside for the latter half.one of the biggest difficulties for a newly elected candidates is to understand how ccp functions, and how the csm interacts with them. that is an issue that has been regularly described as \"by the time we understand how it works it's over\" by former members when the csm terms were still 6 months. obviously that is not a problem i have, and voting for me is a way to make sure the csm hits the ground running.i have a proven track record of being able to work well with other members, no matter their background and priorities.i don't try and get into the spotlight, and usually am content making sure the process works and changes go in the right direction, speaking out publicly only when i have something meaningful to add instead of engaging in forum warrioring continuously. those who voted for me in the past know that i have always been available.i will be posting more information here, be sure to ask any question you might have.csm campaign website:"
"you can tell a lot by what others say of someone, so here's a few things people who have worked with me during the terms have said:meissa is extremely analytical, well-versed in game mechanics and cause-and-effect of those mechanics, and able to express himself and his ideas very well.his game knowledge is excellent and approach to presenting/supporting his opinions both in our internal forums and at summits is very effective. so while he's one of the \"quiet\" csm members, he contributes a lot of value. just sayin.-- mynxee, csm 5 chairwoman(who also kindly included me in her list of people to consider voting for)meissa, despite not being a good or well known poaster is very dedicated, knowledgeable and, something which will be very important this time around, pretty impartial and balanced in his views (perhaps frustratingly so at times ). he's also a very nice chap and good fun on the lash for a belgian.-- larkonis trassler, csm 3(who named me as one of the 2 people to vote for)<...> he knows the part of eve that he plays really well and he makes sound arguments even if i dont agree with them, and i think you should vote for him -- mazzilliu, csm 3 and 5message from someone who's clearly not t'amber just below too..."
"i've activated one more account just to vote for meissa.meissa cemented his worthyness for a full seat during the fifth csm and his only failing is that he only got alternate the other times and not full seats. good luck meissa and see you in local"
"would you articulate what some of the \"small but much-needed game improvements\" are? also, would you spell out the metrics and methedologies you use to evaluate whether something is a \"problem\" or not?cheers"
"there are many \"small but much-needed game improvements\".let's start with the ui, improvements have been made on that front, but far from enough:- fleet management ui still sucks (not fleet finder, the fleet management itself)- the market window, well, is barely functional (come on, no way to see my listed orders and their price without opening the wallet)?- the overheating ui is pathetic, feedback is delayed, buttons are extremely tiny and easy to miss...those are exemples of small ui items that wouldn't take too long to modify to significantly improve the gaming experience.then there's the game mechanics themselves:- war declaration costs and timings and end terms (lots of thinking required, probably not that much on the implementation side).- cosmos/faction items that have 0 uses, not even fitting benefits- mothership (aka supercarriers) rebalancing, black ops rebalancing- (pet peeve of mine) capital ship self-destruction timers- launching multiple invention/copy/production jobs at once- corporate/alliance bookmark sharingthese are exemples of things, there's a [url="
"thanks for the reply! if i may i would like to press you on the metrics side a little more. how do you know that there is a problem with black ops, or log-off timers on caps/supercaps? what specific evidence would you use to conclude that they have been fixed (assuming some changes were made)?"
"there's several factors to indicate black ops are a problem. first, there's very few of them flown, i rarely encounter them personally, plus qen data says there's very few of them flown and built (and i seem to recall we got data from ccp about them last term, but i didn't know that when i thought they were broken). then there's eft and comparing their capabilities with that of other ships, plus my custom fitting tool (a substitute for eft). comparing the performance difference between most black ops, both offensively and defensively doesn't match the value difference with their t1 counterparts.i don't subscribe to the view that a ship 6 times more expensive need to be 6 times more powerful, obviously, but the low usage combined with frankly pathetic overall capacities for a t2 lead to a perception it could use buffing.now, it's also relatively subjective.in theory a ship 20 times as pricey as a t1 but with a jump drive/portal could be worth it. the fact is that it isn't, or it would be used :pfor log-off timer on caps, there's no data to be had really, it's impossible to sink a sieged/triaged ship before it self-destructs now in a one on one situation, or even 3 against 1 for that matter, if the ship is reasonably tanked. i could go with eft data to make my point, but in this instance there's really no arguing that.i appreciate that self destruction can be a valid point to deprive another of a killmail and thereby deprive them of a potential tactical advantage of knowing your fit, but when it ceases to be a decision to be made that has consequences at some point in time, but an automatism when you know you're going to die and there's nothing the other can do to prevent you from killing yourself before you do it yourself, it's not much of a choice anymore.i'd rather see self destruction happen at a time where the person still may have a fighting chance and decides to make it a gamble. either initiate self-destruct now, or keep trying to fend off the attackers.right now no such choice has to be made.as for the metrics, to answer is: personal experience, eft, my personal eft-like tool.while i understand your question, i would think the most valuable question would be \"why do i think a player needs to be prevented from self-destructing at will in the first place\", and that's where balance and gameplay issues arise, and where the question of fun, reward, etc. enter. and there's no putting figures on that, just weighing all pros and cons, ie, under what circumstances is it acceptable for a pilot to deprive another of the fruits of their labor (a killmail in this instance)...my job as a csm member arguing that kind of issue is to make sure the data discussed represent the facts, and then arguing both sides of the question to make sure no decision is made in ignorance and without having carefuly weighed everything."
"your reply on bo's was the kind of thing that i was looking for, and you intuited the deeper question i was asking about self-destruct timers (although the answer seemed a little wishy washy :p ). so far you have been the most specific and i appreciate that.thanks for your time and good luck with your campaign!"
"hello mittaniyou accidently forgot to answer my questions, so i will summarize the most important ones:1)why do you think that the tradition of primary elections in goonswarm was bad and why you cancelled them to put yourself on #1?2)why you threat kalrand with removal of writing rights and/or kick out of goonswarm if he posts on goonfleet.com about his csm campaign?3)since you believe that you are cool and bright enough to think for all other goons, is it not possible to let them at least elect the 2nd place or is it too dangerous, considering the low popularity of vile rat?4)why do you support botting inside goon territory and do you plan to change that if you get elected for csm?thank you for taking the time to answer concerns of the voters."
"i support this product and/or service."
"fyi: the mittani has no authority on sa, only on goonfleet.com."
"i just want to know what your plan b is if you are unsuccessful as csm chairman. if you unite the csm, get it organized, and still see no progress, what then? will you just say \"sorry guys, i tried my best\", or will you do what needs to be done? if after 6 csms there has been no improvement i think csm should be dismantled and the charade ended."
"thanks, edited."
"the mittani is a spineless confused nerd.his tactic is to present himself as a strong leader when in fact he is not at all. the fact that he is leading goons atm says something about the state of goons, not the mittani's abilities.gone are the romantic notions of **** the system. what goons have now is a calculating disturbed post-teen snake, who confuses napping the entirety of eve with being rational in a broken game.this is a nerd who confessed there are exquisite pleasures to be had in griefing people out of this game.people who are obviously hilariously ******ed ofc."
"flattery will get you nowhere, i have larping and a puppy to fill the void that you just can't hit right."
"this may be too hard for you so let me rephrase. the mittani is an idiot and all who follow him even more."
"heh"
"ima pour a forty on the sidewalk for my ***** \"the mittani\"i suggest y'all do the same.sho'nuff"
"did you?whether you wrote it or not it is interesting what this person said. after the nullsec alliances gave up on the csm, ccp started to listen. food for thought isnt it?perhaps, negotiating with people in a game is a bit of a different animal than negotiating with professionals about their multimillion dollar company. i mean is it surprising that folks at ccp did not jump when the null sec alliance leaders were ruling the roost of csm? moreover, whoever said, what was attributed to you, also gave no indication that they understood *why* ccp is beginning to listen to the csm. i think more than a few people have a clue about what brought that on. but then we read this:yeah do away with formal meeting minutes and just talk on skype. i have to say, i dont think you understood why ccp decided to start listening to the csm. i have a hunch you need to do some thinking or you will be very easy for ccp to ignore. i also think you would be well served to stop posting for your campaign and just tell your goons to shut up and vote for you. remember, no democracy just do what daddy tells you. im sorry if this is insulting to goon players but they seem to be your view. you apparently think your alliance will vote like you tell them and you dont even need to explain a thing about what direction you think the game should go. ah yeah lets all believe that will work fine with ccp. unfortunately history tells a different story. null sec leaders who are used to snapping their fingers and having a thousand lemmings jump never accomplished much with csm. it was only when the current crop of idiots took office that ccp started listening. actually i don't, nor does csm or ccp. thanks, but no thanks.as for me im with one of the current crop of idiots who said"
"ooooooops! too bad that helen highwater of csm5 already stated that most of the work and important dialogue with ccp came from the internal csm forums, mail threads, and private conversations."
"you realize that our directorate doesn't force us to vote for anyone in particular, right? our \"official support\" of a candidate boils down to a link on at the top of our forums once the polls open. if we are running two candidates it gets more complicated, if your username has an odd number you push one button, if your user name has an even number you push the other button. we don't hold voting ctas or fire the red pen, people can choose to vote for someone else, or not vote at all. the official candidates just make it easier. most eve players don't bother to vote at all, our method just makes it as easy as possible for the common goon to do his civic duty.we used to run primaries, the problem we had was that sometimes a guy that lost the primary wouldn't drop out. this caused dumb goons to mill about in confusion, and sometimes push the wrong button. last time we managed to muck it up enough that we didn't win a seat at all, just an alternate. :( this year we are making it as goon-proof as possible, by eliminating the primaries. all goons that want to run are still allowed to do so, the won't be kicked from the alliance, or have their pods shot, or anything nasty like that. they just aren't allowed to split the vote using goonfleet.com resources. any goon who is actually interested in the election can easily find information about all the candidates here. nulsec players are a minority, some players in highsec want to make the game less fun for us purely out of spite, so if we want to get any representation on the csm we have to work together. we can't afford voter apathy or confusion. if highsec players decided to band together and only vote for 10 guys (rather than splitting their votes between every single eve player who has a passport and a wants a free trip to iceland) then they would easily sweep the election every year. organize a successful highsec heritage party and no nulsec player will ever be elected to the csm again."
"you dumbs heu, we're not voting for the nex wuphs (world united presidence and humanity slavery) are we? -we had enough with the last economic trash/crash s'hitscum are capable of, thx.no we don't, just you. are you trollin??"
"dearest mittens; if i weren't voting for seleene i would vote for you are vile. clue in bonus section here is why you want mittens on the csm: marshall mittens is what ccp fears as a csm delegate. i have 0 doubt in my mind that mittens will poast alot. the thing is when mittens poast people pay attention matter of fact he draws alot of attention. this fine neckbeard will have people f5ing articles forums and blogs like crazy as he exposes the hypocrisy that is ccp. ccp doesn't like bad press and there is nothing more mittens enjoys than taking peoples dirty laundry showing it to everyone and then funning up with good gimmicks and tildes to humiliate his subject. you can guarentee ccp doesn't want this. im pretty sure they will tread carefully with mittens and be willing to \"work\" with him."
"wait. hey mittens send me 500 million isk and i can get you into the csm!"
"goons who do not vote properly will be purgedwe're requiring a video of each pilot voting for our candidates (unedited, of course), or they are expelled from the corporation"
"if:this sigle point was true, then i'd vote for this person.but:has you already know, but not the whole mittens, it's not the truth"
"would you articulate what you see are the specific ccp/csm communication problems that need to be solved? also, using specific examples, address both 1)the times when previous csm's squandered thier opportunity to solve these problems in the past and 2)a couple of different ways you would have handled the situation/s? cheers"
"seems obvious to everyone having 2 eyes and being able to read a minimum in english that comunication problems exist seriously, take example on some threads existing since 2years now without any answer from ccp.resulting from the same threads 2 different members of csm incapable to present something serious to ccp like:member one: \"ho about this stuff, seems doesn't works\"member two: \"yes it does, i mean it seems it does\"ccp: \"ok, so everything's fine. what's next about jump bridges?\"certainly another candidate's alt and a raging one.i could ask you the same thing on the other sense even if i have nothing to win with, could you seriously do it?- i don't think so or you're realy fool."
"how about when a ccp developer brings up the craptastic idea of removing jump bridges and not a single person on the csm says anything about it? the whole idea of the csm as a stakeholder is a sham but the csm can be used to provide feedback on what the devs are thinking about the direction of their game. if nobody tells them how stupid their ideas are they might just implement them."
"interesting campaign.i'm intrigued by the reasoning to do 'good for all' by getting some teeth onto the csm (technical teeth in regards to haggling with ccp).the only question i got for the mittani is this: what do you do if you find that the problem lies within ccp itself(*).. it's internal communication and organisational structure?what are you gonna do?*) my thoughts here run along the lines of: 'no matter what you do or achieve, ccp itself is in trouble'.i mean, i don't believe you can change the corporate structure of ccp. on the other hand i don't even think you'll be able to get this kind of insight.."
"so mittani fears free speech and primary elections on goonfleet.com because he thinks goons are too stupid to vote?and what is the advantage of having 2 goon candidates that goons dont elected to candidate +some other over 2 goon candidates that goons want to candidate +some other?@mittanii think my questions have been to negative in the past. i respect the fact that you dont want to answer any critical questions and favor questions by bootlicker alts that allow you to describe your greatness.lets talk about your achievements instead of asking critical questions.could you describe what your achievements are other then destroying the tradition of primary elections for your ego-boost, letting everyone in eve know that you think goons are too stupid to vote, losing goon systems, and ruining goons ingame in general?"
"halp, i'm being oppressed."
"who cares but you? the goonswarm don't give a flip what other people think except goonswarm. if you read"
"goons do. they just dont want to lose their membership. in fact the number of goons caring is so big that mr ego-boost is afraid of free speech on goonfleet.com - not the behavior of a loved dear leader.thats what primary elections are for, to find out what is goonswarms best interest.no, thats the new dear leader structure that mr ego-boost just introduced by destroying the primarys. but i dont expect you to know anything about how this was handled in the past, since you are still relative new and only fed by dear leaders views."
"prove it that goons care about the csm election. i dare to you prove it. in fact, there's two threads mocking the csm election on the goonboard announcing their not-running for csm campaign. you're a riot dude.i want you to apply to goonswarm immediately and start campaigning that goons have a choice. please do apply! i certainly will not sponsor you though.edit: i am not new to goonswarm, nice try buddy. if anything, i'm just a regular joe blow who will do what dear leader wants when i'm playing ingame. right now, he can go take a hike because i'm at work at the moment."
"according to your dear leader mr ego-boost you are not intelligent enough to vote. just listen to him when he tells you what buttons to click and you will do fine. it requieres a certain level of intelligence to realize that you are beeing oppressed. according to mr mittani most of the goons dont qualify for that level."
"so? mittani's no different either anyways so i don't see your point. goonswarm will follow the leader in a similar fashion that all scientologist members follow david miscavige (bad comparsion since one organization actually has decency and the other does not). as i state, it's in their best interest to keep winning, harvesting your pain and frustration. why? because it's fun. you're just mad that you're like a two year old not getting his way screaming \"this is not democracy!\""
"no thanks. the idea of wearing a sign that im too stupid to find a descent internet-forum that does not cost dollars would embarrass me. i said relative new, not new.i will respect that, suum cuique. but you should also respect that other goons dont want to play eve in braindead-mode.do you think that mr ego-boost did well with this in the past?were goons more or less powerful when they had primary elections?maybe its possible that goons were winning more fights when there were primary elections?"
"posting in a mittani thread."
"wow, 10bux for permanent membership unless you are really dumb and get yourself banned in like 2 minutes because you spam \"lol\" every thread there is on something awful.again, i'm neither. you're basing this off my employment history but you're still wrong. keep flailing.that's why we have squads where people can do whatever they want to do. we don't even have call to arms like alot of alliances do because participation is voluntary and encouraged. goons have choices? you don't say!this isn't mittani's first time as ceo of goonswarm. in fact this is his second time leading. of course you know so little of the history behind goonswarm, that you're just flailing and trying to impose some control over goonswarm which will not fly."
"look at this guy trying to get us to be offended by our own stupidity."
"i guess todays generation is happy to pay it, but a lot of people who started using internet 20 years ago would never do it. its not because the amount of money, its on principle. yeah but thats not the question. the question was if you think that goonswarm did well in eve under the rule of dear leader mr ego-boost.what kind of control? a lot of goons already started asking questions internally, which is all i wanted to achieve."
"yes overthrow the not-oppressive leader! viva la revoluci<U+FFFD>n!"
"do what you want to do, as long as what you want to do is follow the leader.its one thing to follow an fc in a combat situation or a leader on a strategic level. that is agreed. but being told how to vote about the direction of a spaceship game?i don't think goons are oppressed. no one forces them to do this. it is just amazing to me how many people are so eager to fill that submissive role for some other individual's gain. we shall see how the votes come in. ccp creates a game where you are immortal and can be whatever you want in this science fiction universe. result: thousands of people decide they would like to be storm troopers ruled by a self-described ruthless manipulative metrosexual bastard. not only in-game but even meta-game. i can't say i understand it, but it is interesting."
"a bunch of like minded individuals follow another like minded individual we are literally all zombies now"
"what gain do you see someone getting out of being in the csm other than internet space ship celebrity status?"
"what a tool."
"a few pages back i mentioned my concern that the issue might be one of managerial technique, since based on some of what i've heard from past csms, ccp doesn't appear to have any real best practices system at the coding level. this might have something to do with the reliance on the flavor of the month scrum/agile setup. there might also be some issues with institutional memory or lack thereof since the firm has expanded massively in the past two years. people like oveur and torfi have been there for ages, but there's a lot of mid-level newdevs who have only been kicking around for a year tops. this is my most serious concern, that all of this - the backlogs, the bugs, the half-implemented features, the schizophrenic development cycle - is a symptom of a hidden disease. that the reason why the csms have only gotten a few peripheral things done is that the underlying causes haven't been identified or dealt with. in which case it's a 'simple matter' (heavy sarcasm, for those who do not understand scare quotes) of diagnosing the methods by which the dev teams interact and communicate (or don't) best practices and focus attention on that."
"have you worked out what this great big 'lie' is that we're supposedly being told yet? because so far your entire campaign seems to based on raging against some massive elusive problem that you're not able to identify let alone solve. just look how little clarity there was in your post above. all i can gather is that you're really angry about:a) the 'system' (you hate systems)b) minutes (you hate minutes)b) bringing in fresh talent with new skills to ccp (god forbid that recruitment's a good thing)c) some as yet undefined 'communication problem' (the precise problem here seems to change a lot)oh, and jump bridges. you're very very angry about jump bridges. if you really are such a fan of honesty, mittens, then practice what you preacha and admit you're doing this for political purposes."
"it is really, really clearly obvious that his problem is that (according to him) the csm is ineffective and broken because it doesn't have enough power and/or sway over what ccp does with eve.i mean, say what you will concerning whether or not he's correct, or comment on whether you believe electing him will solve anything, but you absolutely cannot claim that he's being vague or that he hasn't identified the problem he's rallying against."
"i like the sound of that disco hulk, my support goes to you and kalrand."
"i feel like if they're both elected, they'll be staring intently at each other every time they meet.if there were disco hulks around, i think such situations would be somewhat diffused."
"so that's the solution then, bring in the disco hulks."
"goons are scammers. i wouldnt have a scammer in the csm :) and even if he says everyone else lies doesnt mean he will be able to do anything better. this seems like only a measure to get voted up for, even if i think i agree with him."
"what other possible reason would one announce one's candidacy for an election, if not to draw attention to it and garner votes?"
"you are playing eve online, right? scamming is part of the game. so's lying, stealing, undercutting your market opponents, kamikaze attacks, assassination, spying, contract dodging, and sheep futtering.mittens is glorious leader. glorious leader is always right. glorious leader will lead us to an eve with no glitches or lag. glorious leader will make hisec and nullsec come together and dance the dance of love with lowsec in a glorious meeting of the minds. glorious leader will make all right again.****, forgot what i was going to originally post..."
"mittans i have one question.how do you propose to overcome the risk of ccp simply not telling you or informing you of certain projects because they are aprhensive of a negative reaction of such an antagnistic csm.i also enjoyed the 10 ton hammer write ups. may not agree but you do know the game and you would be an active csm rep."
"this is an outrage. goonswarm is a proper christian spaceguild and we would never break any of the ten commandments."
"everything you think you know is a whitewash and none of us outside of the csm and ccp will ever know the exact truth. has the csm ever lived up to its stated purpose? we catch mere glimpses of the true answer but signs indicate to the negative.i believe this man can add value to the csm. i have never known him to lie in the time i have known him irl. i believe his past experiences will be a benefit to all causes as the man is trained to lay out such causes in a logical manner and then present them to a person in power. you will not find anymore more qualified to give you the straight story and you will not find many people that care more about this game. if you want to know where the dirt lies, you need to look under the grass."
"bump!"
"standing again mate?cool and good luck.aka the friendly bump"
"can i infer from the second part of that sentence that you deem popularity as reason enough to propose/fight for changes to precieved \"flaws\"? if not, then would you briefly describe how you evaluate something is \"flawed\" in the first place? i am more interested in how you think then necessarily what you think on specific issues.cheers"
"if priority were determined by how many whine posts have been made about it on the forum, eve would be a very different game :)what i (and others on the csm) have been doing is that if something pops up, either because it's posted publicly, mailed to us privately or because ccp asks us for our opinion about something, is turn to the people around us - in my case, corp mates and many friends all over eve, and ask them what they think of it. if that's not enough, some crowdsourcing may be useful (trebor has been busy with this, see ah). it is by no means based on popularity"
"do you actually believe in the csm?* the nda and the role you have is neither showing any of the \"transparency\" to us players as it was supposed to.* ccp likes to present changes and ideas as \"we have discussed this issue with csm ..\" but eventually they end up doing what they want with it anyway. if you guys agree, chestbeat. if you don't, at least they have \"discussed it\".my point is;i usually agree with most opinions you have regarding capitals, sov, and unlike the whiner early in this thread i too think that a change to logistics is necessary (perhaps by making local production easier, for example), both for supercap production as well as capital warfare -- but i don't believe in the csm. in fact i have proposed in these forums that ccp should put those resources to better use. hire a professional 'spokesperson' and/or communicator, that can be a dialogue between players and ccp. not so much for ideas and changes, but he could rather be presenting ccp's ideas to avoid the usual misinterpretations when ccp does a change.so tell me, what can csm really do? apart from being a decoy for ccp to point at, to get less angry customers on their asses. i see more issue with why i should vote, than who i should vote for. so my initial statement stands; do you actually believe in the csm?edit; oh and out of curiosity, do you want any changes to lowsec at all, or think it's fine as is? and if any changes, which, and why?"
"do i believe in the csm? in my own way yes, but i do not believe that it can do what some seem to expect from it. in csm 4 i was really optimistic but after the iceland visit and talking to many vets i grew suspicious. the confrontation with oveur in june (the whole '18 months' thing) shook the place and if i am to believe some, it's still rippling out through ccp. in december again, the incarna talk caused a lot of rabble which i am confident will turn out to have been a good thing. so i do believe that the csm is necessary to provide a voice to ccp, to let them know when we think they are screwing up and get them back down to earth when visions of awesomeness take them adrift.the resources spent on the csm are trivial compared to the cost of running a scrum team for one development cycle, so i disagree that those could be 'better spent'. the csm provides a unique and relatively cheap perspective and should be used as much as possible by ccp.on the topic of lowsec. i think a lot can be done by introducing a more suitable gradient of risk/reward for missions, complexes, moons et cetera. worm holes offer a great way of getting in and out of lowsec while bypassing the usual camps, and this could be expanded upon by for example adding more connections between hisec - losec - 0.0. for many people, the thought of jumping into a .4 and losing your ship immediately after uncloaking because there happened to be a hictor & friends hugging the gate is quite appalling."
"mr. sokratesz,with all due respect to taking the time and effort out of life to pursue change in a virtual world, i was sorely disappointed at your lack of performance and quality of work in csm5.the above noted quotes were selected out of context for a particular reason: \"we\" would imply a group. curiously and on many occasions i found your lack of feedback and attendance to csm meetings without any prior warning disconcerting at best and downright irresponsible at best. true, emergencies arise and bills need to be paid; a quick notation to the team advising of such is that that was asked and consistently ignored. such actions (or lack thereof) raise concern as to your belief in accountability.further to this, implying that you are available \"any time\" and through various methods is, in my humblest of opinions, a load of steaming warmed leavings of a male bovine. if i recall correctly, quite a lot of initiatives were launched and completed during csm5; none of them were either championed or actively supported by you. of course, this perception could be way off the mark and \"incorrect\" depending on whom you speak with however bear in mind that perception is everything and not being out in the spotlight is highly noticed.if i may be so bold and using purely hypothetical \"coulda shoulda woulda\"... i would have fired you from csm5 on the grounds of poor perfomance, lack of accountability and general shenanigans that were, in my view, simply an effort to derail and disuade the progress and gains made by the other members of the team.you sir most certainly do not have my vote.with regards,jw"
"u mad about spoongate still?"
"rionnag didn't join aaa this season imo the outlook is grim for sokratez."
"i'm wondering what are your plans on this point has i've already mentioned it, but i do understand some general words must be said for the meanwhile.what is your opinion on this precise point? -knowing you've already worked with some former csm people, and for someone like me when he reeds csm repports where you can read one of them asking ccp's position about rails and the other one's aswering \"it's ok\" (or all alike), seems there are some comunication trouble between you people isn't it? (\"you\"=csm)"
"what about industry - and the crazy crazy fluctuation in the price of ore - don't you think players should have more info about \"internal\" ccp decisions that seem to affect all vastly?"
"got a question for you, and i feel this is very bad game mechanic that i will be asking all the csm canidates. how do you feel that reps are balanced, shield and armor, as such. should armor be like shield, applied at the start? or should both be applied at the end. shield is obviously the better rep as the alpha is king in eve at the moment. would making reps the same help balance this out in your eyes?"
"supporting a great guy who really does knwo a lot about the game."
"importantly, this man's name is an anagram of \"partridge\""
"must say i really enjoyed your blog."
"campaign blog at"
"can you elaborate on \"making local configurable\", low sec, balancing supercaps? what ideas for these issues do you favor?"
"customizable \"local\" should give you an answer on the first.on 'lowsec' and 'balancing supercaps' i will release multiple blogposts tomorrow.~cy"
"...and those of us not in the know would like to be a part of that.expose and shame! ...if there are actual examples, that is (i wouldn't know)."
"i am wondering what things you have done in 0.0. from what i have heard, you are mainly a highsec and industry guy and do not have much experience with pvp. please prove me wrong. have you been in any major 0.0 corps or even small ones?also what are your plans for improving the games ui? i am really interested."
"would you be so kind as to explain the metrics and methodologies you employ in evaluating what mechanics, designs, etc are in need of revamping? i am not so much interested, at the moment, in \"how to fix xyz\" answers but more interested in how you determine something is a \"problem\".feel free to use your desire to push for iterations and design changes (listed in your original post) as working examples to illustrate your process.cheers"
"this guy here has the right question. make sure you all quote him a lot.nobody on the csm is qualified to have an opinion on pvp unless they're a pvper or 0.0 unless they live there and have done so for an extended period of time."
"i have been a member of sane industries (currently part of initiative mercenaries) for over 2 years, and before that, leap, a closely associated corp, and have been mostly living in nullsec for almost all of my time in eve. my personal preference is for small-gang pvp. my circumstances are such that it is difficult to devote a big block of time to an eve session (particularly after getting elected to the csm, which is a total time-blackhole), so i don't get to pvp as much as i would like; the result has been that i have gravitated towards logistics roles helping keep my corpies (who are excellent at pvp) fighting, because this can be done in short active sessions and longer semi-afk ones while i work on rl stuff.i also have a high-sec alt on another account that does logistics, industry, and an occasional bit of trade.i personally would like to see a rewrite of the ui that (for example) addresses how eve is going to handle next-generation devices, such as ipad-style tablets with touch-interfaces. as part of that, i would some form of user-written add-ons (ala wow), to leverage the resources of the player-base, in a similar way that the api permits.however, for that to happen will require a high-level commitment from ccp on the scale of the incarna project. in the meantime, i am concentrating on pushing for more resources for small tweaks to the ui that make life better for large groups of players (ie: good bang-for-the-buck low-hanging-fruit), by doing things like prioritization crowdsourcing (for example, the ui \"low hanging fruit\" proposal), and encouraging devs to engage with the players (as ccp karkur did during her menu revamp project).while i am more than happy to inflict my opinions on anyone foolish enough to ask for them, my work on the csm is not about getting ccp to do what i personally want, but trying to help ccp allocate their limited resources to things that provide the most benefit for the players. that's what all the crowdsourcing was about."
"elitist much? i would say that null citizens shouldn't be asked about anything not related to rat balance since that and forming huge fleets is all they are good for .. see how that works? want pvp advice? ask a veteran pirate. no one else even comes close to the same level of understanding of the factors involved (hint: blob/fleet combat is not pvp, it is a fc contest)."
"history shows that these are not incompatible outcomes."
"strange how all but one of the current csm seem to completely disagree with you.care to back your asserion up with some ~facts~?"
"is there any proof for any of this? searching \"real genius\" i can't find any proof of that, and wiki articles wont count as proof for... well... anything. (encyclopedia anybody can edit and all that).how is this done - from a mathematical standpoint? (just curious )i'm not quite sure that i like the imagery here. this seriously smacks of an old school roman politician getting people's votes by handing out their winnings from the most recent conquest. why are you running a lottery in your csm post? because it's the new thing to do?the botting issue that has been brought up, and your solution to it (every account has a \"resource extraction license\"...) is what other games (eq2 comes to mind; vitality) have been doing to try to smooth the difference between hardcore and casual players. it may work, it may not. i think it would, personally, but this isn't about me since this is the flavor of the month, let's address this. i would like for you to expand on:a) how an activity system would work. i have activity in system x so i keep sov in it? how is that any more \"fair\" than the current system, where if i've got the activity to defend it, i keep it?b) organic blob limitation? i understand the idea (diversify, have tank/dps/healers) but how is that going to work, and why should an entity be forced to, essentially, turn people away from fleets? and what stops an entity from having, say, 2 or 3 or 10 fleets in the system to avoid penalties? while we're at it, we should drop the cap on people in an alliance/corp...c) adjustments to force-projection and logistics (which are not the same thing, and which have sub-flavors)d) improvements in manufacturing infrastructure (to reduce the dependence on the jita tit)c and d are intertwined - how do you have a lack of force-projection (which is a bad thing, i guess) and still have the logistics that would allow an improvement in manufacturing infrastructure in nullsec? i'm sorry if this comes off a bit harsh, but eve is a game i'm passionate about and i'd hate to elect someone that i'm not 100% sure about."
"read the minutes if you want to know what trebor knows about this game. it should be obvious to anyone paying attention."
"as an average voter, i can't be bothered with sifting through large amount of text on my own. can somebody highlight the relevant parts?"
"would you really see ccp scrap all the work put into dominion for another sov expansion from scratch? bearing in mind that they completely failed in their objective the first time to break up large fleets and structure bashing from the original sov system and instead made the issue worse?seeing as how a sov rewrite is highly unlikely... what are your suggestions on adjusting the existing sov system (structures and all) to better prevent lag and huge fights?"
"so what exactly is the 'problem' with logistics and what is your 'fix'?"
"well, a big part of being a csm is bringing player concerns to ccp, so the starting point for individual issues is usually the forums (though players also contact me directly). typically, i'm looking for issues that are generating significant support, that are interesting to me, and look like they've got a shot at getting done (big bang-for-buck helps). a good example of that kind of thing would be the learning skills proposal.however, that just gets an issue into the csm backlog, \"where good ideas go to die,\" as some might say. so the next step is organizing the backlog by crowdsourcing prioritizations, and this is something i've spearheaded in csm5.the prioritizations give our advocates at ccp (ccp xhagen and ccp diagoras) some useful metrics to point at when they argue for csm issues to be added to the expansion release schedules, and i think there is significant evidence that they have been useful. for example, the november prioritization got a lot of support from ccp (login banners, news items) and 3,458 players participated. and during the december summit, ccp took some of the top player-ranked items and ran a prioritization game with csm, where they added to the mix their estimates of how much development time each item would take. some of that feedback helped team bff when they were choosing what \"potholes\" they were going to try and fix during the next expansion development cycle.if i'm re-elected to csm, i'll make sure the crowdsourcing and prioritization keeps getting done."
"what are you going to do about nullsec jump-bridges? more than last year i hope."
"thanks for the reply. if i may, i would like to ask a follow up question.can i infer from your statement regarding \"likes\" on forum raised issues, and the crowd-sourcing initiative that you undertook, that your main metric for analyzing issues (and therefore pushing/raising with ccp) is based on populist desire? in other words, change supported by the masses is always a necessary change (obviously assuming that it is even in the realm of possibility)?hope that is clear, i have not had my morning coffee yet cheers"
"obviously, i would tend towards the minimal set of changes that would reasonably be expected to achieve the desired goal. seleene would be the person to ask as to whether the complete dominion sov plan (as opposed to what actually made it into the game) would achieve that.my opinion regarding activity-based sov systems is hardly unique; the problem with structure bashing is that it tends to concentrate large numbers of people into a small area at a single point in time, which is of course a recipe for blobs -- and thus, lag.on a more global level, lag will never be tamed until sov and combat mechanics are altered so that the fleet-size/fleet-power curve starts to flatten out when you reach a certain fleet size... so that yeah, you can have your huge blob, but the best use of your resources is to divide your forces.but the bottom line is, the ccp game design staff gets paid to come up with the best solutions to these problems. as a csm, i have consistently argued that no matter what they come up with, they should make their plans public when they are still just on paper, so that player experts can tiger-team the proposals and point out potential pitfalls. i have also pointed out that csm may be ideally suited to the task of organizing player-expert focus groups to provide this kind of feedback."
"i believe that both of these questions stem from the null-sec discussion during the december summit, which has been often quoted out of context.the context of that discussion was mainly the issue of force projection -- the ability to project force across the map and be back home in time for tea. any particular change was discussed in the context of a package of changes.so if ccp told me that all that they were going to do was nerf the hell out of jump-bridges, i'd object strenuously. on the other hand, if they presented a package of changes, one of which was a jump-bridge nerf, i might consider it reasonable. but as mentioned in an earlier post, i'd strongly urge them to let the players tiger-team the proposal, because \"no game design survives contact with the players\". ccp often forgets how players take every quirk in the game and drive it to the bleeding edge of insanity, and it's far easier to do the first iteration on the madness when it's still on paper.with respect to logistics, similar concerns apply. for example, if ccp decided that hauling stuff from jita to nullsec needed to be made more difficult, an obvious question i would ask might be \"what compensating changes are going to be made to make local manufacturing easier?\""
"you got one of my two votes available for sure edit:totally forgot to ask (might even fall under nda, dunno):do you think ccp has internal communication and organisational problems(*) and that the csm is able to address those for the 'greater good' (or even should try to achieve something on that field)?*) as you pointed out in one of your blogs the company grew at a neck-breaking-speed which imho just has to cause frictions and inefficiencies on several levels.."
"i like allot of your ideas both here and in other posts you have made. what follows reads somewhat like a rant but it is not directed at you in particular. but i would be interested in your comments and relates to this quoted portion of your post. you say you want to see everyone have an equally enjoyable game experience whatever there play style. i think if you really mean that, you will push ccp to do something for people who like small gang and solo pvp. because compared to the other play styles ccp has left that one to rot.let me explain in more detail:playstyle 1 industrialist: we have seen ccp create worm holes which yield new types of tech 3 things to produce. wormholes also provide a whole new place for industrialists to base build poses and mine etc. dominion also lead to new opportunities for industrialists in null sec. planetary interaction also provided industrialists with new materials to produce etc. im not an industrialist myself so there may have been other things ccp has done to make the industrialists game more enjoyable.playstyle 2 shooting npcs/missioning: they can shoot npcs in missions in high sec, low sec or null sec. they can shoot rats in fw missions or in belts. there are also the improvements in upgradable sov space to shoot rats. then ccp brings in sleepers for wormholes. and now incursions a whole new way to shoot rats. again ccp has done allot to make this playstyle more enjoyable.playstyle 3 large fleet pvp: everything about sov holding null sec revolves around this. this has been the center of ccps concern from day one it seems. dominion is geared toward making sov warfare more important. obvious the lag hurt this so it is a huge priority of ccp to fix. same with the work on supercaps etc. could it use some work? i suppose as i hear there are many naps. but, if ccp cared as little about large fleet pvp as they do about small gang and solo pvp they would have been saying they will get to lag in about 18 months. ccp obviously cares allot about this style of play.continued in five minutes"
"playstyle 4 solo/small gang pvp: this is basically low sec and npc null sec space but it can happen anywhere. what has ccp ever done to boost this play style? what mechanics promote this? 1) fw plexing2) possibly worm hole collapsing based on size (although we will see this is an extreme stretch.)as far as fw plexing it needs fixing and has been basically ignored from the day it was put out. it is really primarily a method of pve instead of pvp. i could go on and on with the problems but why? everyone agrees it is broken. yet ccp seems insistent that this will be low priority. thank you ccp for the broken mechanic to promote solo and small gang pvp.as far as wormhole collapse to promote small gang pvp  well saying this was implemented to promote small gang pvp is a real stretch. it was much more likely implemented to promote small corps being able to put a poses in wormholes. in any event according to the latest economic quarterly very little pvp at all goes on in wormholes compared to null and low sec. so if this was somehow an attempt to help small gang pvp it failed there.so am i missing anything that has been done to promote the solo/small gang pvp play style? anything other than one broken mechanic (fw plexxing) that has been acknowledged as broken for years?i recognize that since ccp has taken no interest in promoting small gang or solo pvp there are few of us left. so to the extent you are just pandering for votes this wont be a great topic. but to the extent you are interested in balance in promoting *everyones* style of play in a non partisan way it should be obvious that the play style of small gang and solo pvp is way overdue. looking back at how the game has evolved they almost always seemed to ignore this style of play. imo ccp has been quite partisan against small gang/solo pvp if you are truly non-parisan i dont see how you can look at ccps track record and disagree. thats why i think if you mean what you say, you should champion this play style. otherwise you are just following ccps very partisan mo."
"you've made some interesting points, and i do agree with the need to sort out outstanding issues.however a lot of these items are pvp related - which is fine, but i am seriously interested in what your thoughts of how you see p.i going, and it's influence over dust. given that p.i is half-baked concoction at the moment, i would like to hear what you think about making this worthwhile.personally i'd like to see p.i wielded in such a way as to resolve another outstanding issue - that being the stupidly ridiculous moons."
"with the approach of incarna comes an environment where we can walk around in our internet apartment alone just like we do in real life. with this exciting new environment comes the opportunity for exciting new mechanics like watching tv alone or sitting alone in the dark or maybe we can take a shower. while this might be everything that makes the common eve player happy with the exception of showering i think we can demand something more because ccp listens to the csm and implements their good suggestions.lets dare to dream. lets get fish tanks for our space homes.fish have been a staple of science fiction for a long time. they were in mass effect 2, hitchhiker's guide to the galaxy, and that star trek movie with the whales (which are sort of fish). they would also be pretty cool in eve.players could start out with a basic fresh water fish tank. the number of fish they could put in the tank would be based on their skill level in fish husbandry. there would also be skills in fish diplomacy since some types of fish don't get along and need to be carefully managed so they won't attack each other. also, cleaning (reduces the amount of cleaning you have to do), feeding (reduces the amount of feeding you have to do), and i dunno maybe water management so your fish don't get sick. tech 2 fish tanks could handle salt water. there could also be mods for fish tanks, like rocks, seaweed, and little floating divers (or maybe spacemen because this is a space game). basic fish could be extracted from ocean and terrestrial planets using a specialized extractor (third world children since that's mostly who catches them in the real world). specialized fish would be rare drops from faction spawns and officers, like hakim's modified trout, or maybe they could even add ded 11 and c7 wormholes where deadspace fish and mysterious tech 3 sleeper fish could be found. it would also add vibrancy to the new eden economy as players buy and sell the rarest, most desirable fish to take back to their apartment and watch in their tank alone.anyways, if elected to the csm i will go to iceland and i will bring back their promise that they will fix blasters and give us fish tanks in incarna."
"you've got my vote!"
"you've convinced me. you have my vote."
"thanks for all the fish?"
"this is pretty much the best idea i've seen on these forums for as long as i've been playing."
"what kind of training time multiplier would fish husbandry have?"
"fish husbandry is a pretty basic skill allowing you to manage from 1 to 5 fish, so probably a 1x training time, but advanced fish husbandry and fish empathy would be higher level skills allowing you to keep 3 fish per level and 5 fish per level respectively and have 3x and 5x training times because have you ever seen a tank with a lot of fish in it? i bet not because that's really hard to do."
"question: what about supercapital pilots? will we be able to install a fish tank aboard our ships so that we too may enjoy the art of fish husbandry?"
"will there be corporate fishtanks for storing and viewing corp fish?"
"i think each ship could have its own fish tank that reflects it. like frigates could have a bowl with a goldfish, faction ships could get a salt water tank with some colorful fish, and capitals could have one of those really big salt water tanks with maybe an eel or sea turtlei think supercapitals should have something even more special, like a wall converted to a fish tank so every time you walk around your supercapital home you feel like you're in a really classy chinese restaurant"
"i think there should be, but there'd have to be a special director rank for fish management. you'd want someone trusted to manage your fish that wouldn't forget to feed them or steal them and put them in his own tank.woah check out these fish some of them look like they're from space and would be good designs for eve fish."
"could we have like different racial fish looted from npc wrecks, with like t2 faction and officer fish?also i don't see the lionfish which is the most outer-spacey fish ever....also sleeper fish from wormholes and incursions."
"i don't know how much about fish might ultimately be covered by the nda so i have to be careful but as a sneak preview i'm just going to say angler fish. draw what conclusions you may."
"what is your plan for t3 fish? i saw that new piranha movie the other day and i would really like to make a fish like that so that i could have it fight other players fish. perhaps this could be part of incarna? fish fights?"
"i think the wonderful thing about a fish based system is just how much it can be expanded in creative, new directions. maybe tech 3 fish could be produced by breeding different fish together then having them fight? i don't know, the world of fish is huge and just contemplating all the directions we can go is exciting and a little humbling."
"fish offer a clear direction beyond tech 3 as well. what mysterious fish have the jovians created from their mastery of genetics during their millenia of isolation? do you dare find out?"
"also what surrounding goods would be created? are the fish just fish, with the system just involving the fish, or is there going to be pi involved to make fish food and bpos for t2 fish tanks?"
"as i mentioned in the op, you'd need rocks, seaweed, little floating dudes, pirate treasure chests, and even coral. fish tanks are a very modable environment."
"how would you deal with automated tank-cleaning and fish management programs such as h-fish and tankripper?"
"that's pretty tough, but personally i feel that taking proper care of your fish tank is an important part of owning it. how can you build a proper emotional connection to your fish if you use a bot?"
"also, i think the eve soundtrack should be redone by andrew w.k. do i want to party hard?hell yeah i do."
"do you think we could have a fish-growing interface like that old \"educational\" game odell lake"
"what is your stance on the duck billed platypus?"
"do those even go in fish tanks?i think it would be very dangerous to expand the feature too much, but then again maybe this lack of ambition is why i'm not running for the csm."
"my vote for draco!"
"/me looks at draco's post/me looks at the 1204 recurring threads regarding salvage theft/me looks back at draco's postcool story bro."
"bad posting should be rooted out and destroyed wherever and whenever it is found."
"it's official. the jasmine revolution is the new wwii!"
"\"dis\""
"we saw what you did to boat.and the flask."
"would you explain the metrics you employed in arriving at the conclusions you have re: what is wrong? for example, what metric do you use to conclude that a lack of ccp assigned goals is a problem? how would you know when the problem was fixed? feel free to use a different example from your list in post [2] if you wish.cheers"
"please use full sentences, double-space your work, and cite your sources."
"also: 12pt times new roman font with 1\" margins.is it that obvious?i really have to stop posting from work."
"whoa whoa i advise, not produce. besides, you're clearly a maven in such things."
"hey it was your idea!and may i compliment you on your use of hebrew, most rakish of you.vote for butch!"
"vote! for butch!!!get your ballots ready!"
"what metrics and methodologies do you employ in determining when a mechanic/ship/module/whatever is somehow broken? for example, your bounty hunting thread begins with two statements: 1)bounty huunting is not a viable career and 2)bounties are a joke. how did you arrive at those conclusions?to be clear, i am not interested in the ideas you have to \"fix\" nuetral rr, bounty hunting, or taxes at the moment. i merely wish to understand how you as a csm rep might process information/ideas presented.cheers"
"my primary analysis of determining if something is broken is if it is not balanced. this means elements of the game i consider broken are those that interfere with the intended operation of itself or other mechanics. with your example: 1) bounty hunting is not a viable career as there is very limited in game mechanics that support the career and mechanics such as concord and security status create large barriers to viability of this career. the conclusion in this example was that bounty hunting needed mechanics to support the viability of this career.2) bounties are a joke was determined by practice. this often where imbalance is found as i have accounts that play all elements of the game i run into most exploitable or imbalanced mechanics. this one in particular is that bounties placed on my -10 character get collected by another character of mine when they are higher than the value of the clone.i am always open to ideas and thoughts on current issues and my proposals. many of my proposals are results of complaints from friends and sometimes enemies in eve. you will find that i have dramatically changed my proposals after discussion and have even removed elements after presented with reasoning. my open view on all ideas related to eve and my vast experience in many elements of eve allow me to see problems from multiple views and determine most importantly a balanced solution, if one is necessary.i hope that answers the question if you feel i spent too much time on an example let me know and i will be more specific. my primary goal is balance in eve."
"thanks for taking the time to respond. hopefully you will not mind me asking a follow up question.lets imagine that ccp decides to implament some change in bounty hunting (the example is just for ease of conversation). 6 months later ccp asks csm how things are going and if they need to adjust anything else. how would you determine the sucess or failure of the initial changes?cheers"
"just to be clear on one thing, i'm not applying for csm on the wi. ticket. aureleos is the wi. candidate. i'm not standing to split the wi. vote, but i'm standing as an independent anyway. what i offer is experience working in environments similar to csm and getting things done. i'm not a seasoned campaigner or a politician. i am an experienced software development team leader and a pedant - i question everything and make sure that the best outcome is achieved, rather than my own personal agenda.so vote for me if you want to be represented by somebody with a broad perspective of eve, who knows how the development process works, and who wants what's best for the entire eve player community."
"with all the people running around in tinfoil hats wouldnt it be smarter to claim you are trying to split the vote? might confuse people enough to vote for you.on a more serious note- do you think that there is a conflict of interest with being on the csm (with all the juicy inside details that are covered under the nda) as well as designing other games? are you really a wow employee sent here to sabatoge eve or figure out ways to siphon off clients? tell the truth!"
"bad at keeping things at the top"
"confirmed - white tree = best tree"
"i support things."
"just say no."
"support checking in."
"would you please take the time to articulate why your intro line and 11 points need some sort of change/implamentation (actually you can leave out the points on bots and ui)? i am not interested in specific proposals of how to fix something, i am asking about the metrics and methedologies you employ in your evaluation that something is a problem.cheers"
"i support this product and/or service. in all seriousness, though, you sir have my vote."
"confirming my support for kalrand"
"...so this means that you'll be revealing your main, now, right? right?no? you're just going to keep up the flawed path you started on, even if you don't have a valid reason to continue doing so, yet still ask people for more questions and concerns?you and ccp seem to be made for each other. well folks, you've seen it here. this man here is about the closest you can get to the ccp experience. if you're interested in a candidate who will listen to your concerns and then do whatever he wants anyways, look no further then eve truth!remember folks, a vote for eve truth is a vote for stubborn stupidity. eve truth for csm!...hey if you take the last phrase of the last two paragraphs out of context, you'd get eve truth's first recommendation!"
"well thank you very much for posts, and for your free bumps."
"i suppose if bad publicity is the best your candidacy can get, that's what you'll be satisfied with.that's so nice--your stance of \"let's just be satisfied with the status quo\"... just what people look for in a candidate....enjoy your free bump, since apparently those are what you consider campaign successes."
"should say a bit about the real me . . . i am a teacher, have been for 20+ years.guess that makes me old . . . in my 50's now.i have union rep experience, know roberts rules of order, can run or participate in a meeting without derailing or sidetracking.i am persuasive enough (and patient enough) to manage to teach science and math to teenagers. i am young enough to enjoy this game in all its aspects, old enough to have realistic expectations of what can and cannot be done. i understand that this is a game to csm but a business to ccp and that the meetings we have are always trying to bridge that great divide.i think that one strong person in the csm is not enough nor is one leader and a bunch of loyal sheep. we need a team to present a strong front, each member of that team willing to think and speak for themselves but all with a common goal of making this game better for all of us . . . for hi, low, and null, for pirates and carebears, for the bitter vets and the new guys just wondering if this game is worth trying.if we want this game around for a long time we have to look to grow. we must be willing to try new things because in the market of games it is always grow or begin the slow decline into oblivion (and i do not mean a bethesda product)i take a long view of things and then try to find the short term actions to achieve distant goals.you should vote for me because i am the right person to represent you.m"
"\"we cant stop here this is bat country.\" :)"
"i dare to speak out against pirates (griefer kind) and i dare to stand my ground. difference between a pirate and a griefer is the obvious rule that a pirate will use his/her head instead of a happy trigger finger. my ideas are not against the pirates that do know how to play a game in a honest way, it's against the few that think they need to mess up the game and not think about what will happen if they succeed.i do not sign up for things like this for the free things, actually i really couldn't care less about it. i have the skills and i like to share those with the world improving it for any and all. lying i can hardly do due to my autism and really, isn't there anyone that wants these points realized? i mean come on, show some back bone! show some guts you can at least think for yourself instead of running after the pirate griefers because you are afraid of them.a good csm member is not about 1 group, but all.a good csm member is not thinking about what he/she gets, but what they can do for everyone.a good csm member is willing to talk about more then the guidelines ccp sets. a csm member needs to speak out instead of sit and shut up.none of the other candidates seem to have this besides me, and just because i am against the griefers i am ignored? shame on you all think about what you need, not what they need!"
"so in short you'll willing to work with the members of the nc who make it to csm in terms of being stalwart and making the csm more effective, but come from a hi/lowsec perspective?"
"i will work with whoever makes it to the csm, but it doesn't mean i will always agree with them. i think the way mittani (and others) wants to make the csm to act more united to have more effect on ccp is really interesting.however, i do not think a csm with only 0.0 people would be a good thing for either the playerbase (less representativity) or even for the csm: ccp is not dumb enough to trust the csm if it's only made of 0.0 players elected through their powerblocs."
"it doesn't matter if the people on the csm are all from 0.0 or not.what matters is that a unified voice is presented to ccp.this is easiest if the parties involved are similar."
"the risk being that these parties are completely biased if all of them come from 0.0 and are elected thanks to their powerbloc: everything that remotely threat their priviledges will be wiped out of csm meetings, and everything that will only profit to empire players will be less prioritized than things which will benefit to their powerblocs.empire players do not want this. nor does ccp, aware that more than 80% of players are empire players.a 100% powerbloc csm could even threaten the very existence of the csm, cpp noticing that because of politics issues the csm lost its only meaning: to represent players."
"as has been stated prior, most 0.0 players are also empire players.we don't want to nerf high-sec isk faucets, because we use them.that's the low-sec ~elite pvp~ bunch that want to get rid of nice things in empire and force cheap ganks encourage good fights."
"that's why i said 70% instead of 85%, assuming 15% of eve population are empire alts of null sec players.i'm not saying 0.0 powerbloc players want to nerf hi-sec. they just want their priviledge in 0.0 to stay the same, and they don't care about hi-sec much (apart from production and trade they makes part of their money from).low sec pvper, i think you don't really know them. they just want fights, and their space to be populated again, not by nerfing hi-sec, but by making low-sec attractive again, which is not the case righ know, powerbloc 0.0 being both safer and wealthier with no real drawbacks apart from paying a rent to said powerbloc."
"3rd party tools is a essential part of what makes eve worthwhile, you got my vote mate"
"1.0"
"i have known peter in game almost since he started and i have to say that he does what he says he will do. i know that he will do his utmost to put his points across and get things done.he gets my vote"
"so your implying that the csm should be controlled by a bunch of hisec carebears who have no idea of whats going on down in null."
"they don't."
"he's probably blind to anything that is south on a map.for kalle / bismaru:"
"nc?? - who are they? who are the botters in there? (every one seems to liek those debates)the ones with 1500/less 1500 members and over 35 outposts or those with more/like/less members and less outposts.what are you trying to prove with those silly numbers?"
"hahah ohh wow, you know most alliances since dominion only claim space in their influence based on what is there right? my comment was based on regional control, next you will say nc dont have the most members as dc are not on the same team."
"no, it wasn't. here you are changing the goal post again to suit your anger / hatred at the goonies! if you were stating that dc / nc have more members per capita of space owned, ya you might have a point but to state that nc / goonswarm have the most space, you were most definitely wrong."
"no it wasnt + <words>? wtf are you on about anyway the announcement has been made of which csm were accepted, which means your ****poasting can be made with your main on caod as i really dont care about non csm stuff in this thread and tbh neither should you"
"i don't care about much things unlike you wailing about conspiracy regarding nc / dc in your head.are you saying i'm not posting on my main? what gives you that impression, kalle/bismuru?"
"you're speaking in some language that no one understands. no wonder why no one listens to you kalle/bismaru."
"yet this thread has reached three pages!edit......wait what do you mean there weren't any posts by other actual people who were concerned about the situation and for whom this thread brought their attention to this giant conspiracy?...huh, you're right. it's filled with alts and trolls. i guess no one is actually listening.hey everyone look in this thread bump bump bump"
"he's fun. he's like the red-headed step child that every organization has even on eve."
"my machinations are timeless, your stupidity will only add to my intelligence"
"being blue to the nc doesn't make you part of the nc. hey bismaru, isn't it against the eula to avoid forum bans by using alts?"
"hello space jesus."
"i am the mittani"
"according to your post history you have a serious problem with goons and the nc. are you making a real effort to get on the csm to improve the game overall or are you just trying to keep the nc and their allies from getting their voices heard?"
"itt, devoting x percentage of your posting lifetime replying to bad posts makes those posts less bad."
"btw, u mad?"
"no, he's the mittani. can't u reed bro?"
"zero.zero space checking in o/we need some <3 too!"
"killer2, don't you feel it a bit anti-climatic to even bother posting a thread here in jita park? or do you believe there is a chance you will not be elected?"
"i'm treating this election serious and taking nothing for granted. players who believe in what i represent should vote for me, regardless of who they are affiliated with."
"i have known k2 for a number of years. you have my vote."
"my vote is yours sir!i think its majorly important to defend jbs from the ccp nerfbat and i cant think of any better fc to lead the csm in that op."
"k2 got my vote \o/"
"supporting killer2 for csm. holla!"
"supporting \o/"
"yeah i also think that a small noob nasty gang should win over a huge friendly experienced gang, but i fully support this guy here."
"you have my sword... i mean vote.working with government agencies guarantees you experience you need to handle ccp. i urge you to try to curbe ccp brains before they pull a nge on eve. making game playable is much more important then making it colorful."
"supporting our passionate killer.he has everything a csm candidate needs (vuk has made sure of that during those long nights), and a neat .gif../vote"
"you have my vote killer2."
"ok so what's your stance on some of the other issues not surrounding simply 0.0 space? ie the current botting issues, renting issues.. encouraging players to move from .5 - 0.0 etc? it's fine to say yes i'm out for 0.0 and i can appreciate that your a 0.0 player but as a csm your also meant to be the voice for every one, how are you also going to help those who are in low sec and hisec space and how are you going to approach ccp in regards to the current problems with botting etc?"
"to answer some other questions i've had.are you an official goon candidate?no i'm not an official goon candidate. there are two of those and neither of them are me. i am running on a generalist platform of improving the quality of feedback that ccp receives across the board rather than as a bought-and-paid-for alliance advocate. nobody in goonswarm should be voting for me.but you're a goon!yes. and i was while a member of csm 4 and csm 5 too. somehow i managed to curb my kitten-eating instincts. i stand by my record of contribution to those sessions.why aren't you putting forwards ideas for changes to the game like some of the other candidates are?because they don't matter. i'll happily tell you what my position is on anything you care to ask about but my ideas for fixes are largely irrelevant to the process. ccp doesn't care what they are and neither should you.i googled your name and it looks as though you are a huge nerd.yeah i am."
"who am i?:my name is domania. i've had my concord issued pilot's licensed for the fifth year. i started my career in duripant at the federal navy academy school during their four year training to become a \"pod pilot\". soon after i became certified to operate a pod i broke off and became a freelancer starting off with an industrial corporation where i got to learn my bearings in the harsh universe. soon enough, i found myself getting into more and more combat in my later months and then found myself pirating in the placid region. there i learned to not fear death as it had no meaning to me anymore as long as i was within my pod. however, my paradise that i found soon came to an end as the federation started to step up it's patrols in the region, i found it harder to continue my business of controlling the area by means of force. i heard stories of empires growing in the far reaches of space. also known as null sector space for concord's inability to enforce their law there. i did my research and found the perfect place to call home behind the reaches of minmatar space int he curse region. there i partnered up with a outlaw group known as the angel cartel that had a contract with the corporation i was employed with at the time. there i got to get my hands on research far ahead of the other empires. i was able to obtain untapped resources from the area. i became far richer than before. it made my business of pillaging trade routes near the outskirts of empire look like a joke. that soon came to an end. since i left the area, the angel cartel set me hostile to their faction. i sooner or later found myself back at the start freelancing. i did a lot of trading, lead mining operations to manufacture war machines. many years pass, now my time is spent studying cosmic anomalies such as wormholes and the unknown sleepers empire that disappeared from existence.so that still leaves the question, who am i?:i am just like you. a average player.i've played this game for a full 5 years with no signs of stopping. i have done everything from mining, solo pvp, group pvp, 0.0, wormhole space, leading a corporation, trading, industrial work, pirating, peon in major 0.0 conflicts and, missioning. i currently own two accounts. that could be because i am crazy addicted to the game. in the game as of right now, i do wormhole exploration and small gang pvp along with the occasional large pvp. (more than 40).but what can you promise me?well that's the extremely hard part. i could go ahead and promise you to fix hybirds, new ships, destroy macro bots, boost gallente, boost cladari, fix bugs, create universe peace, buff missions, etc. however that isn't feasible to do, the issues get so complex, it'd be impossible to do all of them with a simple flick of the switch. it requires thinking together to make it a feasible plan to tackle. saying that, there is something i want to do for you. i want to work to become the eve community's voice and help be ccp's ears. i want to make this game even better and to help ccp take this game to a whole new level by working with you and them to collaborate both ideas and suggestions to improve this game like never before.so what can i do to help?vote to make the game even better! speak up by voting me in to be your voice to ccp. to help improve the game like never before. together, you and me will help improve the game for us and future generations of players coming into the game.don't hesitate to contact me via eve-mail or on my blog at domania.evepress.com with any questions or suggestions. or if your lucky enough to catch be not afk you can convo. me directly in game."
"just because it's time for someone new.just because it's time for a change.just because it's time to stop fafing around and start getting things done. enough of verbosity. keep things short, keep things precise, just do it.just because it's time for the little people to be heard, the inexperience to have a say and the experience to share. just because you can. vote k'smith'y"
"just cause 2 was a fun game"
"given that ccp has said that dust, not eve, is their highest priority, why has only 1 of the candidates mentioned this in their statements on the candidates page??this seems one of the biggest issues in eve. even the last csm mentioned it in their minutes as a concern."
"where did ccp state that dust is 'a higher priority' than eve? link to a specific quote please."
"dust and eve are not the same developers. the guys in iceland work on eve and i believe shanghai works on dust (someone can confirm that)."
"lol, eve politics is crap for sure. like mittani says, we are all going to lie to you if you expect the typical democratic process. but honestly, getting a block of guys that works together to block the horse***t ideas that get thrown up by every body who thinks their opinion matters is ultimately the most useful function of the csm (which otherwise is a worthless organization). some of the horse***t ideas come from ccp itself.ultimately, they want a free vacation to iceland. which a**holes do you want to give it to? what intelligence level do you want in the peeps that go to the csm? and on the flip side, do you want intelligent council members who would love to screw up the game for everyone as part of a larger griefer-style meta-gaming scheme, or do you want intelligent reps that will spoil the plans of those meta-game fapping a**hats?caring about the game is one thing: the fact i've spent three years playing shows that, but you have to be realistic about what the csm can or cannot do. unified front is the only way to make it do anything. 0.0 needs to sweep the csm in order for anything to happen or be stopped from happening that we don't want as 0.0ers."
"i don't lie, i know some others don't either. there's enough candidates with valid programs that can stand on their own without needing to resort to backhanded real-life lying tactics at this stage. maybe it will come, but the time is not that yet.now, as pointed out in many posts made by me or other, the csm is no vacation.picture this:arrive on the evening before the meeting, or during the night.3 days of meeting, starting around 8:30, ending around 6pm. 1 hour sessions, facing fresh dev teams every time, delving into details. constant focus required. that's a grind if i've ever lived any. after 3 days, every csm member who paid attention is exhausted.evenings are spent with devs, discussion more eve matters, sharing stories from both sides of the fence, albeit in a more relaxed manner.the morning after the meetings, plane takes off.no time for vacation. ccp extends as a courtesy to members the ability to prolong their stay, on their own dime, to visit iceland. but then it's not a free trip anymore, is it?and that's not even taking into account all the time spent prior to the iceland meetings to read and discuss all player proposals.i'd expect anyone touting the \"free trip\" aspect to be labelled an idiot, for that's all it is... there's enough reports now to be able to determine that there is no such thing...meissa anunthiel, csm 2, 3, 4, 5, and maybe 6."
"so, you don't deny that you will likely be pushing your 0.0 blocks agenda? you also presume that no other candidate knows anything about economics."
"kalrand for president - or whatever."
"i didn't deny anything. i'm also bad at answering questions posed with double negatives.i'm not part of the 0.0 plot to take over the csm. i'm part of the kalrand thinks the economy should be paid attention to plot to take over the csm."
"can you give us an example of how you would deal with ccp from an economical perspective? specifically, suppose that this discussion about implementing fish tanks in eve was actually taking place in iceland (or in the private forums) between a ccp serious about implementing the idea and the csm. what would be your opinion, how would you react, and how would you work with ccp as the idea was being brought to fruition?"
"kalrand does enjoy the confidence of md as a whole so your confidence in his economic knowledge is probably well founded. however that doesn't preclude other candidates from demonstrating theirs."
"simple question, simple answer:mostly nothing... unless you want it to change direction.it is already one of the most complex game economies out there, probably the most complex.one issue that is economic in nature is the amount of fixed resource faucets available. there's too little ore in highsec (or, if macroers disappear, raw ship output could be increased), there's too few moons holding t2 materials (or, once again, increase the output through various means), those are 2 issues i have... for the rest the economy is working fine by itself, barring a few snafus like the pi introduction (one of the first thing we bashed ccp over at the first meetings of csm 5). trust isn't enforced, but that's the nature of the game...to be fair to other candidates with little to no knowledge of economics, over the past 4 terms there have been a number of \"economy\" related subjects, but none of them required a degree in economics to understand. supply and demand, secondary markets, a few extra definitions. if we're pushing it a candidate could use knowledge of things such as production-possibility frontier and general equilibrium theory, but that's pushing it. any decently intelligent individual shouldn't have issues here.what i'll add to the subject is that knowledge of economics per se is pointless if one doesn't understand the conditions under which the products are used, unless one is content having fun doing nothing but trading. but as far as csm members are concerned, it's not just the economics that are interesting, but what happens because of those. what does it mean that the price of t2 components increases by 300%, what effect does it have on gameplay. it's how economics tie into balance that things get interesting."
"i think part of the problem is that a lot of folks forget that decisions in eve balance on the rl economy first and its own internal economy takes a distant second. decisions that change how well the company will do, whether it will gain new subscribers or lose the ones it already has is the lens through which ccp is forced to look.if that lens points towards the game economy then i think they have a right to be proud but they also need to take a close look at some of the more nagging issues that are growing such as market bots. sure, i know how the 0.01 isk game is played but i have a very hard time believing that someone is out there, finger over the send key waiting for my move.for the internal economy to be viable and for the external game economy to keep the players who prefer the market pvp over the spaceships one i think the first order of business in the economy side of the game is to try to address the botting.m"
"the retribution and coercer need a second mid slot. no discussion. csm address this issue and you have all of my votes."
"1) i agree with you. single mid slot is fail2) any csm who promises this is an idiot.csm can't make balnket changes like this and any promise to do so illistrates they do not undestand how the csm works.asking csm views on ship balance and there general opinion on things may let you know who to vote for better."
"then you're asking the csm candidates to promise you that they'll do this but they will never push what you want because that isn't their job."
"has anyone ever made \"improving t1 destroyers\" part of their platform?i dunno it just seems like they don't really have a place in eve"
"i agree with you the retribution and coercer need some attention, as do the other dessies.we have requested ccp puts this on the list of items to check for rebalancing during csm 2 and 5. i believe it is likely to happen shortly, but can make no promise to that regard.no csm member, existing or candidate, can make promises about results, never ever. no more than any lobbyist can.and never can we tell ccp \"this needs an extra slot\" or \"it needs 5% more damage\".we tell them ship x needs some attention, we think it could use this or that.then they come back to us and tell us the outcome of their evaluation, we give our feedback on what they have in mind suffices or not, and we take it from there.so, yes, they need attention. will that attention take the form of another mid slot, i don't know.better get a correct answer than empty promises i hope..."
"...two? really? wow, maybe the csm really is broken....or maybe ccp really doesn't care about t1 destroyers."
"(i think it was 2, may have been 3, don't remember exactly)priorities... csm 2 is the time dominion was the focus. it got left a bit on the side at that time, and the csm-ccp communication wasn't what it is now, as such promoting our issues was not as efficient as today. hence the delay. the csm obtained other things in the interim.meissa, csm 2, 3, 4, 5 and maybe 6?"
"so why wasn't the issue revisited later, once the big fancy flashy features were discussed and implemented?"
"because it was already in the backlog which means that the csm agreed that it should happen and agreeing all over again doesn't change anything. ccp sets the schedule and if they decide that ship balance passes aren't going to happen soon then that's how it is. the csm can try and influence the schedule to some extent but not on the micro scale like 'fix these two specific ships in this specific way'. it's more like 'there are a lot of outstanding hull balance requests from players and we think that you should put that ahead of <other thing #765478 that you want to do>'."
"has saying that worked in the past?"
"in some cases yes, but the csm does not control the schedule. the '1000 little things' initiative is an example of the csm putting pressure on ccp to allocate resources to something that we felt was important."
"dear capsuleers:needing your vote so that i can best represent your interests to the developers at ccp. will review all questions and help the best way i can. will attempt to answer any questions you may have. have been playing for more than a year. been mostly working on upgrading technology in-game. working to raise items not yet taken to tech level ii or iii.davidnorell"
"so concise!"
"thank you! i strive to be so!davidnorell"
"i and others will vote for you in mass if you promise to stop poasting."
"as soon as i saw a link to win isk, i coudnt take you seriously as a candidate."
"to be fair, it's worth an entry. you should see the god awful ****e that's been submitted so far. at this stage you could just write \"windy for the win\" on your gentleman sausage and photograph it, you'd probably win."
"are you saying that you literally cannot get people to help you with your campaign even if you bribe them?ouch... ouch."
"no, i'm saying that eve players are fat and unphotogenic.linkage"
"whoa whoa nothing on there says that the picture has to be of ourselves. this explanation doesn't entirely explain why the situation is as it is now(hint: check two posts up if you can't think of another reason)"
"whether it is intended or accidental is beside the point - it's a good mechanism regardless.afk cloaking is one of many mechanisms which encourage co-operative play. if you have an afk cloaker in your system and you're wanting to go about your business, you will need to make sure you have backup. ships that can fit a covops cloak and be sitting in your sanctum watching you generally have weak tank, dps, or both, so it's not like they're a huge threat.there is very little pve content in the game that can't be soloed in the right ship. encouraging people to work together is what eve is all about - it is after all a massively multiplayer game.this is my stance on afk cloaking anyway - working as it should."
"it's abolutly not any kind of solution to the problem.do i have some? -nojust ask ccp to people who need to merge the multiple alts acounts in a single one and make them be abble to train normaly for each char with his own attributes.what would this change? -tons of alts accounts-if you need a scout alt then you'll still be doing like every one else: trial account with a fake name/blah blah mail adress or, an alt with your second account or you'll ask it to any newbbie.- this means less people afk'ing mission/youpor'n, tv, film, catch, superbowl or whatever leaving their hulk mining ice for 15mn before he gets filled, or, a simple bot that will not answer you more than the guy's i've mentioned before.no not true, and i'm pretty sure you're realy belive what you're sayingbut you've got screwed.everyone in low/0.0 space will learn you this when you are flying an industrail: whenever a neutral apears either you turn your cloaking device on or you just dock/return to pos/log outthis is how it works, and it's not the 21st century's new. all you guys are doing is screw the local intell, mobilise forces to search stupid cloakers while they could do much better of their game time play.thx to you no reasonable miner or whatever with a strip/lazer miner will ever deplete a single rock while your scum alts are there.you think you've done something about bots? you didn't, you've just s'hited once more on real players."
"i am a personal fan of afk cloaking and would hate to see this aspect of the game changed in any way. its a good way and reminder that in 0.0, you are in 0.0. i dont think that ccp intended for 0.0 to be a care free zone. if someone is cloaked in local... go some where else, cause you never know when those afk cloaky people are actually not afk.point and case here not really afk cloaked"
"if ccp makes it impossible to bot, then i will support getting rid of afk cloaking. if they do this without making botting impossible then people will simply build bots to make afk cloaking feasible again. just saying."
"who cares about bots"
"i'm sorry \"afk cloaking only effects botters,\" that is absolute bull****.tell me you ******ed high sec puppies if i'm in my null sec system with no station and want my ship to be off scan so they don't know i have my nyx (not that i have a nyx but anyway)in system, but i also satyed logged in cause chances are 200 people have me o na blacklist trying to kill me i will afk cloak my arse off to save my ship.don't be stupid and ignorant and say afk cloaking only affects botters when you really have no clue.on a less *****ing point yes csm need to ahve a good sit down and talk about it, for better or worse."
"some candidates want your vote because it's a free trip. some want your vote because they have beef with ccp. and really, anyone who truly plays eve will have some beef with some broken feature.the difference between them and me is i don't want to go. yea i have some issue with some of the broken content. but it doesn't mean i want to spend 20hours on a plane. i don't see why the csm can't have more on-going direct communication with ccp. like weekly skype conference calls or some other jazz. there is what? 7 years of backlog of player suggestions for fixes and you really think 2 summit meetings a year can cover all those?no, what the csm needs is more direct continual communication and involvement. where the csm can have active discussions with players on the forums or in game and bring important feedback directly to ccp without waiting 6 months for a summit.ccp has stated that with each issue brought up, they have to run the numbers and check if it does in fact solve a balance issue or create another one. hence the delay in dealing with so many of the issue brought forth by previous csms. i say, let the csm run some numbers. give the csm a small test server and someone at ccp that can implement player suggested changes on a small 10 system server. let the csm test hybrid changes, ship power grid changes and other issues on the forums. let the csm test these changes on a basic level and then they can have some experience and numbers to present to ccp to give a direction for a fix rather then just giving a complaint.the idea may not be perfect, but it's a start. it's just one of hundreds of ideas to open the door for communication and change with ccp based on player feedback.and that's what i want to bring to the csm.so while some other candidates may express the exact issues you want fixed, they'll be hard pressed to see it resolved. but a vote for me will increase the chances that the csm will be able to represent your issues with success to ccp."
"how would this compare with the current situation with the internal csm-ccp forums and the csm-player forums? basically just less of an emphasis on the summit meetings and utilize the other means of communications more?"
"just want to lay this \"free trip\" myth to rest.the csm is *not* a free trip. let me tell you how it works.you land (usually the evening before, sometimes the day of the meetings), head to the office, have 8+ hours of continuous meetings with different teams, they switch every 1 hour so they're fresh, you have to stay focus continuously. multiply that by 3 days. every evening we have meals with devs. what do we talk about? eve. more lobbying, it's a bit more relaxed, but there's still the \"discussing things as viewed from either side of the fence\" aspect to things.and when the meetings are done, you fly back.ccp offers the people the ability to prolong their stay on their own dime, but that's not free anymore.i have never taken that opportunity (lack of time or lack of money), as such i've never seen a geyser or whale.it's no free trip...and being on the csm is continuous work, both outside the meetings in iceland and in preparation for those. it's really no leisure.now letting you go back to your own candidacy, sorry for the disruption.meissa anunthiel, csm 2, 3, 4 and 5 (and 6?)"
"nope.avi"
"slap mah 'fro!"
"hi"
"fully supported."
"supported"
"bump for a good idea.and yes, both covert cloaks and black ops ships should be exempt from the penalty."
"supported."
"i still believe that since the purpose of this whole idea is to prevent cloaked capitol ships from jumping without exposing themselves, it would make much more sense to introduce capitol size cloaking device, and simply prevent regular cloaks from activating on capitols. have like a maximum mass limit.i support the main idea, but not its implementation."
"i was going for the low hanging fruit thing. by introducing a brand new module, you have to do a new blueprint, what it takes to build, etc. i was just hoping for a couple changes to the normal cloak we have now. thought that would be easier. it is the reason why i think all damage controls should just be flat out passive. then there is the argument that neutralizing a capital ship/when they log the damage control turns off so it can be killed. a new capital ship damage control could be introduced that uses capacitor and the normal damage control could be set to passive.so i guess it really just depends on what would be easier for ccp to do. i honestly don't think non capital ships would really suffer at all if they could not regain capacitor or shield while cloaked. they are safe, and that is all 99% of everyone who warps off to a safe spot cares about. after all, it's why they call it a safe spot, not a cap recharge spot."
"great idea! ensures the game is playable in otherwise laggy situations and allows ccp to work on reducing lag without constantly being shouted at about how lag is breaking the game.i like that idea especially since it will force the fight to be broken up across multiple systems, something ccp has said they want to see. reinforcing fleets arriving on the scene too late will have to fight in near by systems unless they want to just sit around and wait for the temporal distortions to end. there should probably be some time delay between when a system enters bullet time and when it gets locked down, though. that way if you're planning to hot drop on someone, your bait fleet doesn't get hung out to dry when the system suddenly gets locked down."
"truly, if all ship models were scaled to meet their currently listed volumes, this issue would probably be corrected. but a half-fix is better than none, so...supported."
"not supportedit cost too much it needs a boost not a nerf+1 turret slot it is a matar ship for god's sake it should have more gunsmatar powerand add another bonus: flown more than 1 hour makes cancer in podder brain ,who drastically looses lp over timelike 10k lp/hour , stupid matars never knew how to build a reactor shield anywayoh and 1% chance that when mwd being used reactor goes boom and blows up the ship with pod too!!!!no it is not op it is just minmatar!!!"
"hmm, not sure if serious"
"lol check battleclinic you idiot.dramariel usage for genos in february:kills: 197 losses: 21they definitely use them."
"hes just trolling badly. we used to use dramiels a lot solo too, but it got boring because they are op. in fact looking at my statistics dramiel is the ship i have the second most kills in after taranis, and i'v flown all sorts of stuff since 2007. i can also fly all frigates at the same trained skill levels, so personally i have nothing to win in the boost/nerf game, i just like a more interesting and level playing field. its a fact that dramiels ahve ruined the frigate bracket balance."
"mines! want them back please!"
"mines could be fun, but the should have a deployment range from objects, such as 5km from a gate and maybe 1km from another mine. kinda like cargo containers.but otherwise i like the idea. the time limit would be good too. also! make mines non discriminitory, you know if anyone gets close to it. it goes off."
"slave collars for minmatar!"
"as what some might call a carebear, i support finnagain zero's vision whole-heartedly (i wish i could quote all the highlights). nothing annoys me more about this game than that there are highsec sanctuaries for those that wish to cause havoc in highsec. ccp should allow an end-run around the protections that concord affords those who prey on the weak in high sec. an i think the in-station environment is the best forum for this. allow the noobs to get their revenge there if no where else. if ccp wont apply equal rules to all space in eve, the lest they could do is offer an alternate forum for disputes, especially in high sec where their rules do more to protect the villians that disrupt society than those that participate in it. never has any government taken the stance that concord and ccp has. it is highly unrealistic."
"supported"
"what: a deployable module which you can drop into 0.0 that will remove local chat in that constellation until it is destroyed.where: drop it in any system, the jammer is a celestial object like a cyno. anyone having their local blocked by the jammer will be informed of what system the jammer has been deployed in.how: warp into a system containing the constellation you want to jam. spend a few minutes deploying the jammer. prepare for fights and hunting as you remove local and broadcast your evilness to the people you've just jammed.why: allows for the local-free goodness that people talk about, without forcing it on everyone. want your local chat and associated intel back? go blow up the jammer. want to kill those punks in botting alliances: drop a jammer and bots are forced to stop or risk death."
"gankfest item spotted...not supported, unless:-> system based, not constellation...or:-> really, really, really expensive...must be ship-restricted too, like warp-bubble for dictors..."
"^thisshould be both system based and expensive, also must have low ehp. otherwise deploying one in your own system next to a d1ckstar pos with blob backup to jam your enemy's system would be far too exploitable. also, must void cyno on grid, or it would turn into easy bait for lazy people."
"ok, the concept overall is good, however i would make a couple of modifications:first off, i would like to see 2 variants on this. one type is similar to a mobile warp disruption bubble as far as anchoring, deployment, and sizes (s,m,l). these will only block local channel in the system its deployed in for 2,4, and 8 hours respectively until they run out of charge (like scan probes), or are put offline by the deployer and brought back into a ship for a recharge, then redeployed.these would be primarily used in an offensive manner, blocking local intel while the assault fleet jumps in, etc.the second type is a pos structure, requires sov to activate, but can be turned on and off instantly at the pos by the controller. so the system owners can keep local off for hours or days at a time, and then when the desire for a local snapshot of intel is needed can turn off the jammer, then back on. there should be 2 types, a system jammer requiring system sov and a constellation jammer requiring constellation sov to activate needless to say, a specialized skill should be required to activate these devices, being on the cutting edge of new eden technology and all, gleaned from our encounters with the sleepers in w-space.good idea, with refinement, i am for supporting it"
"general concept is very good."
"if the item is expensive and destroyable, it means that would be tool that favors local mega alliance powers - not roaming gangs, not weaker invading forces.if you are a weaker entity wanting to attack local alliance coalition, as soon as you anchor it, all the bots and farmers safe up, the alliance is alerted, alliance organizes a blob, uses the jb network to quickly go to troubled system, quickly kills the expensive local jammer.local alliances may be interested in anchoring these things in their 0.0 empire border regions - where they mostly camp for empire noobs entering.they may also use these things in major fleet battles, where both sides are strong enough to defend an anchorable local jammer.but in majority of cases, these things wouldn't be used. and they certainly wouldn't make defending alliances any more vulnerable from weaker hostiles.edit: this local jammer idea can work only if the module is cheap - 5 million or less. because it's destruction is certain, it has to be expendable."
"not supported ... all steps should be towards getting players to know more about those around them not less (but very definitely not disclosing contact info)the arguments that eliminating local will increase the frequency of pvp just don't hold water . (and they've been discussed over and over - whether you agree with them or not the agruments are presented there)imo , increasing pvp will be best accomplished with carrots luring people into vulnerable positions via the greed factor ... how to trigger those without the evils of spawn camping and how and where to remove/reduce existing isk/loot drops to compensate for the new faucets are where the heavy thinking should go.( i do think misinformation in local is a good idea... add signal to noise, having people appear falsely in local in ways that make people use social reasoning to guess whether or not its likely that those peoplel would be in their space at that time of day etc ... this would increase the importance of chracters knowing about other characters in the game while still making things more difficult for bots and step up incrementally the importance of intel channels etc without forcing people to take shifts watching gates et"
"diomedes calypso, all serious arguments for game design changes deal with quality of pvp, not frequency. frequency would be a byproduct of quality pvp.if this game was designed properly from the start, all ships would have roughly 15 au radius of radar visibility - a sphere volume of known space. people entering the scanner range would be known, people outside scanner range would be unknown. that's how nearly all space games operate, and they do it for a reason.it's stupid that eve is like the only game where scanner range is system wide, with no ability to hide from it - even with cloak. i'm pretty certain ccp admitted they didn't design it that way on purpose. it was a mistake"
"we are not talking about entering a ship in space, we are talking about entering a ship stored inside your pos ship maintenance array. there is a number of ways to implement this, for example, a ship that you take out of maintenance array will have it's shields recharge on its own for the duration of 5 seconds (this shield boost ammount will have to be huge). or they could make a structure that instanly boosts shields to maximum, to balance it you could have this shield booster structure to put pos shields offline or have it enter a cooling period that lasts about 5-10 minutes... so yeah there is really dozens of ways to fix this. i support this thread in total"
"supported, shields need unnerfed in several different ways."
"hey leave all my t2 bpos alone. i'm getting filthy stinking rich off them with absolutely no effort!-liang"
"not supportedbpo pros:higher profit per unit produced from the bpo (copy or manufactured item)bpo cons:very expensive initial investment limited productivity per bpoinvention pros:much faster bpc generation rate much lower initial investmentoverall higher productivity ratesinvention cons:lower profit per unitso yes, a bpo owner is more or less able to print money from his bpo, however the initial investment combined with limited productivity for each bpo means that for t2 items with a high turnover rate, invention can actually be more profitable over a given time span. the trick, as always, is to find out which inventions are profitable, and which are better left alone. as for inventing solely to sell the invented bpc, there are way too many industrialists in this game with the skills to invent for themselves to make that line of work anything better than marginally profitable. and before you can say that i am a t2 bpo owner who is trying to defend his cash cow, i can't afford to buy one of those bpos either, so i make do with invention, cause i can afford to do that"
"t2 bpo's should have been removed long time ago already.for some odd reason i have hard time believing many csm members want to make stand for it, though.t2 bpos are bad because in many cases its not even worth inventing bpcs anymore. this is how it naturally was going to be at first place."
"great show of ignorance dbxgooba.copied t2 bpo are the last thing influencing t2 prices. the copy time of t2 bpo is longer by a big margin than the production time, even using a pos and the copy speed implants.your problems are one or more of the following:1) you are producing stuff with low demand so there is really a competition from bpo owners;2) you are competing with guys that think that the datacore they produce, the minerals they mine and so on are \"free\";3) you don't do your potential profit check before inventing. 4) you are inventing ships without checking if decryptors will help you. essentially, you are doing it wrong and use the t2 bpo as a scapegoat of your errors.just to add to the list of your failures:- \"removal of t2 bpos. owners of these bpos have profited enough on these. this will help the invention marked substantially at the cost of a very marginal amount of whining.\" t2 bpo are brought and sold regularly (check the wts forum) so the new owners don't have profited from them. beside that you will still find invention non profitable as the reason 2) 3) and 4) will still cause you to fail;- \"reseed them and use invention for t3\". why? because you fail at inventing? i make plenty of isk inventing and will not like to see my cash cow removed [invention]. t3 use reverse engineering."
"i only ever got one, some silly small ammo thingie which was useless so i flushed it had i only kept it for the four years in anticipation of the recent ammo buff i could have made .. ummm, a few hundred million or so.the profitability of invention has nothing to do with the existence of bpo's. if you want to make it \"better\" then allow for improving invention (+me) results through a post-invention step and/or move all current moon mining materials to pi (alchemy).- gives you the direct \"invest for bigger margin\" and/or- partial self-sufficiency in building materials, removes bottlenecks and \"hurts\" bpo holder (which at this point are null alliances/individuals) by making them either work for their materials or buy off market like everyone else.edit: yes, that was \"one across the bow\" of the holy golden calf of null"
"alternate solution: switch to inventing marauders or hics. since there are no t2 bpos for those ships, you will make the kind of profits you can expect from other lines if t2 bpos were removed."
"this. also imagine if you accidentally click a gate that leads into sov 0.0, you could be killed in an instant."
"if you missioned in lowsec then you could shoot looters, griefers, etc. with only a slight loss of sec status.high sec is supposed to be noob space. if you're still in highsec by the time you can fly a ship that can easily be probed out by griefers then you're playing eve wrong."
"have you heard of carebears? you are the useless one. missioning lvl4 with a bs is the easiest way to make money.and if highsec is a noob space, why are there lvl4 missions there?"
"if you mission in lowsec, they wouldn't take the mission item, they'd gank your ship.there shouldn't be absolutely zero risk for stealing a mission critical item. make the can spawn claimed by the corporation of who opens the mission."
"you want this to avoid pirates. what's to stop someone from parking an interdiction sphere or something on the route? stupid idea is stupid."
"yes i know, that's why i said that it need a new technology of warp drives to reach enough seed to travel that distances"
"openspace works as a node like a standard system. i think that the session change coud be made while warping, making it transparent for the user. no, you can't reach areas that are not accesible...it's not free flying.stargates are there if you want to go fast from a point to another one. openspace increases a lot of time needed for travel, a secondary route. only two reasons to be there: avoid dangerous stargates or explore null sec area that are opensapce. in both cases you are vulnerable to be detected there."
"why is this needed? i don't see a need for this. seems like a useless feature. if the gate you have is camped go a different way! it will take longer but is safer.i'd rather see ccp fix stuff than do this.not supported."
"first, game mechanics would need to be changed, and i don't think this is even worthy of a patch (or a spot in an expansion). second pirating would no longer be profitable, third too much timeand 4th and most importantly, lag."
"use your edit feature to modify the current trajectory comment in your initial post to say, maintain current direction, but lose half of its speed every 3 seconds or so, so a ship travelling 3000m/s will come to an eventual stop (or near stop) about 20km away from where it died, this way it meets both the drift and scatter eye candy effects, but also maintains reasonable salvagability. now the little scattered bits having no real game effect other than eye candy should jet off the main at random direction and velocity, eventually disappearing after 20-30sec or so, with fewer jetting bits as time goes on, for say a minute or so then just the salvagable core remains. this allows good visuals of a ship in its death throes. now all of these effects except for main body drift should be adjustable in graphics settings, to allow for personal preference and graphics card abilities.needless to say, the slower the ship is travelling at death, the shorter the drift...do this, and i shall edit my own post to support edit: change made, support added!"
"i believe this is already being done. they're putting it in eve gate now (and hopefully won't miss the minor detail of letting you do it in the first 72h).supported in any case."
"edit: proposal generalized to simply improve orbiting.the purpose of this proposal is to allow a ship to transistion smoothly into an orbit. imigo montoya below suggested \"that the orbit command takes the current vector into account for the starting vector rather than (seemingly) picking a random path to orbit with.\" below is my more complicated wish.it would be nice if eve had an off set orbiting feature.by this i mean one would set an orbital radius (preferably at the ship's optimal for speed) and then also set an \"near pass\" distance from the target (preferably at the optimal range of the turrets). certainly this would be impracticle for many ships, by for ships like the vagabond, with a 30k falloff, it would allow the ship to maintain the speed that is so essential to its survivability, while allowing it to bring the full potential of its guns on the target at least some of the time. and with that 30k falloff range it would still hit at better than 50% even when its orbit brought it to its farthest distance from the target.clearly, if a vagabond pilot could control his ship, with say a joystick, he would fly this way if he was taking a pounding from missiles. so, i would suggest that if we are not allowed joystick control then at the very least the game should allow us to setup an offset orbit. wishful thinking perhaps, but i for one think it would be a nice feature."
"for clearification, this is a tactic that a gunboat would use against a blob of missile-boats, and it is a tactic i have employed manually with \"some\" success. but due to the game's manual flight controls it is very difficult to achieve, and is often counterproductive.when approaching missile-boats transversal doesn't matter. you want to get into range as quickly as possible. but you then want to smoothly transition into an orbit at best speed. if you could hit a \"near-pass\" or \"offset\" orbit button, then you could approach the target nearly as fast as possible, hit optimal turret range, and then smoothly transition into an orbit for best speed; all without risking coming to a complete stop when you hit the orbit button."
"in general, a preset orbital mechanics routine that is programmable before you go into battle wouldn't be a bad idea. say set elliptical orbits or as you say, the charge in and smoothly transition routine, then its select target and then hit whichever orbital piloting tactic you choose, then the big thing would be to try to program counter-piloting routines, making prior strategic planning just as, if not more important than on-the-fly try to adjust at the limitations of a clunky piloting u/idecent idea, gonna support it, even though i have serious doubts that ccp will put a high priority on this at all, too much work in the code."
"as a modification to that, and possibly a better solution overall, i would suggest that the orbit command takes the current vector into account for the starting vector rather than (seemingly) picking a random path to orbit with.this would ultimately give the player more control of their ship."
"this would difinitely be an elegant adjustment, and i would be happy with it."
"this would be nice. . ."
"every ellipse can be defined by its semimajor and semiminor axes (i.e. the maximum and minimum orbit radii). let the pilot set both. if they're equal, then it's a traditional circular orbit"
"more control for player's ships is always better."
"yes"
"nice, but i'm not really talking about an ellipse. for my tactic the ideal orbit would still be circular, only the target wouldn't rest at the center of that orbit. however, a close pass elliptical orbit that would smoothly degrade into a circle would be an improvement over the current game.all in all, i think imigo (above) gives the simplist solution; \"[an] orbit command [that] takes the current vector into account for the starting vector rather than (seemingly) picking a random path to orbit with.'"
"please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"compulsory, to make fat nerds cry."
"i suppose i am undecided. i would say optional if station interaction via a 3d interface is simply vanity. if however, new landlubber skills will be introducted that will make it risky to interact with the crowd in station, then i say it should be compulsary. though i must admit that i know practically nothing about the plans for incarna."
"optional for existing game mechanics.when i came to eve from e&b, i found it a feature that i didn't have to run from station terminal to station terminal to do the things i wanted to do.i'll never miss trying to find the re terminal through the mob that was forever clustered around it.from the standpoint of immersion, finding that shady character off in the corner of the station was kind of ruined when there were 20 other players talking to him at the same time.and if we have to go talk face to face with our agents to get missions, toras egassuo in motsu had better have an auditorium for an office."
"undecidedif it's not particularly slow, and it doesn't involve needless running around (it shouldn't), i'm happy to have it be either.i would prefer them to do whatever takes less dev time so they can get on with adding actual features."
"bump for further consideration. especially point #1also, perhaps for station items, sorting by date placed in teh hangar. ie, items you never use would show up at the bottom. items you just put in and/or take out/put in frequently at the top. much like date modified sorting for windows folders. basically, by default, new items append the end of the list, but as soon as you resort, everythign's a mess again. it would make sorting new loot easier i think. might stack up on cache for the auditing though?"
"well, my troll sensor is screaming but i will humor the stupidity. why does it need an extra low and not a mid which would make it useful?"
"which slot are you going to lose to compensate on each ship, low or high?"
"neither of those two ships' problem is the single midslot."
"if you are unable to burn a frigate down with 250-300dps@<20km at your disposal then the fail is in you and not the hull.what she said. how do you propose to gimp the pre-eminent damage projectors of the light class for the unique ability to \"solo\"?coercer is godly when fitted/flown right and retribution is a fat pre-gimped obsoleted ship (read: af) which is supposedly slated for an update. no point to this request."
"the retri and coer are fine and do not need a second mid. if you want a ship that has a second mid, go fly another ship.if/when the 4th frig damage bonus' come, i hope ccp realize that the retri is a pure gank and tank ship an will give it a 4th damage bonus rather then give it an extra mid.people who suggest it lose its utility high for a mid are also gimping the ship further actually.retri is a very nice af, specilized for mid range dps and well tanked, it peforms well in gangs and thats what it should keep doing."
"it should be left up to the voters. if the community votes for so many cadidates from a single entity, that is what the community wants. you're also ignoring the fact, that ccp is going to ignore the csm if the only thing that they make is lol proposals that benefit only the entity they are a part of."
"supported."
"this"
"this provided the repair ability was created by a capital ship mod, either mid or high slot.regardless, the ability to monitor drone health in the bay is a great ideasigned"
":p iseewhatyoudidthere if you re-read the post again you'll see that it was meant to be comedic and who i am could never be a secret, not only do i have a certain way of doing things that it obvious to anynoe that knows me but my name is on my website and the candadicy list. the resignation went ok although not quite as well as planned, but the funny thing with marketing is that its supposed to get attention :p the sacrifice of my characters, trillion isk business machine and more trips to iceland in the interest of the majority of the playerbase shows that i stand behind what i believe in and promote and that the game and community is more important than myself.lets not forget that for both the previous csms i have worked just as hard if not harder than some of the full seats, just for the microtransaction issue alone i spent almost every day for 2 or 3 months in locals rallying up support and informing the playerbase on the potential benefits and problems with this topic.if you have any other misinformation please feel free to share.yours,serious"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"i posted a new post on my blog, and am answering tons of questions over on scrapheap, see this thread -"
"here we have a member of the ally, found guilty in the most notorious exploit-usage in wormholes to date (particulary that bug with infinite turret range in magnetars). member of the ally, dreaming of all-wh domination, who will likely continue serving this ally as a csm member, with all his work there being first of all with the idea of his ally-corp, and only then of all the other wormhole dwellers.personally, i do not understand not only why he is here (criminals should not get to politics), but why he was not banned together with everyone else in his corp for that exploit usage."
"i personally am outraged about thisjust kidding i have no idea what you're talking about. a shame, really, there's probably all sorts of fun drama that like 4 people know about."
"4 people? description of what they were doing:"
"lynch 'em!"
"i actually talk about this a fair bit on my blog, we were punished by ccp. if you don't agree with that punishment, take it up with them.my intention is certainly not to just represent the interests of my corporation. for this election, the residents of 0.0 space have decided to run their own slates of candidates to try to control the csm agenda. i think the significant fraction of players that live in wormhole space also deserve some representation."
"so, honest question. any thoughts to the interaction as we noticed on shc between you and the other csm 6 candidate meissa? don't take it the wrong way, but your posts there were rather a case of backpedalling, but since that is shc and this is the eve forums maybe it is better here to give some insight into the whole exploit topic without things like this post there."
"well the official list is out and i am listed nicely in the middle.what is interesting is the number of new zealand candidates that are running this time. i should contact them and see what we have in common and organise drinks or something.what is also interesting is the number of 'i will represent your issues' candidates. buy this i mena candidates that have expressed \"only a desire' to represetn 'the eve players'. while i personally find this laudable, i think candidates should also have opinions on something why else would they be doing this? just my thoughts, would be interested to hear what you think."
"so back to afk cloaking. i would assume the problem is not people just leaving the pc cloaked for a few hours in a system. but people who go afk all day deliberately (probably with alts covering several systems) to be annoying while they go to work or whatever - not just afk, but afh (away from home) with no mouse clicks or anything. i know it irritates me. i'm surprised that if there isn't any activity on an account after 2 hours that the server doesn't boot them. surely its unnecessary load on the server?"
"1) logistics. apparently ccp think its too easy. its about time someone sat them down and made them do a logistics chain. see how easy they think it is when doing long boring freighter runs to keep 0.0 systems and markets stocked. i also would love to see the csm pushing for making ihubs and upgrades smaller to allow jf's to carry them. if ccp truely want small allainces to populate 0.0 then they need to change teh current mechanics which heavily favour the \"omg we love your tears\" griefer crowd who have no interest in sov but happily camp the empire/0.0 pipes.2) pos's. badly needs redoing completely. seperating from regular corp roles so there can be more security with private pos's. eg. pos roles not allowing global access to build slots etc. maybe even allaince roles reviewing to allow research pos's to be useful.3) pi/market. does eve seriously have enough market/industrialists to support a fully player driven market. given the huge spikes in pi goods. (specifically pos fuels) maybe an artifical cap of the npc sell orders would be in order. i also worry primarily about the market as eve's new chars will be hard pressed to get equipment if they all have to go to jita to get \"rare\" mods that no one else is interested in. eg reg t1 gear."
"i would agree here, people leaving to deal with 'real-life' is not an issue in my eyes (others might see it different). as for the afh, i can agree that it breaks my risk/reward concept of eve. i have always seen eve as a balance of risk/reward for all activities and the afk cloaking offers little to no risk for a large reward in disrupting your targets operations, hence my oposition to it. if it is someone there actively 'hunting' then that is different."
"1. although i'm probably biased, as i know you from cls, i'm quite sure you would do a great job were you to be chosen for csm.2. on planetary interaction - ccp needs desperately to simplify the way it currently works. i already have a job, and the complexity currently involved inpi is too much like another one. perhaps all the manipulation needed to make a final product could be done by entering values into a speadsheet ap, or by making choices on a few drop down lists, paying the isk, and supplying the modules to make it all happen. although pi is currently very lucrative, the time involvment is too high for a more casual player like myself, and probably many others who play eve for a bit of escape from the real headaches of the workaday world."
"knowing sj, i read this as questions about my stand on these issues. 1) 0.0 logistics is hard, time consuming and risky, even counting the changes of jump freighters and jump bridges and titan bridges there is still a large risk, thus alliances take large actions to reduce teh risks (blobing the freighter runs up and having large escort fleets), this in turn means the attacker has to bring more firepower to attack the logistics train, so the defender brings more defense ... rinse and repeat. all this does is add to the blob mentality. supply chain and the risk/reward in operating them is something ccp should be constantly monitoring. am i against jump bridges/titan bridges. no but i think the risk/reward level needs to be looked at to balance it with other logistics options. if these means introducing other logistics options then i am more than willing to try that and give feedback to ccp.2) agree completely. pos's are no longer the mainstay of holding a system, they are an industrial resource for mining and production and need to be rebalanced to align with this use. as for the interface adn genarl pos system i agree and have mentioned the 'flogging a dead horse' pos thread a number of times as something the csm should be taking to ccp.3) as a heavy investor in pi, i like theisk i am making, but i think we need more information about the uptake and use of pi. like mnufacturing to meet supply maybe we ned to allow those that are doing it to do more easier or make it easier for others to do to get them interested. this certainly needs looking at. i know that balance is unbalanced because i can make more on a time invested basis from my pi than i can from a time investment for mining minerals ... and that is not right. as for making it easier (to get more people doing it) i put a couple of suggestions into the 1000 papercuts thread, the primary one is allowing players to import and export to corp hangers from pi starports. a lot of time is spent collecting the output from the planets and then moving it round to secondary manufacturing points. i know personally if i could export it all to a corp hanger and then have a single character fly round and collect it then that would be much better."
"that's what i've done past years looking from the outside as for voting... it hasn't started yet"
"think prom is the only csm candidate that is running for more then a social circle jerk. i can't see someone who clearly puts so much time, effort, and emorage into solo pvp not being the best candidate."
"definitely an important voice in any csm discussions about rebalancing/tweaking the pvp aspect of eve. has the practical knowledge to see how any potential changes will affect things and the conviction to really force these issues. best of luck!"
"i like your focus on command ships. i maxed them and maxed fleet command, then they came out with tech iii. i agree they crafted tech iii such that it steps on too many tech ii toes and all the training that goes into tech ii ships. i thought the purpose of tech iii was to give adaptibility in one hull, not adaptibility and superiority to tech ii.also, it appears goons felt threatened enough by your views on combat mechanics and political devolution in the game to bring their propaganda attempts into your thread (although i could be wrong not having read many of the candidate platforms yet, and they may have done so for every non-goon candidate ). i also like how you answered them. we are going to need that on the next csm loaded with goon and nc most likely.i started out my voting process this time around with a bias against voting for any candidtate in a 0.0 powerbloc. but i'm impressed enough with your views and abilities to answer bull**** that i may vote for you anyway notwithstanding my bias."
"notsureifsrs.jpghaven't read your website cose, well its too friggin hard to read. are you serious? dark grey font on a black bg ?feels like a big troll to me."
"you shall have my vote"
"thanks a lot not t'amber.just to clarify one thing, during csm 4, there was still a term limit in place, and i wanted to absolutely be in csm 5 to have the chance for continuity on my efforts in csm 3 (the terms were 6 months then), so it was a case of either not running at all or run for an alternate seat (no limit on alternate seats). so i went with that and purposefully ran for an alternate seat for csm 4 so i could still participate in the debates and have a hands on approach, but without the iceland trips, which i knew from experience to still be an effective place to be."
"don't take this the wrong way, you're a leavel headed guy, and it is clear from the summit minutes that you can participate quite clearly. but, if elected, are you planning to participate in the meetings and in the general communications to us players more than before? i mean, you really give a strong impression that you just show up just before and after events, and for the rest you're completely invisible and often absent as well. if there's one lesson from csm 5 it is that constant, consistant and transparant communication is a must. in part for reasons of dealing with ccp (pressure management, see the example of the backlog and the hansoft case) but also in keeping players (voters) informed in general. there's more to life than just a convo or private talk, especially if the idea is to get a job well done.i'm sure you get where this comes from, it's just we rarely see anything from you - except just before and just after events. and well, that leaves gaps"
"valid concerns.tl;dr: yes, sorry, communication is part of the job, yes.first and foremost i wasn't a public personna before running for the first time, and have never been interested in being one. i didn't post much, i was more of a lurker. for none of the past elections was there more than minimal interest in my candidacy thread, and that's fine really. what i did was campaign on a more personal level, reach out to subgroups that have their own different forums, on which i post, or contact people directly, or have them contact me directly. those are the places where i communicated the most.for the rest, i don't think repeating what others have said to bring anything of value. chiming in \"me too\" just to get attention really isn't my style so i post only if i have something meaningful to add, defend a point of view that isn't represented or provide information/clarification when arguments are going on about things i know to be untrue, that kind of thing. posting isn't a hobby of mine, reading is, however.but yes, i've come to recognize lately that some expect me to be more active publicly. that seldom is well received however, because i insist on holding a moderate point of view, recognising both sides, and that usually irritates people who tend to have one sided views (cfr. the posts i had made about incarna). mynxee qualifies me as \"too diplomatic\", it's just my nature, i can't do dichotomy :pthat being said, once held, i defend positions tooth and nails.as for some of my absence mid last term, there's been a number of rl constraints that led to some absences, indeed. i won't elaborate on that here however. also, the periods that are not before/after meetings are usually slow, but yes, i'll be happy to say \"you're right, i have no excuse\". doesn't mean i was ignoring my responsibilities, the minutes of the iceland meetings don't say who said/did what (and that's a good thing), but i can assure you i was well prepared on all the subjects brought up, made significant points during discussions, etc, i post on the csm forums, in csm email correspondences, etc. all in line with my usual way, carefully thought, to the point and constructive.as far as your statement about communication, i agree that it requires constance and consistency, and i do believe it has had that, csm communication usually is precluded by a series of email about it, and i post my comments there to make sure csm messages represent my position. the last point on your comm list is transparency, that's one point where i'll beg to differ a bit. there's a clear advantage to being able to have discussions behind closed doors sometimes like on the internal csm forums, where we can have clear, unpoluted and civilized (mostly :p) discussions with devs are invaluable, yet they're not open... the outcome is transparent however...also, keep in mind communication is only half the job. the more important part is getting stuff done to talk about. that's where i shine..."
"c/c having a moderate delegate or two on the csm is not so bad; it does tend to tone down some of us who may tend to be a bit more *cough* stridently one-sided in our opinions. it's clear from working together on csm5 that you arrive at your opinions only after careful thought and examination of all angles. that was very helpful at summits, and also in one or two of our more \"energetic\" internal discussions.good luck in your bid for a csm6 seat."
"i think you are missing a point though, i appreciate the candid response either way.back in october last year, there was a lot of talk about pressure management as part of the instrumentation provided by most notably ccp's ceo. i can't take credit for coining that triangle of transparancy, consistancy & communication, but they are the foundation to any interaction between a company and an external stakeholder. but on two levels. within the interaction, and outside of that interaction - because there is more than the loop between the stakeholder and its host.the csm can communicate, even consistantly and transparantly with ccp as you say, behind closed doors. that is productive, and constructive, it is needed. but it is but one side of the coin, as without the pressure management instrumentation an external stakeholder has only the individual will of people in the host company as both validation and sanction. this is why smart companies put emphasis on providing an instrumentation of pressure management for the external stakeholder. ccp has done so.the example posted in mittens thread of the backlog issue, which was a case of vague statements and excuses (let's be honest) is a good example. it was not until the csm made the matter transparant to players by means of communiccating on it and engaging on the topic in a consistant manner. the topic being out there created a noticable pressue on its own, but once players picked up on it and one guy did the work himself, the pressure management case was complete. up to that point there had been personal appeal, argumentation, discussion, etc. but no results. once the pressure management was put in place, there were results. and that pressuree management was enabled through applying those 3 concepts to the interaction between the csm and players.maybe that clarifies it more. on that particular topic, the outcome was for a long, long time not transparent at all. until pressure management was applied. i trust you see the difference between this approach and that of \"hurf blruf fist on table\", which has nothing to do with pressure management whatsoever. on the contrary, ccp walked out of eve a long time ago because of it, the consequences of which we face today still. if there is one thing positive (of all of it) from csm 5 it is the visible efforts from zulu to rejoin the dynamic of eve once again, something which is significant in its own right for many reasons.at the end of the day, the one thing i hope to see in csm 6 is for that csm as a team to never shy away from applying the so very needed accountability in these things. not because of absence of trust in ccp, but because it is what works. and ccp can handle that well, after all that is exactly what their company values are about."
"i like theoretical considerations as much as the next home philosopher, but i'll try and keep the wording simple and not delve into side definition considerations, as the first instance of my reply was heavily into... ;-) so... first i don't agree with your assumption that that triangle (transparency, consist & comm) is be the \"foundation to any interaction between a company and an external stakeholder\". at least not the kind of transparency or communication we were talking about in the previous post (ccp->csm as opposed to csm->players or ccp->players). and \"consistency\" is frequently a synonym for \"immutability\". i expect someone i go the trouble of talking to to be able to change opinions in the face of sensible arguments, and therefore to be, by definition, inconsistent. i however people to be consistent in their engagements... bah, definitions... either way, i agree they are vital (in their amended form).i think the backlog issue getting resolved didn't happen the way you describe it, we requested it in csm 2 where we got told \"not a chance in hell\" (paraphrasing), csm 3 said maybe later for our own issues, csm 4 made csm a stakeholder, csm 5 made it clear we needed it, and we got it. saying it happened all of a sudden during csm 5 because of forum rage amounts to ignoring the contributions past csm have made in getting ccp to accept that idea in the first place. it didn't happen as a consequence of the people outrage and outcry, the public reaction was a symptom of our own continuous frustration, but there was a clear indication we were heading there even without the public manifestation of exasperation (i'm outside my country for work atm, i'll find the relevant sections of csm-ccp meetings later if you want).in that instance surely comm & transparency (ccp->csm) played important parts, but not transparency (csm->public). not that i'm saying it doesn't matter, it's extremely important, but it wasn't a cause here, rather it helped reinforce the public belief in the csm doing what was required to perform its (perceived) function as player representation and was therefore a correlation only.also, i do agree ccp zulu coming back (or rather, coming to the front) is a godsend in ccp following your magic triangle (not being sarcastic, just humour attempt). it is significant, it is welcome, and it is a very good sign. his predecessor barely bothered to show up during csm/ccp meetings, zulu is practically always there, bless the man.i expect indeed csm 6 to be able to keep putting pressure, and hopefully to cease being seen as hostile by some, but rather really a stake holder, in the pure sense of the word, someone to work with rather than fight against. we've made great progress on that front (with one high profile roadbumps, but heh). i just hope the elected members manage to keep their ego and sense of entitlement in rein, because there's lots of potential for that among the candidates..."
"not him, i hope to god i'm not that terrible at huge posts. his shc posts are usually right on the mark tho. even if they make everyone's eyes bleed with walls of text. it's not a theoretical consideration either way. no philosophy required :p it's a common concept in stakeholder/host interactions. it is a little bit different with ccp since they took the \"democratic\" angle, but yeah well i suppose it fits with eve as a sandbox where players drive the events. either way, no need to reinvent the wheel we can be happy that ccp acknowledged these things. i was part of the firaxis team for civ v, and that was a classic example of how not to run a stakeholder group for a software service product. we had the exact same issue you describe where consistancy becomes immutability, the result of which was the publisher interaction grinding to an immediate halt. the results of which are well, rather visible in civ v.as much as there has been an evolution of sorts, for csm as an experiment (unlike virt i don't think the first csm implementation was one of damage control on top of honest intentions) to end up growing into a useful instrument (but one which part of ccp seems to have serious trouble with) i don't think we can take it as a continuity case. while bits and pieces went from one to the next, each csm \"broke\" a chain, so to say. hence why i hope that from csm 5 to csm 6 that will not be the case.i agree with bartholomaeus on shc btw that csm 5 really did wake up ccp, in many ways. not so much along the lines of \"holy **** rage\" (tbh i saw more from csm 5 last year to keep \"rage\" constructive and directed than what i saw from ccp) but in a realisation among many that 1) ccp at a time moved away from the environment they created and 2) ccp had lost the understanding of applicable perspectives rather than pure metrics. but it is also clear that ccp got split in a way with csm. look at the difference between team gridlock and team incarna. not as people, but as cases of interaction.that's where i fear for csm 6. got to be honest there, csm 5 did (not through intention) highlight and show insight into a lot of causes of issues we players have had to deal with over the last few years. i've seen ccp for a fair few years now, and there is always a reaction against that. usually that of the cold shoulder, and often that of playing the party trumpet .. while neither gives any opening for getting anywhere other than the next awesome media show.which takes us back to pressure management. unlike barth and virt i do not think that ccp still are honest in their company values. i think they lost those when they went from medium sized company to a multi national distributed firm. but maybe i am wrong. but i would damn prefer to see people on the csm 6 who can constructively engage in pressure management. based on those 3 simple things, applied to both directions. simply because without that, we're back to square one with ccp. especially in the aftermath of what is going to be a struggle with wht sch calls \"team awesome\". that does not conflict with nda or facetime, it reinforces it.and that is why i asked you my original question. because well, you always seemed to drop out of sight. and where one person can reach for a convo, the common capsuleer userbase does depend on independant media these days for information and insight. maybe now it's fully clear"
"while obviously i believe that \"all your votes are belong to me\", if you have your heart set on meissa, then your vote will be well cast.meissa has a sharp mind and a detailed knowledge of eve. he defends his positions both well and fairly. we've disagreed about things, but those disagreements were never arguments, and were always productive.i hope we'll both have the opportunity to serve on csm6.good luck, meissa!"
"that mittens is a moron, but you're too much of a ***** to post that."
"i'm voting for mittani as this is internet spaceships and whats the worst that can happen?but one quick question for mittani.i have read a few of your tentonhammer articles and you assert dominion sov is broken.speaking as someone who has not really experienced sov battles or maintaining sov (except for a few weeks in (what was) initiative space).in what way is sov broken?"
"it is interesting your point of view about the csm elections.i agree that have been a lot of misconception about what the csm really is. like you said, it is not about getting me a hulk with more power or whatever.but everyone goes in the same direction: 0.0 space.i know for a fact that goonswarm is the big one in eve. i know you operate in 0.0.also, most of the candidates always focus on 0.0.for me that is frustrating. what if i don<U+FFFD>t want to play my gamestyle in low sec or 0.0?should i be happy about whats going on in high sec? no.more and more ccp gets more content, more 0.0 stuff. what about the rest?stop the content for a while, balance the game, fix the bugs!this is what i think everyone, not only the candidates should do.im so tired of listen people talking about 0.0. pvp is not only in 0.0 you know?bad boys kill us in 0.0 with big guns and big ships and we the no-0.0 guys kill you in high sec in the market, in manufacturing and so on.but for the regular player that dont even have a feel for pvp (im one) i prefer to play at my pace doing what i like. the problem is the game have also it<U+FFFD>s problems in high sec. be that the economy that is not balanced, the bugs, and many other problems. sure, eve is a better place that it was like 3 years ago when i started. don<U+FFFD>t take me wrong please, but i<U+FFFD>m tired of listen to people talking only about 0.0 and what<U+FFFD>s going on in low sec or wh space. (in fact i do like wh).there are many things for a high sec player that should be improved but it seams no one talks about it. when some new stuff gets developed by ccp, about 70% of a update is stuff about 0.0.missions sux for example, they are unbalanced and most of the times the rewards sux. sure, i know in 0.0 things get more rewarding, i dont want to mine jaspet in 0.9 ! i understand very well the risk=reward ratio and i agree with it. for a noob the game is almost impossible to learn unless you get some help. the interface is very confusing, and you get lost searching for info.i got a couple of friends that are really \"nerds\" about gaming and every single of them had problems learning the game.sure i admit, the eve is complex, but do really the way a player interacts with the game need to be so complex too?it<U+FFFD>s almost impossible for a relative new player to venture into low sec with out having a huge corp to back it up. like it is almost impossible a med sized corp to conquer anything in 0.0 because years of playing made the big ones king there. goonswarm included ;) (not that is all bad).i think if you really talk from the heart, and it seams to me you are, you understand many aspects of my point of view.don<U+FFFD>t intend this as a critic to you, your corp or alliance, this is a general critical about my view of the game and of course, to short since this is not the place.if you can assure that you kick ccp ass providing good and honest feedback to them about us (the player base) you have my vote.just remember you, and everyone, there is more then 0.0 space and more then a sound bug.best regards and fly safe,kar"
"i have a pretty good relationship with the ccp staff i've met over the years, though usually it's in the context of \"let's go get completely ****ed up\" rather than \"you are a dev and i am going to hump your leg about spaceships.\" i think you may be mistaking my pledge to be a manipulative bastard to be a promise to bang my shoe on a podium and throw a tantrum, which wouldn't be particularly cunning, manipulative, or bastard-y. this is something that cropped up earlier in the thread, as well; you can zealously represent the playerbase without antagonizing your ccp interlocutors needlessly."
"mittens gets an ork votefix it big man!"
"christ, don't even get me started. the dominion system was intended to have two halves to its features; the idea was that you would cut out the old pos-war mechanic with the ihub/tcu/sbu system on the one hand, and increase the population density of 0.0 with upgrades and an automated treaty system on the other. the treaty system was there to help larger alliances shelter and develop smaller alliances, either through rent or tribute or whatever. it had a locational standings system (blue in this constellation and this pipe, neutral elsewhere) as well as an automated payment collection setup. when dominion was released, the entire treaty feature was thrown into the gulag of the backlog, never to be seen again. this meant that you had the 'solidify power' segments of dominion invoked - upgrades, sbu system, ihubs etc - without the mechanic to get new alliances started in nullsec. power has solidified and with the exception of bort there's no real new blood in nullsec, it's just us same old grizzled great warriors hanging out on jabber pursuing ancient grudges. actually there's not even grudges to fuel us, it's a lot of hon and lol and wot. :/also, while i'm not a game designer and the csm is explicitly not for game designer wannabes, people don't really enjoy the sov system much. alliances lose their sov when they cascade through other means, usually griefing, not because of heads-up conquest. that's because the structure shots are just so utterly boring ughin the pre-dominion system, goonswarm at its peak held 10 regions. even though pos-war was a pain, it was fairly entertaining and you could enjoy conquest for its own sake. in dominion there's not much impetus for serious conquest just because it's so boring. goonswarm holds one region, half of which is given to our allies at any given moment, plus some jump bridges down to fountain. we have a 'tight' sov footprint, and while that's probably better for the game than us owning half the galaxy like we used to, it's highly unlikely that we'll lose deklein, ever. also, supercapitals should die a lot more. death to supercapitals. they enhance the 'dominion sucks' experience and they have a tremendous lag-wake due to fighterbombers and god knows what else. ugh. :words:"
"i snipped some of your post so i can have some room to reply. while i am the leader of a nullsec bloc, i am not a 'nullsec only' candidate. there are a scandalous number of features lost in ccp's backlog, and only a tiny proportion have anything to do with nullsec. there's an even greater number of proposals the csm has approved that are in an separate backlog. ccp comes up with ideas, implements half of them and drops the other half by patch time.csm upvotes player issues, a tiny proportion get implemented, the rest languish. these are the two vectors by which the backlog grows. so yes - i'm from a nullsec bloc. i lead one. i know a lot about nullsec, even though i am secretly a big pve guy (i wish eve had pve half as fun as wow, so i could actually have fun in this game when not at war/murdering people in pvp/dying in pvp). why should you care about my candidacy?because i'm not promising to add features to the backlog. i'm not saying 'hey, i can do xyz for you, empire guy'! instead, i'm going to try to make the csm into a more effective advocate, to get the things lost in the shadows from csm1->csm5 addressed - and a ton of those features and player proposals impact your game, if you're in empire, or in lowsec. they've already been approved by popular acclamation; they're just rotting, wasting away. ugh. anyway, that's the poop."
"i don't like goons. i don't trust goons.that said you have done a fine job returning goons to nullsec.your organizing abilities are proven.it will make me sick to my stomach if i vote for you. questiondo you believe that forming an coalition between alliances be like a wardec and be paid for. i've read posts on this subject and was wondering if you had any thoughts on this.i like to see more work done on the ui hud. pi and the bounty system. keep up with the bug fixes and lag issues.good luck in the voting.rhed (gbc)"
"i support this product and/or service"
"how would that be enforced, exactly? if two alliances informally agree to not shoot each other, are ccp supposed to sneak a gm into teamspeak to monitor which targets are being called?"
"oh well.if im falling for a trap, might as well fall for the most obvious one."
"i'm willing to vote for mitts, but there's a 300 mill isk pre-vote security deposit, he'll get it back right after the election.please send 300mill per vote (up to 5) to this character, thanks."
"they're all in the same backlog, which is just a hansoft database. in that database, csm items are tagged so that they can be identified as csm items and so that it is easier to do a query for all csm items in the backlog to produce a working list of what has not yet been selected for implementation.related to that, a useful effort by csm 6 would be to identify backlogged csm items that have become obsolete due to eve's evolution. there are likely to be at least a few such items in there. ccp doesn't seem to do any focused weeding out of items. however, it is possible that teams who are reviewing the backlog to identify stories to propose during sprint planning could notice obsolete csm items (now that they are finally identifiable as csm items!) and bring them to the csm's attention. but at the end of the day, this is a task that the csm should probably do as a \"special project\", maybe every other term. would require working from a list provided by csm advocates, since csm does not have even read access to the backlog (although that has been requested via our advocates and directly to ccp oveur in the october meeting)."
"why would it matter if the items are obscure or not? ccp obviously isn't working on it as it is.gotta walk in stations guyswalkinstations"
"i would imagine he wants people to have to pay upkeep for blue standings, in which case red would become the new blue. if it cost to have standings at all, then all of the northern coalition alliances would simply disband and their corporations join morsus mihi (and if population numbers mandated, morsus mihi 2, morsus mihi 3, etc). the problem with trying to get players to suffer a negative thing is that players affected by the new negative thing will do their best to avoid it."
"as i understand it, the backlog is a \"living list\" of stories (in the agile meaning of \"story\") that is constantly referenced, added to, updated, and re-prioritized during each development cycle. so, it's not exactly accurate to say that ccp isn't working on the backlog. items from the backlog inform each development cycle. problem is, the stories that players may desire to get some attention don't always manage to bubble to the top and get assigned to a sprint team. still, csm5 had some real successes in getting ccp to implement a number of backlogged csm items. we wrote a devblog about that and there have been other backlogged csm items implemented since then as well."
"sure why not, got a vote incoming from me."
"if you're not voting for the mittani than you're voting for the terrorists!"
"the mittani has my vote.none of these internet space-ship pixels are real, it's a game. games are about fun. this dude makes me laugh. players is what makes this game fun. clicking on a target and pressing \"f1\" and waiting till it asplodes - is like microwaving baked potatoes - boring... this guy adds tin-foil.question for you mittani - who would you like to see on the csm with you?"
"i'm glad he \"makes you laugh\". you should already know the people he wants to be on the csm with him as he's orchestrated the whole block voting process with them already ya big dufus!enjoy your 'freedom'. such a rebel!"
"i believe he might just have a list."
"i love all the political ignoramuses who think that a vote for mittens is a vote against the 'system'. really fills your heart with hope for the future of the world when people are that easily duped."
"would you like to tell us how the csm came to its existence? please detail the events leading up to the formation of the first csm. seriouspost."
"thanks for the reply.best of luck with helping to *fix* eve"
"dude its a game 0_0fake edit: double posting like a boss"
"dear mr sokratesz,\"spoongate\" has nothing to do with my negative perceptions of your capabilities; only your direct actions (or lack thereof, for that matter) have any bearing on my decision to firmly say \"not a chance in hell\" and shout just so from the tallest amarrian spires."
"based on your campaign message, you are one of my top five favorite candidates. congratulations! =precently, ive focused heavily on trading and processing pi commodities in and around jita. this has been very lucrative for me, increasing my net worth from 100m to 1100m in just two months. it is a very complex and financially risky way of making money, and i have a massive excel spreadsheet dedicated to it, but i am beginning to master the art of jita trade. coming from world of warcraft, i absolutely love eves free market system and intuitive market interface, but there is a key element of my moneymaking that i find absolutely horrible: the planetary interaction interface itself.ccp made a couple important improvements with incursion, but almost nothing to aid people like myself who overlook harvesting completely and focus on processing what others have harvested and have put on the market. with 123 advanced industry facilities and 24 launchpads on my six planets in sobaseki, switching schematics and routes to account for shifts in the market can take upwards of 3000 clicks, when it could feasibly be programmed to take a tenth of that (excluding any clicks outside of the pi interface). on top of that, i have to wait ten seconds each time i wish to import or export from each of my launchpads (a feature intended to prevent lag, i assume), which may only make it take about seven minutes longer than it should, but is still a headache. there are other, less important grievances i have with pi (cant view the contents of planetary customs offices without being in the same system, etc.), but i feel like ive ranted long enough.and so my question to you is this: do you share my feelings about further pi reform being absolutely critical to the economic and industrial aspects of the game, and, if elected, will you lobby ccp on behalf of me and all the other planetary industrialists in new eden?"
"and we didn't do it for that reason in the past, but the rumour sure is persistent ;pthere have been several proposals originating from the community that dealt with 'the clickfest' and to my knowledge we approved them all. we were under the impression that there was some iterating going to be done there but recently it's been pushed to the background a bit with all the incarna rabble, so it needs a status update. if fanfest does not show signs of improvement, it's time for some action because this is a returning concern.'absolutely crititcal' - not sure if i agree there but it definitely was a nice a ddition that just needs some more development to become mature. it also has the potential of giving 'more power to the little man', if ccp finally decide to do something about moongoo."
"it was more of a funny poke then a jab i wish ya luck sok."
"thought so ;) thanks!"
"not exactly. looks like just one pi proposal that csm5 raised and voted on. granted it was an omnibus which collected together a bunch of pi-related ideas from players. is pi iteration something you will specifically pursue during csm6 and if so, how will you go about that?"
"well yes it was just one proposal (my initial statement wasnt entirely correct), but if you look here:"
"thank you for your support. thanks! i'm enjoying the process so far.well, i'm not on the csm at the moment. however, i agree that communications can be improved, particularly coming from ccp. it's #3 on my list of goals i'm going to pursue with them, in fact.on the csm side, teadaze has done a great job keeping up the csm database, particularly the meeting minutes. if i'm elected, that's a job i'm willing to continue, and i'm willing to host that database during csm6's term. tea, treb, and mynxee also kept blogs during their term (though semi-infrequently updated), and if i'm elected, that will be something else that i'll be doing is regularly and frequently blogging regularly about goings-on. and as i've already stated, i'll run regular player round-tables to gather player input on csm topics.i track mineral values pretty religiously because of what i do industry-wise in the game. the qens are a good source of info about the causes of market fluctuations, though i tend to think that the qens represent one person's opinion about those causes rather than actual facts, sometimes. i do think players should have had more input into the drone alloys nerf and the mission loot nerf -- that second one, especially. as a former l4 mission runner, it's something that i would have pressed ccp on pretty closely.this is a great question. you're right that alpha (volley) damage is playing a huge role in eve right now. if we continue to see alpha tactics being used to overcome logi, moving the armor rep cycle to the top of the cycle rather than the bottom would probably be a good idea.these are all really good questions. keep 'em coming."
"i don't believe most people relize just what a time commitment a csm is.are your able to make these time commitments?how much time will you be spending on the csm?also i would like to say you are one of the better runners as you have a real undestanding of what goes on. your short post however fails to encapsulate your platform and i sugest people actually read that."
"you're absolutely right. the summits in iceland get a lot of press, but the csm does a ton of work in between on their internal forums with ccp, at the monthly meetings, and keeping eve players aware of their activities. in talking with mynxee, she has told me to do a proper job as a csm delegate requires 5-6 hours per week of work. i'm willing to commit that time (and probably a bit more, if i pick up the responsibility for keeping up the csm database from teadaze, something i'm willing to do).thanks for your support. people are interested can read the posts tagged \"jester\" on my blog that cover my positions and opinions on the game. there are 12 such posts as of today, so it's a good spread of material. the critical ones are also linked on the right side of the page, under \"csm6 candidacy\"."
"in an easy week :) it can go way up when prepping for a summit, addressing a special issue that requires a lot of discussion (and possibly research), or writing official csm blogs and minutes. but of course, that depends on how much you choose to participate in such activities. i have every confidence that you will be a substantial contributor. let's hope that csm6 has a bigger ratio of such contributors rather than delegates whose participation in csm \"group work\" amounts to nothing more than \"yeah, looks fine\"."
"cyerus earns the blue rogues' vote! part-time pirate trading carebear receives vote! +1"
"based on your campaign message, you are one of my top five favorite candidates. congratulations! =precently, ive focused heavily on trading and processing pi commodities in and around jita. this has been very lucrative for me, increasing my net worth from 100m to 1100m in just two months. it is a very complex and financially risky way of making money, and i have a massive excel spreadsheet dedicated to it, but i am beginning to master the art of jita trade. coming from world of warcraft, i absolutely love eves free market system and intuitive market interface, but there is a key element of my moneymaking that i find absolutely horrible: the planetary interaction interface itself.ccp made a couple important improvements with incursion, but almost nothing to aid people like myself who overlook harvesting completely and focus on processing what others have harvested and have put on the market. with 123 advanced industry facilities and 24 launchpads on my six planets in sobaseki, switching schematics and routes to account for shifts in the market can take upwards of 3000 clicks, when it could feasibly be programmed to take a tenth of that (excluding any clicks outside of the pi interface). on top of that, i have to wait ten seconds each time i wish to import or export from each of my launchpads (a feature intended to prevent lag, i assume), which may only make it take about seven minutes longer than it should, but is still a headache. there are other, less important grievances i have with pi (cant view the contents of planetary customs offices without being in the same system, etc.), but i feel like ive ranted long enough.and so my question to you is this: do you share my feelings about further pi reform being absolutely critical to the economic and industrial aspects of the game, and, if elected, will you lobby ccp on behalf of me and all the other planetary industrialists in new eden?"
"based on your campaign message, you are one of my top five favorite candidates. congratulations! =precently, ive focused heavily on trading and processing pi commodities in and around jita. this has been very lucrative for me, increasing my net worth from 100m to 1100m in just two months. it is a very complex and financially risky way of making money, and i have a massive excel spreadsheet dedicated to it, but i am beginning to master the art of jita trade. coming from world of warcraft, i absolutely love eves free market system and intuitive market interface, but there is a key element of my moneymaking that i find absolutely horrible: the planetary interaction interface itself.ccp made a couple important improvements with incursion, but almost nothing to aid people like myself who overlook harvesting completely and focus on processing what others have harvested and have put on the market. with 123 advanced industry facilities and 24 launchpads on my six planets in sobaseki, switching schematics and routes to account for shifts in the market can take upwards of 3000 clicks, when it could feasibly be programmed to take a tenth of that (excluding any clicks outside of the pi interface). on top of that, i have to wait ten seconds each time i wish to import or export from each of my launchpads (a feature intended to prevent lag, i assume), which may only make it take about seven minutes longer than it should, but is still a headache. there are other, less important grievances i have with pi (cant view the contents of planetary customs offices without being in the same system, etc.), but i feel like ive ranted long enough.and so my question to you is this: do you share my feelings about further pi reform being absolutely critical to the economic and industrial aspects of the game, and, if elected, will you lobby ccp on behalf of me and all the other planetary industrialists in new eden?"
"no, just that popular support is one factor in the filtering process that eventually results in something getting added to the csm backlog. and let's be honest, a backlog item without significant support from players is just going to lie there and rot -- especially now that the prioritization crowdsourcing is giving ccp some metrics on what changes the players want the most.also, csms are elected to represent the players, so we should be responsive to player concerns. we can't very well complain about ccp not engaging with csm if we're not willing to drink our own kool-aid, and in my case, that means a lot of time monitoring threads, occasional posts in them asking questions or making suggestions, helping players format proposals, and so on."
"i have been toying with pi since its introduction, so i share your concerns. in fact, one of the significant proposals i raised during csm5 was the planetary interaction omnibus proposal, which was aimed at giving ccp some feedback to help them with the iteration of pi.i see no reason why another proposal can't be put together, and even improved by a little prioritization (in other words, a pi version of the ui low hanging fruit proposal). and there's no need to wait until csm6 takes office, btw.with respect to the rerouting clickfest, i think it would not be hard to generate significant player support for some sort of \"autoroute\" feature, where you can specify what kind of products (p0,p1,etc) a storage pin provides and accepts. then reconfiguring your production would be a matter of just changing the schematics, filling up the source storage pins, and telling the installation to rebuild its routes.as for the import/export delays, it can't hurt to ask ccp if these can be relaxed. now that they have more experience with pi load factors, it may be something that can be revisited.finally, it was suggested to me by another player that i create a thread for gathering science & industry micro-tweak ideas, similar to the one i've been running in missions & complexes for the last few weeks. i've done that, and you should consider posting the import/export delays change there, as it would seem to fit right in."
"as far as i know, this man has the biggest credit for making the csm believable, and deserves a place in csm6. probably, as far as public perception is concerned, trebor could be thought of one of the founding father of the csm, and his name will shine along other stars in the history of online gaming (i can continue, trebor, but this will cost you some isk. otherwise you can take this as a \"captatio benevolentiae\").i get to the point: have you ever considered a different approach about the nullsec problem? you can't defend yourself if you don't put up a blob. what's the problem? the blob or the fact that you can't defend yourself otherwise?usually we think that the blob is the problem, and the natural solution would involve some measures to nerf the ability to form blobs. but if i were able to defend my structures otherwise, i would not need to put up a blob. potentially, i would even be able to say \"screw you\" to my blues far far away, because i would not need them. the central point is, anyway, achieving security of my stuff in space in a non conventional way. semi - invisibility based on chance would be one, there could be others. if i am reasonably sure that my structures can run for at least 4 days, giving me a net profit even if they are destroyed afterwards, i will use them. i have a dream: a nullsec map covered by the colors of alliances that control sovereignty stuff, outposts, poses and moon goo, and a guerrilla/smuggling parallel underworld living on small semi-invisible installations, whose survivability is bound to invisibility and chance. some possible consequences:nullsec life would be less empire-like, but at the same time population would increase;regular sov holders alliances will fight their internal enemy on a daily basis, while their sovereignty, poses and outposts are safe; smugglers and small entities would be able to survive, even if with some difficulties;of course there are some things that should change (possibly local chat, to reduce visibility to the smugglers/guerrillas, possibly pi should be allowed for everybody), others must be created (pi warfare, new semi-invisible installations) while other things will remain the same (jbs, outposts, moon mining substantially should remain sov holders prerogatives).here i exposed you my most up to date toughts on nullsec. what do you think?"
"having put most of my net worth into the lottery, i can offer only a meagre 1 isk per word; but 2 isk/word if it's good latin.with respect to your nullsec ideas, i think that, as with any plan that involves big changes, it will have to attract significant support in the community and survive a lot of hard debate before it even has a chance of attracting any attention from the devs, particularly in light of the \"players don't do game design\" philosophy of some at ccp."
"i like the way you talk."
"the secondary issues you speak of are high on the list of things many csm candidates want to address. the key thing to communicate them convincingly, and even that is subject to the whims of ccp's resource allocation. as for the 'united front' causing things to be forgotten, you needn't be worried. this wouldn't be the first time the csm has shown a united front. members of all past csm terms have come together to present a united front on many issues. it's not a novel concept. the only time when i can see it being an issue is if it were to involve a group mindset of not caring about communicating with the community at large (not just some group of constituents in corp/alliance forums). that is something that i will help make sure doesn't happen."
"cearain,i love a good 'rant' as you put it. :) the thing is i can't be all things to all players in terms of expertise; what i can be is someone that listens to players concerns and expresses them very effectively to ccp.championing small gang/solo pvp is not news, many want it. ccp knows they want it, but other priorities, set long before csm5 was in office and probably extending past csm6's term, to be honest, affect how much the message will resonate with ccp. think back to the june summit when it was clear incarna was getting the lion's share of development resources. hopefully after incarna 1.0 rolls out, there will be more dev resources available to look at some of these play style concerns like small gang/solo pvp.i'm not going to bull**** folks and promise you unicorns and fairies. what i can promise is to keep bringing these kind of issues up that are widely wanted and well supported by players. more importantly, i want to encourage more regular and substantive communication from ccp about their plans (there's that word again!) for that play style (among others) and how they want to address it in general terms."
"what are your views on the new supercarriers and fighterbombers? do you see any problem with how far they were buffed offensively?"
"of course i see problems. i already touched on this previously and i'll quote part of what i said again:with the exception of one minor tweak to fighter bomber damage to sub capital targets, the entire mess has remained untouched for over a year. by 'mess' i'm not just talking about supercaps but dominion as a whole. it's a half finished mess, and saying 'half' is polite. no tweaking, no iteration, no balancing. no treaties, no 'motherships', no lo-sec expansion of the sov system... but, hey, we can shoot at fleets of sansha ships now?my 'views' are that it's all tied in together, it's pretty ****ed up and i hope to have the opportunity to work with a group of people on the csm that feel the same. somehow, i think whoever gets elected will have similar thoughts."
"a couple of quick ones, before i take time to fully read your blog and articles:1) destructible outposts - yes or no?2) local chat channel in 0.0 - remove, delay or leave it like it is?you are already on my shortlist, being an ex dev, just need to know the answers to these questions. since those are the two most important topics for me, if you agree with my views on those subjects i'll dedicate some time to reading what else you have to offer. thanks for your time."
"this is something i can actually give an informed answer to. without massive changes to the eve code base (as in a complete re-write) the actual destruction of outposts isn't something that you're going to see. the more practical reason for this is a scenario like what if a player comes back from fighting cancer for six months only to discover that all his stuff is gone?the answer to this is something that has been tossed back and forth for years and the seeds for which were really planted back in las vegas in 2009 - wreckable stations. the idea is that after a station exits it's final reinforcement timer, you would have the option to either capture it or blow it to hell. after a nice, micheal bay-ish explosion, you'd be left with a wreck, much like the one normal ships leave. the wrecked station would have all services disabled save one - undocking. if you were already in there when it blew, you somehow luckily found a broom closet to hide yourself and your stuff in. maybe some of it got shaken up and damaged. you can undock, but that's it. hopefully you stuffed a freighter into your broom closet.the option would also exist for 'someone' to rebuild the station by simply dropping a similar egg next to it and filling it with magic pixie dust, etc... then after dt, yay, station is rebuilt.this idea was one of several planned features that should have been in dominion or iterated into the new sov system afterward. it is a prime example of why the sov system was changed from the evolutionary dead end that it was to something that could actually be iterated on. treaties and wreckable stations are things that have been publicly discussed by ccp on multiple occasions and are just parts of what's laying on the cutting room floor.your question assumes that there should be some kind of 'blanket' mechanic for this in sovereign space, which i do not believe there should be. i would much rather put the power in the hands of the players by iterating onto the sov system with intel management tools. it's your system, you are paying the stargate maintenance fees and such; you should be able to develop a proper infrastructure that lends to how day to day life in your space works. if you don't like random people ****ting up your local during a major fight, shut it down (for a time). if you prefer delayed local over local that is always on, tell the comm relay people working in the stargates to turn the dials down a bit.the choices should be yours, the players, as much as possible. if you can fit a ship in eve, why not fit a star system with the features you see fit and pay for? there is endless potential for iteration on these concepts."
"exellent campaign, i'll toss a vote your way"
"bump for a good candidate."
"looking forward to see what you'll be able to do from the other side of the fence."
"at this point i think you are the best candidate seleene. i think you have the right ideas and i share your vision for how to best encourage ccp to fix the game of eve we know and love. consequentially you'll have my votes! good luck."
"i like the cut of your jib. you've got my 2 votes."
"so, question. i read on shc that you were a part of the design team that gave us w-space. well, cheers i guess, that was a really nice thing to add to eve. but i am curious, do you have any thoughts as to building on w-space as a game niche? i mean, we all remember how faction warfare went down the drain, and while the qen shows that w-space has grown a little bit, it still remains well, a small niche. a fun one though."
"i don't really believe in those sorry"
"this is an excellent idea. i, for one, love fish sticks and enjoy having them in my mouth."
"vote for draco!"
"vote for draco as we need to get the eye of thundera back from iceland!"
"i support this product and/or service.also confirming im ghey"
"confirming that draco llasa is the voice of reason the csm needs."
"first off thanks for the question.1. for example, what metric do you use to conclude that a lack of ccp assigned goals is a problem?a. for an action to be fun there has to be a point. you go to 0.0 to get access to the best minerals (heh) the best ratting, the ability to build or conquer outposts so you can have a little piece of eve with your name on it. there's a reason to go there and engage in combat that somebody, somewhere, wants to fight you to have. this creates conflict which is the lifes blood of the game. you can't say the same about lowsec however. you can't take outposts, the ratting is ****ty, and if you were inclined to mine you'd be wasting your time trying to mine there. lowsec ends up being a place to go if you aren't big enough to take space and you don't want to be somebody's vassal or if you have no interest in the goals 0.0 provide and want to hopefully find something to fight. there are no goals however, there's no point. this needs to be fixed for both lowsec, and for nullsec as well as if you aren't a large power bloc you don't have access to the majority of the goals that 0.0 provides.2. how would you know when the problem was fixed?a. when there is a point. when people want to go to lowsec/nullsec and have achievable goals that can't just be one upped by a much bigger force of people stomping them down. no i'm not saying small groups should be able to beat large groups in fleet fight, i'm saying there needs to be goals where having a large group provides you no great advantage over a talented small group. that element of the game needs a lot of attention."
"hello jita park denizens. this is my official announcement about my candidacy in the csm. i am running for csm this year because, like most other candidates-believe i can bring a balanced viewpoint to the table. after 6 years of gameplay i have done most everything the game has to offer. like many-i started by mining and progressed to missioning, dedspace complexes, pvp, pirating, trading, ganking, and manufacturing. i would like to see fixes to current content as well as balancing and of course, new content. all of these pale in comparison to my number one interest: removal of bots and rmt accounts. ccp has ways to detect these cheaters and yet they persist. why? if we cannot get them out of game at least we should expect a definitive answer as to why not. bots and rmt accounts are ruining eve for everyone. you might not think they affect you-but the truth is that they impact every aspect of eve. take my assurances that it is my #1 priority. currently in game i am diplomat for the brick squad alliance, battleclinics rated #49th place alliance. i am a member of interstellar-exodus ranked #21 in corp rankings from battleclinic. for the month of february my corp, although only ranked #21-got more kills than any other corporation in eve. we work hard and play harder. we are fighting the drf and allies in 0.0 space. we are allied with the northern coalition. my personal stats on battleclinic are rank 2,201 with 4,449 kills and 1010 losses. kill point total 13,695 and 6,960 loss point total. if you see me in a combat ship in 0.0-expect me to engage without reservation or regards to number in your or my fleet. i have lost almost 40 billion isk worth of my own personal ships, and expect that total to rise. many of you may know me from some of my posts on these forums. i have over 100,000 reads total for my posts-and yes many of them were trolls. i have enjoyed trolling and many readers have enjoyed these trolls themselves. below are some links if anyone is interested. on the record- i promise not to use my position (if elected) to troll the eve community. the following video is my official campaign video depicting my approach to ccp. in the video i represent the monkey and ccp is represented by the goat. the video is only 1:23 long-but pretty much sums up my whole campaign and my approach to the election."
"i like darius"
"i like bots, i make billions of isk a week. why would you want to remove them?!/fistpump"
"i know darius. i love darius. bump because, if elected, hes gonna smash the back out of that bird from the ccp videos."
"first let me say i find your site quite all right, and actually looks quite like that other one given as an example of a good site.second, i agree of your stance on \"unified voice\". i think it's the very reason why the csm is more than just one person.third, it is because at this time that you seem to be the only candidate to make sure the rp-ers perspective and side of things isn't overlooked that you will probably get my vote.still, i would like to know more about what you think the biggest issues for rp-ers and immersion are in eve."
"as a minmatar, i don't expect to vote for you. so what will you do for minmatar communities to get their votes ?"
"shipmates, my candidate profile is complete. i know you are all anxiously waiting to vote."
"roc the vote!"
"i was kind of surprised that you didn't have anything written about rp. because i think rp-ers are people that are hardly represented in the csm i was kinda disappointed to see you hardly mention it. i'm going to assume that you will probably overlook the rp side of things as much as almost any other candidate.i might yet change my mind if you write about your view on rp in eve: what is good, what is bad, what is ugly...otherwise i'm left to voting for the one candidate that actually knows rp-ers exist and wants to represent them and improve their experience too. please... give me a choice..."
"hello"
"krutoj for csm.the guy is extremely knowledgeable about the game and is in a constant struggle with ccp to get stuff fixed. he'll **** them off until they have to do something.<3"
"support from a 130 man corp renting russian space. :)"
"\"vote for me or you can no longer bot in the drone regions\""
"bots dont care, actual players' income got nerfed. bots farm belts, not 10/10"
"i don't see why you bother making this thread... why not just change the botting software so that they auto-vote for you?"
"hahaha, you funny..."
"a couple of questions, if you don't mind:1) what's your stance towards local chat channel in 0.0? should it be removed, delayed or stay like it is?2) destructible outposts - for or against?3) will this include continued fight for af's fourth bonus?4) will this include fixing nighthawk's slot layout and power grid issues?(all questions have already been presented to the previous csms. i want to see your position.)those are just a few questions that really matters to me. it would be great if you took a minute or two to elaborate your stance towards those issues. thanks for your time."
"no thank you for some questions (it almost feels as if people are afraid to ask me any).1) i dont feel like it should be changed, as it is now its fine, people still catch raters and i think that changing local might turn 0.0 into a complete bubbled ***gotry, simply because as it is now, few people place bubbles to protect from roamers, but with delayed local, everybody will be using them. and i dont really think thats what people want. and in low sec, am trying to get people to rat in it, return to it, not to have them get ganked with no ability at times to tell if there is a hostile in local. this would only benefit one small portion of people. probably people like me, who dont rat, dont and can just roam anywhere and any time. normal people need time to make isk and to roam and if they cant safely gain isk, they might not even play the game.2) ccp's stance on it is that a lot of old subscribers stuff is in those stations. i know that you can have that stuff transfered away or something, but some are still in the alliances that own those stations and ccp wont take the risks to implement such a feature. i think it could be great and on top of that allowing up to 2-3 stations per system, cost wise it will be like killing a supercarrier. but i just know ccp wont go for it, we can try ofcourse, this is what partly csm all about ;)3) i find af's fine, i fly caldari ones though, though worm vs af has af's at a disadvantage in a way. it will simply come down to numbers of people interested in that and the worry of af's replacing interceptors somehow as well. my stance on that however, leave it at that, they are being used for running 2/10 and small roaming.4) nighthawks could use some loving at least the powergrid issue needs addressing for sure imho. slot layout is by caldari standards though."
"phrasing this as neutrally as possible; it's a serious question.many of your renters are known botters. as such, your alliance derives significant income from botting and you have a vested interest in its continuation. why should anyone believe that you will not go out of your way to hinder or derail any anti-botting measure that might be proposed by the csm or ccp?edit: and a follow-up question. lowsec is more densely populated than 0.0 or w-space and also more violent, in terms of kills per head of population. on what basis do you say it's broken and in need of fixing, as opposed to just not offering gameplay that you personally enjoy?"
"i am sorry i find it very hard to vote for someone who is part of the leadership of alliance which is infested with rmt activities on large scale which have been documented on eve related forums. it is such scale that it is hard to imagine how that same leadership would not be at least partly involved in those activities. to put it quite openly if you would get elected i would consider it as an obvious and utter slap in the face to eve community itself who is disguisted by rmt as a whole because, your ticket would be payed by ccp or actually by us, honest players of eve.07"
"for those who trying to blame krutoj for rmt, i just want to remind you that if he would be caught at this activities, he would probably be banned and couldn't be a csm candidate. so if he is not banned and running here - your charges are groundless. i'm pretty sure ccp's internal security can handle to check a 4 years history of a csm candidate when he applies to the csm. so, stfu or get a proof and petition it."
"to be honest, this whole \"calling someone rmter\" deal is fishy. i'm used to politicians that win a certain number of parliament seats not because they have a program or any idea what they should do when they get in there, but they get votes just because they point at other candidates/parties and blabber about how bad they are and what nasty things they have done in the past (without any proof ofc). i always wondered who will fall for that trick, but in the end they still have their seats in the parliament.that's why it's best to ask direct questions about candidate's program. things that matters to you the most.so far, i'm very satisfied with his answers to my direct questions."
"to be honest you should post with your main, not some alt you made yesterday if you're going to throw around such baseless accusations as krutoj being an rmt lord, which is bull****."
"while i do respect you and uaxdeath krutoj i want to raise a couple of issues for example:"
"maybe things are better on the other side of geminate. where do i sign up? >.>"
"just google 'eve macro bots'. easy for krutoj and co. those guys give so much to this game."
"i would gauge the failure of changes based on how it fixed the problems it was originally faced and whether more problems were created as a result of these changes. in the example of bounty hunting i would gauge the failure on whether or not there is an increase in the number of pilots that act as bounty hunters in eve and not a significant change in the number of pirates. if there is an increase in bounty hunters but most of the pirates stop being pirates then the system in not balanced and overpowered for the bounty hunters. while there would definitely be more elements i would go into this would be how i would gather my first impression. if it is a mechanic that does not effect my normal play i would look to the forums because when something is wrong there tends to be a lot of people complaining about it and that would give me sense to at least look at the problems.it is important to know that i never talked about it being a success. this is important because saying that it is a success implies to an extent that nothing is wrong. i think this about any change in eve as some change may ruin another mechanic and not be seen for years. it is by no means a criticism of ccp it is definitely more an analysis of a game that will be perpetually getting new content and fixes that may cause substantial and possibly unforeseen conflicts for other mechanics."
"i wholeheartedly support manalapan!i have been saying for years that eve is a virtual space suited to predatory play more than any other, and manalapan and friends have shown via killboards and metagaming that they get it, and they are pros!back when wired interviewed me"
"null sec power bloc tears best tears.arden has my votesand my axe"
"i have an issie with arden. he says that they(ccp) have only been improving the game play for the pve side of the game,but hi've only seen him taking full advantage of the pve side and seems he only hangs in high sec and goes after the young and much less experienced players. to me arden and many other ninjas are like high school kids that that go play basketball with 5th graders,then brag when they beat the crap out of them. not only does he prey on the 5th graders and beat the crap out of them,then he turns around and says they should play by high school rules. my question is arden. why don't you go to the high school(low or null space) and play with the other high school kids? the 5th graders(younger eve players) will be to the high school eventually. you gets no more respect from me as a 2 year old eve player beating players well under half your age,than i would give a 22 year old kid and respect for beating a 10 year old in a sport. the point is why would anyone vote for a bully that only picks on the younger and smaller kids,go play with the people your own age and earn some real respect!!!!!!!!"
"first off, paragraphs please.in any case, thank you for illustrating what most of the people i shoot down act like.everyone plays the game they want to, in their way. if you enjoy getting blobbed all the time or blobbing up yourself, then please by all means go to nullsec.the thing is, we enjoy doing what we do, and we're good at it. i've tried nullsec (i have a -10 sec status alt there called ekusu kariba), but to be honest, i enjoy tearing up stuff in highsec. the rules are fundamentally different, and when hunting, you have to know what you're doing. comparing high, low and null to each other is an exercise in futility, they're just so different from each other.that said, i do wish to point out that most of us go after just about anyone. it doesn't matter how old their characters are, if we get the chance, we take them down, period. we don't aim after age specifically, but after stupidity and carelessness of others.sure, we play it dirty, but whoever said eve is fair needs to get his sanity checked."
"i couldn't even consider using the tactic of confusing people to vote for me, that would simply be dishonest no conflict whatsoever. none of the games i've published or even been involved with have any competition with eve.tinfoil hat spotted!"
"based on your campaign message, you are one of my top five favorite candidates. congratulations! =precently, ive focused heavily on trading and processing pi commodities in and around jita. this has been very lucrative for me, increasing my net worth from 100m to 1100m in just two months. it is a very complex and financially risky way of making money, and i have a massive excel spreadsheet dedicated to it, but i am beginning to master the art of jita trade. coming from world of warcraft, i absolutely love eves free market system and intuitive market interface, but there is a key element of my moneymaking that i find absolutely horrible: the planetary interaction interface itself.ccp made a couple important improvements with incursion, but almost nothing to aid people like myself who overlook harvesting completely and focus on processing what others have harvested and have put on the market. with 123 advanced industry facilities and 24 launchpads on my six planets in sobaseki, switching schematics and routes to account for shifts in the market can take upwards of 3000 clicks, when it could feasibly be programmed to take a tenth of that (excluding any clicks outside of the pi interface). on top of that, i have to wait ten seconds each time i wish to import or export from each of my launchpads (a feature intended to prevent lag, i assume), which may only make it take about seven minutes longer than it should, but is still a headache. there are other, less important grievances i have with pi (cant view the contents of planetary customs offices without being in the same system, etc.), but i feel like ive ranted long enough.and so my question to you is this: do you share my feelings about further pi reform being absolutely critical to the economic and industrial aspects of the game, and, if elected, will you lobby ccp on behalf of me and all the other planetary industrialists in new eden?"
"you forget that if he is elected he doesnt have any power of change apart from the ability to give his yea or nea vote on any changes ccp put forth to the csm. csm does not give ccp ideas, they are just a sounding board for ccp's ideas.aside from all that, you seem like a decent bloke with a good perspective on how things run - apart from the above mentioned areas - and will probably get my vote."
"key word was meant to be \"lobbying,\" assuming you're addressing me. the way i understand it, csm is supposed to bring the concerns of players to ccp, give feedback on ccp's potential fixes, and help to prioritize said fixes."
"i feel your pain. my experience pi is that when i tried it i found it so horrendously click intensive for the return that you get that i haven't done any since. my corp does a lot of pi and the feedback i get is that while it can be profitable, it is a chore.to me this is poor design - both in terms of game and interface design. i quite like sid meier's definition of a game, which is \"a series of interesting choices\". pi has that, but unfortunately it's wrapped up in a long-winded and tiring implementation that it's just not fun or even particularly productive.so to directly answer your question, what i will push via csm is the steamlining of anything that requires large amounts clicking, pi included. more specifically, anything that has a high click to decision ratio - each decision you make should be able to be communicated to the game with a minimum of commands/clicks.and in response to decus - yes the power of the csm is largely limited to a sounding board for ccp. however it is the voice we have (and a lot more than a lot of other gaming communities get), so i intend to make the most of the influence we have as players (those who are at the coal face as it were) to help ccp make good design choices and avoid disasters."
"and you forget proposals made by csm members and voted by csm members =[as you were"
"best man for the job"
"backtrace supports white tree."
"white tree support is best support.i support white tree."
"queen boxxy and all of anonymous is behind white tree. if you dont vote for white tree. we will know. we are everywhere. we are anonymous. we are legion. we do not forgive. we do not forget."
"based on your campaign message, you are one of my top five favorite candidates. congratulations! =precently, ive focused heavily on trading and processing pi commodities in and around jita. this has been very lucrative for me, increasing my net worth from 100m to 1100m in just two months. it is a very complex and financially risky way of making money, and i have a massive excel spreadsheet dedicated to it, but i am beginning to master the art of jita trade. coming from world of warcraft, i absolutely love eves free market system and intuitive market interface, but there is a key element of my moneymaking that i find absolutely horrible: the planetary interaction interface itself.ccp made a couple important improvements with incursion, but almost nothing to aid people like myself who overlook harvesting completely and focus on processing what others have harvested and have put on the market. with 123 advanced industry facilities and 24 launchpads on my six planets in sobaseki, switching schematics and routes to account for shifts in the market can take upwards of 3000 clicks, when it could feasibly be programmed to take a tenth of that (excluding any clicks outside of the pi interface). on top of that, i have to wait ten seconds each time i wish to import or export from each of my launchpads (a feature intended to prevent lag, i assume), which may only make it take about seven minutes longer than it should, but is still a headache. there are other, less important grievances i have with pi (cant view the contents of planetary customs offices without being in the same system, etc.), but i feel like ive ranted long enough.and so my question to you is this: do you share my feelings about further pi reform being absolutely critical to the economic and industrial aspects of the game, and, if elected, will you lobby ccp on behalf of me and all the other planetary industrialists in new eden?"
"why is this thread not two pages yet ? everyone else seems to be at two pages except you. please hurry things along."
"i think it is because kalrand had another 3 page thread in md so posts have been divided.but this post should push him onto a second page here."
"good stuff, you get my votescrew the bitter eve veteran trollers here!"
"i wasn't sure if i would vote for kalrand as he had not yet reached page two for this thread. i can now officially feel confident in voting as this has been remedied. send kalrand to iceland! also +1 for skills in making your avatar look exactly like you. it's uncanny."
"i swear to god i hit \"random\" a few times and went \"holy****ing****\" and went with it."
"i'm waiting to see how the pi reform related to the change in resource extraction shakes through the pi economy before proposing any new changes.but beyond that, i'm a bit perplexed why your factory planets have so many launchpads. factory planets tend to be cpu constrained, and not grid constrained, so try switching out some launchpads for silos. part of your problem is that it sounds like you have your planets set for the highest effort setup possible.you're really the first person i know who complains about the effort of factory planets, so i think you might be doing something wrong here."
"i'll go one by one and try to expound on the thinking behind each point, i'll pull the bot point.in all honesty, this is less of a direct economic point, and more of a secondary one. by providing more end game content to smaller bands of players, it will increase their demand on the market for ships and supplies. consumption is the underlying engine which drives the eve economy, and giving players what they want forces them to consume to get to that point. people want their small to mid size corporations to be able to notch out their little piece of the galaxy. good.the orca is a wildly popular ship for high sec logistics, but it currently has little applicable use in 0.0 or lowsec space. it also has a single-use skill attached to it, that could easily have the level v part of the skill unlock a t2 version of the ship. we have a popular ship, a relatively unused skill, and a need for more mid-sized logistics ships. this seems like a no-brainer for something that can be added to the game and give people what they want.as anyone who has ever lived in a wormhole will tell you, not being able to switch out their t3 subsystems severely hampers the usefulness of these ships on extended trips through w-space. i also don't see why a small corp that is living, mining, and otherwise spending their time on a long deployment to w-space can't build and fit the very t3 ships that can only be made out there.one common theme that i have is that there is a large jump from group play in high-sec to that of null sec. what is needed are steps that a group can journey up together to increase their coordination, ability to work in teams, and secondarily force them to consume more to move up in the game. this particular point would be a good first step to take a band of other-wise mission runners and give them something to do together. if l5's became a mini-incursion that took the resources of a small corporation to complete, it would encourage players to band together for a new reason. this will, in turn, create a niche for smaller corps to fill, and give them the ability to grow their skills.t2 battleships have extremely niche rolls,either in 0.0 logistics or in high end l4 mission running. they're some of the least piloted ships in the game, when they are also the end game of the t2 production and invention chain. giving them a better defined role would increase the demand for them, leading to an initial price spike, but an eventual leveling of prices as the supply curve rose to accommodate the demand. in blunt terms, we have something useless in the game now, why not fix it?"
"the noctis being implemented with such fanfare shows that players both like new content, and there is a niche to be filled by a salvaging ship. taking that a step further by adding salvaging drones would add new content to the game and increase the ability of salvaging to be a profession.the supply of technetium in the game is far below the demand for technetium even at this point, and this has been going for months. also, the fact that tech is only found in one small region of 0.0 means that it has been controlled by a relatively few people for this entire time. at a minimum the \"in demand\" moon mineral(s) should be spread out evenly through 0.0 space, beyond that, technetium was a r32 level moon mineral, and the r64 ones were designed to be the \"rare\" moon minerals. the moon product composition of t2 components needs to be refactored again. hopefully this time someone does the math like several people in market discussions did, and prevents any one area, or any one mineral, from having such a dominant effect on the entire eve economy.as i stated before in my answer about the level 5 missions and small corps in 0.0, these two points would be another example of a steps that a small to mid size corporation can take, as a group, as they move deeper into multiplayer pvp. these are early points where their actions could have consequences on their area in the game, but not be as severe as they would be in 0.0 space. this would hopefully push people deeper into the political and pvp aspects of the game, and would be too small for the current \"superblocks\" to care about."
"thank you to everyone so far who have sent me mails, in-game and out. just finished the last one."
"please visit your user settings to re-enable images.vote for me \o/"
"hi there,i've read your point of view on 0.0, low/hi-sec but i'm curious about your thoughts on ccp's vision of making eve 'the ultimate spacegame', meaning the introduction of incarna, dust 514 and other features that depart from the 'internet spaceship' style that defined eve to this day. how is your take on this?best regards,mcvain"
"i look forward to incarna: i honestly think if it's done right, it could be a fantastic part of eve.but i will definitely, as a csm member, oppose to anythink making incarna \"mandatory\": i think no one should be forced to step outside his pod in any way to have access to existing features.many capsuleers just don't want to leave their pod, and i completely understand them. no single feature available in game at the moment should force them to do so.i think the \"captain quarter\" will be great, but it is already forcing people too much, i would really act with the whole csm to try to convince ccp this is really bad idea.incarna should, in my opinion, be a magnificent expansion making anyone willing to step outside their pod, but it shouldn't force them to do so in any way."
"as a self-described empire and lowsec dweller, can you explain how your lack of experience with these issues will help any discussion you might have, particularly jump brides?"
"jump brides, i don't know :)i have no personal experience with these mechanisms (well, cap projection, a little), but i know they are an important matter right now for 0.0, and that's why i mentioned them.i will never pretend to have some experience i haven't, but i will be able to look at it from the outside, while 0.0 players are too focused on the way they use it right now and the fact they don't want to lose their advantages.i honestly believe a fresh look on these issues could bring a lot to the csm."
"so your idea of not being biased is nerfing sov upgrades and putting more incursions in high sec? also what is wrong with level 5 missions? they seem to make good iskies of those who will mission in low sec instead of highsec."
"i don't ask for a sov upgrade \"nerf\", but for a new repartition of resources in 0.0.sov upgrades just bring more money to people who already have it, and encourage 0.0 alliances to ground themselves in some overly protected systems, giving too much advantages to defender and preventing from real 0.0 epic wars.and the fact that they bring more natural resources with upgrades is just dumb and illogical : 0.0 have immense resources because it's far from populated areas and it is not \"farmed\" much. sov upgrade are against this and imbalance the game greatly.incursion are about sanshas trying to enslave populations. why are (most of the)/(the most powerful) incursions aimed towards the less populated systems then ? nonsense.0.0 incursions are not even completed if they don't threaten some big alliance headquarter, while hi-sec incursions are completed far too fast: incursions aren't a threat to hi-sec at all right now, while according to the trailer they should (and it would be so much better to see sansha ships really attacking people everywhere in a system).lvl5 missions are not rewarding enough when you look at the risks, in my opinion. compare it to 0.0 or incursion in hi-sec or 0.0."
"i'll do a \"question\" \"quick answer\" with"
"hi,i like 3rd party apps, but i don't understand you seem to be saying \"if you like 3rd party apps, vote for me\" i'd like you to go into more details on how you can improve the 3rd party app universe by being on the csm?what plans and.or suggestions will you be putting forward?"
"peter powers and the 3rd party developers have my vote. =) thanks for all your work!"
"i like hearing opinion from people who dont know how to fit supercapitals and use white noise **** fits instead. top notch.please list your supercapital character(s). thanks"
"pssst: \"closer\" :-)3rd party developpers usually already benefit from a more direct line to developers through the forum, the number of posts by devs answering technical questions is higher than in other subforums...not saying yours isn't a valid position, the csm has already made efforts to increase the information available, improve the api, some of those efforts as recent as the last december summit (check the minutes).i have a question for you: considering that the vast majority of the time spent on the csm is spent talking about things other than one's pet issue, what is your background when it comes to things other than 3rd party applications.good luck with your campaignmeissa"
"he has my vote!"
"actually its more through the chat than through the forums,but talking to the developers does not put one in a position to talk to the guys who decide about the time the developers get to spend on certain things.i am fully aware of that, but i believe this can still be improve.you can read about my background at my campaign site, if you have more specific questions, well just ask :)"
"if your a dev doing 3rd party tools peter powers is your man to speak your voice..and he has done some awesome cool stuff for finfleet so he have my votethanks again peter for your work."
"peter has my vote for sure!i work with him here n there when doing things for (evsco/eve-kill.net). he's a quality guy & is really good with the things he does. not gonna go into detail but had the pleasure of talking to him 1 on 1 about my life as we know everyone has a crappy life so to speak. he's helped me out a grate deal & i'm glad to of met him. if it wasn't for eve i most likely never would of met him either so for him to wanna help the community in anyway he can then thats awesome!.peter 4 csm!"
"this thread is and has always been about nc want to control all csm seats because they dont like the idea that ccp might remove jump bridges and will encourage pvp, please stay on topic."
"if that logic was true, you'd be a genius (maybe a bigger genius than kanye west!) since you think of goonies and northern coalition as a bunch of idiots. but good thing it's not true and you like to play up fantasies in your head. please keep writing more terrible conspiracy theories for me and other people to read here or there. everyone knows how terrible you are anyways."
"trying to keep the nc and their allies from getting their voices heard?? are you serious? as leaked on many forums and even confirmed by mittens he and his allies have made a very deliberate ploy to take control of the csm. not just to be represented on it.i have made it extremely clear that this is the core issue for me. i put myself forward for this election primarily to raise awareness of the blatant attempt of the nc / goons to gain in game advantage by monopolising the csm and the access that their non-disclosure agreements will give them.i'm under no illusions here. i very little chance of being heard over the sheer numbers of nc / goon members, and i've always recognised that fact. the alliances i'm trying to expose have tens of thousands of votes that they can call in at the drop of a hat. however i shall continue to use this platform to try to alert the community to the fact that they're sleepwalking into genuinely game-breaking situation.how can it possibly be good for the game if one group of alliances controls all the major assets in game, will have advance notice of game changes through the nda (which they will use to consolidate their in-game monopoly), and will be the primary mouthpiece for the players?"
"well my posts have been good enough for you to dedicate 100% of your lifetime posting energy into replying.actually i'm bored of that riff. new challengers please!"
"you have my vote k2 o7"
"i've voted for vuk long before i knew anything about morsus mihi, let alone considering to join it. it wasn't about which block he belongs to, it was about the program that he offered as a candidate. since you claim that you are going to continue his and elven's work, that will be enough for my vote."
"as a fellow aussie you have mine vote!!!"
"i can say with upmost certainty that i have maintained, and will continue to maintain, a zero tolerance when it comes to macros. there are no exceptions to this rule. my belief is that incarna should be focused on fixing the real issues (e.g. macros, lag) that we've wanted for so long now, not implementing new functionality such as captain's quarters in stations. there is only so much csm representatives can do, as they do not have the authority to dictate what is implemented in the game. what i will do as a csm representative is serve as a check to ccp. everytime they talk about new functionality, i will remind them of the backlog and that there are real issues, more important issues, that need their desperate attention."
"bonus points if you do it in \"are we there yet\" style."
"i played with k2 for a couple of years, and tbh he's wasting too much time playing so i believe he would do great as a csm member..:)"
"goodluck!hope you get enough votes to get the pos changes and all those other good idea's to ccp's attention."
"dude you sound like a gangstar, but you are white, so why?"
"reykjav<U+FFFD>k works on eve, shanghai does dust 514."
"lol no"
"dust is scrapped that's why. they've dropped the ludicrous idea of competing on the console fps market. now if people like you stop posting questions about it, it can just start slowly fading away in time with the rest of ccp delusional ideas."
"source please when did dust514 get scrapped. besides the highest priority has always been world of darkness"
"hmmmm... i can only imagine you guys have been living under a rock for the last 18 months, or you're just in a state of complete denial.about a year ago, dust was all ccp talked about. but after some pretty negative reaction from the eve community, and the reaction by the csm to the incarna plans, it's hardly been mentioned in the last 6 months. it's almost like it was a media blackout.then, the live dev blog on 24th jan 2011, this accidently slipped out.ccp omen:ccp soundwaveccp omen, being asked about a specific new feature:ccp soundwave:link to logsstill waiting to hear what the csm candidates have to say about this."
"lol"
"you are a bad poster and you should feel bad."
"lot's of out-of-context quotes does not make for an argument...we already know they got at least one team working dust link plus the shanghai office doing the game itself, and that's likely to increase once they get closer to release. but what are you suggesting csm do about it?ccp can't change that now after such a heavy investment, no more than they could drop or delay incarna due to wod."
"i'm sure your constructive attitude goes a long way in making you a quality and popular candidate."
"please explain which quote is out of context.i thought the csm was to represent the players, not ccp's commercial interests (they already have people that do that). i don't see much popular demand for the dust link, and certainly not enough to make it a higher priority than \"flying-in-space\".more focus on eve development is what i want to see the csm champion. it's a little bizarre that some people find that so wrong."
"really? you rather be pets than renters? and you call it fair play? what the hell dude, my renters have more rights in my alliance than you. oh sorry, your ex pet alliances (rage and irc).plus you gonna judge renting alliances for giving people that said chance to experience and make money in 0.0? do you know what kind of work is involved and how many people are happy that there is that option? your platform is either a big troll or a joke."
"i am going to add my voice to the dissent to your post.i am not in this for a free trip to iceland, fo rme it is not a simple flight. it would involve 36-44 hours of travel from leaving my door to getting to the hotel and then the same on return. it sucks, but i am willing to do it for a game i love.nor am i interested in getting hired by ccp. as seleene has said 'been there done that'.what the csm needs is a group of people representing the whole of the eve players that can understand their common goals, accept differences and still work as a team.how do you think ccp will react if all the members of the csm are from goonswarm and the nc or similar 0.0 blocks. they will be able to say, this is not an accurate representation of our player base, we do not need to listen to them. and that is one thing i never wish the csm to become. the work of the previous csm members, especially, csm5 members has been outstanding in building the relevance of the csm as a resource for ccp to make use of.that could easily be destroyed by a badly select csm built for 1 reason. now do not get me wrong i agree with a number of points from the mittani, the csm does have to work together, they have to be united, but this does not hinge on him being the chairman, if he gets to be the chairman and builds a csm team then congratulations to him, but i also think there are other people that could do the job just as well. vile rat has valid points about the state of 0.0 warfare, i agree with most of his points, i do not agree with some of his fix recommendations, but that does not mean that, if i was on the csm, i (as a non 0.0 player) would not support him to get the issues fixed (the actual solution comes down to ccp). i would support any issue the csm as a whole brings to ccp to have resolved.eve is such a complex game that no part of it can be said to live in 'isolation', changes in any part of the game are going to have ripple effects in all other parts, it is trying to understand these and make sure that they are thought about and if they will be a negative impact, then dealing with them before they become an issue. a cross-sectional csm is going to be better able to work as a team to do this kind of thought process than a single 'faction'.so agree on unified front from the csm, but strongly disagree that it all needs to be from 0.0."
"your forum posts say otherwise m8 =/"
"lol. i have worked for ccp before, great bunch of people. very cool company to work for, if you want to work in the computer gaming industry i can not recommend ccp highly enough as an employer and as a group of people.but personally, while i enjoyed the experience, i am not looking to return to iceland fulltime. i rather like my current job in nz and am settled and really do not want to move 1/2 way across the world again. :)"
"so, why should i vote for you? what is it that you personally plan to bring to the csm process, other than a (very) concise version of mittani's mission statement?hal."
"clearly old boy has fell of his rocker.sad thing is this has been the best topic on the coad for weeks.well,,,, in before lock."
"only thing i see wrong with this is that he accidentally has goon. and nc as two separate entities..."
"you probably unironically think everything in the op is true."
"there are a few things that are true in this game which i actually find humorous yet sad as well:botting is ruining the game as we all know, yet:a) because the majority of the active player base are nc sheep, they wouldnt do anything to disrupt leaderships activities.b) ceos in most of the large alliances directly benefit from botting so there is no incentive for them to stop it.c) most believe that ccp benefits as well and therefore wont simply remove local which would crash botting.there is obviously more to the topic but the simple fact is that ways in which we all made isk over the years are no longer an option because the return is not worth the amount of time spent doing it when youre competing with an army of bots.the politics of eve 0.0 are just a bunch of old vets keeping each others bot kingdoms safe. sure they throw in a couple wars here and there but we all know thats just a distraction to keep the sheep busy.if i was running my only ticket point would be to get rid of local. i might think of a few more but thats probably the one that would change the game the most and for the better at this point. all the other **** people cry about is just background noise. supercap proliferation, jump bridge networks circling 0.0, and just about all the other stuff people make up to be issues in 0.0 would be solved once local is gone.i say if the nc wants to take over csm let them. the only thing they have done for eve so far is **** it up with giant sheep and botting farms. i say why not shine the light on them so we can all sit back and listen to how they plan to clean up the mess they have made.0.0 was always supposed to be the most dangerous place to live in evenow its the safest place to live.."
"moved from caod"
"awww, look at that. poor old windybutt still trying to look relevant in eve online. i think his meds need adjusting to get his rabid paranoia under control."
"the only bit i got wrong was saying that the spin doctors would be slick, and the smear campaigns 'organised'."
"i for one am interested in how the internet goldfish fit into the market model.i personally would like to know how much a clown fish will go for."
"in all honesty, crap like fishtanks in your captain's quarters seems like perfect stuff for ccp to focus their efforts on micro-plex in game purchases. they've made it clear that they intend to start doing those things, and something innocuous like this might be the right outlet.it's the perfect example of something that has no effect on the game economy, won't change a player's performance, and people might like. why not? hopefully they don't need to jam five developers on it for months at a time."
"you seem to be implying that such a feature, if implemented, would have to be entirely isolated from in-game items of worth, such as lootable fish upgrades and items that could be bought and sold for isk.please elaborate or clarify your stance on this issue."
"not only is this not implied, but actually the opposite of the implications pertaining to what he suggested. plex aren't separate from the in-game economy. why would \"micro-plex\" items be? the use of that phrase says it all. </readingcomprehension>"
"i'm making the broad assumption that the decorations in your captains quarters don't give you some kind of a buff while piloting your ship. lootable fish upgrades seems quite silly, but could replace the stupid useless loot that drops on some missions now. being tradeable for isk itself isn't a problem, being a substitute good for something already in the game would be. anything that can be bough or sold using plex or whatever mechanic ccp comes up with to separate people from the contents of their wallet should have no effect on their abilities in game when it comes to their interaction with the large game.if people want to log in to stare at a fish tank, then good for them."
"[csm6] dreipniir : fresh meatq: are you doing this for a free trip to iceland ?a: hell yea! all the free snow you can eat and volcanoes trying to kill you, who wouldnt want that ?who am i in eve ?i actually think i have been around since the start, ofcourse i have had my ups and downs and battles against the never ending \"learning curve of doom\".but until this point ive seen pretty much all of what is to be seen. it is a huge universe, but a very narrow path.ive been both victorious in my goals and had my share of epic failures, ive tried the high sec \"carebear\" life massing my wealth by missions and trade and ive spent parts of my futuristic life in 0.0 trying to make your life suck even more. ( cmon, who doesnt love those explotions, and the feeling of blowing up 1.5 bill of someones ratting tengu? )who am i irl ?my name is per steng<U+FFFD>rd, im 27 years old and im freezing my ass off in sweden.i can<U+FFFD>t say that i have eny fancy pants game designer skills but what i can say is that i might have a fresh mind about things, my real work is actually being a saddlemaker/leather crafter, so i work to create new things most of my time and also too see that it gets 100% perfect..i have also tried alot of different games during my mmo years and ive seen most of em fail for the same reason....content.so to get to the point.goals during csm 6 ?first of all im not going to promise you enything else then my hard work to try and make a difference.csm is a sounding board, not somewhere we can demand change, its just a polite request.so, most games ive followed thrue the years all go down the same road, when the players start questioning the content, the game creators starts creating new content, new expanions.sadly leaving all the old content and areas untouched and unfinished.what deserves most? pve or pvp ? my point is that both sides needs to be fixed, as all other games the player base is balanced between the two, for pvp, yes ship balancing ofcourse, all ships should be vital to a fleet, at this point its all drake blobs or the \"fotm\" maelstroms. wheres the love for all the ships? in pve... doing the same missions all over and over or afk mining or whatever you want to do, it needs to be adressed .there is alot of questions to be answered, and over a forum like this its insane to even try, im open for ideas, im open for conflicts.im sick of seeing eve fall into the same deep hole that all others are.why wont they fix what they allready have ?ccp has one hell of a game but they need to slow down, and look back at what they have.fix the existing content before implementing more.sure incursions was a nifty idea, but can the systems handle it ?live events ? awesome!.....200 or more pilots in same system and it goes down the drain.fleet fights.. it would go faster doing the fighting in paint <.<to end it, all i say is fix what you have, dont leave it lying in a dark corner.vote for me ! -dreipniir"
"agreed that ccp needs to turn their car around and see whats in their tracks"
"\"death - is only way out\"on the serious note, 0.0 is bleeding right now due to numerous amount of problems and bugs, not even mentioning the lag. we have to try to fix it or at least bring this to ccp attention. so here i`m stood up for it. many of you may or may not like me. but it will not change my path. i`ll not go into details, as i stated before its a numerous amount of problems, starting with1) claim, claim warfare2) corporation management3) ships balancing4) rtm and botting. 5) citizens management and applications6) lags7) pvp warfare it selfand that list is endless. i cant promise you, that all this will be fixed - if i say so - it would be a lie!! what i can promise is that i gonna fight hard to get this stuff into their ears."
"death sounds scary"
"eve is a dark place"
"ironic coming from you"
"enlighten us all how many citizen alliance have u made and controlled?"
"if that is his official blog, then i'm sorry, but i can't support anyone who thinks that aoe weapons are a good idea (like old titan dd)."
"uaxdeath what do you mean claim cliam warfare? ps can you make an english version of your blog?"
"my goals for csm-6i make this list as some point that i would like to introduce to ccp. some of this proposal is suggestion from my corp. mates and mine. i'm opened to hear yours and i would fight for it.* fix old feature content* i would like to introduce an upgrade to the autopilot. i suggest a warping distance to the gate as 5000 m; this would help to short the time to approach to the gate making it little more secure to pilot to jump.* i suggest a new feature to the fleets, making it more fearless. give the power to the boss of the fleet to be able of cloak the ships (3 to 5) if each pilot has the skill of cloaking.* make as a choice if pilots want pvp in high sec. meaning we can keep the security for other pilots that don't want to do it.* make the wh able to stay open for more time.i want to hear from you, let me know what else i can do for you, i'm open to other suggestions.my web"
"hello everyone,i'm tinak genry (aaron m pollyea) and i want to represent everyone on the csm.what qualifies me? i have a background in astrophysics and the python programming language. while i'm an american, i can also speak russian (to a limited extent) and love interacting with people from across the world. i know when to listen and when to speak up.i've been a pvper and a pveer. i've been a low-sec pirate and an industrialist. i've been a mercenary and an explorer. i think i have seen eve from most players perspectives at one time or another and i can understand many frustrations as well as positive aspects of each one of those areas.i'm an ideas person. i constantly see things in real life or in eve that make me ask myself, \"wouldn't it great if...\" or even, \"i think i can make this better.\" some of my ideas are out of the box, some of my ideas are more main stream. some i'm sure would be popular and some wouldn't be well received.but my ideas aren't what's important here.yours are.i want to hear from everyone about what we can do to improve the game that we all love and hate at times. i want to discuss, with anyone willing to take the time, my ideas or their ideas about what is important.i feel i can represent more than just 0.0 where i am currently enjoying my time. i feel i can represent low-sec and high-sec interests as well. all of eve can be improved, not just one section of space, mine or any other. while i may have ideas or opinions that i think are great for each region of eve, i'm not above changing those opinions if a better one comes along. i like to listen and debate the pros and cons of things. i want to make sure that what decisions that the csm comes to are the best we can make. i want to make sure that you as players (as well as myself as a player) feel like we really strive for the betterment of all.as for specific planks of my candidacy:1. deal with the bot problem. we all spend time and money on eve. it's an investment in many ways. bots reduce the value of honest players investment by increasing the isk amount and material amount entering the market making those of us that work for it receive less of a return.2. make low-sec more appealing to all. pirates, industrialists, and mission runners alike. this means making a carrot and a stick for each group. shake things up. don't make it immensely more profitable, make it more interesting.3. make eve more varied and interesting. day in and out mission runners see the same npcs when doing a specific mission. 0.0 pilots see the same belt rats and exploration sites. low-sec pirates see the same gate guns and station gun response over and over. this makes people become stagnant in their thinking. lets shake it up! make things more dynamic across eve. make people have to think again even when doing angel extravaganza for the 30th time, or when they start to do a sanctum in 0.0.i have an amazing amount of ideas and a large amount of passion for our game and the people that are in it.feel free to contact me with specific questions, i will answer as quickly as i can.thank you for reading this.in game: tinak genryout of game: aaron m pollyea"
"technetium and neodymium, two moon minerals in two very geographically specific regions, own them and you own the game. you make so much money from them that your pvp players effectively fly for free. an outsider in empire can't compete with that. they never have to take a break because the money flows so easily. the south, where it and atlas and aaa and init have been is rather poor. alliances there don't have the income to compete because technetium is a northern region mineral.coalitions between empire's can't be broken by just taking away standings so to fix nullsec the rest of nullsec should be made worth more.vote ms pacman"
"the anti-kartel csm* balance nullsec by making all of nullsec worth more (technetium/neodymium)* jumpbridges can only be used by own alliance* making it much harder to maintain coalitions of alliances(in nullsec only own alliance will appear blue)* the termination of renterspace as it is today* the elminination of powerblocks/ vacuums* a fair chance to empire corporations/ alliances to settle in 0.0 space* a stop to the mafia extortion of paying for space (an avg. of 140,- / $190.- worth in plex/ isk to pay (rent) a month to the superpowers in order to be able to obtain a few systems in nullsec) <br> this has to be stopped, and if needed, by a change in the eula.* see my page at evelopedia for more information * fair play! more challenge! * if deep in your heart you feel i'm right then don't vote for your alliance this time but vote for me!"
"ccp navigator once said:"
"if it became an eula violation for alliances to rent space, then you would see one of two things happen. either the existing superpowers would kick all of their renters out of their rented space (probably by force, so they could smash and grab some assets); or, the existing superpowers would absorb their renters into their own alliance and still charge them rent via arrangements made via out-of-game communication (which is not much different from now). but then what about the blatant eula violation, you ask? couldn't the disgruntled joe citizen just petition the evil alliance overlord? yes, he could. and then he and his corporation (or block of corporations that came from the same renter alliance) would be kicked from the superpower alliance. the aforementioned smash and grab would probably occur.the problem with your ideas is that there is no feasible way to reasonably enforce any of them. any sort of social construct that is disallowed by the eula could be circumvented entirely by using out-of-game chat programs, email or forums to communicate the arrangements. the out-of-game rules posted for every alliance would include (if they don't already) that the number one rule is a zero-tolerance rule for screwing over anyone else in the alliance with the inclusion of filing petitions. this is a rule for goonswarm, and i can't imagine that it's not (or wouldn't become, in the hypothetical you present) one for the other large alliances."
"it's not expected that a csm will come up with the genius solution for all problems but it will be good to have a csm within csm-6 that will trigger ccp and stimulate them to work on a better solution.the game can get a lot better for everyone and much more challenging."
"the fact that ccp navigator stated this in a forum thread does not say it is no longer an issue for the csm.that's exactly one important reason why ccp implemented the council of stellar management!"
"not on a demographic identity. why would ccp go out of its way to introduce non-platform bias?"
"because it's difficult to give stats on platforms.also, since most of the time spent in meetings is spent talking about things that are not a part of your \"platform\", as such you want to elect people who have well rounded knowledge of all things, not people who know just the one thing and stay silent the rest of the time, or spout nonsense. and how do you assess that?meissa anunthiel, csm 2, 3, 4, 5."
"you don't assess it through irrelevant demographics. ask yourself how each of those points impacts on \"knowing things\". then ask yourself which ones even relate to \"knowledge\" of the game.for good measure, why not help ccp complete the list and give them your height, weight, and sexual orientation."
"how do those interesting statistics bias me towards any candidate(s) exactly?"
"the same way if for example they announced that one candidate was a black trans-gendered midget: it may not bias you at all, or it may completely. but no body holding an election in good taste freely volunteers demographics which have no other potential than to at worst introduce bias and at best be completely irrelevant. those sorts of things are left to the media."
"how can it bias me if i don't know which one is a midget?"
"how does it bias you if you knew the average candidate height? or the average weight? in any case it's in bad taste to include such irrelevant information in a candidacy announcement as if it were relevant. things you include during an announcement of candidates: perhaps even a word or two about their platform. things you don't include: their hair colour."
"yes, this is basically what i am asking."
"i'm not saying it does. conversely ask yourself how does knowing that one of the candidates is blonde impact your vote? and so why should such information be included in an announcement of their candidacy.picture any form of governing body issuing a similar announcement that summarized candidates in an upcoming (supposedly democratic) election by their race and sexual orientation. is it interesting to know? yes. does it belong in an election that hopes to be taken with any degree of seriousness or good taste? no. and maybe that's telling of csm elections."
"that is exactly what you said.and if it doesn't bias you, which you now concede it doesn't, there is no harm in including it. and unlike the facetious attributes you have used as examples, the statistics ccp supplied are interesting. in fact the distributions of gender, age and to a lesser degree country of the playerbase in general are discussed on the forum from time to time.so what we appear to have here, is the release of some completely harmless and relatively interesting statistics, and another random stab at the validity of the csm election process."
"where i said it biased you is completely an artifact of your reading comprehension.like the attributes i listed, yes the statistics are interesting, but like the attributes i listed, are also irrelevant and in bad form for an announcement on candidacy. to take your poor example, among many distributions of eve's playerbase, another no-doubt \"interesting\" one (and also often discussed) is weight, yet having the average weight of the candidates listed is clearly to be avoided despite its interest value. a player's race is also of high interest on the forums that often discuss reasons for bloodline selection, yet listing the average race of candidacy, another obvious no-no.if you don't understand or see the problem, then hopefully you are alone in that. otherwise i submit that is exactly why \"stabs\" can be taken at this process, because when you release announcements such as that for supposedly democratic processes, you are playing with knives."
"so on top of managing to release statistics which are interesting but which are unable to cause bias, ccp have also successfully avoided others which would by their very nature be taken poorly.seems like they were really on the ball with this one.apparently not, given how fast you are back-pedalling on the bias issue."
"why are they bad form?what statistics would you have wanted to see instead?so what is the problem?all i see is a list of demographics that suggest that the csm candidates seem to present a fair cross-section of the eve population at large, and in particular a good representation of those who are at all interested in the csm process. how is this bad?"
"and if they had 57 male candidates, from a single country and age, what then? or if one candidate was trans-gendered would they then have listed that too? or perhaps n/a.it's not the kind of information you include. especially when in lieu of any real pertinent information (such as platform statements) it is made to seem the primary focus. it debases the entire process, and in ccp's effort to brag about their diversity at a completely inappropriate time, they've only shot themselves, and the validity of csm, in the foot."
"begeezuseffinkrist, lighten up, you nimrod.those statistics are indeed not relevant to csm candidacy, and just because they are wholly irrelevant to it, there is no non-platform bias in presenting them to the general public.people don't vote for a csm candidate because he's young or old or a certain race out of game, they vote because he's popular as a character or champions some cause the voter cares about.it does not hurt anybody that runs for csm to have demographic statistics of the many candidates posted, but it does help enlighten regular users as to how serious the whole csm schick is for the general player population by having a relatively high (for a game) age-based stats on candidates.so shut your trap hole and find something seriously bad to complain about. this one is nowhere near even remotely bad."
"then i think it would be really, really hard to be biased based on their gender, age or country."
"does any democratic agency, for example, the us government, proceed an announcement on elections with a report on how many blacks and hispanics versus anglo's are running for office? does it report the average age of the candidates? does it see fit as a talking agenda the sexual orientation of its candidates?yet these are all interesting statistics that show the cross-section of the population it governs. and likewise this information is often made known through *proper* outlets at the appropriate time (either media, or separate announcements) and *not* during candidacy announcements, especially at the lack of any pertinent and relevant information to their candidacy."
"you are comparing a video game company to a government. see below for one reason why this doesn't hold.and who, exactly, is going to have these statistics other than ccp?if you intend to say that ccp themselves should do it another time, don't bother. nonsense."
"yes. maybe indirectly, but yes.still sort of yes.not usually, but yes, it happens.in a rl election, you already have all the demographic data you could possibly want available to you. you know the real name and can obtain pictures of all candidates, and any personal information about each of them is more or less freely available.this is not the case with eve candidates, which are usually anonymous up until candidacy time."
"and if you intend to imply gender, age, and nationality - and primarily that information - belong in an announcement on candidacy, don't bother, you've already shown why the validity of csm is continually questioned."
"i'm sorry, i can't hear you over the sound of you trying to ignore my counterpoint to your last post."
"how many run on pro-botting and how many anti-botting candidates are there?"
"i would soooo totally run on a \"make botting legal and supported via client hooks\" platform !!!!111oneone"
"moved from general discussion"
"i dont see the harm in them doing this, they havnt pointed out who is what in it, tho it probably wouldnt be to hard to figure out after having the information. it shows us that the csm candidates vary greatly from all different aspects, and that eve still has a handful of women per region. the part that 35 are from diffferent alliances and 12 are not in an alliance is an interesting and useful fact for us to know... the age of the candidates is possibly the only thing that could have been excluded, as some might go \" whut, an old fart, screw that he dont know what we want\" but if anyone is actually paying attention to the csm candidates they would know thier ages anyway, regardless of if ccp made the post or not. it's not like csm candidates stay hidden in a brown paper bag the entire election until we vote then winners pop out and we burn the rest"
"yes, because there is an assumption that a political body that demographically correlates with the demographics of the voters will be represent the people better, and because any significant disconnects between the two indicates that there are structural prejudices or just outright discrimination at work that keep certain groups from being heard.and that's long before we get into the politics these political players represent (after which this debate comes back: why is it that political view x is so strongly supported by group a and shunned by category b? why does not party z let type f citizens rise to top positions? etc etc etc).no, but that's mainly because sex is a taboo subject in us politics. or actually yes, exactly because sex is a taboo subject. it's just not \"debated\" so much as gossiped about."
"you will be hard-pressed to find any announcement of candidacy from a governing body about it's candidates individual or aggregate gender, age, or nationality. secondly, you will be light-pressed to find in those same governing bodies that the candidates quite often do not match the demographics of the voters (but that is neither here nor there).likewise sexual orientation isn't mentioned not because it's taboo (and it is and it isn't), but rather because it has no place in an announcement about candidates running for an office.no, candidates aren't hidden, you'll see and come to know them, but if and when their personal characteristics and demographics are detailed it will be by them or a disinterested party, and certainly *not* in conjunction with an official announcement on their candidacy. it's bad form, and the wrong kind of emphasis to place on the csm election process."
"i understand where you coming from tho a bit, it is bad form on ccp part to be doing the info giving as they had. something like eon magazine published by one of thier writers and not quoted by ccp is somewhere that should belong, ccp would be like the government body and eon fox news.. and the gov shouldnt do that as u said, even if it doesnt do harm when the info already out there"
"at the risk of further feeding the troll...most governments do not release personal information on this nature thru official channels, because as they are very much in the limelight, due to being political figures, all that stuff is known about them anyway, due to the media fulfiling the public intrest. so yes, in the real world, we already know the age/ethnicity/gender/etc of candidates.why does the public want to know this? because they want to know all they can about the person who is going to be representing them to their government.now, on to the csm statistics. you are saying that the release of these statistics is innapropriate/incites bias/improper/etc. please answer the question below:\"can you give me an example of one csm6 candidate who has had information specifically about their gender/age/ethnicity/sexual orientation/etc released to you by ccp?\"i'm willing to bet that you will be unable to find any instance of this being the case. therefore, i put to you, that the release of these annonymous statistics, will have zero bearing on who i may vote for, as they impart no information on specific candidates. in fact, all they do, is provide a brief illustrative statistical insight into the demographic of the csm6 candidates.to close, you are making an issue out of something that is patently inconsequencial.hal."
"not really, no.if they don't do it, the watchdog groups will, and more and more agencies have come to understand that it's in their own interest to be the first on the ball and control the narrative.which is why people keep compiling those aggregates: to demonstrate that there are inherent biases in the selection system. and if there weren't, people would compile the aggregates to show this fact and pat themselves on the back over it instead. what ccp has done is to indicate that this isn't (so much) the case for the csm.again: why?"
"because agencies responsible for the voting process politically disinterest themselves in the candidate's demographics and any information that should not take part in the voting process. no, you won't see governing bodies do it, and no you won't find where such things are mentioned in official correspondence. yes other groups will reveal this, and that is completely irrelevant: let those \"others\" do it, and on those terms. every candidate that has ever run for any office will most likely have things such as their family, kids, sexual orientation, age, gender, and so forth, disclosed, but i guarantee you (apart from ensuring they are legal age), none of that information is disclosed by official government correspondence surrounding the election and for good reason.in fact those groups exist exactly for that reason: to disseminate partial and unpolitical information so that it isn't interspersed with official correspondence. as another user suggested, the place to mention unpolitical details such as demographics, hair colour, and favourite foods is in a media outlet like eon or in the very least in a separate post under that banner.where you don't mention it is in the same post where you are announcing qualified candidates, and seemingly above and beyond any real information that might relate to their qualifications or reasons for candidacy."
"i was never asking fo results, i was simply saying that whatever csm presses the issue, or at least promises to bring it up to ccp has m vote."
"whats the point in raising an issue if you dont want results? do you work for the us govt by any chance? lol.but seriously the csm doesnt have any effect on things like this - their a pannel of judges ccp can bounce their prosepective changes upon and see the reactions - thats it."
"retribution is amarr, it has that penalty for its awesome tank and dps, just like all amarr ships do. deal with itcoercer is fine as well. again, deal with it."
"yes, please. make pos's like this."
"i did,... for 15 months... guess avatars and rat pew pew stuffs is better to upgrade than working spazeshipz in a spaceshipz game?"
"very interesting idea."
"i like the concept. high dps = v.poor trackinglow dps = v.good trackingobviously it all hinges on the numbers that are used but in theory it could work really well."
"you mission railboat will get a significant boost with my proposal. with antimatter having the same optimal as lead, you may not need to use t2 ammo all that much just to shoot rats."
"110% supportedawesome ship design. kudos to the designer, i owe them a drink. fix the armaments."
"please review the gallente ships and guns ccp."
"exactly how i see it. bullet time engages, theres a window of oppurtunity to jump in system, after which only exiting is allowed and gates/cyno are locked, thus preventing the ever worsening of the bullet time effect, and potentially spreading the fight to other systems as fleets attempt to reach the locked system."
"supported, would be a good idea and should at least be tried out on sisi"
"all capital ships need to be smaller than my rifter!-jk, i am support!"
"supported, always thought the sizes were off"
"yes yes and well yes"
"supported."
"sure, lets \"balance\" the 90m isk dramiel to the same level of other frigates like the 200k isk rifter. let me think... no!"
"dramiels definetely need a fix. +1"
"cost is not a valid argument as it is driven by supply and demand.ship isn't as effective = less people use it = cost goes down.people saying we need an elite ship make me lol. what makes a ship elite? the fact that is singularly better than every other ship in its class ? what your really saying is i need an \"i win\" ship.it defo needs a slight tap from the nerf bat!you didn't tick the support box :p"
"james1122, ccp control base costs of all items. then if supply is abundant, the price of item remains near base cost.in case of faction ships, the base cost is set in terms of loyalty point + other items required to purchase bpc from lp store. that's primary factor. secondary factor is the bpc drops from loot, which are actually very rare.all ccp would have to do to double the dram prices would be to double the lp required for purchasing bpc, or just drop plain 100m isk requirement in addition to lp.if you want a real world analogy, think of the interest rates that bank charges for loans. theoretically, interest rates are set by supply and demand. but the government can easily manipulate the rates using fed - by setting the overnight loan rates. the government can raise and lower prices on a whim, in what seems to be a free market economy. ccp do same thing."
"has long has they are able to shoot mission rats seems dev's can't see wy they're not working"
"teach your children well - as in minmatar. the gallente guns that might cause damage, track as slow as the piggish ships they're fitted to. the ones that track at range don't even scratch paint."
"now that's a use i hadn't considered."
"currently not meant for pvp of any kind, not with instanced barbie dress-up cq anyway. doesn't mean it has to stay that way"
"thats why i had the small/med/large for mobile comm jammers, smalls would be reasonably priced for a smaller group, but would only last about 2hrs or so, medium and large ones meant to perhaps hide the immediate presence of a gate camp or the like for 4 or 8 hrs, but is priced similarly to mobile warp bubbles, the pos module type would be about as expensive as the large mobile comm disruptors for a system jammer (provided you have sov, and a constellation jammer would cost about 2-3x a system jammer but is only usable with constellation sov"
"1. notice local is gone2. rabble in intel channels 3. summon the blob monster4. eliminate jammer"
"would only agree to it if: a) can't be anchored at a pos b) acts as a grid wide cyno jammer, otherwise bait + hotdrop would be too easy. c) make a small/medium/large which is completely inline with bubbles in terms of cost and m3. d) make the size of the item effect area they cover i.e. smalls do the system they are dropped in.mediums do 1 jump out of system they are dropped in (must be same constellation).larges do whole constellation. i like the idea but i can't +1 it in its current form.also whilst on the old subject of removing local anyone ever thought of or suggested a blinded local i.e. you can clearly see how many people are in local but have no idea who they are until they talk ?"
"wow that would spice up the game a lot lol."
"bad marketing division. no donut.edit:@freshspreeit's not that they should not use the face book, it's that they onlyused the face book. if you wanted to partake in the vote, then you had to be a member of the face book.while alot of people are members of the face book, not all of them want to connect the face book with eve. some job applications require an account with the face book, and they check for what they call aberrant behavior. apparently playing online games qualifies you as exhibiting such, in the eyes of some employers.so all we want is an option to be able to separate our private- and game-lives, and still be able to partake in possibly game-changing decisions.that's not too much to ask for."
"ok, why oh why facebook?have you given up on eve-gate?!?!?!?!improve eve-gate, don't give the evil dataminers at f-book anything!!!!supported motion."
"/me rages against facebook/me throws rotten tomatoes at the screen while watching \"the social network\"/me supports this thread"
"supported."
"supported that the shields need a fix for pos ship array departures... truly if a ships shields do not behave the same way when departing a pos array as they do when undocking from an npc station, wouldn't this really be more of a bug than anything else, so shouldn't it be reported for a bugfix?"
"i also want my buffer tank to be full when i dock out of an orcaat the moment you cant viably enter combat in a timely fashion in a buffer shield fit"
"/me rages at not having any shields/me gloats at having a basilisk who can help"
"theyre going to introduce it, its just a matter of time."
"support for new hulls, don't care what.but....first off, the reason pirate stuff is weird and awesome is because it takes two faction skills to fly. bc and destris all have the same skillbook. unless they rework the game to require racial skillbooks on the bc level, the multirace awesomness of the pirate bcs will be diluted.also...concern for an ubertanking guristas drake that can do good damage through drones."
"not supporting, imagine a navy issue drake."
"+support, more faction ships just make eve that much deeper. and what's with you guys not supporting this based on your own half-assed predictions about their stats?! ^what are you, an idiot(s)?"
"there is no room in the line-ups to accommodate faction bc's. the only way to do it would be to gimp the tier2's severely and even then a faction version would trample all over the lower bs tiers domain.could theoretically make them t1 command ships with bonuses to augment the different factions ships and built-in ability to field two gang-links, but straight up faction bc's are insane to even consider.just imagine how stupidly op an angel or serpentis bc would be .. some things are better left in the dream realm"
"copied from a reply to a different threadccp, bring back mines!1) limit the amount of mines you can have within proximity of eachother2) limit the mines so they can only be placed in the proximity of an anchored object collidable object3) this is the more interesting part - i have elaborated belowintroduce a new type of drone - proximity dronesthis drone is deployable in the field upto the maxiumum range of the standard drone control range. a maximum of 10 proximity drones can be fitted per ship.skills:proximity drone (1-5 controlled)advanced proximity drone 6-10 (controlled)these drones have 'arrangement/layout' settings. to keep it simple they can do the following:1) orbit the gate/anchored object at a custom distance upto 20km2) orbit a ship at a fixed distance of 5kmdrones have a base proximity activation distance of 500m (could also add a skill to increase this by 200m per skill level for a maximum of 1500m) upon activation they detonate which decloakes anything trying to sneak past. proximity drones will have a speed base speed of 5,000m/sec but again maybe a skill can be implemented to increase this by 1,000m/sec for a maximum speed of 10km /sec (yes the speed is fast, this is to make it harder for cloakies to find a hole in the 'net'"
"exactly what i think :)+1 for t3 frigand while i'm here, +1 for t3 bcs, +1 for t3 bs :)"
"death to the dramiel superpower"
"great suggestion - with modifications.there should be some form of direct warp to destination.having to travel the univers system by system using gates, is old technology.it should be possible to align directly to destination and activate warp.it may require several warps to reach destination (depending on distance), you never know where you will stop - where cap runs out, and you have to wait for cap recharge before activating warp again. this may actually solve more problems than just \"zzzzz ... 37 jumps to destination ... afk zzz damn slow freighter\".being able to warp directly to a bookmark in any system will provide a lot more of a challange (for pirates) than just camping a gate and waiting for easy pray. it will bring a lot more life and fun to low sec and null sec."
"had to reply to this:lets take a normal frigate warps at 6au/sec and you want to travel 1 lightyear which is not terribly far say for discussion 10 jumps.the 1 lighyear warp is 63239 au that would take your frigate, which has faster than most warp speeds, 10539 seconds or 2.9 hours. you also can't do that in one warp say the maximum warp a frigate can do is 250 au (varies on fit and skill but use this for discussion). you would also have to perform 252+ warps to successfully complete the distance because of cap requirements (this is assuming you 100% recharge cap in your warp).so being able to do that is not really viable with game mechanics let alone the session system present in eve. news flash eve is huge. i bet the average warp spanning a single gate jump would take 20 minutes and several warps. jump gates are really the only viable tech to travel warping the distance would be old school."
"on numerous occasions i've been in a fleet that was ready to engage another fleet and one side ends up running away or disengaging because \"we're going to get hotdropped\", or \"they out-gun us\", or \"we don't have anything to counter their ecm/logi\". i think eve needs to introduce a matchmaking system that allows players to challenge others or sign up for \"pvp slots\" in a predetermined manner that makes it fair for both sides. these opposing fleets could have access to a temporary deadspace pocket that only allows those on the list. i'm tired of playing the \"ship-up\" game, or having people worrying about if we're going to get dropped on. i'd just like to pvp and test my fleet vs. another fleet without taking into account the \"fairness\" of the fight that so many people worry about. you could have different brackets; frigs, cruisers, etc... or do a system similar to the alliance tournament. i'm all for the random encounters and leroying into the great unknown but i wouldn't mind just signing up for a fight sometime and blowing the hell out of some ships without somebody leaving system because one side doesn't feel like they have a fighting chance.there's no satisfaction without action. win or lose, its better to fight than to have not fought at all."
"i do like the idea of a matchmaking style feature - more pew pew means more ships go boom which is always good. exact details of how this is worked out would be up to ccp, but eve is built around the construction and destruction of ships."
"oh god no, get on the test server if you want to test your fleet fits."
"a \"matchmaking system\" has nothing to do with eve fleet combat, or piracy, or suicide ganking, or roaming gangs,or etc etc. if you want to organize \"arena stile\" duels you can start a matchmaking service for interested players or lobby the assembly forum to get an \"arena\" feature where players enter combat for prizes (it could be a nice unique feature for low sec, back alley blood sports) but it should in no way touch the oher forms of combat."
"no, that would go against everything eve is."
"haahahahahahahaha, hell nogoback2wowbye"
"i think its a great idea, this doesnt eliminate or change the rest of the game as the others seem to think, just a tournament style fights, maybe team and single ranking system to go along with it. if you try to warp out or go out of range while the fight is in progress you go pop.it would be a way for people to really test their skills without worry about 10 more of their friends jumping in suddenly to slaughter you. that part of the game is all well and good and i am not saying change a thing about that, but its not satisfying. also as mentioned it would definitely stimulate the ship destruction/building cycle. also it will give you a chance to pvp without having to spend 4 hours trying to find one or two ships to actully fight."
"errrr.... no?"
"it's a horrible ideea, there should never be instances in eve. you might as well be asking for separate servers .eve is about pvp for a reason and with consequences. fights that don't matter have no place in it, that's what sisi is for."
"okay, but for consistency ban the alliance tournament, and the 4x4 one at fanfest."
"if the fight doesnt matter to you then why do you care you dont have to participate? its not game breaking in anyway its just creating one more venue for pvp. people are not going to stop pirating in low sec, care bears are not going to stop flying through it. so what exactly is the problem? saying hey thats a bad idea is rubbish, if you think its a bad idea explain yourself or dont bother, and further what does any of that have to do with wow?"
"then form an arena fight. nothing to stop you. ccp doesn't have to put anything new in the game to do this."
"there's something called test server especially for that. don't make this game like world of warcraft please!"
"try starting a channel that is specificly designed to hook up duelists/gangs. no new feature needed."
"the shortbus to wow is just waiting around the corner, if you hurry you might still catch it..."
"i apologize for on behalf of everyone for the rage against \"wowtards\", whether they want me to or not. we don't want this feature because it is too much like the combat system in other mmos.other mmos tend to be designed so that only consensual combat is allowed through use of a challenge system like you are proposing. people are scared that this new idea would take away the total immersion that people love about eve. its hard to explain.in eve online, you are at risk every minute of every hour that you happen to be outside of the station. this makes it feel real to the participants. i don't know why, but we seem to like being threatened with mortal terror.eve online sells itself on being \"unscripted\". the duels you propse smell like a script.most of all, we're scared that if this gets inserted, then it will eventually become the only way to pvp, because enough people cried. i know you are not suggesting that, but you are opening the door for someone else to.i canot support your idea. i apologize for the rude guys who share my point of view, though i do not excuse their actions.is it so hard to keep a civil tone guys?"
"a bit... yes. when you hear the same idea over, and over, and over, and over, and over, and over again (even though we have a well known, very efficient 3rd party search function (eve-search!)) the urge to flame/bait/ridicule/explode someone becomes nigh irresistible."
"spot on..."
"i know people have asked for similar things, but:if you're ever part of major fleets, one of the most obnoxious things is getting information out to people just joining. every fleet chat channel should be able to create a fleet motd that comes up the moment you get into fleet, and can be refreshed as needed. i am very aware of other tools already in game, and out of game, but lets be honest, most of them are highly ineffective by comparison. in unison with this request, boss/fc/wc/sc should be able to moderate text abilities in fleet chat as needed. they should have the power to dictate text color of their type, and silence people who shouldn't be talking."
"there is a nifty little thing called \"fleet description\" that already serves this purpose. and it does it very well.unfortunately,theres no way (yet) for ccp to augment players brain cells so they check fleet descriptions like they know they should.also, no, theres nothing more enjoyable than whiney fleet spam as your fc screams at you to shut up."
"so many great ideas :)+1"
"i will make velociraptor skins."
"so true"
"great idea"
"provided safety features are implemented, including limitations on where a billboard is to be anchored, i am for thissupported"
"i agree!"
"+1:)"
"this issue has been raised multiple times over the years.i will support it but i have serious doubt about their will to allow us to advertise in game in a more direct fashion.-------------the legit trading channel :"
"when you have account susended/disabled you can do one of two things:log into account management to reactivate it (e.g. buy more time, use plex/time code etc...)or file a petition if you think it was suspended wrongly.hovewer, even thou you can log into account management, you can't log in to petition service - only active accounts are able to do that.wouldn't it be easier for gm's to know by deafult who they are dealing with, instead of having to figure it out from petition content?"
"this@oplost 7% ss in the single time concorde mission because of this. contacted ccp about this and the answer was the usual one avoiding oc any commun sens.what did this learned me?simple, causing the thief's trouble to continue his perpetual job in this system by doing it before himself, and it seems he doesn't like it that much since he's now sending me convos and jet cans 1vs1 if he knew most times i contract back the mission item to the missioner for 0 isk think/hope he would get a hart atack (but i do keep the faction mods). and i'll continue to steal his stealing targets has long has this makes him rage.learn how to use the system to s'hit on scum, use the same weapons, make them loose has much has possible their time and isk, it's the only thing they don't like: that you're better scum than they are. (and get offensed if you get back to the missioner what they wanted to steal)"
"if you're having troubles avoiding pirates at gates, you're either using the wrong ship, or you using the right ship the wrong way. either that or you need to arrange an escort that can smash the pirates (it is a massively multiplayer game afterall).as has been said before, jump drives are one of the many ways to travel through space other than using gates. there are also wormholes, which very much fill the \"going off the beaten track\" desire.this proposal will just open up a whole lot of design (both game and technical architecture) issues to have to be resolved.not supported"
"i really thank you every comment.that helps me a lot to understand other points of view about openspace proposal and other alternatives.but i' don't give up at all, i know that maybe this is not the way but i hope for some day i can explore the space mores as a sci fi classic universe without gates. this proposal was born from different needs.-at first the idea was to remove stargates but later i thought that could be great to have both travel system.-i want to travel this way without being a veteran player, i like to explore that areas from second one.-...and so many that i know that are only personal thoughtsi thought that i was not the only one who likes this idea andall this negative supports really surprises me but i have to understand.anyway.i like to hear more alternatives to this proposal."
"i have no control over what is done with the idea once csm and evntually ccp (hopefully) gets ahold of it. i no longer think that the permanently drifting wrecks are a good idea.in other words, i'm editing the op to match your contributions"
"agreed."
"i support this product and or service."
"i support this product and or service"
"hi.iam t and i do support this csm candiate !<3 from australia..."
"i service this product and support<3 from new zealand"
"i guess i disagree about my posts there. i think i have been pretty consistent about what happened with the tracking disrupter bug. i made mistakes, my corp made mistakes, ccp made mistakes. i would, of course, like to talk about other things as well, since i am not running on a boost tracking disrupters platform. wormhole residents need a representative on csm, we have unique playstyles and run into bugs and annoyances that other people don't."
"good luck! and free bump for wspace!"
"to make mistakes is human.to make mistakes intentionally is even more human."
"sorry, but i don't buy it. someone really loving this game and wanting it to become better would never get down to using exploits. for sure, gms made a mistake, but that should not be a pardon for using a still clear exploit! besides, it is evident from the two step's blog that he is well aware of bots and injections fucntions. aware to that stage that even gives examples. where and for what purpose did he get that knowledge, may i ask? who can garantee that two step and aharm do not use such modifications to get an upperhand, as thay have used an evident exploit before?in the eve game universe little can be worse then exploit and macro-user. but what is worse for sure is an expolit and macro user in csm. and i hope it will not happen."
"in my opinion wormholes are fine at the moment, the mechanics behind them make life in here fun and mostly exciting.however if you have any suggestions that you would be putting forward to ccp regarding wormholes if chosen as csm i think other residents would like to hear them before casting a vote......."
"actually being aware and pushing for some client defence is a good thing. though its usually uphill battle - as long as client remains ehm, a client - it should be considered compromised. at the moment ccp has a way to detect malicious code operation, though in some examples they have broken their own architecture concept of thin-client which left some holes open for exploiters."
"of course i am aware, there are folks in wormholes using them right now. we have a clear corp policy that python injection stuff will get you kicked from corp. we will not tolerate it at all. all of my information was gathered from publicly available sources, in fact i have had several idiots ask me where they can \"learn more\" about the stuff i mentioned, which is why i didn't provide links.oh and ace, i will be posting my wormhole improvement list later today.also, i will be at the ccp gathering at pax east on march 12th. hopefully i will see some of you there, and can talk in person about what i can bring to the csm."
"i agree that wormholes are fun, but that doesn't mean there isn't more that could be done to make them even better. i just put up my post on what i would like to see ccp address on my blog"
"another blog update, this time a post about ccp spending more time right after shipping an expansion."
"what an insightful blog. so you say once mmos push content to live they should listen to feedback? incredible idea. it's almost like they need some sort of council of players, to help filter feedback to them directly"
"while what you said is true, i don't think that is exactly what i am saying. right now, ccp releases a bunch of new content and considers things done. what i am saying is that they need to build time into their schedules to do post-release work on new features. when a big feature like incursions is released, it isn't really done, but ccp seems to move the teams that were working on it onto other tasks. i would like to encourage them to keep the teams working on their features for one or two more sprints."
"what the hell are you talking about there were multiple patches over the following days and weeks fixing elements of incursions? do we even play the same game?"
"here we are in the shady area of issue classification. at this point they are all up to fixing code issues (say mwd+cloak crashes ati radeon +windows 7 clients)but redesign incursion sites - that's an enhancement/new feature - so it goes into pool and will be fetched out 'as soon as developer has time'. sometimes it means 'never'.if they have say 160 hours allocated per team member for \"post-patch feedback enhancements\" per team member, and put it into plans, then issue would be most likely resolved."
"while it would be great to see a credible wh corp candidate for csm, credible is a key word there. and aharm are not only exploiters, but usually really smug about it too. so their members sorta fail that criterium. sorry, as much as i love wh stuff, and would like ccp to make it even better (ffs make t3 subsystem swapping at a pos possible!) i don't trust ya and am not gonna vote for ya."
"i don't think i have been smug at all about what happened. if you have specific concerns, please feel free to eve mail or convo me. i have spoken to a bunch of different wormhole corporations in the past few days, and have been getting pretty positive responses, and some great suggestions for issues to raise."
"exactly. certainly ccp puts effort into fixing *critical* issues that are discovered, but they don't seem to be putting effort into things like balance changes or tweaking the newly released content. i am not talking about the flood of bug fix patches here, i am talking about small content changes to react to the way the players play the game."
"so you live in a wormhole, that makes you a worm real minority in eve, why should you be in council?"
"maybe after 3 hours the cloaks frequency modulation could go out of sink - meaning you are now scan-able - and shut down on its own. so the afk cloaker either has to come back within every 3 hours to disengage-engage, or log, or risk being scanned assuming hes smart enough to be in a safe spot."
"as far as i know there was never any mention of mining having to be more profitable than pi in isk/h. setting up a good pi-chain takes more effort and skill (personal, not sp's) as well as a better understanding of eve's market than mining to make it work right. right now it's no longer as cheap to run a pos compared to pre-pi; but neither are capital module production or t2 production. however, even if current prices aren't great, eve has changed since 2003 and it is now much easier to acquire isk in any profession."
"dude there is:a) something wrong with your eyesorb) something wrong with your screen."
"hello spacefriends. i am once again running for csm; last year, with support from no alliance, we got remarkably close. my views of the csm have not changed, and i'm still as passionate as ever. let us first talk about what the csm is, and what it isn't. many csm candidates believe that the csm is a venue to make game-development changes, graphics redesign, or bug-fixes. i am here to tell you that that is not the case; the csm can only be successful if people on the csm accept what the job entails, not some fantasy position. the csm represents the concerns and needs of the players to ccp; it is more than just a sounding board.so what makes a good csm candidate? from my perspective, it's an active player who has an intimate knowledge of the game and who is also in-tuned with the community. someone with strong views, but who is capable of compromise. someone that knows how a corporation thinks and can give feedback from a business perspective as well as a game-play perspective. this is precisely what i offer. i understand that when running any sort of election, the easiest way to win is to pledge to fix what everyone wants. but eve is a different game, filled with a much smarter base, so i know that the people who promise the undeliverable will not get the votes. i don't have the luxury of being a well-known eve celebrity, nor do i have a major power-bloc endorsing me, so i need every vote that i can get and i will hustle for them. so if you have any specific questions on where i stand, just send me an eve-mail or post in this thread and i will be happy to give you my honest answer - not just the one you want to hear. by nature of the csm, the large 0.0 powerblocs will easily get their candidates - but this leaves the small-to-medium sized groups wanting. the medium-sized groups are the ones that i will do my best to cater to.back to my qualifications, i've been playing eve for going on six years and i've explored every avenue the game has to offer. in the last six months i have run through wormholes, gone roaming through low-sec, taken small gangs through 0.0, taken massive super-capital gangs through 0.0, run explorations, taken part in the first incursions, run the industrial & logistics wing of a corporation, and much more. unlike many, my knowledge of the game is current - although i remember how it once was \"back in the day\", i know all about how the game is now. while i look forward to answering every question thrown at me, and i intend to hold town-all style meetings to hear everyone's voice, i will list a small sample of some growing concerns and how i would handle them. again i'm not promising to deliver all these things, but it's a look into how i would handle some major issues.now with more cool video:"
"station games - former csm notes suggested that a warp scrambler could keep a ship from docking, with the trade off being that you can see outside the station before undocking. i am vehemently against this idea. although sometimes it is frustrating for some guy to sit on the undock in a dreadnaught or a super-tanked battleship, this change would ruin the little guy. sometimes the only time a small force can fight a larger foe is when they can dictate at least one term, and in the case of station fighting being able to kill some ill-prepared support ships and dock if things get out of control. i understand that in eve there needs to be risk, however currently with super capitals there is still a huge risk of aggro'ing on station. removing this option just promotes them to stay docked  eliminating any chance of a fight  or bring more people (crashing the node and eliminating any chance of a fight). guerrilla warfare doesnt need to be nerfed. a relatively recent phenomenon is ships circumventing the aggression timer by storing the aggro'd ship into the ship maintenance bay of a carrier. obviously this goes against the nature of the game and should be changed. the most obvious change is to extend the aggression timer for ship storage as well as docking - but perhaps just transferring the cumulative aggression to the carrier accepting the ships would suffice.neutral logistics  ive seen the slaved abaddons deaggro'ing and warping in a guardian until they can dock, heck ive even been that guardian. in the same vein as above, there is a simple alternative and that is just giving the logistics ship that does the repping an aggression timer. that is to say, after repping a ship the logistics cannot then immediately dock or jump, they have to wait the one minute like everyone else. local in 0.0  the question of local chat being an intelligence-gathering tool has been discussed for years, and if ccp were to make inroads into changing local as it would need to be handled with the utmost of care. removing local altogether would likely be far too drastic a change to implement; a suitable compromise, would be to have anywhere between a 15 and 30 second local delay. the pilot jumping in will be able to see everyone in local who has been there for more than 15-30 seconds, but he will remain out of local until his timer expires. similar in theory to jumping in and remaining cloaked. to make holding space more valuable, systems with military upgrades and a new upgrade (local scanning upgrade, or something similar) will have a 20% per level reduction in the local delay. so a system with military upgrades 5 and this local scanning upgrade will have no local delay. this encourages people to live in, and upgrade, systems. those who venture out for solidarity, alliance will do so with an increased risk. likewise roaming gangs would have more maneuverability in the outlying areas, but would be more at risk in the main systems."
"mini professions  maybe its just me, but i always thought that the explorers out there kind of get shafted. i mean, their job can be done fairly well by a dude in a drake with two weeks of training. i know specialized covert alts pilots can find these sites faster, but a non specialized ship can find them fairly easily. compare this to mining, or even missioning, and its a joke. miners aspire to fly exhumers, misisoners aspire to marauders, and explorers aspire todrake? dont get me wrong, my love for the drake is well documented, but i think tech-3s provide a great platform for making professions more than just \"mini\". no ship gets a bonus to analyzers or code breakers, what about giving the emergent locus analyzer subsystem a 10% bonus per level ? you can ditch the tractor beam velocity bonus if you want, i really dont think anyone even uses that especially with the noctis. explorers, be they in wormholes or wherever, will then have a de facto ship. with the same thing in though, gas cloud mining is another mini profession that has been left wanting; there is no ship that gets a bonus to mining gas clouds. maybe im totally wrong here, but ive never seen anyone flying a skiff ever. why not retool that ship to get a gas cloud bonus. you can even get a gas strip miner if you want, thats cool with me. you retool an existing, unused ship for a new use: next-level pragmatic space maneuver.low-sec, missions, and risk vs reward  low-sec is probably my favorite part of the game, and incursions have begun a long-needed revitalization - but it is not enough. the way i see it, the main problem is that there is no real reason for people risk venturing into low-sec. solo miners can make just as much money in high-sec with no risk. small mining groups can make tons more mining abc ores in wormhole space which, frankly, is safer than low-sec. missioners can make more in low-sec compared to high-sec, but it's a fraction of the revenue when compared to running sanctums in 0.0. the one thing low-sec does have going for it is pos reactions. but even then, those dont necessitate living in that system  all one has to do is check on the pos, at most, once a week. exploration is slightly better in low-sec, but only slightly. what i think needs to be done to stimulate low-sec is to both increase the reward to be more in line with the risk, and to decrease the reward in high-sec to be more in line with the risk there. i do not want to see low-sec become 0.0-lite; it does need its own swagger. with incursion, it is clear the ccp believes the same: with giving low-sec incursions key advantages over both high-sec and null-sec. another avenue that can be trekked is a spin on alchemy. alchemy, which was introduced to combat soaring promethium and dyprosium prices, has been left untouched. giving lowsec a bonus to alchemy, and expanding alchemy to include neodymium and technetium, could be a welcomed change.additionally id like to see low-sec exploration a little bit more profitable. i think the best way to tackle this is to reduce the number of sites in high sec and increase the yield of sites in low-sec. like mission running corps, exploration corps would have more of a purpose and would merge different groups together."
"factional warfare  i participated in fw the summer it first came out, and i was very active in it. it was probably the most fun ive had in lowsec ever. after the initial awe factor wore off, however, it became very stagnant and boring. with the addition of fw specific lp, factional warfare has picked up. i want to continue this trend and i have a few ideas. first, race with the most victory points will be given a spot in the alliance tournament (they will have to pay the entry fee like everyone else, and can choose not to field a team if they wish in which case it will go into the lottery). i think this will encourage people to stay in fw for more than a month, and make it a bona fide profession. additionally, new systems that are conquered should give a small bonus to the owning faction  perhaps a bonus similar to a non-mindlinked fleet leader. of course, these will not stack with existing leadership skills  itll merely act as a gang member with pretty good gang skills. it may not be a huge motivator for conquering systems, but i think it will be significant enough to make people consider taking systems and for having certain factions live in certain systems. either way, there needs to be a commitment to keep the new features up to date.i do welcome any questions in this thread, as i mentioned earlier, and as election-time nears i will be reaching out to the community. for questions asked i'll do a chribba-inspired raffle and give away something ~neat~ to those who have asked questions. unfortunately, like many in the game i'm mostly space-poor so the prize will be something ~interesting~"
"hero"
"hrm okay i'll bite.1. i like most of what you have said however i have a big difficulty with the neutral logi point. i agree that it is fairly blueball-esque behavior however i would be concerned about changing this given the current way that remote repping outlaws is dealth with (specifically you get gcc for repping an outlaw). i have a feeling that if your idea was implemented it would really rip up pirate based logi teams much as the nerf to ewar made falcon alts or ewar highly risky for pirates in lowsec. ex-bydi and surge member here so i have personal experience with those issues.2. why not do a constellation bonus to the fw teams? make it like a generic version of the way sov levels used to work pre-fix in 0.0 (time held determines bonus with one system being constellation capital). - specifically make it 2%reduction in repair/clone etc costs per level of holding (for members of the holding faction, and then 1% for properly aligned faction). (this would really focus the power bases and then encourage the conquering or disruption of enemy systems).- perhaps they could add in a very limited portal ability once a system capital had effective sov 5 (it would need a different name ofc) maybe an npc portal which charges x amount of isk - a discount based on fw standing of each pilot) that links 1 constellation capital with another (have the routes be pre-genned or shifting on a scheduled basis ie part of an npc campaign to conquer places). this way its important to fight for a full constellation both as possessor and defender and it funnels more pilots into nice fights.- perhaps an increase in bounties for missions that are in enemy fw space (bribed to raid rp type thing).- maybe implement a type of contract that can be fw-wide ala alliance contracts.- also what about a % discount on taxes or broker deals for controlling fw coalitions?these are just ideas that pop up atm but i'll think of more."
"this is literally the single best person i have run into playing eve online. i will support him forever."
"grath is just looking for some nepotism."
"i supported and voted for elise last year, when i didn't even know him well, just based on his excellent ideas and knowledge of the game.this year, as my ceo, i've gotten to see first hand that he really is the best candidate out there. plus also, he's a super nice guy. i literally don't know anyone that doesn't like elise"
"is your speaking voice super annoying?"
"if it keeps bad posters like you off the csm i am all for bloc voting hijinks."
"moon income at the highest level is for corporation/alliance costs. anyone making huge (personal tech moons) profit off of it is a leech. ours are used for subsidies, sov costs, infrastructure, and reimbursements.botting does need to die. but as noted earlier, ccp has to fry the bigger fish (rmters) before they can unholy rage mk. ii the smaller guy botting for his plexes. because, while all botters are lazy, rmters are actually stealing money from ccps pocket. and at the bottom of it all, ccp is still a business.who said mittani favored supercapital fights, especially those of the server killing kind? he multiboxes drakes and maelstroms on fleet fights, and gets an erection about his sabre in small-gang stuff. everyone wants supercapitals nerfed, because everyone agrees it's killing 0.0 pvp.also, no one in my years here has been told to skip work or school. many people have done so, and have been called (and i quote) \"f***ing idiots,\" and on occasion, \"worse than ******.\"the map's changed a lot, this is bad? (there was much laughter when we lost delve to our own incompetence)and (pretty much exactly for the reasons laid out in mittani's latest tth.com post) yes it is the most stagnant in our recallable history. *because a big war was just won. a feud that has lasted years is decided.* and by most stagnant i mean nc is fighting on the drone border, and dc is skirmishing/outright fighting evzeroke. so most stagnant = wars still happening, which invalidates the point i figure you were trying to make.rebalance supercaps and remap sovereignty to two-three years ago, this'd still be the most interesting time in eve to play. (maybe rollback dominion sov mechanics too. )"
"i wonder how mittens feels about the 0.0 logisitics..."
"you're not spank and you never will be."
"if i may, as mittani's response didn't include this, albeit i think his campaign understands these facts:as a business, ccp takes stock in public opinion of them. if the player base feels like they're being ignored, they'll become discontented, and if actively rejected, upset. when an idea is brought forward initially, it starts as \"i think this is a good idea.\" those ideas then build evidence and are presented as a cause to the government (in this case ccp devs). if the cause has a large part of the populace affected by it, then the supreme authority of the standing government should take notice and make a motion to edit it for the sake of public opinion. (in real life, for votes to get re-elected, in here, with our wallets)so:-if the csm is listened to by ccp peacefully, then it's doing its job as described. *this is desired.*-if the csm only agrees with ccp, or disagrees with ccp but doesn't raise some hell, public opinion is at best irrelevant. discontent increases.-if the csm is not being listened to by ccp and raises some hell, and it fixes something that many people need (not just a corporation or alliance, but the entirety of 0.0, or lowsec, or highsec), then it's evolving into an effective interface between the players, and the people who design what is played.-lastly, (and here's where a hardline maneuver comes in handy if the upvoted backlog expands as hundreds of things tens of thousands of people approve of fall into development hell, while new and shiny with poor support structure underneath continue showing up) if the csm is being ignored, pressures ccp, and ccp pulls the plug, it shows that we're being ignored and this is just a political bluff to make us fat, dumb, and happy.all these :words: to say: when pandering to our desire to feel important, we may get comfortable with the position of the csm. even if ccp contemplates only one in every twenty ideas, and utilizes one in a hundred, they can hide behind minor successes. the csm *needs* to be a driving force, and if ccp cuts them off it'll do more harm than good for them. we need a powerful leader for the csm, and a powerful enough figure to garner the following to get there./longpostmepost: it may be my being american, but when there's problems that are allowed to sit while the government tries new failed experiments, it's my civic duty to complain (madison's 1st amendment, speech and assembly clauses) and resist (jefferson's belief in frequent political revolutions) rather than roll over. key example: jumpbridges, if the silly notion of removing(or sharply nerfing) actually is being contemplated, hell yeah it needs to be addressed. that would do terrible things to the 0.0 playerbase across the board, which would cause quitting, which would hurt ccp's bottom line, which would reduce their budget to give us what we want as players everywhere. a decision by people who don't use them, hurting people who do, needs a strong force to undo the damage before it's put in place.that's what i want in csm6, and that's why mittani has my vote.tl;dr: ccp needs apply community-wide approved csm ideas with more zeal rather than bucketing them. if they don't it'll suck for them. mittani has a track record of getting s*** done. i am the gsf and i vote."
"you can't really enforce an external, game-mechanic based fix on what are ultimately social bonds between players. you can try, but it'll just be worked around via jabber, irc, fleets in different areas or any number of cunning ways. you can't force people to be friends any more than you can force them to /not/ be friends; diplomacy has always been a weapon in this game that some master (usually blocs), and some complain about (usually 'elite pvp', no-standings entities who end up losing to blocs). while i don't think that i'd be in a position to ram through anything involving ui (since that's not what the csm does, sadly), my personal take on the ui issue is that ccp should, in an ideal world, open up ui programming just like blizzard has in wow. the wow ui has incorporated a whole slew of player-designed mods over the years, which has made the ui ever better. by contrast, the eve ui is a dog's breakfast, a goddamned spreadsheet in space. ugh. i think pi is boring as hell. i have a couple of pi alts. i tried it. i have no idea how it's going to work with dust. does anyone even mention dust anymore? heh. i had hopes it would be a cool minigame, or develop into one. it's not right now, it's tedious crap. better than ratting though!"
"vile rat, obviously. i could have kept the 'official gsf vote' all to myself, but vr works for the state department and is a political genius, as anyone who's dealt with him ingame would know. he is the good cop to my bad cop, and we've done a lot together over the years. seleene and i get along famously, even though we're technically hostile to each other at the moment; he also knows the ins and outs of how ccp works better than anyone else who will be on the csm, which is going to be key if my unpleasant hunch - that the rot lies within the lack of best practices in ccp itself - turns out to be more than a hunch. i'll be pretty happy with the usual suspects who i suspect will get in. i'm not sure how the russian vote is going to line up, since i can't read the language; we'll either have krutoj or death or possibly both. the nc will vote in at least one guy, assuming they don't vote-split into a billion shards. i expect test to come out strong for white tree. in sum, i'm not too worried about it. i think that i'll be able to work with just about anyone, especially since my campaign message has essentially been agreed to by just about every other candidate w/r/t the csm needing to be a more powerful, effective advocate and for the backlog to be addressed. i'm saying the sky is blue, it's hard to argue with that."
"the \"year of excellence\" with the htfu video, the \"switching to scrum\" the \"x wrote this and nobody else dares touch that code\" - these issues raise such a stench of code smell that i don't even have to be on the same side of the planet to smell it.i'd love to work with ccp, even if it's only so i can unravel the pos code and put them on the path to resurrecting the dead horse. who knows, maybe at fanfest i'll get a ccp hr person drunk enough that they offer me a job.in the meantime, good luck with getting all the nc to vote for the candidate they're supposed to. i look forward to seeing goons see just how good they can make this game before they get around to screwing it up :)"
"well here goes,first off let me say im no fan of the goons,in fact if i said i think their lower than a rattlesnakes belly in a wagon rut,it would be being generous.that said i find myself agreing(jeez whats the universe coming to)with mittansboy.ccp have forgoten the number one rule of retail,the customer is always right(even when their wrong).they dont give a monkeys ass about our views,anyone who has ever submitted a pettition knows this.the only way they will sit up and listen is if we all stopped paying.unfortunatly there is a sizable group within eve,who think ccp can do no wrong.you only had to read the gushing,vomit inducing forums when the game went down for a day a little while back.guys they gave you a few skill points,not a fully fitted wyvern.the next best thing is someone on the council who will annoy the devs.so vote for the mittani,even if he turns out to be full of ****,you know where you stand with a goon.and as he says,he is a ruthless,devious bastard.you know you get with him exactly what it says on the tin,so good luck,but methinks ccp will block your attempt at being chair."
"^^ i actually twitched trying to read that. he's right, but needs to resurrect his spacebar in some arcane ritual. it's in its death spasms."
"i read the subject of your message as saying the other candidates are lying to the players. has the message changed? or do the current crop of candidates agree that they are lying to the players? or is there some other they that is doing the lying?do you think anyone running again from csm 5 will win? if so how do you think they will feel about you calling them the current crop of idiots? do you think you will be able to manipulate them like your goons who -you claim - would give you all of their votes if you didnt allow vile rat to run?"
"huh?"
"thank you. i have edited the original post."
"what do you have against your spacebar?"
"every year someone is going to change csm. just more smoke going up the buthole but nothing actually happens. i think this has more to do with the goons being preemptively buthurt about proposed 0.0 changes."
"more that when ccp proposed drastic changes to 0.0 nobody on the current csm said anything about it. there's nothing wrong with getting people elected to the csm that actually live in nullsec to give feedback on nullsec changes."
"hi all,in support of my csm6 run, i will be teaching a series of free pvp fundamentals classes.you can find the details on the classes here."
"aye this is why you need to do more research than the little posts as any csm wanabe can claim anything they want but it's worth nothingwithout the work involved.chose a dedicated csm rep who is willing to give it the effort it requires."
"could you please confirm what your stand is on the scalable gui and in game fonts being too small for the modern big display screens? i am asking knowing that there have been numerous threads in the eve forums about this, but none of them seem to have been addressed by game developers. the game graphics become more and more sophisticated and beautiful but high resolutions that allow us to experience the game fully (like 1920x1080, 1920x1200 or more) make most of in-game text unreadable and gui buttons extremely difficult to hit.looking forward to your comment."
"prolly voting trebor cuz of lack of suitable carebear candidate"
"oh well while i'm quite fond of my ideas (but i have many, and very different from one another)i was just trying to expose a vision and get your opinion on it. there are many creative minds around, and many ideas; and even if players can't do game design i do think that players can give some good ideas to ccp, because after all some of us has a lot of experience. it's up to them to evaluate our ideas and theirs. any big change in the game will have a lot of opposition amongst the players, because we managed (and even worked hard) to succeed in the game as it is now: changing rules will always worsen the game for someone."
"trebor:"
"as an older player, who peers at his 24\" lcd through reading-glasses, and whose palsied hands shake as they attempt to right-click on things, i'm all in favor of a scalable (and user-extendable) ui.at the summit back in june, ccp said they were making progress on an update to the eve font, and hopefully more information about that and other global ui improvements will be forthcoming soon. i've made a request in the csm internal forum for a status update, and i will pass on what i learn as soon as possible."
"trebor thank you for your prior work on the cswm and offering to do it again. in your prioritization you did not start to give any special weight to the proposals until the person voted for over 20 of them. i think that is quite high. would you be in favor of allowing the prioritization vote to be entirely weighted? so if you have 20 points you could put them all to one issue or maybe 15 toward one proposal and 5 against another proposal etc."
"thanks for all your hard work in csm5. i hope you can continue it in csm6. the small thing i can do, my votes, are gonna be there."
"on wormholes - if you've never watched this, you might find the first ten minutes or so interesting (complete with me trolling mittens about the retribution around 7 mins in). if you'd really like to get a firm grasp on how short dominion fell off from what was originally intended, especially the bit on treaties, watch until around 20 mins. apologies if i seem out of it because like... third day of fanfest and no one was awake / sober. insofar as wormholes themselves go i'm definitely the csm candidate who can argue most effectively about what's (not) going on with them and why they should eventually be iterated on. it was a massive feature with an insane amount of potential which we originally planned to fold over into dominion and beyond.apochribba (heh) was the first time ccp actually went back into the lore of eve and pulled out a white rabbit to do something new and scary. anyone that follows the science skill paths knows that there are several other 'races' out there besides the sleepers and each one of them has their own... specialty. with that as a base, we wanted to slowly phase in the discovery of ancient technologies that would make new ship types, new modules and even new forms of travel possible.example 1 - using specialized :awesome: racial technology, you could install a one time use module or rig in your jump capable ship and instead of making a jump you would actually fold space in order to reach new regions far out of the range of ordinary jump drives. true exploration.example 2 - the t3 modular concept has always been intended to expand beyond just one ship class; there were even public discussions about modular weaponry and ship fittings. custom / brand name industry.these are the sort of possibilities that have been left behind and overlooked for going on two years now.so, when you ask, \"do you have any thoughts as to building on w-space as a game niche?\", my response is, yes. i fall back into the thought processes that went into the original design and just want to see them continue. i want to see them expand and grow beyond just the initial implementation. insofar as the current implementation of the original wormhole design, there are flaws in it that should really be addressed but, once again, no iteration. i'd like to see npc sleeper capital ships attacking and clearing out player's starbases or sleepers emerging into 0.0 and low-sec systems to poke around and do some investigating of their own (sounds a bit like incursions, yes?). i'd like to see finite sources of things like moon goo or harvesting :awesome: out of a quasar. chaos, mass hysteria and all that.i could wall of text forever about the things that i would like to see happen, but the primary job of the csm isn't to go into that level of detail - it's the csm's job to relentlessly remind ccp of the desires and needs of the people that pay the subscription fees. asking why one of the most popular features ever released, especially a feature i worked on, has not had one aspect of it touched or tweaked in nearly two years? that's not something i need much encouragement to do."
"as my last will and testament i shall support this endeavor. to the bitter end we sail comrade!cheers,lowa"
"i'm happy to see you're a candidate, sel. you have at least one of my votes."
"oh, i forgot about this. i'm still running, and i still promise fish.i will also attempt to have the value of isk moved to a gold standard. ccp will be required to have gold or at least some shiny plastic on hand at all times to lend real world value to our isk."
"sound platform, seems like he'd make a good csm."
"i like his objectives and his campaign platform, and i think that draco would make a solid representative for people who want to make sure that mittens and the rest of the csm keep ccp in line. thumbs up."
"cometh the hour, cometh the man!"
"you speak as someone who has never experienced deep 0.0 travel. i trust based on your statements and corporation this is your main. if you get a moment, then please do this:-acquire a digital map of the eve universe without a sovereignty overlay, but with security statuses.-open it in a simple imaging program. (if you're using a microsoft windows operating system, open your start menu and type \"paint\" into the search bar. select the only option you should get, and when it opens, click \"file,\" then \"open.\" find the file and double click it to open.)-using a pen(or brush) tool, draw a line around the first 5 systems in any direction outward from the center that show, after their name, the number *0.0*.-then, again with the same tool, pick your color of choice, and randomly click that area outside the amoebic-shaped ring you just drew, for about 3-7 seconds depending on how far into the future you're looking.this exercise will have showed you what the sovereignty map will look like, if your concept of logistical nerfs were to see fruition.let's be honest, you'll go 40 jumps to ruin the day of someone who claimed sovereignty in your sector of the universe, but you won't go 40 jumps to source the minerals or modules for/of the 1600mm artillery iis you need to do it. this is because larger scale logistics are required for larger scale corporations and alliances.what you think your proposing is a dissolution of blocs, what you're actually seeking is the dissolution of alliances in general. so long as there are people, where there are enemies, there will be enemies of those enemies, and they may as well be friends. corporations bond together to form alliances, alliances form blocs. corporations will still form blocs if there's no alliance mechanic, based on mutual interests, and agreement on what alcohol tastes best on tuesdays.sovereignty will be held by the most powerful blocs still, and will only be however far people feel like reaching to live. and those people will control the trade routes to the outer areas, denying access to the smaller entities anyways.and when people try to etch their name in space, they'll get it, but for the 4 days it'll take to take the system from them. because even if no one wants to run from period basis in a mammoth to get the hydrogen isotopes their jump freighter didn't bring enough of, you could hide in jove space for all anyone cares:someone will still find a way to get there just to f*** your day up.edit: i'm leaving this up for truth, but i apologize for not noticing disgruntled flying monkey's posts were obvious trolls. it took how blatantly off they were in themittani's thread for me to notice."
"you're trying to use logic against bismaru/kalle deimos and his sock puppet army. it's really not worth the effort."
"i'm willing to vote for vile rat, but there's a 300 mill isk pre-vote security deposit, he'll get it back right after the election.please send 300mill per vote (up to 5) to this character, thanks."
"o/ vile, best of luck, i hope you get in :di would like to say a few things if i could. i have not been playing eve for long, but i have been closely following it since late 2003.imo, traditionally there had been three and a half aspects to eve in terms of flying: high sec (natural newby space), low sec (fun shenannigans with others), nul sec (serious player alliance foundations), and war decs (a way to mix all three up).traditionally nul sec space has been nearly 'off limits' to new people in a large group due to easy gankability, and that is fine. lately though, dreddit came along and with an upside down map, they ended up in goon space with a new alliance built for newbies (test).personally, having tried low sec and nul sec space several times previously, it ended very badly with much isk burnt and a feeling of 'well bugger this for a joke'. test though is another story. newbies can come in and be surrounded by fellow alliance members and feel safe in a stable environment. bittervets oversee things in the alliance and from other alliances, helping the newbro's along. i think this combination of new people being adopted by vets is one of the best things ever in eve. newbies can learn quickly about isk making and pvp better than in any area of high sec.i for one would enthusiastcly support anyone on the csm if they researched other ways to promote this team work and promoted it to ccp in ways to make it easier to happen.i think it has happened in the north alot because a) the ratting is good b) tech moons c) not near amarr space (i think noobs may be kos more with amarr than other factions).in the south i would support better ratting proposals to not only invite established alliances to help newbies in to their space, but also remove the need to have bots.lastly, i will add my voice to anyone who promote fixing the hel's bonuses. at present, it is ****. please get it fixed to be as effective as an aeon/nyx. and fix the niddy to plz. a vote for vile rat is not a vote for goons, it is a vote for an effective voice to the people who run eve."
"...but every hel just extends my buffer tank!"
"have you seen me? if you did, you'd vote for the guy who i'm stuck with (and who's stuck with me)."
"thanks for taking the time to respond. could you clarify your points for me a little?0.0:so may i infer that, in your opinion, its not really a lack of goals but the lack of ability to attain those goals for some groups? you seemed to articulate the goals (better rats,mining, ownership)initially, but perhaps i misunderstood.low:again you seemed to articulate some goals (pew pew without the \"hassles\" of 0.0) but then claim that there is no point. is your argument, or what i interpreted in the 0.0 section, that the goals are too hard to achieve?also could you clarify your metric a little further? you mention that you know these problems are \"fixed\" when 1)there is a point/when people go to low/null and 2) those goals are achievable by small groups. it seems that people already go to those areas and have goals for doing so, is your concern in 1) that there are insufficient people doing so? if so, then what would be the numbers you think are necessary?cheers!edit- formatting"
"vote for darius iii!"
"!! got my vote sir !!"
"i voted darius, so you should too b(-_-)d"
"is this the same darius iii who tackled the 8 white noise super carriers in oijanen last week? if so-i will vote for you. anyone who tackles super carriers has to be a good choice for csm."
"lol dar that was you? im over in sendaya poking ncdot in the eyes to look at me. glad to see you are running. might need to remove oh i dunno, all of salt.- while you are at it, i'm sure peanut will hate you even more :p"
"lol dar that was you? im over in sendaya poking ncdot in the eyes to look at me. glad to see you are running. might need to remove oh i dunno, all of salt.- while you are at it, i'm sure peanut will hate you even more :p"
"-salt hates brick and or myself? oh well, an unfortunate side effect of our move out of stain. -salt is made up of pretty cool peoples imo. i still have a lot of love for lily, turtle the curses duo and of course christine is the bomb. if nothing else the"
"you have my vote"
"darius iii best darius :)"
"d3 rocks have yet to meet a eve player would can give as much to this game as d3 fly safe bud. \"love many, trust few, always paddle your own canoe\". md[i][b]<U+262D><U+32E1><U+266B><U+266A><U+FFFD><U+30C4><U+FFFD>"
"and my sword"
"i don't know what you come to do but i came here to shake my thing. +10 internets if you can name the song"
"jita ganks for csm! \o/"
"and my armour"
"hells yeah! i wish you good luck mate... bump this guy up!"
"i support this thread."
"vote darius iii, if only to vote for someone that still doesn't live in his parents basement!!!\"do it to them before they do it to you\"taqua"
"d3 has my vote as well cause i am actually afraid of what he will think up for his next escapade if he is not occupied with csm duties :s"
"love you too darius. you got my vote:)qc"
"you got my votes there d3."
"as much as i enjoy roleplaying, and try to consider all matters from an ic (in-character) perspective ingame, the csm election is, by nature, something that can only be ooc (out of character).i assume that your declaration meant that you would not vote for me because your main character is minmatar, while mine is amarr. while an unfriendly relationship between our characters would be very understandable, please remember that you would be vote for me, silver quettier, and not my character, gehen sealbreaker.i have many friends playing minmatar characters, amongst which some are members of em / uk, and some of their characters truly hate mine. it's all part of the story, a story that, as player, we're writing together. no faction will be overlooked by me as the voice of roleplayers, from the gigantic amarr empire, to the tiniest of players factions.people who \"feel\" minmatar will vote for me because they know i will carry their voices as roleplayers. if a display of goodwill is required, i can offer this : i will do what it takes to convince someone at ccp to give back malaetu shakor his lost dignity.thank you for your kind support.\"the biggest issues\" for roleplayers is a hard to define concept, because they are divided in so many factions. many small factions are extremely overlooked (ammatars ? intakis ?) while some other, although much bigger, still have internal incoherences. (what is the court chamberlain still doing out there ?)what i meant by being the \"voice of roleplayers\", amongst other things, it to make sure that a proper explanation can be found to every change brought to the game, especially gameplay-centered ones, and try to have every change and proposal made in a way that would add to the eve world's atmosphere, not remove from it.if the csm as a whole was given the chance to work on a specific rp problematic of our choice, and i would have to pick one, i'd say \"our\" biggest problem is the way information is scattered and sometimes, even incoherent. ccp abraxas has already set things in motion to make the eve universe easier to approach, and roleplaying easier. if elected, i will ask ccp to offer him the csm's assistance, or, should the other representatives think little of this project, my personal help."
"please excuse me as i've been off work ill the last few days in real life. i still have many topics to cover in my campaign posts, and rp is a very important aspect of eve online to me."
"you have my vote. having read your posts on different matters in the past, i think your are well suited for the job.don't let those trolls discourage you."
"uhm... did you quoted a wrong guy, misunderstood my post, or just posting ironically? ok, i'm going to bite:basically, what i've said is that i don't care about what other people talk about some candidate. to measure the quality of a candidate i use only his program and answers to my questions as a measure of quality."
"putting the botting jokes aside, i find krutoj to be a very smart guy, he seems to know a lot about the game, and has some good ideas, and i believe he would be a good candidate."
"someone i might could actually vote for.i love those crying about bots, bots are even more prevalent in the north, i mean seriously you ever taken time to look at npc kills in tenal, or vale etc.....no way you can reach those kinds of numbers without bots.as krutoj already pointed out bots don't buy infrastructure, they are not affected by nerfs to plexes, anoms etc. such nerfs only hurt real players like the 1.1.1 change that caused npc buildings to no longer count towards military index. that hurt real players not the bots. the slower respawn time on anomalies also hurt real players not botters."
"to encourage more of my supports to let me know of their support and thoughts on my ideas i am starting manalpan's daily lotto. unlike other lotteries you do not have to pay any isk into it all you have to do it post your support for manalapan in this thread or if you are not convinced yet provide constructive questions or concerns about elements of my campaign. every day one lucky manalapan support will be given a random prize. the prize could be isk (>50m lets not be cheap here), a bunch of t2, faction, and officer modules and ships (except there aren't officer ships) are also up for grabs. this will go on until the announcement of the csm winners.i will updating the op and maintaining the list of people in the drawing on this post and on my campaign blog here:manalapan daily lotto winners3/5/11 larkonis trassler - 10x large trimark armor pump i - chribba dice3/6/11 hot tubes - 20x covert ops cloaking device ii - chribba dice3/7/11 the diety - vizan's modified energized adaptive nano membrane - chribba dice3/7/11 hot tubes - 150x 125mm railgun ii - chribba dice3/8/11 hot tubes - 50x electron blaster cannon ii - chribba dice3/9/11 targamarr - 45x ice harvester ii - chribba dice3/10/11 brusanan - 50x fleeting propulsion inhibitor i - chribba dice3/11/11 burseg sardaukar - 10x large polycarbon engine housing i - chribba dice3/13/11 trinneth - 50x warp disruption field generator i - chribba dice3/13/11 brusanan - 225x heavy unstable power fluctuator i - chribba dice3/13/11 kuroda ayumu - 100x medium armor repairer ii - chribba dice3/13/11 brusanan - 200x dual 150mm railgun ii - chribba dice3/13/11 hot tubes - 150x magnetic field stabilizer ii - chribba dice3/14/11 winternight depression - 50x 425mm railgun ii - chribba dice3/15/11 stark rayner - 100m isk chribba dicemanalapan daily lotto members1 larkonis trassler2 winternight depression3 el'niaga4 dark drifter5 brusanan6 burseg sardaukar7 the diety8 stella lambert9 dro nee10 prokofy neva11 hot tubes12 iphiclus13 jade elaira14 targamarr15 fer delance16 iron straw17 harbinger03108418 davey camp19 abail dark20 brusanan21 iron straw22 urian kandor23 kuroda ayumu24 burseg sardaukar25 korvin26 caster short27 burseg sardaukar28 the diety29 ediza t0gym30 honor firestorm31 brusanan32 brusanan33 shandir34 dartainien35 jinkinss36 huntin4cloud937 trinneth38 stark rayner39 sian kine40 huntin4cloud941 dartainien42 brusanan43 targamarr44 el daniels45 drakoneus aivoras46 harbinger03108447 eihla xancsia48 trinneth49 syds sinclair50 brusa51 naughtygrim52 stark rayner53 grim863454 some n00b55 askgar elzoop56 brusanan57 iron straw58 brusanan59 krythas60 dark drifter61 eli shimaya62 captjackdaniels"
"at least we should all know where we stand with manalapan now regarding scamming. it's people who claim they never would who i don't trust.i know that manalapan has had a lot of experience with low sec combat, and its pitfalls. if you want someone to suggest yet more changes for 0.0 sovereignty rules and the related logistics of life there (i personally agree with destroy all jump bridges) then that's someone else's forte. if you want someone who will do their best to propose balanced low sec ideas and methods for bringing different ships or weapons into line, then manalapan is experienced in these matters."
"i would like to say that it seems rather bizarre that neutrals are able to apply effects (remote reps etc) to anyone they like.. it's a little confusing and considerably unbalanced due to their having no affiliation to their targets. it would be more understandable if you could apply effects to pilots that are blue to them through diplomatic alliance setups - but neutral involvement in warfare without retaliative intervention would be ridiculous and would jeopardise many fleet setups and tactical operations!i'm not even sure people that aren't in alliances are even aware of what they are capable of doing without concord showing up without the 'learn by your faults' ethics - don't even get me started on concord uberpower gank resolutions.."
"detailed list please :)"
"i'll only list the two finished/published games - there are countless ideas and concepts (and concept prototypes) that haven't gone any further than that.startag is the one that won an award. the website has lapsed now, but you can download the demo here.i also made a promotional asteroids clone for the polytechnic i was working for a few years back, called aoraki asteroids."
"where do you stand on drone rights?on a more serious note, i've often wondered about the possibility of extending the functions of autopilots to include some modules - specifically i was thinking of active prop mods, and shield/armour hardners.the basic idea being to add an option 'activate when entering warp' and 'activate when exiting warp' or something very similar.i understand that using ap is supposed to be risky, however, i don't see that this would offset the risk too much, especially not those, for example, afk autopilot."
"my view is that adding anything more to autopilot would make for less active play and less opportunities for players to interact with each other (in ways such as ganking for example).if you want to get somewhere 'safely' or quickly, you ought to be doing it actively, possibly even with friends for escort/scouting (again the mmo thing) for added security.as for drone rights, i'm all for the establishment of a wildlife reserve to ensure the preservation of our (not-so) natural treasures."
"i don't think it would make it neccessarily any safer, especially if it's only limited to active prop mods. the only real advantage, from my perspective is it would mean less clicking, which for me is the main reason for using autopilot in the first place - not having to manually turn the ab or mwd on for that last 15km (i tend to be sitting at my desk, even if i am aping between here and there).i believe that the current state of affairs is little more than... a cultural misunderstanding between us and the drones. i believe the drones are, or have tried to actively communicate with us.where do you stand on the idea of donating say 10% of all drone sales to a 'drone releif fund' to set up a 'drone shelter' and fund active drone communicatuion research?"
"while features and ideas discussion is --> that way, one problem i see with this is that it would be open to abuse with things like activating a cloak on warp out (for cov ops cloak at least).perhaps a better idea to save the drones is to purge the drf from the drone regions and save the local wildlife..."
"he's the guy...girl! great platform and the web site is very informative."
"i support white tree."
"white tree has not been a pubbie since before he played eve."
"i support this product and/or service.oh man unintentional page 2 snipe"
"that's a whole bunch of pvp-related ideas.white tree has a grand total of 57 kills and 35 losses; many of your losses are quite badly fit (3 eanms on a hyperion? t1 guns on a dramiel?). to put it mildly, this does not seem like an adequate base of experience from which to make arguments about game balance in relation to pvp. do you have any pvp alts with more credible records, or are you just talking a load of rubbish about something you don't understand and are very bad at?"
":siren: ~my killboard efficiency~ :siren:a spectacular shot at character assassination there, ophelia ursus. given that i have gallente battleship 5 i was happy to swap a hardener for a rig and fit a broader resistance tank. i was also aware - in advance - of the opposing gangs composition. and despite my obvious loss-mail, i was the last brave soldier to fall on his sword during that bout of spaceship fisticuffs. the fit is legitimate, although admittedly not optimal. a bump in the road to be sure.and yes i do most of my pvp on my minmatar/caldari alt.but of course, why would i fly my main on fleets, seeing as it's entirely skilled into armor?! and armor, specifically gallente maintains such a terrible position in the grand scheme of things in the realm of fleet warfare. my platforms seek to improve the lives of armor pilots everywhere, by shining a light into the dull and sad place that armor currently resides alongside ccp and my fellow csm representatives!so vote for me, white tree as your csm candidate!"
"you see... hyperion is kinda like maelstrom... except the guns are hybrids so thusly pretty awful. every time your guns cycle you get less tank. meanwhile maelstrom's cap is untouched and all for the tank. get neuted? maelstrom still does full dps... just has less tank. hyperion on the otherhand gets neuted... it gets completely shut down. considering this fact... going eanms and not magstabs/hardeners which cause increased cap usage is a smart idea.moreover, discounting his pvp positions because he has minimal # of public killmails on 1 character vs actually arguing his positions is kinda lulz."
"i realize this isn't a totally serious attempt at candidacy, nonetheless this is a common and incorrect perception that i feel ought to be corrected:faction warfare is ludicrously profitable."
"someone who gets it that being said.i'm willing to vote for kalrand, but there's a 300 mill isk pre-vote security deposit, he'll get it back right after the election.please send 300mill per vote (up to 5) to this character, thanks.also, as i have pointed out in the past, there is a severe lack of range on drone rigs, and no drone implants at all. just saying."
"i can assure you this is totally serious.=i see you've never owned a tech moon.in all seriousness, buy some kalbonds if you're looking for me to be paying you.i think drones have some more pressing fundamental problems than a lack of good rigs and implants."
"i support this product and/or service."
"as i stated before in my answer about the level 5 missions and small corps in 0.0, these two points would be another example of a steps that a small to mid size corporation can take, as a group, as they move deeper into multiplayer pvp. these are early points where their actions could have consequences on their area in the game, but not be as severe as they would be in 0.0 space. this would hopefully push people deeper into the political and pvp aspects of the game, and would be too small for the current \"superblocks\" to care about.thanks for the reply. after an cursory read-thru, many points did not seem to be specifically viewed through an economic lens, but i admit i just skimmed and will be going back through more carefully :)as for the section i quoted:may i infer that you beleive lowsec should be designed around preperaring for sov 0.0? if so, do you think there should be re-designs of other space (maybe non-sov 0.0 or highsec)so that there is less overlap in design philosophy and/or playstyle?"
"despite being a goon, i've seen kalrand \"troll\" market forums in which he contributes good ideas, smacks new scams, and is actually constructive with his criticism on ideas and debates in that thread. from how and what you post in the market thread i'd say i support a vote for you.your thoughts on any redesign or change with moon mins, is this for the \"everyman\"/every alliance? or just the repositioning and supply of tech moons?your ideas on small bands of players in 0.0, is this for those small bands being able to become renters, or actually independently holding space?"
"mike azariah, not just another bitter old veteran, rabid female pirate, famous rich player, or disgruntled third party software developer. mike azariah is a player, just like you. he loses ships, just like you. vote mike azariah for csm.i know i will."
"new batch of q/aa: i disagreei wouldn't say that, i think most players are satisfied, it's already really complicated in pvp. and i don't think it should be a priority right now.a: no opinionwhy and why not? if the only such thing is r&d agents, it's not that big of a deal.a: i agreea 50/50 resource and time repartition should be great, knowing that fixing old content can make a great expansion on its own (like dominion could have been...)a: no opinionbalancing items and ship is needed, but i think monthly balances would be really annoying for everyone. last faction ship balancing was rather good, as is made lots of useless ships useful. (and some ships imbalanced, sadly).a: i strongly disagreei'm looking forward to incarna, i think it should be an awesome expansion making every player want to step out of their pod, but not forcing anyone to do so."
"i like your platform your running on peter. i also agree with it. good luck m8!"
"the problems we face in eve are tedious and complex.. but the solutions are not... the game is becoming a grind. what was once fun has become uninteresting. the player base wants something new. i can provide the fresh ideas needed to revitalize empire, low sec, and most importantly 0.0! i am not going to promise you this, that, or the other, there is a lot to fix (this forum post is not the best place to lay it out and make empty promises.) however i can vow this... i will put in the time and work needed to be an effective csm, i have the experience needed to do well, i have all my heart into this job and game.. this is for the soldiers, workers, and fleet commanders of eve.if you have questions or want to discuss my candidacy further please feel free to join the in game channel entitled \"madcat for csm 6\" the mailing list goes by the same name. the channel, eve mail and mailing list are places were you can ask questions throw ideas around and discuss different solutions i have for issues that you and i feel are important. i have flown in most of the different kinds of roles capsuleers can fill. i appreciate some more than others, pvp and 0.0 pilots being my primary concern, never the less all jobs/roles have there place and must be taken care of!if you vote for madcat144 you will be putting a pilot in office who promises to work to get what players want, what you need! restore the things you once loved and bring in the new era of eve!my kill boardvote match"
"comments, questions, concerns? post here or visit the in game channel \"madcat for csm 6\""
"my goals for csm-6i make this list as some point that i would like to introduce to ccp. some of this proposal is suggestion from my corp. mates and mine. i'm opened to hear yours and i would fight for it.* fix old feature content* i would like to introduce an upgrade to the autopilot. i suggest a warping distance to the gate as 5000 meters; this would help to short the time to approach to the gate making it little more secure to pilot to jump.* i suggest a new feature to the fleets, making it more fearless. give the power to the boss of the fleet to be able of cloaking the ships (3 to 5) if each pilot has the skill of cloaking.* make as a choice if pilots want pvp in high sec. meaning we can keep the security for other pilots that don't want to do it.* make the wh able to stay open for more time.* fix remote repping.* fix the ability for people to drop allaince if there pos if is reinforced.i want to hear from you, let me know what else i can do for you"
"who are you?how long have you been playing eve?what corp/alliance do you represent?how do you propose to implement your fixes?"
"so you admit, then, that your entire candidacy is an attempt to thwart goons and the nc and not because you feel you have anything to add to a discussion of the game's future. that's kind of shallow, don't you think?"
"how do you respond to claims in recent newspaper and tv coverage that your campaign is actually fueled by pure evil and should be feared by everyone? seriously, this guy is too weird to even be in real politics."
"indeed?you did not seem to care much about when bob had a majority influence on the dev team at all windy. your ticket reads like an attempt to bring caod drama to the csm, nothing more. abusing nda rights? how is that even gonna work, the csm gets hint of an incoming drake nerf and decides to stock up on maelstroms? come on."
"alt detected. also, i am spartacus."
"this is awesome! i've got my own dedicated alt stalker (i have cried many a tear since genera1 windyp0ps was biomassed) and some dude has made the campaign video that i was planning to make anyway.thanks forum!kisses, windy"
"reasonable, rational agenda.got my vote!"
"believe me, small gangs are more of a pain in the a$$ than big ones"
"i give my support to killer2"
"tune into lost in eve at 21:00 eve on march 12th for a debate featuring me and other candidates. i look forward to answering your questions and hearing your comments."
"it seems to me that for almost any proposed change or fix there are people who disagree. you state that you are very good at sorting out the good from the bad. i wouldn't expect you to say different. you however don't want to tell us what specifically you think are good or bad ideas. although you do have a voting record people can search out, you dont seem to offer that easily. in this post you basically just say: ccp is not interested in your ideas players, but my views are very good and constructive  vote for me.if candidates are not going to give any specifics of what their views or even general vision for eve is, i cant see why we are doing this csm business at all. how can i vote for someone who shares my views if they dont tell me what they are?everyone seems interested in talking about processes instead of substantive issues so let me ask a few questions on that. it seems to me that this last csm was the first csm to actually get ccps attention for any stretch of time. we have a dev blog asking players to post many fixes that they can work on. we also have seen at least a few of the items in the backlog get addressed. we have seen dev blogs about how much resources they are putting where and we have had devs even speak on podcasts about the direction of the game. moreover we saw ccp back off of microtransactions to a certain extent. this was accomplished despite the fact that before csm 5 took office ccp as a company had already assigned the majority of their devs to non-spaceship related tasks. accordingly the fact that they accomplished more than all the prior csms is even more impressive. this last csm was the first one to actually create a measurement of how responsive (or unresponsive) ccp is to the players. would you agree that this last csm did the best job at capturing ccps attention? if not which one was?it seems that this last csm was the first to actually do something more than go to iceland, have a few beers with the devs, shoot the sh___and come home. they were the first to actually create a situation where ccp really needed to address csm concerns. mittani suggested that formal meeting minutes might be replaced by less formal methods like having meetings take place via skype. to me that sounds like he is going to return it to the prior do nothing csms. do you agree with his proposal? if you agree with him about dropping the minutes etc how are the players you are supposedly representing even to know what is going on? if you do not agree with him would you be willing to take notes and post them (after getting ccp approval of course) so that the players can be kept informed on what you guys are doing?"
"good luck!"
"blog link gives 404."
"finally, i can rat in dear sweet sweet peace"
"vote fascist for a third glorious year of total law enforcement!betray your family and friends, fabulous prises to be won!please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"i`m working on it, mainly it was oriented onto russian community"
"he didn't say what he plans to do about it, legalize maybe"
"to all friends/fans:extreme - eog - eye of god (since 2003)was a member of csm-2now re-electable as ms pacman"
"i have regretfully withdrawn from the election due to personal reasons."
"sorry to hear that mate, hope it's nothing serious..."
"ccp please for the love of all that is holy throw us a bone!maybe you are not sure what to do with black ops but please, throw us a bone and un-nerf the scan resolution, lock range, hit points and give them t2 resistances. no it is not the silver bullet to fix black ops but it is a step in the right direction. it has been almost a year and a half. please."
"supported."
"given that ammo switching takes 10 seconds, having all those different range brackets doesnt really make sense if its not lasers.not sure if the op idea is the definite answer, but personally i was thinking as well that the hybrid ammo should be split into 3 range brackets just like they did for projectiles.maybe some slight specializaton in terms of damage profile as well, say a standard high-damage round with the current split, a kin-heavy type geared towards armor and improved tracking for less damage, and a therm-heavy type geared towards shield with the same tracking for damage deal as far as short range bracket goes.support, definitely needs some exploring in that direction."
"wish they would give a reply, let us know what that think, good or bad..."
"i'm trained for every race and gallente could use some help, caldari hybrid ships too."
"supported"
"i bet half of the players here that have voted support doesn't even have a freaking clue how to use blasters to be effective with them.they just whine that blasters sucks because they can't get them to work after how they are using it.i'm using a megathron often now, so i know what's good and bad with it.pretty much everything except for the range on blasters is fine with the megathron + t2 neutrons. can't really say anything about how blasters are on a hyperion or dominix for example, since i haven't used those ships.i also use a vindicator, and that ship is just freaking crazy lol. 235k ehp and 1.6k dps + 90% web .i have an upcoming video (infod video) where i'm using a megathron alot, so you will see that i will hit targets pretty hard inside 8 km, but when targets are longer out than that, my damage gets pretty low.but that's how blasters works."
"i think that all of these suggestions are worthwhile and deserve inclusion.especially the contract api as it would potentially allow community development of a tool to prevent deadheading."
"this suggestion is supported.at the same time i would suggest checking the balance factor for these ships. maybe it is the case already - a titan in full gank setup should have higher dps and much higher ehp than a gank sc. titans should be the \"is all - end all\" line of ships that use other capital ships as support."
"tell that to the people who farm angel 2/10 static plex's. there is a reason why the dram hull is so cheap by comparison to most of the other hulls."
"i was not aware of that. considering the power of dramiel, it should drop only from 8+/10"
"pretty much. i did run a local 2/10 out of sheer boredom, and it dropped me a dramiel bpc.so i farmed it for about a week, and running this thing ~25 times got me 7 dramiel bpcs and a truckload of various goodies like abs, mwds and small shield boosters.the whole thing can be blitzed in less than 5 minutes in a frigate or destroyer."
"you are ******ed, really. \"dont fix the ship im flying, i like easy kills\".another thing the dramiel brings is relative safety. there are just a few ships that can really screw your day, and with dualprop + insane agility/speed you have a good gtfo ability. in other words, you dont have to commit to a fight.see where im going?"
"bumpy bumpy for a good idea."
"signed.i agree with the previous poster about cosmos needing some love, but also agree with the op that sometimes you just have to take the small victories. making cosmos bpcs useful is easier than removing them from the game; having them usable adds colour/depth and is a good thing. having them ingame but impractical to build is a bad thing.~mary~"
"+++++"
"."
"thanks for all the positive support and ideas guys :). and a big thanks to manalapan for adding this to your campaign manifesto. lets keep the ball rolling. keep sending this out to your corp/alliance mates and get them to place their thumb up here."
"yes please :d"
"yes please :-)"
"we need this,great idea!!!"
"totally supported, bookmark sharing should be made much easier!"
"this problem also occurs under normal conditions. as was stated a few posts back you can simply declare war on him and destroy the pos. being in the hospital means that he can't defend it, and if he has other people in his corp they can simply keep it fueled. of coarse the corp mates can simply take the pos anyway and leave the corp.currently the only reason that i see the high sec pos's are still up is because war declarations are too costly. by being able to simply claim the pos the corp will be able to recoup their losses. thus prompting a clean up of high sec.if the reason that there are so many of them in the first place is that they were simple lost by the owner, then the best solution is to put the towers on the assets screen. alternatively make a second assets screen listing what you have floating in space."
"being dead in eve is no big deal , being dead in rl is a bit of a bummer, so you find youself dead after some drunken spree, ill advised stunt, or inapropiate sex act , whats going to happen to your isk and stuff , i think a code word that will implement a in game will could be a way to go.thanks for your time"
"drunk posting, best posting eh?when you're dead, internet spaceships and pixels aren't going to matter. if the asset was personal, it dies with you. if it was a shared asset, others have access to it already.there is also the practical side, that ccp isn't in the business of monitoring the health status of it's clients, so they have no way of knowing if anyone is alive or not and no one is going to notify them. there is also the issue of rl wills. wills already exist, so if your internet spaceships and pixels are so important, do a rl will, where in the case of your unexpected death, others get access to your account details and can distribute your stuff to the person or persons of your choosing. as you see you can already do this yourself. there is no need to even try to mix ccp in to this. catering to your insane whims is in no way ccp's responsibility as it shouldn't be. you can either talk to a relative about it or overpay some lawyer to handle it."
"i can do life insurance and a will for your pixel estate."
"if people are willing to to fly expensive stuff that can be ganked, then what's the problem?it's almost impossible to destroy somebody enough that they can't fly t1 battlecruisers over and over again - makes killing them almost meaningless. but with 500 mil a pop faction battlecruisers, a few deaths and it's all over, they won't be able to bring it again without doing serious time farming.and as far as trampling the battleships goes, battleships are already dead in the water - only useful for sniping and farming. a properly fit drake or cane can kill most battleships. as example, my ac maelstrom recently got owned by a harbinger. fight started at 5 km or so, both ships scrambled and webbed, top speeds were 60-30 ms. harbinger got to 20% armor relatively quickly, but by that time it slowboated within 1-2 km for the maelstrom and with superior traverse of 30 ms made ac miss 100%. even tho it couldn't break mael's tank by itself, 3 minutes later enough buddies showed up to finish the job. pretty sad.bs need serious revamp for small gang warfare."
"i think this would be totally badass!"
"you start out with the standard (and erroneous) argument that isk = balance only to move onto bs balance which is entirely unrelated to topic .. someone's been drinking methinks there is nothing wrong with people trying to buy success, but look at the faction-to-t1 power ratio where the hulls exist: frigates that are near cruisers, cruisers that are near bc's and bs that are heads and shoulders above tier3 bs .. there is quite simply not room for faction bcs without making regular bcs as useless as most frigates/cruisers already are.ps: here is an isk tip. get 5-9 buddies and spend an afternoon grinding the assault incursions, nets you each enough to buy any sub-capital in game. for extra cash, make sure the incursion is closed so you also get the lp .. so stupidly easy and completely risk free with proper coordination."
"as long as no fbc outdrakes a drake, i'm all for them"
"show me on the doll where the bad cloaky touched you.that said... any \"smart\" cloaking pilot will try stay more than 10km away from any and all objects. the reason behind this is that once within 10km it becomes quite easy to \"accidentally\" get caught within decloaking range (2000m).no... instead your \"new and improved\" mines will only serve to buff \"drag-bubble\" gatecamps in 0.0... even with your \"restrictions\" (i.e. \"limited to 5 mines per person are we? well, let's bring 10 people to lay down 50 mines!!\" etc.)not supported."
"i have a better idea, why don't ccp give you free kms?\"buff me, nerf you\" and add extra grid lag while at it. not supported."
"like a helium heart-shaped balloon, good ideas always rise to the topplease support"
"had to reply to this:great answer ms. einstein lol - you must be in for a nobel price in physics.as none of the stuff we are flying around in, hasent been inventet yet, i consider this purely hypothetical.i suggest we keep this an in-game discussion, and dont mix it with real life metrics.let's invent a hypothetical trans warp drive module we can fit on our nonexistant ships, capable of direct warp to an hypothetical destination in a hypothetical space consisting of 110100000101110111010101 located on a harddisc in the uk :-)"
"had reply to this - buy yourself a jfwe already have this thechnology, and for a reason its limited to capital ships, because as stated in fiction part of the game (you know, the official \"science\" that runs the game) its to big to fit into any other ship."
"i agree with jaik"
"i've read all the replies and i understand where a lot of people are coming from as far as the immersion factor goes and how this would foul all of that up. i guess i'm just tired of being bored when i log on because nobody's willing to fight or a fleet so overpowers another that nothing happens. i realize there's a lot more i could do on my part to sate my boredom as some suggested, and i just might try to start something such as an arena channel. obviously some people have very strong feelings about this game. for all the trolls and wow haters that posted; there seems to be no gap in maturity level between you and the average teenager who does play wow. i appreciate all the people that were civil."
"indescribable, indestructible, nothing can stop it vote against null-sec blobbing the csm."
"which candidate(s) would you support then ?"
"surely it's up to the candidates themselves to declare as anti-blobbing."
"btw op you have a wicked sense of political satire."
"you are aware that it's physically impossible to vote against any candidate, right?"
"you leave your logic out of this! this is srs politic bsns!"
"yep just like how mcdonalds is getting rid of poor old ronald mcdonald.stop the gentrification of 0.0!"
"you could vote for me. i'm the anti-mittani vote from goonswarm."
"i support this product and or service"
"some delays expected for my website to be live due to epic failure on my behalf.i have employed a thousand monkeys to fix the problem."
"i support this product or service.ballot stuffing is what eve is all about."
"i support this product or service.so important i'll do it twice."
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service!"
"just so i'm clear, you're saying that you're angry that ccp basically fix all the important stuff but they don't go back and make the small tweaks that really add finesse? you're positioning yourself as the wh candidate, right? the only catastrophic game breaking wh problem that any of us can think of is the one that you were found out and nearly banned for. you exploited it constantly for about a year without reporting it. it was massive, hugely imbalanced and it netted you billions upon billions of isk.and now you're complaining that ccp don't make small tweaks to balance quite as much as you'd like, but instead focus on the game breaking things?"
"um, no, that is not at all what i am saying. i am saying that the \"small tweaks that really add finesse\" are actually really important. there are plenty of examples of this, including more clothing options for the new character creator, balance fixes right after ships are introduced, etc. certainly ccp must fix major game breaking crashes after a patch, but i am saying they also should spend a little time polishing stuff, since it appears they aren't able to do so before the release of a feature.well, the fact that the only issue you can think of is the magnetar bonuses is pretty much proving my point. if you lived in wormhole space, or even talked to anyone that lived in a wormhole you would quickly get a list about a mile long of issues that come up.and again, i am not complaining about ccp spending time fixing game breaking issues. i don't see how you can read that from what i wrote. perhaps you might want to read what i wrote a little more closely."
"basically we are talking about this picture sw development process. agile methodologies rely on _constant_ customer feedback, but in ccp case this rule is broken - csm is fine and dandy, but it is not your average customer. so the feature can be shipped, it can be bug free, but its not the feature customer wanted :)"
"thread title is inaccurate. it should read \"two step made billions by abusing an exploit: do you?\""
"hi two step. you're right, when it comes to wh the only \"catastrophic, game breaking problem\" i was aware of was the bug that you exploited for billions of isk. embarassingly i don't know of any other \"catastrophic, game breaking problems\" in wh space. perhaps you can share some of this \"list about a mile long of issues\"."
"if you're looking for a csm that will represent your interest, if you're a wh dweller, don't vote for the aharm guy. the interest he has got in mind are the aharm interests, ie keeping all wh **** as obscure as possible, so he and his can benefit from ignorance as long as possible. seleene is probably your man. he was a dev when they coded all the wh stuff, so he's probably to blame for half of it. might be worth it to give him the chance to clean up his prior mistakes.i'm a trebor supporter, for the record. feel free to contact me in-game if you wanna know why."
"your right there is no mention of that limitation, but it is a good balance rule. it should not be possible for a passive income source to earn you more than an active compareable one. i am not complaining to much cos it is making me lots of isk, but it causes me a few balance concerns and some inflation concers as well. if isk becomes more available etc. etc."
"what is your stance on adding missile turrets to ships? its the only major weapon system still magically appearing from the center of the ship."
"from a functionality point of view, it does not make much of a difference. but from and asthetic, and as a primary missile user, i would live to see they missiles actually 'come from somewhere' on my ship."
"you have my votes."
"i would just like to say you got my vote prom.ive been soloing for about almost 3 years now and before that did small gangs and some fleet so i see where your coming from. i love to solo and no matter the changes ccp got in store i will solo regardless if i lose a ship or not.but you got my vote btw when will voting start?peace and be safe"
"\"dude\" there's nothing wrong with my screens. i have tried to look at the website with both exploder and ff, both times i get a dark grey font on a black bg. i might not be 18 yo anymore, but i am pretty sure my eyes haven't started decieving me (too much). for somebody claiming to be a web designer, he sure missed the part about contrastnotsureifsrs.jpg remains"
"just to let you know, i've tested the page on 8 different screens, including my tv.looks and reads fine, but i will brighten it up a little bit if you promise you'll calibrate your screen"
"you have my vote, and my alt's, and as many as i can persuade"
"mittani, i have a question. do you think that csm should have a veto on some/most/all of ccp's actions/buffs/nerfs/features, etc?i'm not sure if this has been posted before, but 10 pages is quite a bit to scan. apoligies in advance to those who allready asked this or something similiar."
"i have a question for mittens!assuming the vote fairy woke up in bed next to you one sunday morning and promised you a wish in return for not saying anything to her boyfriend, who, out of the announced candidates, would comprise your \"ideal result\" csm?1: the mittani as chair (obviously)2: vile rat?3:?4:?5:?6:?7:?8:?9:?"
"obvious, op is a knob, is obvious."
"i support this labor union.unions makes the workers strong."
"anyone with the in their name is.........."
"\"what i can offer you:the raw, ugly truth. no pretty illusions. no false promises.\"i'm going to quote you on that.the biggest words i know are swear words, i know something is developing in eve, because i'm downloading a patch.all i want is a simple warnings of new developments that may spoil my eve online gaming rituals. or i will ragequit eve. the other csm's seem to be speculating future depelopments in eve as if it was their idea, close as they may become, and little as they effect the outcome, i still find this an insult.your my only hope."
"\"you're\""
"so, long story short.....ccp pitch ideas to csm, csm gives feedback, ccp decides whether to listen or not and still does as it wants?to be honest, i don't notice half the bugs people whine about, i'm too busy enjoying making people explode (or exploding myself), do we need csm, maybe, maybe not. i, like 80% of other people, probably wont even vote and will we notice anything that has come about from csm interaction, probably not :das long as i'm still able to lock and start shooting i'm happy......."
"i too once thought the mittani was smug, foul mouthed scamming ***got like most of eve believes the rest of goons to be. why? because i had never actually talked/heard him talk and had only read his smug posts on kugu. after joining the cfc and listening to his last, silver tongued \"state of te goonion\" speech i realized my impression was obviously wrong and that the impression i got from the rest of eve was wrong. mayhaps, dear reader, you too have heard such rumors? and two things to all the dudes hurf blurfing about jump bridges1) they are not 100% safe and can be camped effectively with as little as 5 ships, a solid knowledge of game mechanics and patience/intel.2) if jbs are removed from the game/nerfed to hell and back then titans will become the new jbs. the need for more titans = more botting due to the astronomical cost of the ships. so p much a vote for jb nerf is an indirect vote for botting."
"gonna vote for this guy. his opening post and comments sounded more honest than most stuff i read."
"it doesn't matter if i think they should have a veto or not, because they never will have a veto.half of being a good politician is knowing how to pick your battles. incarna, for example, has millions of dollars of real-world cash invested in it. it's going to happen. period; trying to stop it, thinking your group of nine player reps can somehow get in the way of that amount of already-sunk capital, is a waste of effort. you might be able to offer input and feedback to tweak it or improve it. the actual rankings don't matter. obviously i want the chair, but if i wanted the chair over absolutely everything else i wouldn't vote-split the gsf bloc with vile rat. so clearly having vr on the csm is more important to me than the chair slot itself. the chair will be a helpful tool if i can get it, though; it shows a mandate, and implies power (even if the actual listed powers of the chair are minimal). i want solid and capable people on the csm who aren't sperglords with no understanding of politics. the sort of person who'll try to 'stop incarna' or drone on about trivial bull**** for hours isn't going to help anything. seleene knows his ****, death and krutoj know their ****. white tree is solid. i personally think that meissa owns, having hung out with him at the 09 fanfest. i think my platform annoys the **** out of him, but if you're a diehard '**** nullsec, **** the mittani' kind of voter, i'd point to meissa as a sensible, intelligent non-nullsec voice. i can communicate whatever isn't covered by the nda. making sure that news from the csm actually gets read by the rest of eve will be a priority. i am, in truth, a smug, foul-mouthed scamming ***got. i just happen to have a silver tongue and a gift for politics."
"saturday evening bump!"
"sadly, every csm, there are candidates who are there to help the eve community and do the work, and there are other candidates that are there for the free iceland trip, the power that comes from knowing \"what comes next\", and the e-peen.i have to admit, there's a perverse part of me that wonders what will happen with the csm if all nine, or eight out of the nine, are the latter type. it'll be entertaining, if nothing else. couple of hours until i participate in the lost in eve csm6 debate. should be fun."
"i think that the core of pi currently doesn't need to get changed. maybe 10 seconds can be reduced to 5, although i would like to know why ccp made it 10 seconds in the first place, to be absolutely sure reducing it to 5 won't break anything.i also think there is room for improvement on the interface part. i have to agree that the 'routes'-interface needs an overall change, where the processes should be seen directly, rather then having to check each individual route.currently the 'storage facilities' have the same storage capacity as the launchpads for double!!! the cpu / powergrid usage. if this structure could be given a non-delayed link to the launchpad and far more storage to match its cpu / powergrid use, this would make it a lot better. thank you for pointing out the issue on the where the customs offices can't be checked when outside station. i think this could be fixed by linking the 'remote sensing' skill to it.in my opinion the current biggest issue is tech 2 production. with old players having researched tech 2 bpos, no new person is being given an equal chance to make money in this area. i just did a price check on the onyx for example, costs about 179mill to buy in jita, and over 200mill to build if you have all the bpos for the tech 2 components. even far over 210mill if you buy all the premade components.conclusions;economic needs a boost. tech 2 production balanced and pi smoothed.highsec suicide ganker's insurance removed and concord faster deployment time (gankers change tactics, so should concord).possibly mining barge / exhumer / industrial / transport ship \"toughness\"-increase.this would not only restore balance in highsec, it would possibly even mean some industrials going to try out lowsec.in over 85% of the systems in eve combat is allowed, yet why is highsec still target of everything? i mean, come on.."
"i completely agree, which is why i'm a big advocate of major changes like this being disclosed to the players before they are implemented, so that player-experts can debate them and point out issues for the devs to consider.i believe that most serious eve players are willing to look past their short-term interests and consider the longer-term health of the game. but, just as in real life, nobody likes a solution -- even a decent one -- imposed on them without consultation. the csm itself is a step in the right direction; the interesting question is whether ccp is fearless enough to take another step.personally, i think it's just good business to do so -- it catches problems earlier and cheaper, and it builds an even stronger, more positive and engaged community -- a community that will tend to keep on playing longer and pay for more accounts."
"well, after reading a bit more, trebor daehdoow has got my vote and my full support! definitely seems like the best candidate by quite a wide margin."
"yes, apparently i have not yet plumbed the depths of my own masochism...in the prioritizations i have done, i simply gave each voter 20 points to allocate as they saw fit; if they chose more than 20 items, each item got less than a point of credit, if they chose less, then their votes were stronger (up to a maximum of 3 points).however, this choice was entirely arbitrary, and in fact is a tunable parameter of the software i wrote to count the votes. so if you make a decent argument that different limits -- or even none -- would generate better results, i'll strongly consider giving it a try.one player suggestion that i will definitely be implementing in the next crowdsourcing i do (assuming, nudge nudge, i get re-elected) will be the option to vote against items you don't like. that can be implemented fairly trivially, and without making the current voting process more complicated (a big concern; i want it to be as easy and quick as possible)."
"without turning this into a full-scale debate, how do you contrast your approach with the valid points the mittani makes? by this, i mean in terms of the function of the csm and its relationship with ccp, not whether you're a \"ruthless, manipulative bastard\".to be frank, i'd planned all along to vote for you, but i tend to agree with his philosophy that the csm primarily serves as a sounding board rather than as a set of extra game designers. your response matters a lot to many of us caught in the same situation as me."
"you shouldn't be let anywhere near people that are involved in decision making. you're the water to the cats."
"if you had an extra vote that couldn't be used on seleene who would it be and why?"
"seleene,your platform seems to be the one that resonates most with me. i would however like to hear your thoughts on my microcosm of gameplay: clandestine warfare. specifically, how should black-ops battleships be iterated on? your thoughts on \"afk cloaking\" and what you feel should be achievable goals for small stealth fleets?"
"i've flown with draco before and read his stuff, and he's got some quality ideas and clearly cares about the game. he'd make a solid addition to the csm."
"so you are implying that the current jb system is perfect and should never be changed since it makes logistics \"easy\".i've lived in venal & curse as a member of smaller entities and we did not need those jbs, i waspart of it during their fountain invasion when the alliance had no jbs up and we did fine.the only ones arguing for keeping the current system seems to either belong to the great northern jb network or the drone region jb network. since those jb networks are the main reasons these coalitions can maintain their size and flexibility.i wouldnt go as far as removing jb networks totally but upping the fuel consumption and/or at least increasing their pg/cpu cost significantly to make sure that they cannot be on a heavily defended deathstar. another idea i've seen but dont really like is restricting them to alliance only, it might reduce their impact on 0.0 but it blatantly favours bigger alliances.the other huge downside with the current way 0.0 logistics work with jbs is that it links the entire universe to highsec tradehubs. instead of 0.0 having its own market its all import/export.so i will actually ask a question, and that is how would you change jbs to make them less of a force projection tool and more logistical?"
"this may come as a shock to you, but the pg/cpu cost of the jb is actually one of the favored ideas being kicked around on the goonfleet forums. another is reducing the hp of certain pos mods so it would be easier to temporarily snap logistics chains.but really any competent cloaky gang can destroy ships off of a jb pos, you need look no further than the daily shenanigans off ec- to prove that."
"you got my vote"
"i <3 d3"
"after having read through these forums, you have to love a guy that scammed the scammers, and posted a video. i will be voting for dariusiii, and you should tooranvaig"
"it takes a special panache for a confirmed jita suicide ganker to sit in jita park and campaign for csm, and if the the csm needs anything, it needs panache. d3 has my vote.can i have that gold magnum now?"
"only one question remains before i vote on d3:is d3 the goat or the monkey in the promotional video? ;-)-zil"
"darius has my vote"
"bots are eveywhere >.< however , legion probably rent poor systems for bots for like 14 bil per month with 4-5 belts and bad security status... while nc sells systems for bots just under 3 bil for 16 belts :d hence , russian alliances have income from bots, can't see why they should ban them...unless he wants to ban all the nc bots i don't accuse krutoj in being a bot holder himself.however the renting politics of russian alliances speaks for themselves..."
"the first drawing has occurred and congratulations to larkonis trassler who won 10x large trimark armor pump i.link to the chribba dice rolls"
"i support manalapan. neut rr needs to be fixed."
"first of all, thanks for making your pitch interesting enough that i have now spent an hour reading through candidate discussions instead of playing the game...you say you are running as an \"independent\" candidate. let us assume you get elected .what will this mean in case you are pressured by your alliance leadership to vote/lobby a certain way?what will happen if you should get elected but your alliance's \"main\" candidate is not?*edited to fix typos*"
"my apologies for sparking your interest in the game's wider community i will always push for what i think/feel is the best for the game.naturally my alliance mates will have much closer lines of communication to discuss their views with me, but because i'm not asking for the alliance vote that communication will only ever influence me as much as anybody else's."
"my comment had nothing to do with isk efficiency or k:d ratios, both of which are stupid and pointless metrics. my point is that you simply have not pvp'd enough to have any kind of informed opinion on any aspect of ship balancing, unless you have one or more alts with considerably more experience (read: 1-2 orders of magnitude more kills, obtained in a variety of contexts).and putting three eanms on anything is stupid because of the way stacking penalties work."
"practically every change to eve changes either the supply or demand of something, often this has resulted in unintended consequences that have been miss-handled by ccp and the narrow interests of most csm delegates. technetium, npc goods stockpiles, recyling pos modules, large module loot drops. the sooner these economic black swans get noticed the better.eve is a war game with a war economy."
"bingo. you get a gold star."
"bump"
"i have being playing eve for like 8 months and still going. if i got elected, i would approach other member from the council to make arrangement to design a final proposal. once we got that on hands i would look for support of the eve community to finally introduce the proposal to ccp for negotiation and final approvals. we need to keep in mind this take time and time to introduce the new fix into the system. i'm very confident we can make it happen."
"this is either a fabulous troll or you really don't have a clue how the csm works. which is it?"
"this is either a fabulous troll or you really don't have a clue how the csm works. which is it? well i think i'm a fabulous troll. i want to be open to anyone and no be a selfish. i know the process is no the way i describe but in my opinion should be that way. thinking as the players are the ones voting."
"top guy!vote!"
"honestly, this is one of the most important things about k2's candidacy. i think the previous csm's have done a fantastic job of re-focusing ccp's priorities and ensuring that our voices are heard.if killer2 is going to be a part of that legacy and a part of that process, then i can't think of anyone else i could possibly vote for. if he's about continuing the process of bettering the game for the players (instead of bettering it for the arbitrary desires of some random devs) then that's the direction i want to take!"
"you got my support k2"
"i have played eve with killer2 for several years now. he understands the various aspects of the game, and supports the cleanup of previous features over new shiny stuff. mansex proclivities appear to be at the minimum, which is odd for rawr leadership, but the other qualities lead me to want to lend my axe to his quest."
"good guy, worth of support!"
"this is a good point and deserves a solid answer. i've tried to avoid giving specifics because in most cases my opinions are more nuanced than 'i believe x change should happen to feature y' and don't lend themselves well to simple mission statements. in the years that i've been playing this game, i've experienced most of it from empire mission running and industry to 0.0 life as a renter, a member of a huge alliance, a moongoo magnate and a trader. pretty much the only significant areas of the game that i've not spent a lot of time in are factional warfare and wormholes.so, how does that tie in to my opinions on stuff? well it means that when i'm faced with a proposal, i'm using direct experience of many different types of play. i'm also using my experience as a community professional and a games designer to theorycraft the edge cases, the unforeseen consequences that could be catastrophic if not addressed. the specifics will of course depend on the type of proposal that is being put forwards but typically i will evaluate things from an economic, a community and a game-vision point of view.in general i believe that eve should be true to itself and not compromise on the unique experience that it provides. i believe that reward should always be relative to risk and i believe that balance should come from an array of equally valid choices and not from making the game into brown team vs green team vs blue team vs gold team.to answer your specific queries:i do agree that this csm has done a good job of capturing ccp's attention. partly that was due to the enormous outcry over the infamous '18 months' statement and ccp needing to patch the perception that eve was going into a temporary maintenance mode. a lot of that pressure came from within the csm as well as from the larger community.about meetings. i've brought this up before to the other csm reps without much success. the normal csm meetings are held ingame using the regular ingame chat system. it's not a very good system because ingame chat in almost any game is a poor medium for back and forth debate. i am of the opinion that a lot of the stuff that goes on at meetings (especially early in the term or before a summit which is when the workload spikes hard) could be handled out of game via a more appropriate method such as forum posts, skype or whatever. this would leave the meetings to summarise the discussion and record the votes. a valid criticism of this approach is that the process of debating is just as important to the public as the final results are so there would have to be a way in which the preamble and initial rounds of debates were collated and released along with the actual meeting minutes for the sake of full transparency.on this subject it's worth pointing out that the vast majority of the csm's interaction with ccp happens outside of the regular meetings. the discussions in the internal forums, the iceland summits and email chains with ccp devs are all several orders of magnitude more constructive than any given ingame meeting. while the ingame meetings are the most publicly visible part of what we do, they really are the tip of the iceberg with regard to ccp."
"thank you for your responses.i tend to agree that forums would seem to be a better way to debate an issue than chat. it would allow some more in-depth discussion where everyone does not need to wait for each post. moreover, its often more important to know the reasons why someone votes a certain way than what the end vote is. i understand that allot of the discussion of csm 5 happened on internal forums already. its just that those internal forum posts are not made public. mazz had proposed they be made public - i supported that proposal but never really followed it. would you support that they, or at least future forum posts, be made public? that way players could make a more informed vote on who really represents their views?"
"there is a lot that happens within the csm that the larger community never sees. some of that is to do with the nda, most of it is because there isn't really an effective mechanism to release it (discounting here the purely trivial administration stuff that would be of little interest to anybody anyway). the internal forums are sealed under a strict nda and would require ccp to sanction any release. this would have to be on a case-by-case basis as there's a wide variety of stuff in there. i believe that there should be a lot more transparency around the csm but the csm cannot do this itself, it would require a policy change from ccp and a fairly fundamental change in the communications setup as we'd need to identify before each discussion what would be nda restricted and what wouldn't.there are other ways to increase transparency and thus the accountability of the csm however. one of those ways is through the csm devblogs that have been published from time to time. this is an avenue for the csm as a whole to give the community more insight into what's happening behind the scenes as well as a chance to talk about future plans or priorities. other ways are even simpler, attaching names to comments in the summit minutes for example (currently they just say 'one csm said...' which doesn't help if you want to determine which csm member is fighting your corner)."
"thanks for telling, it might of broke when i edited something, it's fixed now.i added a update to the blog."
"quote:\"the purpose of the csm is to represent society interests to ccp. this requires active engagement with the player community to master eve issue awareness, understanding, and evaluation in the context of the greatest good for the greater player base.upon being elected, the members of the csm are able to communicate closely with ccp...\"hello voter,vote for me if you play eve on a linux based os.the initiator of my csm candidacy was a eve forums thread in the linux section."
"nothing wrong with gansters. you can get purple gansters in some countries."
"dwayne dibley!?"
"could contain mini-games like fishing in lord of the rings, where the achievements are purely vanity related but require rare quest items to craft the best t3 tanks. :)you could then invite others to your private quarters for some interactive role playing instead of a boring old private chat channel.if they add other vanity stuff to incarna it might turn out to be just what eve needs to get all those wives and girlfriends out there playing."
"i personally have my main account, an account with a market trader and a mission runner on it, an account with a ceo alt for a high-sec mining corporation and a couple more market alts, and three other acounts full of high-sec industry and planetary interaction alts. i don't see how it's sad; it's an effective use of my in-game money to pay for accounts full of characters that make me more in-game money. what's sad for you is that it means my six votes for mittens will be worth more than your one vote for whomever."
"hmmm ... do you still have that ridiculous number of accounts for your invention operation breaker?"
"q2) assuming that ccp are effective in reducing botting, what impact will this have on the economy and what would be your proposals ensure a smooth transition?"
"there's a lot of information here on what you guys hope to accomplish. this thread hopes to try to help you guys organize your information into an easily readable and comprable list of data that voters can use to decide which of you we'd like to have. i'd like to do this by having you make a top three list of several things.top three things you like about eve, first item is the one you like most.top three things you dislike about eve/think need to be changed(no suggestions for how to fix them, just list the topics)top three things you'd like to see added to eve.corpalliancecampaign slogan/catchphraseedit: no negative campaigning here!"
"buff the lootdrop in anomalies and plexes"
"officer buff means bots no longer farming these.this is a good thing."
"good luck m8"
"you wish"
"destroyers need to be beefed up. the purpose of the destoyer is to destroy enemy frigates. however, enemy frigates time and time again down destroyers. this ship class pretty much has only one use and thats suicide ganking miners during hulkageddon. i feel that the ship should have additional bonuses to tracking on top of what it already has along with maybe damage bonuses as well. a destoyer should be a firgates worst nightmare not the laughing stock that it surrently is."
"seperate hybrids into blasters and railers operation skills since there is no distinction between gallente and caldari weapon use which there should be (along with bonuses - except for ship bonuses which new people don't really check into yet), make all weapons like minmatar cannons/autocannons (close range fast dps) and artillery (slow heavy dps), reorganize drone/missile/torpedo use for all races since they seem to be popular weapons and should be spread aroundblasters operation-blasters (act like pulse lasers/gattlings/gammaxrayish dmg range)-energy type blast cannons (artillery variant which detonates splash dmg on impact)blasters use energy cells of varius types (ion/electron/etc) and when cells deplete over time the strength of weapon decreases by %percent of depletionso 50% depleted cells would deal half dmg (repairing cells/replensihing them at space station would be like buying new ammo or players could use energy cell replenishers on their ship)railers operation-railers (act like autocannons, fire charges which act like minmatar ammunition)-heavy rail launchers (act like artillery or missiles, heavy charges which detonate and explode on impact)laser operations (lasers still use frequency crystals but the crystals deplete by 1% over time (50-100 shots) and decreases max dmg by that percentage so that laser users actually have to consider ammunition/repair crystals at station-laser artillery (focused artillery variant which causes a splash dmg against hulls of ships-pulse cannons (pulse artillery that causes kinetic/emp explosionstrue hybrids/sscience weapons (require skills in both factions/races, require science upgrades, etc) -particle accelerators (act like artillery, slow heavy dmg)lpcs - short range, extreme dmghpcs - heavy artillery long rangeecm weaponsheat ray/wave - scrambles systems causing heat thermal dmg which cooks the shipshocker/electric weapons - overvolts the ship systems causing emp like dmg sonic weapons - causes kinetic explosions/waves of sonic energy whihc rock the ship and collapse the hull/armorfreezer/cyber hacking weapons - freezes systems cutting off life support, shield regeneration and thrusters/stops energy regenerationevil pirate weapons-xombie - contaminates ship with poison infection that makes livestock undead/infects ship and systems/stations ship visits, quarantine by concord -nanowar - nanobots that eat away the hull/armor of a shipfinally add middle weapon range of 350/380, 450-480 (bigger than 280 and less than 650/720) artilleries (laser, blaster, pulse, railer variants as well) for close range light cruisers vs frigate combatalso add more sml dual, quad weapons like dual 280s (twin medium lasers) on a destroyer/quad 280s (aa or flak weapons)/dual 450s on a small cruiser would be a good weapon to spam against fast attack frigates while using 650s and 720s against cruisers"
"being a highly specced gallente pilot i can say that we really do need a small boost to hybrids."
"gallente love!"
"this proposal was passes unanimously by the csm and will be presented to ccp"
"i'm beaming . fantastic news! very happy to hear that. how does one follow the various proposals that will be sent to ccp? will they be in the eventual csm meeting minutes?i'd like to see what the other csm members thought.thanks again!"
"need to make regular carriers a bit bigger aswell, supported"
"supported."
"link to original threadaddendums to be added."
"reserved for addendums"
"posting to confirm the tier system is terrible.battleship tiers are mostly just fine, but a large portion of cruisers/frigates are tier-ed into awfulness... this is sad"
"as always, i support this idea"
"i sort of agree, but i think you're coming at it from the wrong angle.the problem that needs fixing is that a whole bunch of the available t1 ships are worthless garbage, the fact that ccp decided to make some of them worthless garbage as some quirk of a tier system is rather beside the point (and really, there's a number of higher-tier ships that are worthless garbage as well). i agree that basing varied material costs and skill requirements on the tier system is fairly pointless, but tweaks to the actual attributes of each ship should be done on the basis of making that individual ship useful and balanced, not as part of a drive to remove tiering.half a thumbs up, i guess."
"it goes hand in hand really. the higher tier ships that people generally consider useless are really just suffering from a niche or complete lack of a role. such as the maller... the thing should be the cruiser harbinger."
"+1 of course."
"let's give eve some \"new\" and improved ships to work with. it should be fairly easy to implement given that there won't be any new ship modules to make--just tweaking existing code to make the ships on par with each other. granted i know it's not as easy as saying it, but hopefully this is low hanging fruit and an easy win for all of eve and it's diverse citizens."
"you're talking about a whole expansion's worth of work here. if it was an option between the t1 rebalance (and despite the terminology, that is exactly what you're talking about) and practically everything else that could be done to improve the game, i'd put the t1 rebalance on the bottom of the list. sure, it could be done, and sure it might make the game a little more interesting for 15 minutes until people figure out the new fotm, but the effort/reward ratio is divide by zero. this is not a \"thousand papercuts\" or \"size doesn't matter\" proposal, it's a \"no other expansion this cycle\" proposal, and that sounds like an absolutely awful idea."
"they managed to redesign all the faction frigates and add new faction hulls all as a side note to an expansion.also note the rejuvenating effect the new scrams, webs and speed balancing (ie. qr) had on pvp, that too was a side note to an expansion.besides, if proposals are to be restricted by whatever may require :effort: from the devs, then there would just be one thread here, namely \"fix lagzor!\"."
"if you think that the eve community would not welcome a large scale \"expansion\" that addresses the balance of all t1 ships (most people fly t1 ships btw) then you're being silly.i can almost guarantee you that if ccp overhauled all t1 ships tons of old players would come back to see what has been changed. i've come back multiple times for expansions that have far less content than what is being suggested here..."
"yes, because an ad hoc rebalance of faction frigs made all of them used not just the dramiel. and the speed nerf didn't cause all kinds of bugs, and break the balance on dozens of other ships and 2 full races. they are still fixing the unanticipated imbalances caused by the speed nerf, and it was almost 2 years ago. now the suggestion is to redesign every single t1 ship in the game, essentially from scratch, and make sure all the t2, t3, and faction ships, with the limitless number of potential fittings, stay in complete balance. just because a suggestion is presented as simple, does not make an idea simple. and the ultimate results would be a simple change of the flavor of the month.i maintain that there is no significant gameplay reward to do an entire rebalance at this time, especially considering the massive amount of resources needed to do the job well instead of halfassed. also considering other aspects of in-space needs to be rebalanced, balancing the ships first would mean once other more necessary balances are done, the ship rebalancing would then be broken and all those developer resources completely wasted.it's not a bad idea long-term, just not a good idea right now."
"most of the rebalance is native to dumping tiers. further tweaking would be warranted or not on an individual hull basis.i'm sure ccp is better than any of us at planning out what they are spending dev time on."
"anyone who is suggestion that a total revamp of t1 ships as \"simple\" is foolish, this i can agree upon. however re-balancing a large part of the game all at once has some key advantages even outside the overly simple explanation of \"making everything useful\"."
"support, ships should be balanced on role, not some arbitrary \"tier\""
"any more notice for this maby a upcoming csm candidate might want to chip in"
"this makes sense, optional rookie ships.i do like the dod notice it gives the game a real life feeling."
"i never understood why the one ship that is supposed to be tasked with moving an empire's worth of goods had the crappiest tank around. at the very least jump freighters should be able to fit defensive mods. that said, as a regular jump freighter pilot, i can't express enough love to the dev that decided on the quick cap recharge time!"
"i already find myself bringing agility improving items along for trips and i never understood the speed bonus on those ships with their slow speed, its a percentage on a very low speed so it barely adds."
"agility bonus would be awesome!"
"my personal opinion on this is both a buff and a nerf, so i consider it a balanced approach. i wouldnt consider an agility bonus to be beneficial in terms of game balancing, hell i know its a great bonus for freighter pilots bt you have to consider you're practically turning something the size of a city.id say buff warp speed and reduce max velocity. you can see this as a freighter autopilot nerf, and tbh i think that should be encouraged."
"op want to make gate camping easier and to get even the ships with cov ops. not supported."
"i dont mind the idea of mines, but i would want to use some of the game mechanics of drones on them.basically have a max of 5 mines deployable at one time. have the mines damage radius and damage potential tie in to drone bandwidth. high drone bandwidth meaning you can deploy high damage mines so the mines potential is tied to the deploying ships potential.plus use the drone mechanic for having active mines and deactivated mines dependent on whether the ship that deployed them is on grid.im still a little unsure on hunter seeker mines though. maybe tie them into the same fof missile mechanic so you cannot pick its targets but 'seeks' any uncloaked target within its activation radius. those seekers should have a max flight time when seeking and should detonate after that flight time. thats my thought on this topic :)"
"dont shoot it down for that reason, offer a balance idea to account for covert ops vessels."
"mines were never a good idea in eve.but, they could be viable if used on a larger scale:rather than accounting for individual mines, you setup a mine field of variable size and strength. the server can calculate a broad average damage profile for the mine field as a single entity. how much damage a given ship would take would be a field density vs sig radius issue.example: ship with sig radius of 500 m enters a mine field 100 km cubed with with 1 million mines deployed. that means there is a mine every 1000 m. so the ship would take an average of 50% mine damage while it moves through the mine field, none if stopped."
"given the large influx in the number of supercarriers present in eve and the introduction of fighter bombers alongside the dominion sov changes, pos's have become obsolete and need a reworking.a fleet of supers can pop a tcu in less than 10mins. this fleet will be dropped on a pos with no support fleet for what reason? supers are immune to all ewar. can only be held down by hic/dic, and have enough dps to effectively declaw a pos long before a pos will kill a super...so there is no fear of losing a super when dropping on a pos to quickly reinforce a tcu.proposed changes:-pos's have a 50% damage bonus from its guns to capital class ships.-pos's ewar modules affect supercarrier and titan class ships.-pos's warp disruptor and warp scrambler modules can tackle supercarrier and titan class ships.-pos modules (including the tcu) take 25% less damage from fighter bombers.these proposed changes have no effect on smaller alliance wishing to take sov and only makes larger alliances think twice before dropping a non-supported cap fleet on a pos. it will bring back the utility of poss to act as they were intendeda well-defended and survivable outpost from which to base operations from. these changes will also help reduce the ability of large alliances to grind sov in a matter of 10mins total for a system."
"this sounds pretty reasonable. none of the proposed changes make poses safe from sc's, but do make a sc pos bash non-trivial.even if this exact idea does not go through, i definitely support returning super caps to their intended role, that of killing other capitals."
"this a great idea a central bookmark depository for corps and a bookmark transmission person to person."
"real permissions management in eve.one of the things that has bugged me when i was a ceo was the out-dated, limited and confusing corp permissions system. you had so few options and it was a 1 size fits all. i could not configure 1 office (or pos) in one manner and a second one in another manner. this made it very hard to allow a lot of the things my corp mates wanted to do due to the fact that vital corp activities relied on having certain security in place on some offices and pos's, and this ment that giving the rest of the corp access to the roles to make use of these themselves was not possible, the the whole feel of it made the game feel so early 80's computer system not far-future space fairing society.i want to measure the players support for a complete revision of the permissions (and titles) system in eve. i am going to outline my solution and ask for feedback and improvements (as i am sure that my solution is not perfect).my solution is the a (slightly modified) version of the role/group/user paradigm that has serverd so many good permissions systems.first off in this paradigm users = characters.for the rest, how i see it working is as follows. when you create a new corp a number of basic 'permissions' are created (these will be the same as the current options and in our paradigm are analogous to 'roles'). these will be used as default settings if nothing is changed. corps can also 'buy' more 'permissions' to make use of, giving them a name and a description, thus being fully customisable.from there corporation objects get a 'task permission' tab/menu, where you can configure all the tasks that can be performed in/on that corp object. for example a corp office has the following tasks that can be performed \"per division/hanger view, take, take container(so that is 21 different tasks)\". in my system you would then be able to either let the office take the 'standard' settings or you could customise the 'task permissions' to allow each \"task\" to be done by any one \"permission\" the corporation has available.but assigning permissions to individual characters is still a nightmare, so this is where 'titles'(in our paradigm this is the groups part) come in. you creae a set of 'permissions' and assign it to a 'title'(just like we have today, but with a much much better interface) and then grant that 'title' to characters. they now have the ability to do what ever that 'titles' 'permissions' grant. a corp would start with a number of titles and could buy more.with this kind of system i could put a pos and configure the tasks it provides to be all done by a single 'permission' (say directors for a high security pos) or if i was working on something special i could buy some more 'permissions' call them something appropriate, deploy my new pos and then configure the 'tasks' for that pos to use the new 'permissions', this would create endless possibilites and much more freedom for corporations to configure their corporation assets in a more high-tech future society manner.now you will note that in a couple of instances i have said 'buy' more x (permissions or titles) and this is what i mean. each corporation starts with a default set of 'permissions' and a number of 'titles', these are fixed and can not be renamed, but can buy more and call them what they like, but to stop the sprawl of corps just creating 'permissions' with wanton and abandon. the charge does not have to be much (say 100,000isk per 'permission ' or 'title' and then 10,000isk per month concord maintenance fee), but it needs to make the corp think about the cost for just creating new 'permissions' and/or 'titles' with no thought.continued ..."
"continued ...you might also ask what does ccp gain from this? one of the issues that we ran into with deploying any new corp 'capability' was the need to create 'permissions' round it. this became very hard as the current permissions system is based on a 'bit-mask' number system, which has a limit of 32 'bits' (or 32 permissions) that a corp can support (actually there is 64 as there are 2 'bit-mask' numbers for permissions, but the second is essentially a duplicate of the first saying whether or not you can grant the permission (fromthe first set) to other people. i know that during the time i worked at ccp we ran into this issue a couple if time and i am sure that it has come up since i left.with incarna due to be released soon and with some of the corp functionality that was planned for this i just know that permissions limitations are going to raise their ugly head again and that we will get the same 'bit-mask' implementation (with 2x 32bit intergers (allow and grant))that has already so limited us much in options in eve.i would really like ccp to commit to 'excellence' on this and build a decent 'permissions' system that will support eve (incarna and potentially wod) in the way they deserve. i know this is not as sexy a topic as 'buff black-ops' but i truely think that doing this correctly will have so much impact on other parts of the game (once done for corp's why not move it up to include alliance level tasks, and even down to personal, allowing me to set permissions on my pi command centres to allow my corp mates, or just a group of friends to also run my pi lines. the applications of this are endless and in my opinion will go a long way to further opening the sandbox to some truely innovative game play changes.i would really like to hear peoples feedback and suggestions on this, but also just general support is going to show me the appatite for this kind of change."
"not much left to add. i don't have a problem with using failbook to vote, but forcing a failbook-only vote seemed unfair, as i don't intend to have an account there."
"total agreement, we already pay a monthly fee to play the game how much more do we have to be milked."
"another bump for a small-demographic issue."
"well the title says it all, yes i'm talking about new shiny effects when you turn your mwd or ab on.will be posting photo shopped examples l8r."
"will be posting opinion on examples l8r."
"will be sure to think about this some more l8r"
"epic hull tanking thread is epic.shameless bump - for great justice."
"wat"
"+1 faction bc would be great"
"lol! yhh hyper ehp pirate bc's wouldnt be cool at all, it goes against most pirate factions fighting philosophies for a start.would love to see what a fast blood raider laser bc would be like! <3 this idea!! +1 for fast fun pvp!"
"not supported, because it would raise the cost of entry again, similar to how the dramiel and cynabal have changed frig and cruiser pvp. currently bcs are one of the few things a low to moderate sp player can train for relatively quickly, afford, and be a fleet member in. this might consign them back to ships of last resort if the difference is large enough.price wont matter, there's a lot of isk floating around among the high end."
"lol look at the sandy vjayjays \"sure but they better cost a bagillion isk so normal people aren't using them!!\"u should try to be more bitter. seriously, ur not coming off as bitter vet enough. ...so angry that people 'beneath you' might fly nice ships that only you should be able to afford. give me a jet black hurricane with 8 guns and make them cheap enough that ephemeron emoragequits"
"at the end of the day anything in this regards is being done by game designers. and i'd better see them finally fixing command ships, battlecruisers and 99 other issues instead of this. what's the point in making eve even more fubar?"
"your proposal would completely nerf cloaks out of the game."
"lol, lets forget the fact that the whole orbiting mine is a terrible idea... partly cause mines by sheer definition dont move, and partly because your mines will blow each other up by orbiting and coming into proximity with each other. if you want to decloak sum1 on a gate then guess what... get off ur ass and get corpies in fast t1 frigs with mwd's! theres no excuse not being able to do that... in fact i think a new character can do just that in less than a day!"
"there is no solution where nothing is broken.your suggestion would render the cov ops cloak obsolete. besides you would nerf low sec as well. i would neary die out. not suggested."
"interesting choice of example: the b-52 entered usaf service in 1955 and is currently due to remain active for another couple of decades. if you're asking that ccp introduce t1 frigate replacements during a patch some time around the year 2080, then i can go along with that since even if eve is still going we'll all most likely be dead before we ever see it."
"this would be interesting perhaps we can have it as a special electronics skill which can be learned.the skill would allow you a small preheat at level 1 to all out overload at level 5."
"pos needs changed. anchoring is overly complex and could be made simpler in 100 ways. i really like this proposal and think it would bring some needed smoothness to the game. a lot of the other things are being, have been revamped and i think it is time pos is given a freshening up along these lines. perhaps it could tie into the sansha incursions. \"concord issues new standards for pos to counter sansha technology.\" or something along those lines. +1 for this. would love to see it implemented.zr"
"please i always hate it when people say remove tech ii bpo, why ? i own 1 ship bpo, and the only reason i keep it, is because of the history and because its an unique item.there are plenty ways of making enough isk, and yeah i know some bpo's are good, and some of them aren't, but please stop whining about removing them. if i sell my bpo, i can invest the money and making lots and lots more money then i do now, alright 1,5b profit producing around 42 ships per 32 days (@ pos) is nice, but if i should invent, i can produce around 30 tech ii (cruisers per week (with buying bpc)so thats indeed losing moneywith some decent skills 20x invention of cruisers @ pos per 6 days well lets say you get 10 prints (with +20% decrypt) thats 100x cruiser per 30 days 150m bpc costs 750m decryptor costtech ii (make it your self for more profit) thats 18,3% more (with a -me2 pe1 print) then i do.production cost 100x tech ii cruiser <U+FFFD> 8,3b+ 150m bpc cost+ 750m decryptor costjita selling price around 110m / 10,8bthats around 1,65b profit per 30 days @ pos invention vs. <U+FFFD> 1,5b profit bpo @ posi was now talking about curse ship, so dont know exactly for other ship.ofcourse i maked some bad calculations, and its ****load more work, so ofcourse a bpo will always win, and for that reason only they should make it more fair for inventers, and something more difficult for t2 bpo holders. don't make it to easybut please dont remove them, look nice - gameforce"
"hey look, bismaru/kalle deimos got another sock puppet. isn't it a violation of the eula to use alts to circumvent a forum ban?"
"hm. nice gimmick. too sophisticated for kalle.still a clueless ****** but a smart clueless ******"
"there's only one true neutral / anti-kartel csm: ms pacmanget all votes on her and that way she can appeal to ccp based on total votes when it's needed."
"you still want rent slots, and think 0.0 is the only playstyle worth to play.if you are an empire player, you might want to look for a candidates who do not see empire as a nursery for players to grow up before they come to 0.0.and if you are a nullsec player who thinks nullsec needs a fresh start, tired of all this :-renting,-supercap insta-death for everyone who is not a powerbloc,-imbalanced moons resources,-farming in overprotected boosted systems against any logical sense-totally frozen political map because of overprotection of key systems held by powerblocsand if you want 0.0 to look more like :-wild, risky-even more rich, but mainly in deserted areas, not in big protected hubs-dynamic wars, political map changes regularly because ressources change with time and make some region more appealing-sov battle in a whole constellation, simultaneous structures to hit in different systems, less ehp on these structures so that conventional fleets matter, and no more supercap online-no more jump bridges, but players can build genuine gates with jove techs, and let their alliance name on it for eternity....while i won't ever promise anything because i know i won't make it happen alone, what i can assure you is a fresh look on 0.0, free from influences, and only motivated to make the game even more appealing for everyone.you might want to look at this."
"why do people keep thinking that 0.0 players look down on empire? we like empire. most of our alts--which represents the vast majority of our subscribed characters--live in empire. we need empire. we don't want to nerf empire. the only people who want to nerf empire are the lowsec ~pirates~ who want more cheap kills. i like that empire is a safe place for me to run missions, do market shenanigans and otherwise make lots of money. please get the idea that 0.0 players hate empire out of your head."
"p.s.: please do not nerf level 4 missions, as they're a huge money faucet for me and i like that."
"sycophants everywhere, as common as spawn campers.oh, how the mighty have fallen. goons used to feared, they used to be anachists, but the kitten has turned you all into trembling little followers."
"please visit your user settings to re-enable images.please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"well, when we are already talking about afh/afk cloakers, then what do you think about afh un-probe-able frigates/ships?i know, it is possible to d-scan them down, and i have already d-scaned gsc's and unscanable ships down a few times.still, it's the same issue as having the cloak run 23.5/7, you just have the eccm running 23.5/7 and/or some low-slot items that improve your strength.maybe those items should also be changed to drain a lot more capacitor, because at this moment you can train a character that can use a frigate with eccm mods in less then 2 days, and you can just have him sitting in a system for being there and disturbing operations of anyone."
"i have heard about unprobe-able ships and in general the idea of 'unlocate-able' passive ships (ships with no at the keyboard pilot) break my perception of eve."
"+1prom for csmgreat vids by the way. us solo / small-gang pvpers feel your plight."
"2 votes here."
"got my votes. best of luck to prom, who knows his stuff. as much as he and i may agree to disagree on things."
"looks pretty good to me."
"i'm liking your idea on lowsec exploration and mini-professions in general. i can find great immersion in exploration and it is something that is available to both solo and group play. apocrypha already improved a lot for us explorers but as you pointed out, there is still plenty of room to improve.exploration is what initially got me to move into lowsec and i feel that it can become the big catalyst for many highsec bears to move there too should it be developed further. highsec mission runners have this general idea that missions need to be ran in very expensive fit faction battleships, so naturally they refuse to put that at risk by taking them into lowsec when small gangs of pirates can easily gank their pve fits. however the second they're able to fit a cov ops cloak, they start feeling a lot safer. if a recon ship was introduced with cov ops capabilities and bonuses to exploration related skills, combined with increased rewards from lowsec sites, i'm guessing this would get a lot of people to move there.furthermore, it might encourage pvp between pve'ers. i rarely run into anyone in lowsec when exploring outside of the small roaming gang and the odd pirate. and most of those don't even have combat probes with them or won't bother scanning out a cloaky ship. however, if lowsec got more crowded with pve explorers, you could get situations where two pve'ers might run into each other and would have to compete over a high value site. for instance, some guy scans out a site, warps to it and finds another player there in an expensive ship with aggro from all the npcs. if this person never pvp'd before, or piracy never even crossed his mind, the idea of taking out the opposing player might become real interesting if the contents of the site were worth the risk of aggression and the decrease in sec status.overall, good idea. i'd also like to know in more detail how you would adapt a t2/t3 ship to be better suited for exploration."
"hi there !what's your position with that --> wild 0.0 ?"
"thanks for the feedback thus far, i'm really quite happy to read that people are living the low-sec dream~ what is fundamentally wrong with low-sec is that there is very little added value for all the risk; i don't want to diminish risk in low-sec or decrease reward in high-sec, but more outlets to make money in low-sec would be ideal. i envision a small group getting frustrated with running missions in high-sec and branching off to the low-sec gold rush. there they can meet up with other like-minded people, form bonds. alternatively, they could because bitter rivals, take up contracts with local pirates, and fight one another to the death. ultimately it doesn't matter how they interact, just that they do it.as far as exactly how is concerned, i think t3 subsystems provide a great opportunity to add new mini-profession classes. new t3 subsystems can be added that can provide bonuses to gas-cloud mining and exploration. since t3s can cloak, it'd be exactly what you're thinking would be great except without having to introduce a new ship."
"it's a great idea, and yet it's been sitting idly for two years - it would appear as though some helpful cajoling is in order"
"sup supso tehy say on da street,its about what a dawg know, not who a dawg meetbut dig it, i been roun da block,an seen da mittani an him walk da walkre-re ain been aroun'since kuzim's computer burn down to da grounso a dawg cant be presdent of evea dawg put him endorsmen to a dawg who him belevso dig it, this is da only endorsmenany dawg need: vote mittani: a force whena dawg playin eve need mad improvmenan him is a dawg who be talkin mad affluenthim brinin mad order wit a mandate persuentto what all dawgs need, him da top of da pack, y'alllets sine dis bit: sincerly: kuzim blaky'allbe safe dawgps somtims a dawg tax bad dawgs, but dont hate da playa, hate da game recycliers reprazant!"
"ladies and gentlemen, the only endorsement i will ever needkuzim, it is an honor~"
"it's pretty much a given you're gonna be on the csm, and so will seleene. should you not accept that premise, please treat is as a hypothetical. (and you;d be deluded.) how is two or more big egoes in csm6 gonna work out? any prior idea on that?"
"mark and i get along like a house on fire, both from ~time served~ together in the great wars (with him against us in the first phase, and with us in the second) and we mesh well irl. we've chilled at the eve vegas thing as well as the last fanfest, and i expect we'll do the same this year if he's going to reyk in 17 days like i am."
"mark, in light of all these douchy words, would you care to comment?alexander, the high sec ignorant idiots may not be so easily pursuaded by your point of view. never the less they do seem to be a power to be reckoned with. what would you say to someone 2 months in the game?"
"if you're a newbie, pretty much no one besides eve university or test cares about the newbie experience in eve as much as goonswarm. we recruit newbies into the game constantly from sa, and the rifter has always been our main ship of the line. (well, until we discovered maelstroms)anything that is good for newbies is something i'm behind; half of the trouble of running my alliance is often convincing new players that this buggy, hideous game is actually fun and not hideous."
"oops alex..'rifters' 'my alliance' :s"
"hoh-lee sh*******t. it haf ben dark times wit out ya dawg. dark dark indeed."
"a dawg him been all about sellin mad hotdawgs dawg, else a dawg been a dawghouse wit mad bad luck.mi ain want to tell him story up in eveside, takin away mittinis moment dig, maybe a dawg mail a dawg kuzim2skarkonstreet.infobe safe"
"hey you're before my time but that's an awesome gimmick, well done"
"i thought long and hard about posting here as i'm sure to get attacked by goonswarm members seeing this as an attack on their leader, but it needs to be said:mittans, on shc someone posted a quote from a goonswarm internal thread by you communicating your feelings about one other particular csm candidate: trebor daehdoow, and i quote the relevant bit:.trebor is the csm5 member who was directly responsible for the crowd sourcing initiative here on these forums where players could prioritize the wishes from a list of csm issues that are on the ccp backlog. the results of that - the low hanging fruit, or easy-to-fix parts of game issues - led to the formation of ccp's so-called team bff fixing at a fast rate exactly many of those issues.i would honestly like to know what drives you and other goon members to bad-mouth him behind closed doors. he has a proven track record on the csm of getting real work done that benefits all of us.the only conclusion i can come to is that you perceive him as a threat to some part of your in-game alliance, i presume his support for the nerfing of jump bridges as was speculated about by others.i should also point out that your claim \"they're lying to you\" seems to actually mean \"i'm lying to you\". you do openly admit to being mean and devious, though, so i suppose it's us that would be the suckers if we were to believe that claim.that said, i presume you will get into the csm regardless due to the goons' bloc vote and i implore you to at least try not be so divisive so as to revert the csm back into the irrelevance it had a couple of years ago."
"i don't see any reason goons would flock to attack you for that post.but the answer to your question is simple: we don't like that guy because he's not our guy. the same way bloc/party voters in real life blindly support their side's candidate, people in eve blindly support their side's candidate. and you know what that means? that means that the other guy's candidate is an idiot, a bigot, a pedophile, and drowns kittens in his spare time. politics is politics."
"i'd vote for that guy, **** kittens. why did you choose vile rat as your running mate?"
"vile rat has a proven record of diplomatic brilliance that has been honed over the course of the great war, and he works for the state department. he's savvy, intelligent, and pragmatic. we've worked as a team for many years."
"as you can tell they also have a budding bromance going on"
"i'm quite confident you'll be one of the ones willing to put in great effort if elected. i'm really looking forward to listening to those debates, btw!"
"you'll have my vote :thumbsup:"
"riptard, you are a smart dedicated person who is the type of person the csm needs. you have my vote."
"as much as i do like mitten's run, and the points he makes, just think about it.worst thing that could happen to the csm would be getting mittens and 5 copies of him elected. next to worst thing would be mittens and 5 sycophants elected.which is why i'm backing trebor, and hoping he'll get chairman, as well.i'm guessing he, as a returning csm, is aware of the retraints his infinte power still holds... i'm voting for a csm that has both mittens and trebor, with trebor having as big a mandate as possible. ie, i'm voting trebor."
"magic 8-ball says: \"statement too cryptic, try again\""
"also, mittens has asserted that he'll get a seat on his goon votes alone, so why waste a vote on something that is presumably a sure thing already? i encourage you (and everyone) to invest your vote in a diverse and experienced csm by voting for trebor. continuity--even if csm6 takes a very different approach to csm5--is still very important in helping maintain the csm's momentum. that continuity is best served by re-electing people who were effective and publicly engaged during the previous term. no one fits that description better than trebor."
"hear, hear.if my second vote is going to anyone but trebor, something i;m still mulling over ( i don't like just voting one guy, but that's more of a personality disorder than something rational...) it's not gonna be mittens. but, at least , by now i'm convinced that he's not gonna kill all the hard work you, trebor, teadaze and others did..."
"so, uh, what can we expect, exactly?if they're working on any of this crowdsource/game prioritization stuff, they're sure not doing you any favors by keeping whatever it is they've decided to implement under wraps.disclaimer:voting for you on 1 of 2 accts"
"the idea that the csm \"primarily serves as a sounding board rather than a set of extra game designers\" is an example of a false proposition for several reasons; first because the csm has never served as extra game designers, but also because csm has many functions in addition to -- and arguably more important than -- acting as a sounding board (which, btw, is not so much about discussing low-level issues like \"fix rockets\" and much more about big issues like microtransactions and botting)csm is not just about providing feedback to ccp, or communicating player concerns to the devs. these are important, but even more important is the csm's role as a stakeholder: asking the hard questions, getting ccp to justify the allocation of their development resources, and, in the words of ccp hellmar, \"calling bull****\" on them when needed.but \"calling bull****\" doesn't mean yelling, or calling people idiots. it means making sure ccp's considered all the angles, that they have good answers for those hard questions, that they can provide good metrics to back up those answers, and so on. it can, and should, be done in a calm, professional manner -- \"nothing personal, just business.\""
"can you elaborate more on this? specifically, what about the \"stakeholder\" position is unique to the csm and how the role is enforced (\"stakeholders\" in general have power... what is the csm's power?)how you personally have used your role as \"stakeholder\" for the betterment of the game? what hard questions have you asked ccp, and when have you called bs on them?"
"treb gets my one vote, you get the other account's vote.trebor may not be mister pvp hotshot, nor may he be mister nullsec alliance, but he is the sole candidate running who really worked hard for all of us the last time round, with visible results. i disagree with him on the issue of rage and how it affects ccp's actions, but even without the rage, the work he did was absolutely worth the vote he got from my last time round. it's sad that teadaze and myxnee aren't running this time as they were both hard workers as well, especially mynxee. all she got for her trouble was endless bad-mouthing and insults by the more lunatic fringe of the game, and she deserves a better legacy than that, and the best way to do that imo is to vote for the serious and professional candidates, no matter how boring they appear to you."
"trebor, you have my 1400's.wait wrong movie.you have my vote."
"in addition to the items mentioned in the size doesn't matter devblog, team bff is working on some extra items that they hope to deploy in the near future.they've told csm about the csm-raised issues that they are planning on working on (all muscow should's and could's, and all things that will make a lot of people happy), but they've also taken csm's advice to \"underpromise and overdeliver\" perhaps a bit more to heart that we'd like; they don't want to say a word about them until they are ready to deploy -- i guess you have to be careful what you wish for.as with the other teams, such as the ones working on incarna, csm is encouraging team bff to communicate as much as possible to the players as soon as possible. you can help speed this process by plying them with liquor at fanfest."
"one of the most passionate people i've ever had the pleasure of spending time with though eve online. i've worked with mark for over 5 years and would name him amongst those who have both earned their place as well as those who show the most drive.his work experience along with his game experience puts him in a perfect position to ensure players needs and concerns are raised to the top.vote saline!"
"without a doubt one of the best guys for csm! good luck soleene :p"
"do want o_oi want you to go back on the dev team, now :p___as you talked about w-space, i realized i didn't saw any words about what we, w-space residents wants ; there may have way less big fixes needed, but there's still lots of things to do... evn if they are already on csm list since a while.as an ex-dev, what do you think about the dififculty of remaking the corp roles system, as there's lots of issues for pos security ?and what about reform of bookmarks, and the option to have corporation bookmarks and so on ?and on a bigger subject ; the dead horse about pos themselves... everyone agree that it would be very hard to do, but what would be your opinion on what do to about pos ?"
"i was not gonna vote this time round but you have my vote seleene so thats 2 votes for you"
"your background at ccp is invaluable, seleene, but i might have voted for you for the banner campaign alone. as it is, you get my second account's vote."
"seleeneknowing the ins and outs of ccp makes you a key member of the community.my request for you to get my vote is, keep an open mind and make sure all parts of the community are represented from the small time mining corp to the power block alliances."
"both actually. the biggest issue is lack of attainable goals sure, but the lack of goals in general hurt the experience. i fear you misunderstood, the idea of 'goals' doesn't mean mining and better rats, it means strategic objectives that can be accomplished by small groups where the counter isn't \"more dudes\".are you asking if there's a point where i'd say the problem is fixed and things are working well? just clarifying your question because metrics are going to be worthless in determining this. either people are having fun and think the end game content is entertaining and achievable or they don't."
"screw goons!!! but i will vote for vile rat cause he does play eve and does know what we want.+1"
"i am represented by the monkey, and ccp is the poor captive goat."
"well,i hope you can troll the rest of eve as well as you have trolled brick squad:)"
"vote for darius iii! lets pod more jita capsules!"
"i endorse this product and/or service!"
"darius is both a gentleman and a scholar, and beloved by all. he gets my vote."
"confirmed, i'm votin' for darius iii."
"hello,your immersive and roleplay point of view may be invaluable in a csm. it is a good thing for roleplay, and thus story and fiction to be represented, but it is extremly important for me to know some people can have an insight based on immersion and how we, players, feel in the game, how we directly enjoy it by being part of a universe. how to forget a little the 'microsoft excel in space' bit at the benefit of immersion.good luck for your candidacy."
"krutoj knows his ****. he corrected me on english grammara vote for krutoj is a vote for a strong csmand to all those carping on about botters, i will tell you the exact same thing i tell everyone who raises it ; almost all of nullsec is infested with botters, and trying to use it to smear krutoj's campaign is pretty irrelevant since he personally takes a zero tolerance stance towards it in his corp and his alliance, and his renters also. i'm willing to bet he's done more to fight botting than anyone who is accusing him of profiting from it has. sure, botting happens in the drone regions, but no more than any other region of space, and it is no more tolerated. it's hard to watch every system you own when your coalition holds around 1000 of them.pretty much this"
"the second drawing has occurred and the winner is hot tubes and his prize: 20x covert ops cloaking device ii.chribba dice roll linki am going to adding some more ways to get tickets. every time you contribute to this thread or anything on my campaign blog you will get a ticket. the ticket number will be determined by the time you posted."
"i support manalapan."
"my goodness the neutral remote reps have to be fixed. it makes high sec wars unpleasant. i like to pvp and this makes eve unfriendly to pvpers. for this alone i would vote for you but the other issues are important too. that makes voting for you the only choice not just the best choice."
"you have my vote for neutral rr cheat... needs to be removed for good..."
"thank you for your support. neutral rr fix is the central point of my campaign as it is definitely an overpowered mechanic and hurts the war mechanic."
"neutral rr must go."
"manalapan, in your tirade you mention you will assure the implementation of your ideas to better the eve universe. you do not, however, mention exactly how you can guarantee on such a promise. i, for one, would like to know more about how this is possible. aside from that, i support your ideas and will do my part to contribute to your election to the csm."
"i can't guarantee that i can make these a reality that would be very unrealistic of me, ccp generally does what they want. what i can guarantee is that i will make sure these ideas get voiced and that i will constantly push for the balance of all play styles in eve."
"2 things i would like to see changed to the api1. distinguish between bpo and bpc.2. show if the blueprint is locked down or not."
"hello kalrand,i'm an insignificant player from a dead alliance murdered by goonswarm in the distant past. how are you? i mention that because i think it's important to convey that the csm is more about the every player and not one particular player or play style. i'm interested in your candidacy because i feel like you're one of few who understand all phases of the game for players, from new player in empire, to bitter retiree in empire, and i wanted to make a few points, perhaps some to your benefit, but also to ask a few questions.firstly, i like the idea of a pos module that enables subsystem changes, but i think this would be better implemented in a module that already exists. it's the sort of module that would make small gang t3 fights more flexible, and encourage their loss (er, sorry, \"risk vs. reward\"). i realize that's probably a semantic argument though - the point is that we both favor the option.second, i find that i agree with salvage drones. it reduces an unnecessary part of the cleanup routine that goes with missions and the like, and it might even encourage covert-ops capsuleers to have a bit of fun, tracking plex sites and eating up what goodies they find. it would also be handy for small gangs.the sov systems of teh past and present favor alliance level politics. if you had the option, how would you affect change in this area? would you enable corporate-level sovereignty?you suggest a t2 orca, but what does a t2 orca look like? jump drive?how would you make lowsec mining more rewarding without devaluing nullsec? higher density mid-ends than available highends in nullsec? what do you find are the balance problems with level 5 missions? (i'm naive here; i've never attempted them, and i shy away from lowsec).i tend to think that the botting bit is a bit over scope. yeah, i disagree with botting in general, but i just don't think that the csm is going to do more to fight them any harder than ccp is.overall, i think you've got the everyman in mind with the general scope of your changes. as far as i can tell, there is literally no reason for anyone who exists in any of eve's sec spaces not to seriously consider your simple proposals. but i'm interested in learning about the specifics that you'd bring forward."
"thank you all again for your support and questions, keep them coming."
"considering all the \"support\" you've been getting in this thread, i'm going to go ahead and assume all your in-game mails are coming from your mother to make you feel better. at least since they're digital, it's not as painfully obvious since they're not all in her handwriting. kudos to your mum for giving her son that fantasy of popularity, even if you're 26 already."
"haha, very good. i can only assume that the people that have been mailing me are people who are interested in getting an answer rather that having to read through pointless trolling by some people on the forums. you don't like me that is clear. i don't mind, you cant please everyone, especially people who set out to be as dramatic and un-funny as you :-)"
"i dunno, i'd check those mails extra-carefully for giveaways like asides asking why you don't visit your mother more often. it just seems odd that anyone not related to you would be interested in a candidate as unfocused and bumbling as yourself."
"i have flown with pirates, mined with the queen of the carebears, been in wars, and sat in gate-camps. i have raced in the death-race in a freaking mining barge. i have rescued the damsel so often i had my name tattooed on her butt, for easier identification. i have written for the tribune, been a guest host on a podcast, and interviewed for a previous csm election.i have a life and have a firm enough grasp of reality to know what is important and what is not.this is a game . . . i enjoy it a lot.i'd like to help make it better, but if i am not elected, i will continue playing. i don't have to be the chairman . . . i don't have to be part of a unified voice destined to cow ccp into submission. like that is going to happen. i want to help make it better by cooperatively finding solutions to problems the players ask us to set before the ccp. i do not think i am a game dev. i do not have solutions for every issue at my beck and call. i have the will to help find them, to say what is good and what is bad. i don know how to call bull**** if the occasion arises (and i expect it will.i am a player of the game . . . just like you. i am not a godling, not a leader of an alliance, i write a blog . . ."
"i endorse this weirdo"
"^ still the best avatar."
"please visit your user settings to re-enable images.i've got asperger syndrome, i'm 19 years old, and i'm an internet veteran."
"a high iq and second life? you got my vote"
"this guy seems like good goonwaffe material."
"as a fellow victim of asperger's syndrome i fully endorse this guy."
"i'd buy him an sa account if he promises to post an a/t thread about being an aspie."
"well for the sake of striking conversation in this post i'll let you guys hear an idea i have for pvp pilots. every faction npc has their own specific set of named modules... passive, active tank mods, guns and even mid slots all have a named faction variant. i propose we give a bonus to ships who are fit with all of the same faction module. for example.. a ship fit with a complete true sanshas tank gets a 5% bonus to its passive or active tank.. same idea applied to guns and mids. a ship fit with the same true sanshas high and mid slots gets a 5% boost to that faction gun or module...i think this will provide some unpredictability on the battle field, which is nice.. also it will increase the value of these current modules. most of which value is negligible at the moment and do not serve much better purpose when compared to their t2 equivalent."
"you haven't been paying attention much to this election race, have you?"
"to the goon race.. not really!"
"i'm sure that statement makes you feel really smug, and i'll do you a favor anyway. every major candidate who has any chance of winning has made it a point of acknowledging that trying to push specific ideas is a wasted effort. no one is going to take you seriously if you are trying to present that as your campaign platform. in addition to that glaring issue, your character name is offensive to just about anyone who's been on the internet for any length of time. people like to see realistic names, or at least names that contain nothing but words. aside from perhaps some sort of role-playing gimmick focused on rogue drones or sanshas, there is no reason to have numerals in your name other than a lack of creative thought. people don't like people with a lack of creative thought on the internet. people like to make fun of those guys (i.e., you). if you would like to make a serious bid for the csm, then you would do well to first read the platforms of the other major candidates, and then post something similarbut different enough to distinguish yourselfwith an alt that doesn't have a terrible name.on the other hand, i'm sure if you post with xvxlegolasxvx you'll get some votes from people with names like iisephirothii and drizzt dourden."
"i see you goons are good at poking fun at trivial things including my name.. when i started the trial of eve online i was not aware of its rich scifi role playing community and i did not create a name that suited it. instead i chose the name that i had adopted many years ago when i was young and first started playing computer games. i was an enormous mechwarrior fan hence the name madcat and the numbers after for obvious reasons.i have petitioned to ccp to change my name.. but this is not something that's donei am not worried about people making fun of me, i am making a serious bid for csm. i am not promising the sky to the masses, i am not smearing my competitors..i know that my ideas and arguments are solid and i am confident that players can see right through some of my competitors vile intentions!i have read the other candidates platforms, many still containing specific ideas... i find them impressive, ambitious and do also endorse some of these..count on me capsuleers to make a difference in csm! elect me, a candidate who has dignity and strength and is not running for their own personal ambitions!"
"mi got a dawg som question about him policy:first up, whats your interest in forwardin recyclien interest? last time a dawg made up recyclien ship who is called nostus, good ship use by recyclien and recovery gig dig, but too much expense for makin mad dawg bucks. maybe a dawg make a better one?also recyclien industry needs growth by adding more home base near system whats got .1 to .0 space, maybe a dawg offer what they think about it?what else a dawg think can make recyclien and recovery gig a better gig so more dawgs become it?next year mi gonan pioneer this som more, but not now kuz a dawg been short of mad bucks to buy a new computer.thanks dawg"
"this cat thinks the \"noctis\" is just fine... it will pay for itself in a short amount of time anyways... unless you loose one every day i would vote yes an a proposal making the noctis cost more to build.. if not just simply keep it the same."
"this is singularly the most ******ed thread i have had the misfortune to read. and people say mittens spurges, hes got nothing on disgruntled flying monkey.stop spewing *******s."
"thats why everyone not in these dictator coalitions should vote for the neutral anti-kartel csm ms pacman !if ms pacman would get 10.000 votes she will be able to appeal to ccp based on her total votes when it's needed."
"no, this thread is about your continued violation of the eula. why do you refuse deny the accusations that you are circumventing a forum ban using alts?"
"cheers!let's see if this csm can get **** done right!"
"you got my vote"
"killer2 is our man. you have my vote."
"k2 has my vote as well."
"i definately support this player, he represents the mindset we need to represent us to ccp."
"+1 from little old me as well. killer2 is an excellent choice."
"yea umm pretty sure ccp said at last years fanfest linux was no longer really going to be cared about by them since not many people use it, but best of luck getting some votes for csm off of just an os"
"least inspiring candidacy thread ever?"
"c"
"but let's give you a honest chance. why should anyone vote for you?what do you think about the current state of the game in nullsec? what should be done to fix it?how about lowsec? any ideas on fixing that?if mittens is right, and the whole trick to the whole \"csm\" thing is forcing ccp to listen to the csm, what would you be adding there if we elected you?"
"i'm with mr. destroyer on this one, renting is a nice win-win system if you can bear the stigma of being 'a renter'. it allows easy access to the moneymaking facilities that nullsec offer and a whole new game experience for a fresh-from-hisec bear, and awesome passive income for the landowner. if you want to do something about it make an alliance and invade instead of *****ingalso a is a word"
"what i like to see implemented is that renting space to others can in future only be done through \"rent slots\"renting through a rent slot can be done by a ceo (or added role).the advantage of this will be that ccp will get control over rent space and their money flows. ccp can then also limit the number of systems and/or corporations that an alliance can rent out to others.example:fictional system: qba-testsovereignty: demo alliancesystem licenced to: rentingcorpthat is also what i meant by \"termination of renterspace as it is today\" as the way systems are currently being rented has totally gotten out of controlany other way of renting out systems should be a violation of the eula once 'rent slots' are being introduced.alliances wont be able anymore to rent space to other alliances with the introduction of rent slots (this in my perspective to make it harder to maintain coalitions between alliances)"
"1.0"
"keep wishing, hope is fine"
"nice ideasupported"
"lol...wut? so you want to make it even more like \"rock, paper, scissors\" than it already is? sorry...not supported. you take away the tier system and you ruin the diversity in the game. then once the tier system is revamped you have to revamped the skills system to go along with it. it will never happen. tier system is here to stay."
"you know, i'd prefer rock-paper-scissors balance to rifter-rifter-rifter that we have in place at the moment. i say this as someone who adores the rifter incidentally, but it also shouldn't be the obvious choice for every bloody role except maybe scanning.balance based on roles will increase diversity, not reduce it, because you will be able to choose a ship to fit a role, rather than just doing a few hours training and using the rifter for everything."
"you must be one of those who think one ship should do everything, rather than using the correct ship for the purpose.what a foolishly ignorant statement.the skill system would need exactly zero changes related to removing tier.not your call to make."
"supported!"
"making ships useful? yes."
"yea, nice one. \"the purpose of the csm is to represent society interests to ccp.\"yea, me and my mates want more ship types, i want faction destroyers, we have discussed formation flying too, this would be very useful. nice one, cheers."
"supported, although not sure whether this should take priority over other, more urgent stuff."
"while supporting this i realize that nothing will change in the space for the next 2-3 years. shoes, jackets, sunglasses and sexy asses are way too important."
"frigates are fun. people use t1 frigates from time to time no matter their sp. t1 cruisers... not so much. honestly, the only people who use t1 cruisers are people who haven't yet trained bc or t2 cruisers. most people blow through the t1 cruiser phase in less than a month. as such, in the grand scheme of things, rebalancing ships that are rarely used isn't worth the time or effort right now.rebalance frigates (t1, faction, t2)? yes. battleship tiers make sense. t2 cruisers could use a bit of rebalancing (but not terribly important either right now)."
"most people get to bses as fast as the skill system allows, that doesn't mean that is the smart thing to do.the important thing is removing tiers, the rebalance might not even need to happen. no they don't, but i'll bite the bait anyway: why?nothing is terribly important right now, but t2 are not part of this topic either way."
"bss are usually a bad idea. most end up sticking with bcs, which is the logical choice for players between 1-12 months.from a skill perspective or from a construction cost perspective?a tier 1 bs < tier 2 bs < tier 3 bswhen it comes to tank, damage output, and versatility, the higher the tier bs, the more you get out of it.sure, i was just pointing out that rebalancing is needed throughout the game."
"then what's the point? cost differences either don't matter or are actually a good thing (gives rookies something to work for.) skill training differences don't matter. changing those 2 parts of the tier system would affect absolutely nothing without a complete rebalance of all ships of every size, every tech level, and of every class, plus all the weapon systems, and every module. intensive computer simulations would need to be run to calculate that no ships will have an advantage over the others and thus become the \"flavor of the month\" and make the rest obsolete. and when you're done, the state of a game where every single thing is balanced, it will mean that there cannot be any way for any ship to gain an advantage over another which means every ship feels exactly like every other ship. that is bad for gameplay (and the reason i find vanilla shooters like halo boring) and a complete waste of massive amounts of dev time to get the results you are looking for.ships will never be completely balanced, and that's okay. small balancing changes are made all the time. if you have something specific, propose it. as a general \"everything should be fixed\" well, no duh, sherlock. i hope the devs are smart enough to realize how poorly thought out this idea is, and what a massive waste of time it would be to carry out."
"no, the important thing is the rebalance part. tiering on its own is not an issue at all."
"they go hand in hand i spose. you can't have a tier system and have balance too."
"asap would be fine for me."
"i agree. the only time you gain a sec status increase should be while in low sec."
"why do capital pilots need standings"
"1.0"
"epic bamp, support this please also vote prom4csm because he's cool and flies solo just check his page v0v"
"by the power of greyskull, this is an amazing thing to read. supported fully. +1 +1 +1 +1 +1 +1 +1 +1"
"supported.perhaps make npc's sell them at every station for 0isk and since you cannot refine them - you can buy them everywhere.if you need one - buy one for free.i hate getting those notifications - then i have to go delete the email, and go trash the ship."
"my concern with that is that people would just buy tons of them and use it as free chafe in industrials.support manalapan and win free stuff!!!"
"supported...recently a friend of mine gave me one of his old characters... i trashed mor than 250 noobships..."
"i like these ideas very much, in my opinion, (and maybe restating other ideas), turn off all newbie ships for docking with a pod, and not having a ship at current station by default. and one of the following:have a button or other ui interface (ex. in the aura help section) that delivers one to your current station. or seed every station with a newbie ship (faction appropriate) you buy them at like 1 isk and/or have the option to sell them for .01 isk(the buy back needs to be very low to prevent abuse)with with either option, (but definitely the market buy option), you could also do away with the fittings and gratuity gift of tritanium. (would this also free up data-base keys as well?)"
"this too."
"new caldari player here (under two months). i chose caldari for the guns, missiles and shield tanking -- but mostly the \"guns from long range\" aspect. so when i was ready for cruisers i discovered in the forums how gimped rails are but decided to get a moa anyway (i pve) just to be different from my friends who went caracel/drake and because i still wanted to fly a gunship.best fit was to forget range (ie disappointingly chucking the play style i had in mind): tank passively and fit duel 150's and fight in close. well, after a couple of weeks of trundling slowly to get to range and still hardly do any damage i'm at battlecruiser decision time.i still want to fly a gunship but the pve (non-blaster) ferox is crap due to rails. so this afternoon i researched cross training to gallente for brutix ---> megathron path since damage bonuses seem to be better than the caldari range bonus and i can utilize the hybrid and gunnery skills i already have. but apparantly the gallente gunships are not much better even with the added drones and better bonus.is it worth doing this? should i just grin and bear flying a ferox --> rokh and hope for a rail buff? i have a couple of days to decide since i am waiting for cybernetics iv for implants.obviously i am supporting this and can't believe this thread is a year old and no buff. when it's better to ignore the ship bonus and fit lasers and projectiles to caldari gunships then surely there is something rotten with rails even if my experience in the moa didn't already affirm this.count me as a disappointed new subscriber and if after another two months when my initial subscription ends and ccp shows no willingness to address a rather fundamental balance issue then i may have to move on. probably, won't -- but wasting time making a wholesale switch to minmatar or amar for decent direct fire play would **** me off enough to just chuck the whole game right then and there.fix rails & rail-using gunships, please.*** update: decided to fly the drake while cross-training to either minmatar or amar for a gunship battleship. rails are dead to me now. thanks for the recommendations."
"the megathron is the single gallente bs that works, poorly but works, with rails just because of it's bonus and still you must fit one tracking computer+tracking script and add mfs wich means you have very good armor tanking skills.oc you'll forget to ever use t2 ammo wich is complete crap and use faction ammo instead but don't expect to get some dps with them that could ever make you say \"wow\". forget it or you'll need to \"third\" crosstrain for the vindi before you can see your rails spit something that looks like dps."
"most wars i've been in, one side or the other just shut down a few hours in, and the one war that i've been in that was not like that was the one where one six year old loki blew the crap out of our ten man t1 cruiser/frigate fleet with month old pilots. in my experience at least, you're wrong.also, support for this idea. nerf autopilot hauling, boost active hauling."
"agreed...even a 1% agility would be better than the speed bonus. it's a freighter...not a speed boat!!!"
"i fly cov ops in nullsec every day. i am not so much of a sissy as you to be worried about a few little mines taking me out. and yes it would be useful for gate camps...both offensively and defensively. hardly would make it \"easier\" since you have to sacrifice some of your regular dps in order to fit the mine launcher. not everybody is going to have a mine launcher for that reason alone."
"the only way i can see of stopping the 'lay mines then go to high sec and get concorded when your mines go off' problem would be to only keep the mines around as long as the ship that layed them was in the same system."
"does nobody read my posts? timer to limit how long mines remain once laid and only allowed in nullsec or a concordable action."
"and how does that stop a ship from laying mines then flying into high sec before the timer runs out?unless you make the timer so short its virtually useless for the intended purpose this is an issue you need to address."
"well i don't see an issue to address since actions taken in nullsec do not effect concord and its actions against you. therefor if you lay a mine in nullsec and move to high sec and someone dies from your mine concord isn't going to give a crap no matter where you are. and if you lay a mine in empire or lowsec then you get concorded. pretty simple."
"and in an ideal eve that would be the case, problem is the agression mechanics as they stand currently dont allow that to happen. instead you get the situation i described above (people getting concorded for actions which took place outside the system) which was a major factor in mines being removed in the first place. so unless you want to recode the entire agression system i think its something that needs to be addressed.actually this has given me some ideas of my own regarding mines, ill make a new thread rather than clog this one up any more"
"its enough trouble that in wormholes that people use secure containers (tonnes of them) around warp bubbles around a pos.so you get sucked in when you warp to 100 to the pos and get decloaked.this would allow people to put mines everywhere and warping to a pos you just scanned would be insta-death.not supported."
"yes i can see it now...as soon as you warp into system hundreds of pilots start planting mines around a single pos and you die because of it. sorry...either you didn't read any of this post at all or you have no common sense at all."
"sorry but if either of you think that planting mines and them staying active when u **** off somewhere else is a viable option then ur sadly mistaken.the only way mines are going to work is if theyre only active when the ship thats deployed them is on the same grid as them, period."
"why? they are working fine. you haven't a god given right to kill every ship that pass a gate. if you are good and lucky you get a percentage of the cov ops vessels. if not it is you that should adapt, not all the game that should adapt to your playstile."
"i still don't understand what your problem is here. any idiot in a cov ops with any skill at all would be able to easily avoid mines in space. not only would they be seen on overview but in space as well. since you literally have to be within bumping distance to set them off then the only way they would have any danger is if someone was lucky enough to place one exactly where the ship appeared on the other side of the gate. even with 5 per ship and 20 ships its a pretty damned fair chance that it isn't going to happen that way. if this were implemented i am sure ccp would set up something where the mine would randomly place 2k away from the placing ship kinda like probes do right now when you launch them. so getting an exact precice bead on gate in locations will be extremely hard if not impossible.i will however concede a point to a previous reply in this thread. make the mines despawn if the person who places them leaves the system or if the timer runs out...whichever is soonest. this will elleviate any concern over killing someone in nullsec while in empire and getting concorded for such an action."
"supported with reservations and suggestions ...1. any mine(s) deployed by a pilot will self-destruct when that pilot leaves the system for any reason, or logs off. this cures the 'leave them in losec, concordoken in hisec' problem with originals. you want minefields, you have to be there to tend them.2. nulsec/wspace only... just like bombs and bubbles.3. 1 field per skill level(the question is it a gunnery or missile skill can wait). nine mines per field(1 in center and 1 on each of 8 cube corners. when laying fields, the distance between mines in the field cube can be set from between 1km-5km distance from each other.4. all mines die 12 hours after deployment regardless.5. mines can be targeted and killed, but have extremely low sig radius, making clearing them a time-consuming chore.6. when mines are targeted, the owner of the field is notified.7. mines do not affect cloaks for range decloak purposes, but do sense a cloaked ship and will detonate for damage if in range.this gives us more choices in the very slim destroyer hull offerings.minelayer - bonuses that allow fitting of minelayer module.minesweeper - bonuses for targeting and destroying mines.---------"
"force destroyers to be the only hull that can deploy or sweep mines."
"1.0"
"fighting macro use is one of the core issues that i am standing for csm for.both in terms of ccp's transparency of processes (publishing what they are actually doing about the issue), and actually taking effective measures to dissuade botting."
"by the power of greyskull, yes!supported."
"for the record, 'they do it in rl' is not a valid reason for anything in this game. don't argue soley on this point."
"agreed i will state, (or re-state as the case may be), these ideas. 1. have an option to scoop/launch from/to the maintenance/repair bay (allowing the ship to only gather the drones it needs to repair) 2. the operation of the maintenance/repair bay requires an high slot item, that takes things like mechanical parts and or robotics as fuel, fuel is consumed per activation, and repairs either a set amount of damage a cycle or simply repairs it all in a single activation. (slot residence is not set in stone but would offer the best for game balance imo) 3. could even make a skill with it, decreased cycle time and/or fuel cost"
"considering that all rr only requires cap, imo it would not make sense for rr in this case to require fuel, however having a mod that uses cap to repair the drones while in the bay would make sense."
"1.0"
"i see no issue with this, mining ships have drones and would be able to defend themselves. however this would not completely git rid of boting as some bots drop drones after landing on grid or taking dmg. nonetheless this would be a harmless addition to the game imo"
"i would play test this as a sov-hub upgrade (similar to cyno-jammers or cap-ship construction upgrades) and keep it on the system-by-system upgrade. i would not limit it to mid-to-high level sov holders thou."
"make it a black ops thing. the ships are rarely used. something like this would fit with the concept of black ops. make it burn fuel, make it a module that has a cool down between cycles, make it only for black ops ships."
"omfg, this. the ability for the black ops ship to jam the local of the system(using fuel of course) it is in would be perfect for covert drops."
"there's not enough details to judge this idea.will the black ops be able to enter system without showing up in local?if yes - then it's useful for both attackers and defenders.if no - it's only useful for defendersif local jammer uses fuel, what kind of length of duration are we talking about? 1-2 minutes? - useless15 minutes? - only useful for specific combat operations, such as to cloak mass fleet movements, not useful for small scale operations.1 hour or more? - useful for general purpose pvp, roaming gangs."
"_b"
"agreeing with mr jonathon...sometimes usual roles are enough, sometimes (most of the time, should i say) they are insufficient..."
"supported"
"agreed. if you start with full armor, even though your skill changes the total armor on the ship, shields should have the same effect."
"lol...i would like to see the images but i can't say its a bad idea. not sure why it is needed other than to make it look different while in space...but...sure."
"supported.don't mind the ab animation but the mwd needs a diffrent and distinct animation."
"you forgot to mention the enyo in that shiny list... its the only way to fly it, and you get an impressive ehp number with just a psudo dcu."
"i'd love to hull tank with my mega...ho wait!! i already do it when i use failblasters"
"agreed, would be a positive for pvp. i personally dont like spending 10-15 min to look for each item on the ship i just lost. +1"
"anything that works with my short attention span and"
"encouraging microcredit with a loan contract systemrecently, there has been some discussion of microloans in the market discussion forum. in the real world, microloans are typically very small loans, without collateral, given to impoverished entrepreneurs in the third world. eve is similar to the real world, in that the wealth held by veteran players can be many orders of magnitude greater than the poorest players. this wealth divide often goes hand in hand with an experience divide. a loan contract system would put wealthy, experienced players in a position to lend money  and advice  to younger players.in the real world, microloans depend on the social bonds within a community. borrowers are part of a group of people who all know each other, and have a common interest in each loan being paid back. similar social bonds exist within eve, but they are not as strong, and typically exist only between players who have known each other for a long time.so i propose a game mechanic that would allow a player to lend money to another player, with some assurance that repayment will be made. there would still be risks to both lender and borrower, but they would be manageable and, when mitigated with careful social interaction, could be small enough to write off. here is how it would work:setting up the loan: after speaking with a potential borrower, the lender would go to the contracts page and fill out the following in a loan contract form: borrower: an individual player, not a corporation loan amount: capped at 500 million isk. collateral - isk: isk collateral is optional and would be capped at 90% of the loan amount. collateral  items: lender can require items as collateral. borrower will be warned that the value of the required items could be greater than the loan amount. finance charge: a simple finance charge is added to the repayment cost. this would be capped at 50% of the total loan amount. loan term: minimum 7 days, maximum 60 days. payment reminders: the borrower would receive periodic payment reminders via eve-mail until repayment is completed. upon default  garnish income: lender can choose to garnish up to 50% of the borrowers income if default occurs.  upon default  kill rights: lender can choose to receive kill rights for the borrower upon default. other rules: acceptance & escrow: when the borrower accepts the contract, the collateral  items and isk  will be placed in escrow.  repayment: borrower can repay the loan gradually or in one lump sum. he will go to the contract page, find the contract under the in progress list, and click a make payment button. these isk will be added to the escrow until the contract is finished. if a direct transfer of isk to a lender is attempted, the system should warn the borrower to use the contract page instead. repayment on time: when the borrower makes the final payment, the isk in escrow will transfer to the lender and any collateral items will transfer back to the borrower. default: garnishment and kill rights will begin if the borrower has not paid the entire amount by the end of the loan term. garnishment will end when the loan is satisfied, or after 60 days, whichever comes first. kill rights will expire when the kill occurs, when the loan is satisfied, or after 60 days, whichever comes first. default plus 60 days: if the loan amount has not been repaid 60 days after default, the contract will expire, collateral and isk held in escrow will transfer to the lender, and kill rights and garnishment will end. number of borrower contracts: a player can be the borrower on only one contract at a time. number of lender contracts: a player can be the lender on as many contracts as his contracting skill level allows.(continued in next post...)"
"(...continued from previous post)other thoughts and ideas:why create a game mechanic for something that already happens? lending  both collateralized and uncollateralized  already occurs in eve. but it there is usually a bond of trust underlying the transaction. this system will allow newer players to get financing for the ships and items that they are ready to use. as a veteran player, i am amazed at how the perception of wealth changes over time. i remember saving like crazy for my first t1 cruiser, knowing that if i had the ship i could make back its value rather quickly. now i can gain or loose that much isk in an instant and barely even blink.would this harm the culture of eve, by removing one of the incentives to join a corporation? joining an active corporation is a great choice for many players, but it still doesnt work for some. this would allow solo players to receive one of the benefits of corp life, but at a cost and a certain level of risk. this would also benefit players who want to help out a new corp mate before a complete bond of trust has been created. will this lead to added player interaction? since lenders will be wary of scammers and risky borrowers, they should consider hearing the borrowers business plan, and giving some sage advice. a wealthy player could market himself as a mentor/lender for younger players. both parties would benefit from the relationship as the borrower would gain valuable knowledge and the lender would have greater assurance that the loan will be repaid.does this add anything else to the game? this system would create a new occupation  lender / business advisor / loan default enforcer. this system would also reinforce eves image as a dark and dangerous place, as it could leave even the most carebear of highsec dwellers worrying that his loan officer will show up to destroy is shiny new hulk.why allow items as collateral? admittedly, it is not vital to the system, but even a young player may have a t1 blueprint or other items of value that he can part with for a while. or he might want to put his mining barge in hock while he tries out some pvp action, without having to deal with selling it and buying one back later.how about cleaning out the borrowers wallet if he defaults? garnishment would be of new income only, similar to how corp taxes are collected. designing the system so that the loan amount is deducted from the players wallet upon default is an option, but is perhaps too robust. this may create too much player frustration and lead to rage-quitting. can the borrower scam the lender? yes. he could move the isk to another character, then biomass the character that took out the loan. he could borrow money just before taking a planned hiatus from the game. or he could default and then not make enough income to pay back the loan through garnishment. as a result, lenders will need to have some trust in the person they lend to, or plan on a certain percent of unrecoverable loans.can the lender scam the borrower? many of the rules are proposed to avoid lending scams. but the lender could require collateral items that are greater than the value of the loan, then somehow ensure that the contract is not paid back. curiously, this becomes more possible if he knows the borrower well. perhaps a friendly fire incident could occur during a mission between corp mates  oops, sorry about your new cnr. good luck repaying the loan.(continued in next post...)"
"(...continued from previous post)balancing points: a number of the rules can be adjusted to balance the risk to the lender vs. the risk or inconvenience to the borrower. these include the caps on loan amount and finance charge, the minimum and maximum collateral amounts, the limit on number of open contracts, and the loan and default duration limits. we should look for a system that provides enough lender assurances to encourage low-collateral loans, but enough risk to encourage some social interaction between the two parties. the system is balanced when the lender finds himself saying, id give someone a low-collateral loan, but only if i got to know them a little. what about apr, loan points and other lending fees? there is no need for apr or other complex financing math since this is a smaller, short term loan. a single finance charge is simple and easy to understand for the borrower. of course the lender could make a verbal  and nonbinding -- promise to give something back if the loan is repaid early.why a cap on the loan amount? this ensures that the system primarily benefits individual players, not corporations and alliances. they will have to continue to conduct business in the trust-and-distrust atmosphere of corporation life.how about a minimum collateral amount? if you want to help protect the borrower from himself, you could add a 10% minimum isk collateral rule. this would help ensure that he does not borrow substantially more money than he can pay back.what if i want to be a full time lender? a loan contracting skill could be introduced that allows a lender to have more than 21 loan contracts out at once. this would further encourage micro lending as an occupation.hasnt this been done (or discussed) before? loan contracts were added with the revelations expansion and later removed, but the system was intended more for loaning items, and didnt have any real recourse in the event of a default. ideas similar to this system have been discussed recently, including microcredit, credit systems, a 3rd party loan market, and islamic finance. would this be hard to implement? i suspect not. most the mechanics involved already exist in the game: contracts, escrow, taxation, kill rights. holding altered items in escrow, such as researched blueprints and rigged ships, could be problematic.in summary: a loan should be a mutually beneficial relationship between the lender and the borrower. if this system is implemented correctly, younger players will benefit socially as well as financially. and veteran players could enjoy a new occupation, putting their wealth and experience too good use.- polemarchus"
"unless you tie the loan to the actual account to effect all 3 toons / alts...a loan will never work.otherwise i will create an alt - borrow a couple million from you, transfer the money to another alt -and kill off the borrowing alt.i skimmed your whole post - too much to read... sorry if this was already in your inital ideas."
"yeah, i get a bit wordy, sorry about that.and yes, the idea is for there to be some level of risk to the lender, to create some social interaction between the two parties."
"if, when thinking about the consequences of your untimely death, the thought of 'oh no what about my pretend internet spaceship assets' enters your head then you really need to re-assess your priorities."
"people do wills for dealing with their facebook/second life/wow accounts nowadays. you'd be surprised. it's becoming a cultural norm now to have a will setup to deal with your internet accounts. it can act as a power of attorney of sorts for those who it gives power to so that you don't have constantly update your will every time you update your password in eve online."
"would rather see more factions represented than more ships in each faction.where are the player-usable eom ships, for example? i wants me a black shieldtanked punisher with a blaster bonus!"
"i think this idea would work. so long as the \"drones\" deactivate if the ship that launched them exits a certain range from them of course. it would make people think twice before just jumping into system. this could also be a way to help with finding \"cloaky campers\" but its still a far cry from fixing that problem.i still like my idea of placed stationary mines though."
"when goons start policing spelling you know their place amongst minions of orthodoxy is well established. mittens is treating space politics as serious business.goons need to grow another gonad and troll mitten out of the running."
"*****"
"aww, u mad? just because we evicted you from w-space doesn't mean you shouldn't vote for me. i am interested in representing all wormhole space residents.untrue. i think it is important to separate my personal interests from those of the people i would represent. this is what everyone expects of all csm members. personally, i believe aharm has made lots of information public about wormhole space. in fact, anyone who comes to our public channel (aperturecom) and asks a wormhole question gets an answer.that being said, i like seleene, and if i were not running he would probably be getting my votes.tell ya what windy... as soon as you dial the crazy down from 11 to around 2, i will talk to you. until then, you should really go back to your crazy nc conspiracy theories and let the adults talk in the other room."
"that kind of childish retort (albeit to a pretty childish post) doesn't do anything to convince me of your suitability for the csm sadly. you surely had to expect that kind of response to your candidacy and it seems you have no real interest in rebuilding the bridges your corp burned so effectively with many people.if you were truly serious about representing the wspace community it would have helped no end to start repairing the relationships and discussing all the issues months ago with the major players. we're a minority group as it is and getting a candidate in would require a serious combined effort (and no small amount of luck). perhaps even sucking it up and admitting you have little credibility currently and throwing the weight of aharm behind a more neutral candidate could have worked better *shrug*.it also doesn't look good that you're effectively still trying to spin the whole mag issue. you refer to it as an 'exploit' in your blog, implying that you do not agree with this terminology. you also continue to claim that it was never used in pvp before the rnk encounter, this is simply not true and again does you no favours. what's the deal with domania standing as well? potentially splitting the vote seems counterproductive for all our interests."
"that was seriously shabby."
"oh, come on. hyperfly is mad because we evicted him from his space. he isn't treating me with respect, he has been smacking in local for 2 days.as for repairing bridges that have been burnt, i have tried. i, along with several other corp members, have been asking to be unbanned from your public channel so i can chat with you guys. i certainly don't have any grudge with anyone in your corp.i'm not sure just how much blame you are expecting me to take for not starting my campaign months ago. i didn't decide i wanted to run until fairly recently. if there had been a previously announced wormhole candidate that i respected, i would not have run, and would have worked hard to support them. there wasn't, so i ran. i understand that many w-space folks may have some really hard feeling for aharm at this point, but like i keep saying, this is not aharm running for csm, this is me. i am not running on a \"nerf everyone but aharm\" platform. i am doing my best to listen as much as i talk. i have talked to a bunch of folks in your own corp who have expressed their support, and given me some great feedback.i agree that i am somewhat inconsistent with the exploit term. the reason is, i think the best term for it is a bug. it didn't require some special magic tricks to do, anyone could have (and several people did) figure it out. as for it not being used in pvp other than r&k, it wasn't. if you have other evidence, please let me know. this is the first i am hearing of it, and i don't like false accusations to be thrown around.domania wanted to run. as much as it would simplify things in corp, aharm is not a dictatorship. i like dom, but i think i would do a better job, which is why i am still in the race."
"oh, well then go ahead and bring your grudges into the csm"
"no, i will not be bringing grudges into csm. i have no grudge with hyperfly, he is the one that has an issue with me. running for csm doesn't mean one has to sit there and accept insults and disrespect. if people want to have their voice heard, they shouldn't cry like and baby and throw poop around the room."
"couldn't hear you over your tears and poop. welp."
"cheers for those answers. would like you to expand on one thing thou.regarding corperation roles and pos;s and building. currently pos roles allow full access to any corp job. it would be nice if ccp would add more roles to allow segmenting of roles thus keeping corperations more secure. we have 7 hangers to adjust for roles regularly but only one role which is deny or allow for building jobs. its high time more were added to allow more diverse corperations with better controls instead of \"just make an alt corp\"."
"i concur sj. i posted multiple suggestions to this recently and jon was nice enough to point out how old this section of eve is and it would be awesome to see it revamped in the next year or so.my thoughts / replies so far."
"shamelessly crossposted from goonfleet.com and presented to you here as a courtesy by corps diplomatique, because we're looking out for you :o'reilly:be careful what you wish for... i mean, if you live in empire and your biggest gripe with eve is that you can't download a ui mod to make your sparklekestrel flight stick match your mind's eye hellokitty skin wrap, then you probably don't care about anything that would be of import to the csm, so the 'ui guy' is a likely good vote. if you live anywhere where your day-to-day concerns are more than 'do i have time to make one, or two, sandwiches while i autopilot to jita' then this guy is going to be literal kryptonite for you as a rep."
"these have already been posted from a chatlog while i was discovering the depth of his lunacy, but i cleaned them up a bit for forumwhoring:"
"people will see what they want to see and normally logical people with dismiss all evidence to contrary just to conform with everyone else. while i don't agree with everything helen's said (he can be pretty witty and funny) i am constantly amazed with how my views of trebor conflict with the majority of others. i'm often disgusted with how much of a politician he can be - especially when he won't state his stance on something (or writes something ambigious to deflect the topic) because it could reflect badly on his image, and his latent ability to twist reality into sensical lies, a lot of the candidates are prone to similar. this doesn't mean he can't be or wouldn't be useful on the csm, there is always the paperwork and data entry, or temper rages to get attention to an issue.. waiiittt a seccconddd...serious. ip"
"i suspect he'll succeed and win the chairmanship, since he has the endorsement of last year's chairwoman, plus he'll pick up the anti-nullsec vote."
"it's almost like you guys are intentionally trying to push as many voters as possible his way."
"this. can. not. happen."
"thanks for drawing attention to concrete failings, because the one thing i have noticed while reading his 're-elect me' thread is that he seems to be cherry-picking questions and avoiding anything where anyone calls him on his past comments.i don't think that makes for a decent representative - if you want someone who can hold ccp's feet to the fire, he or she needs to be able to stand up to the same level of scrutiny"
"conclusive proof the goons will only represent their own narrow interests to the detriment of eve overall.vote against goons spamming local.image changed to link. navigator"
"actually that would be the mittani who refuses to answer questions about his past and current statements. did he call the current csm a crop of idiots? did he post that it wasn't until recently that ccp actually claimed they would start listening to csm? he claims that csm has no input on the development of the game (well then whats the point?) but he says they need to come together to be powerfull. does he think he will get a consensus on csm by calling all the other candidates liars? i mean its not like he even needs to campaign. plenty of good little goony lemmings will vote for him. so why start out by calling all those on the csm with you liars and idiots? is it his inflated self worth that allows him to blithely ignore common sense?he is ignoring these questions which were asked in his thread because they pretty much expose his buffoonery. but whatever, if the null sec alliance leaders get elected it will revert to the days when they used to control csm  i.e., csm wont matter anyway."
"what does this have to do with the efficacy of trebor?i'm voting for kalrand at this point, but rage away, i guess."
"the original post is:i don't care who you vote for. but if you are going to join in a goon thread attacking someone, don't be surprised if someone points out the goon candidate is worse than their intended target.and, in any event, you failed to mention what specific questions trebor was supposedly dodging."
"are you serious? here's a hint: all the questions he has not answered are the questions he has not answered. it isn't my job to keep on top of those - i'm not claiming that i am a suitable csm candidate (i am not).i guess what you are saying is that in a 'goon thread' even if stuff makes sense i should expect people like you to contribute irrelevant and angry posts? okay, i'll take that into consideration. so now that i'm not surprised, please explain how your post is relevant in any way other than that it gives you a chance to say 'i hate goons' while presumably attempting to do damage control for trebor.hint: it isn't"
"i've got no dog in this show, and while \"prevent goons from spamming local\" isn't exactly a compelling reason to not vote for the guy, the goons do bring up an interesting list of things that are concerning.trebor sounds like he'd support something that sounds good, without thinking it all the way through. ccp does that by themselves enough (hi technetium!); if there's one thing everyone agrees the csm is supposed to do its weed out the bad ideas or at least provide the dire warning that 'things will break.'add to that his penchant for deflection and i can't support him to be consistent or to do serious critical thinking on issues. not sure who i'm going to vote for, but it has to be someone with a clear head on their shoulders."
"the ankh effect."
"vote for trebor - keep csm relevantdon't be fooled by the goon propaganda drones in lock step like courtroom and halfhead. they will treat the csm like they treat all their interactions: blow it up"
"those are seriously, compelling evidences. he's a complete idiot.therefore i shall agree with the goons and vote for trebor - that would be the true goon way!my only regret was not joining the goons when i started my career, alas it is too late now be assured however, i'm a true goon at heart even when i'm not joined to the mother hive."
"vote trebor, troll the goons."
"hero-in-ahalfshell: trebor is dodging questionscearain: which ones?ah ok thank you for your contribution to this thread. edit: the forum didn't want me to post your name for some reason."
"not all 0.0 people want to see the mittani in a csm seat. i think that's only reserved by those who miss some chromosomes.the fact alone that goons are trying to keep people from voting for trebor should be proof enough that the asylum inmates fear him.as for the mittani. i know blimps that hold less hot air than him. he is so used to the sheep following his every command that he really thinks that wolves would follow him too."
"i would go look here if you're still having trouble finding those questions he's avoiding answering. if you want me to tell you what to think then i would suggest you calm down and do some reading and make up your own mind, like what i done did. if you don't want me to tell you what to think then why would you believe anything i would tell you when you could source it yourself?sorry if that is kind of content-free but you didn't really give the impression of someone who had come here to do anything other than whine about something that is tangential at best."
"how is being concerned about the character of trebor an automatic vote for the mittani? there are other people running, right? you guys are insane!"
"why do you need to jump on it asif your life depended on it to point out it isn't an automatic vote for the mittani.to be clear. i am a 0.0 resident.i am part of the nci don't want to see goons in the csm and on a personal note which doesn't reflect my corporations stance.i do actually not want to see goons anywhere but in jita."
"oh so now goons hate trebor, and write bull**** about him.i'm definitely going to vote for trebor!!"
"if there was ever a way to get more players to vote for trebor, i haven't heard of it. some random goon above wrote, \"be careful what you wish for....\". indeed."
"don't bother m8, not going to vote for you anyways. just wondering what you had to say (csm related). after trying several puters/browsers i just gave up, not worth the effort/strain on my eyes.why should i (have to) calibrate my screens, when you are the one that missed the section about contrast. i still believe using a dark grey font on a black bg is somewhat morronic.free bump"
"i agree with what you say except the one about no/delayed local. since i am in low sec i guess i don't mind if you change null sec.but it seems to me that this will just be a mechanic to help people bait and blob. seeing local spike after an attack is often what allows small gangs and solo pvpers an opportunity to try to gtfo before the blob comes. i would also point out that according to the last qen wormholes get very little pvp. that is the case regardless of whether you look at it per system or per player in them. it appears few people want to spend time scanning systems only to find out there is likely no one there.but like i said if null sec loses local i would just expect low sec to get allot more people who are looking for small scale pvp. i don't mind that. btw: i hope this doesnt sound overly negative about your campaign. because i am not. i agree with all the other things you mention and i definitely agree with your overall approach to how to look at proposals. i definitely hope you get in."
"try sitting with an agressed guardian next to a sentry gun for 60 seconds without receiving any rr and see how much of that ship remains once the agression timer has cleared as per your fantastic suggestion."
"i'm not sure he is saying they would get sentry gun (or concord fire.) he is saying they wouldn't be able to dock or jump. maybe i missed it."
"if elected what will you do about the horde of bad posters that currently reside in pandemic legion?"
"this is exactly right, agression as it comes to docking/jumping/changing sessions in general. i'm not out to make low-sec pirating more difficult by any means. currently if a logistics reps a -10 pilot who isn't aggro'd, the logsitics pilot turns gcc - this is a silly mechanic. they should be flagged and able to be shot, like the -10 character, but gate/station guns shouldn't shoot them until the pirate actually goes gcc. i am pro low-sec, after all.with regard to a delayed local, i did intend for it to be implemented in 0.0 only - as 0.0 will be the only place where it can be mitigated with upgrades. the point of it is not to be able to gank people willy-nilly, but to make upgraded space more valuable.i'll mirror their forums and make all posts pub-- oh wait"
"one might say even that vile rat is a real *dragon* in the sack."
"that might well be so, but it doesn't explain the need to single out trebor, and it doesn't explain why trebor was identified as the most dangerous member of csm5, which lies in the past. most dangerous member for what reason? i'm sure goons will vote for who they are asked to anyway, so why the drama?"
"trebor is one of the few real competitors for the csm chairman mao post that's why."
"you're so angry that anyone would dismiss trebor's ideas that not only did you ragepost about the topic elsewhere, you popped over here, too. so:odds are good that the empire bloc will unite around this guy and he'll end up with the chair; no doubt i'd end up crying impotent tears of rage over the loss."
"a vote for trebor is literally a vote for someone who is worse at eve than ccp developers."
"those trebor links are pretty scary to read. titan pinball dd weapon? yikes!"
"i guess thread linking of ideas is in so i will leave this here."
"i'm sure that'll make the elite pvp vote, which isn't going to vote for me anyway, furious"
"you have my vote, and i'm an elite pvper! :smug:i'm so cloaky i don't even show up on killboards."
"combat simulator and userbase moddable ui? damn for that i can almost forgive he is a lawyer irl and vote for him."
"that's funny a goon with a heart yea right hes the ceo of one of the main groups targeting noobs in the game promising null sec rats and good fun all just to rob you lulz and take all your items you want to have moved down .... i don't support this type of player for our best interest and if i was you i wouldn't ether beside most of his support you see r his own alliance"
"you bring some interesting ideas, however my votes are instead going to someone else.(not trebor, he's just as toxic to my style of play as you are)"
"not one of the links was a proposal by trebor. interestingly enough trebor allows *the players* to make the proposals and then he works to get ccp to implement *the players* proposals. that whole assembly hall forum you know. has the mittani ever even visited it?its very interesting that the only csm member that ever tried to measure how much *players* want certain proposals is singled out for ridicule by the mittani. of course, the mittanis campaign depends on players being idiots so anyone who actually promotes what players want must also be an idiot."
"if i had to base my estimate of the eve community's intelligence off of what i saw in assembly hall and features and idea discussion i'd think most eve players were idiots too."
"it speaks volumes as to what a candidate will or will not support. popular acclaim alone doesn't make for a good idea, and if you lend your support to an idea that isn't even popularly supported it just illustrates your personal bias even more.random guy posting in the assembly hall can toss out dumb ideas without much concern that ccp will take them up. a csm rep, on the other hand, is elected to actually consider and think about the ideas he/she will pitch to ccp. i sure as hell don't want someone that will support \"plastic wrap for everything\" and ruin courier contracts because it sounded cool at first glance.say what you will about the mittani and goons in general; at least they think their ideas through. i may not like them on a personal level, but they (probably) won't wreck the game."
"wait.i think you're not addressing the logical conclusion of democracy.bread and circuses for everybody. a new shiny tengu in every hangar, and don't stop until every player in eve has an above average positive isk flow.also, you do have a lot to overcome with that lawyer gig. but it does explain a lot of previous things i've seen about the mittani.don't know who i'll vote for, but if you give me kickbacks, earmarks, and pork..."
"i notice that a good few of those comments and links are just attacks on him as a person, aka trolling (what a surprise!) but i'll bite on the rest. if you'd ever, just once, actually bothered to have a discussion with him on any of those topics, presenting him with arguments as to why they're bad ideas, do you think he would have listened, perhaps like he did when he did the crowd sourcing initiative?you're well known for trolling and long lasting personal campaigns against your enemies in null and you carry on that same tendency here, and here comes the important part: without presenting any coherent platform of your own, apart from a vague promise that you'll somehow be more effective than csm5 was (presumably by using the same tactics that you're using against trebor). as trebor is almost going to be on the same csm as you, the only result of that will be a completely ineffectual csm riven by internal rivalries and infighting, worse than the drivel that miss no caps or punctuation, mazzilu came up during csm5. unless, of course that is exactly what you're aiming for....."
"monday bump!"
"thanks for the reply.bit less csm-defensive stance than i would have expected, refreshing. one main reason i even ask this is because, simply put, if csm does have any impact at all it does not really get out to the public.we see your guys writeups. we see in devblogs where ccp mention \"discussions with csm\". but frankly, that could mean anything or nothing. we just see you guys have meetings, and no real impact, and a personal pet peeve is how on numerous occations csm delegates been stating they \"cannot talk on this matter due to the nda\". isn't it quite odd, given the 'transparency', that you even have to sign that? ccp could just avoid feeding you information you cannot share, problem solved?either way, i appreciate your writeup. it's just hard to feel csm is worth anything. we could use more insight.yeah i agree both on the wh, more connections and instalocking hic camps. my main is -10 and i like lowsec as a whole tbh, and generally i feel that not much is needed. but we could really use less chokepoints, more traffic. and the ridicilously low-sec specific lag (sec updates?), but heh. if that's a deterrent for 0.0 alliances to show up, i'm all for it. we need less nullsec alliances and more carebears in lowsec. just wanted to see your point first, before i post mine.i'm still guttered about csm, but i do appreciate that csm5 has been pushing for what seems to be more response from ccp. yours and seleenes focuses is in-line with my rough opinions too..so, on the subject on that; what do you think of afk-cloaking? another pet peeve of mine."
"i agree it's an annoying mechanic, and a number of solutions has been proposed, such as adding fuel usage, disabling directional scanner while cloaked, making the current penalties more severe...tbh i'm okay with any of those as long as ccp game design thinks its appropriate and qa tests it thoroughly. (and covops cloaks stay p. good)"
"thanks for your support. if you have any questions for me, throw them out there. the debates went really well. i've written a long blog post about it, for those that are interested."
"having flown with you now in a couple of corporations, i've been quite impressed with your knowledge of the game, enthusiasm, and dedication to doing a great job in whatever you choose to do. more importantly, your blog is a good read while i'm bored at work. good luck in your run...you'll have my votes."
"we must vote for trebor in the numbers that will get him the chairmanship. it looks like at the moment that at least three or four of the 0.0 crowd will get seats on the csm. we all know that they are out for themselves and not the eve community. in order to make next year just a lost year and not revert us to the csm of three or four years ago, we need his leadership."
"that comment is like saying carebears are against pvp. well, someone has to blow up the ships that carebears build or mine for. nullsec players are very aware of empire and how it impacts their gameplay."
"all that tritanium has to come from somewhere.seriously, though, that's about all that comes out of highsec. that and whining.p.s. trebor has bad ideas and should not be re-elected. unduhpants."
"i like how this csm candidate ignores anything that he doesn't have an easy answer for.good politics!"
"you sound like an idiot, who doesn't realize they're an idiot.quick: what are the oil of olay seven signs of aging?"
"and sadly it looks like not very many people are noticing. strip away all the rhetoric and he's just a guy who doesn't understand how nullsec works and is asking ccp to break the game for the people who do."
"stakeholders are, roughly speaking, the \"customers\" of the development team. an example of another stakeholder at ccp would be the marketing department.each stakeholder group submits requests for things to be done (in csm's case, this is a prioritized version of our backlog), provides feedback and other input, and holds the product manager accountable for the results.individual csms are not stakeholders; the csm as a group is. as for examples of csm 5 \"calling bull****\" (which does not involve raising one's voice, btw), the most recent public one that most eve players have heard about was regarding micro-transactions, where csm very forcefully represented that non-vanity mt items would have significant negative consequences, and ccp has adopted csm's position (at least for now).csm as a stakeholder operates under certain handicaps; we're not on-site except during the summit meetings, and our input into the development planning meetings is provided through our representatives (ccp xhagen and ccp diagoras). also, csm 5 is the first csm to have stakeholder status, and just like eve, the game of stakeholder offline has a bit of a learning cliff. so the role of the csm is continually evolving.before the end of our term, csm 5 will produce (at ccp's request) a continuity document which will describe csm 5's \"best practices\" in the hopes of helping csm 6 get off to a running start -- especially with respect to its expanded responsibilities as a stakeholder."
"look at all these goons and their alts running in here trying to sling mud. maybe you need to check out mittani's statement saying he wants instant pvp in eve just like battlegrounds in wow and then come back here and talk about stupid ideas."
"stakeholders... are \"customers\". how does this make ccp accountable to them? in what way is ccp accountable? what happens when ccp just does what it wants anyways?"
"actually, he said he wanted an option of instanced pvp, not that he wanted all pvp to be instanced."
"what i am looking at is this candidate being unable to answer a whole bunch of questions.if he's going to cherry-pick where he responds at this stage, what do you think he's going to be like when he's screwed the pooch? i have no problem with people \"trying to be important in online games\" - what i have a problem with is his apparent misunderstanding of pretty much everything that needs fixing with this game. yeah great so you want competition so everyone has 'different ideas.' in this case the game needs a strong and focussed csm in order to get the changes made, or this game is going to hell in a handbasket.if you seriously want another ineffective, uninformed, bootlicking csm delegation then vote for the guy who wants tocompletely break contracts let bots live outside of concord protected areas"
"it's funny how insecure the goons are due to this candidate.fact is that you want a chairman who is balanced.fact is that you want a chairman who listens to other people's opinions.fact is that you want a chairman who loves the game because of the game.fact is that you want someone who's actually intrested in overall improvement.i have been watching the csm closely for quit a while. and trebor is a person who brings those qualities to the board.he receives high praises by other csm members, be it 0.0 csm members or none 0.0 csm members.this player doesn't claim to be the ephiphany of deviancy who will will change the world because he's soo smooth.he claims to listen to your concerns and idea's and together with the rest of the csm forge those concerns and idea's into packages to be taken up with ccp.and instead of fighting ccp to show how l33t he is he suggests to actually work together towards improvement.these are the strongpoints we want in chair."
"the argument above this post just confirmed from me why i won't be voting for trebor. arrogant, confrontational, and wrong is not a great combination. he's essentially the sarah palin of the csm election"
"you mean like this?from those links:if i could buy votes i am sure i would get praise too!his claims and suggestions don't match his actions or arguments. please don't break this game."
"ah, i see the smearing has begun again."
"i think you may have skipped over the preface to that argument, which i'll reproduce here:i want to preface this by saying that since i don't have any knowledge of the internals of eve, this is based on guesswork. i do not claim this is the way to deal with lag, only that i think it's an interesting starting point for discussion about the kinds of changes that might tame lag -- see, i'm waffling just like a real politician!in my csm 5 manifesto, from which that posting was taken, i was trying to make the point that no matter what ccp does to make the servers more efficient, the current game mechanics encourage fleets to \"expand to fit the lag available\".i was just illustrating one possible way of changing the \"fleet size/fleet power\" curve so that after a certain fleet size, the power curve starts to level off, which would tend to put an \"organic\" soft-cap on fleet sizes, because wise commanders would find better uses for their manpower than putting them all in a big blob.i make no claims that is the only solution, or the best solution -- it was simply an illustration offered to spark discussion.one thing that i think it's important to understand about me is that, as a skeptic, i'm always willing to change my mind when presented with sufficient evidence. for example, during the june csm summit, i had a wonderful dinnertime discussion with stephan (meissa) about blob reduction. he disagreed with me about the fog-of-war idea, and made a good argument for \"multiple simultaneous objectives\" in sov warfare as a way to encourage blob-splitting and reduce. this discussion significantly influenced my personal opinions on the matter.however, my personal opinions are just that -- my personal opinions. while i am happy to inflict them on anyone foolish enough to ask, i try very hard not to impose them on anyone.being a csm delegate is not about trying to get ccp to do things your way, it's about trying to get ccp to allocate their limited resources in ways that maximize benefits for the players. that's what stuff like the prioritization crowdsourcing was all about -- members of the community who cared enough to get involved contributed their opinions about prioritization of backlogged csm items, which helped inform the prioritizations that the csm submitted to ccp. in many cases, individual delegates' personal pet issues did not end up getting the ranking they expected. but, as they say, \"the good of the many outweighs the good of the few... or the one.\""
"i guess that is why you called someone a troll instead of addressing their points. regardless of personal history, you should be able to put this behind yourself if you're going to be an effective representative. what happens if the playerbase supports something you yourself disagree with? are we all trolls?obviously this is hyperbole, but i imagine you'd just lie and hide behind the nda, sorry.if you're waffling then you're waffling and trying to deflect from this by making it into a cute joke doesn't mean that you are doing it any less.haha i'm picking holes in your campaign just like a person who really cares about the direction this game is going!!!e: something else that doesn't ring true - you say knowledge of the game mechanics isn't important (which is untrue, but does help to excuse the fact that everything i have seen you post that isn't a simple generalization is inaccurate at best), so why then do you place such emphasis on it in your campaign statement and website? which do you really believe? or do you assume that voters are essentially dumb and will be dazzled by your 'qualifications?'"
"in an effort to gauge your sense of self-importance, could you explain why you believe your page on wikipedia should not be deleted?"
"lol, i can only assume that the rest of the goon candidates are afraid of trebors track record if they have to sink this low."
"i am afraid of his track record because he is not a good candidate and that is what most concerns me when evaluating csm candidates. maybe the rest of the goon candidates are concerned about this too?i get that there is this idea that goons want to rig the election (1) that isn't really possible (one vote per account seems like a fair situation to me) and (2) even if you hate the guys (the evil, scamming bastards!) you can't really argue against the points they have raised. or can you? i mean, you could post about that instead of just contributing white noise."
"the csm does not need a chairman who will rally the other delegates to storm castle reykjavik, pitchforks and torches in hand. it needs good, hardworking people who are willing to do all the boring work needed to convince ccp to allocate resources in ways that will best benefit the players. that, and only that, will maintain the momentum built up by csm 5.the chairman of the csm has no special powers or influence, other than that which is granted by the other members of the council.mynxee was a great csm chair not because of her leadership skills (which she has), but because of her organizational skills. she didn't tell people what to do, she just made sure everyone was aware of what needed to be done, kept track of everything, and made it as easy as possible for people to step up and get stuff done.whoever becomes the next chairman, it will be a tough act to follow."
"i can't really speak to that except from a design angle and acknowledge that revamping that system has been something the designers have wanted to do for a long, long time. the issue is more about getting it moved up in the backlog and finding a way to have such improvements slotted into a released feature. that way there would actually be programming time and qa assigned to achieve this.i'd like to see the current starbases be relegated to a purely military role and actual \"personal owned structures\" be introduced. modular add-ons, white picket fences, all that jazz. of course, pos code makes the coders eyes bleed and then there would have to be art done for it all. the in house term used for this (as it has been discussed in the past and talked about at fanfest) were 'shanty towns' that players could build in space. tldr - i want to see modular player structures, like legos in space. hell yeah.black ops need love so bad that it's criminal. these ships should be doing amazing james bond stuff that no other ships can do; at the very least they need a serious look-at because i see them bridging stealth bombers to targets more often than actually doing anything themselves. the afk cloaking thing is annoying as hell and could 'easily' be solved by requiring cloaks to use fuel (like lo) in order to operate. fuel usage could be a simple calculation based on mass and ships that are supposed to cloak would obviously be more fuel efficient. the only real problem with this is that any mechanic like that would require a 'cycle time' like guns or anything else that consumes \"ammo\", which cloaks do not have. i'm sure it could be programmed to work like this but for whatever reason this issue remains untouched.absolutely. it's core to my campaign. i'm not really interested in seeing one part of the game achieve dominance or attention over any other outside of the fact that i do prefer to see more spaceship oriented stuff over the paper dolls of incarna. primarily i would just like to see what we have now completely fleshed out and finished. that's what iteration is all about. the onus is on ccp to prove to us that incarna is going to have enough relevant actual game play to justify the time they are spending on it. as an aside, i spent two hours on eve university mumble last night answering questions and taking in what all they had to say (recording available here) so my attention is definitely not limited to just the \"big stuff\" in eve."
"well, generally speaking;your campain theme \"iteration\", is a good one imho and really what ccp should focus on. on most subjects i think i share your opinion, or at least go in the same direction. but this: i'm personally one who love small-scale warfare. eve is severely lacking love in that department. sitting 10+ players fighting 10+ players is boring as hell and extremely predictable when you played this game for x years. what is fun (and often challenging), is to try to beat anything on your own. the cloaks are one of the few tools we have available nowadays, barring having multiple characters in same system logging on/off in a rotation.it's just way too easy to lock down gates as it is. the regional gates was a nice addition, but it is still pretty ridicilous. i go through lowsec and there's 10+ guys sitting with instalocking hic's that will and can kill anything that is not supertanked or cloaky.i go through 0.0 and boom, you enter alliance/coalition x's space and there is six t2 large bubbles with ceptor swarms greeting you.all this is fine, they use the tools within the game to 'defend space', or whatnot. there is really only three tools available to fight this:* speed. this was changed on a big scale by the nano changes. i actually support those changes, but it did kill off the roaming potential by alot, and did promote blobbing (as did the dd changes).* cloaks. it's not dead certain you will pass camps, and with non-covops cloaks you still need warp-ins/bounces, etc.* intel. scout, spies, etc.for the 1-10 man gangs who like to roam, their greatest tools as is today is the recons, stealthbombers and t3 (with or without interdiction nullifier). or, faster ships with cloaks. you may have noticed more and more players drop that medium neut on their vagabonds to put a cloak.and at the end of the day, the \"only\" thing afk cloaking really do, is to put people at unease. you still have time to gtfo when the cloaker decloaks. you still have the option to fly with friends. and you still have the option to take other defensive precautions, like having neut/ecm-drones, etc. using your brain, d-scan and not being lazy.tl;dr - this is a major issue to those of us who miss the oldschool roaming. wolfpacks and guerilla warfare. stuff dies when you decloak, not while being invisible.i'm quite disillusioned personally both with csm, and with ccp's love for the blobbing in eve. i was starting to get slight hope there was a reason to vote this csm, but this stance is a major gamebreaker so i guess those 5+ votes you were gonna get from me, will go nowhere. as last year."
"misanth, my thoughts on this issue stem from more than just the \"afk cloaking\" stuff as you describe it. i find it \"annoying\" because i see it as part of a larger problem. i simply think that this issue, like countless others, needs iteration. think about it - cloaking has not been touched from almost the day it was introduced. no further balancing, no serious looks at how it might be used better, nothing. why don't specialized ships get some kind of surprise bonus when they de-cloak, or other bonuses that offset negatives? my opinion on this in no way means it's the exact thing that might be implemented. i gave a very short example in response to a specific question. any solution to the matter would come as the result of input from multiple sources.i see all of this as more of a general balance issue. i would like to see ships that are specialized in using cloaking technology get more specific bonuses to using them while slapping a cloak onto a raven or something would still work but impose some sort of penalty. that sort of thing. i hope that clarifies my answer a bit more."
"this campaign makes sense... /supported"
"what would you do for losec? ccp have just implemented a drop of sansha carrier bpc only in losec; in the past they have implememnted level 5 missions directed towards lo-sec. what more do you think can be done to improve this area of space?"
"hello,i am again running for the csm. i hope you'll take the time to consider supporting me in this election. i continue to support the pve, independent player and the smaller corporations of eve. i am an industrialist and proud to be called a \"care bear\". you can read a bit about what i stand for here:issler dainze for csmand if you would like something a little more multimedia please check out my last election video:issler dainze csm with science!so i hope you'll take some time and ask me some questions here. i'll try and post regularly.finally if elected i promise i will never use any food related items to aggress against other csm members unless it is in self defense!issler dainzethe voice of reason for csm"
"+1 and +1 i support vile rat and the mittani for csmto many running for csm are grand standing and kissing babies. vile rat and the mittani have no airs and graces, they say it as it is and have zero tolerance for bull..the ones that advocate negativity a"
"actually, that's what jump freighters (and to a lesser extent, rorquals) get used for.also, production in 0.0 is a complete joke right now, so the only thing to do is to ship in from highsec."
"darius is one crazy guy. brings a lot of fun. expect great things from him! you have our votes d3"
"sup dawg, i got a quick qthat's q to the e-s - question fo youwhat do you think about recyclien folk?think recyclien is serious, or else jus a joke?cause dig it, csm numba 5brought a dawg the nocus, (sweet recyclien ride!),but re-re posses need to evolvewe got a eve side problem what needs to resolveso what kind of mad space gear or bicyclien,would you suggest for a posse whose recyclien?and maybe dawg dig it, if you got time dats free,how would a dawg enhance recovery?myself, a dawg wants to better slip bya dawg who puts bubblz up in da skybut in him reaper (fear dat boat, its what i fly).be safe.thanks dawg, mi ain so hot at doin writin but if a dawg got question a dawg gets him evegate mails so y'all ask a dawg what a dawg want a dawg to dig, dig it, dont want no trubblz up in here but a dawg want to dig what dawgs down wit."
"i'll try roughly translating this in case there's a need for someone to do it:________________question(s?)what do you think about salvagers? is salvaging serious business or a joke? 'cause i like it, csm 5 gave us the noctis (nice salvaging ship!).but my corp needs to evolve, eve needs to get fixed. so what kind of ships and equipment would you like to see for salvagers? how would you enhance salvaging?i would like to be more able to slip past gate camps. i fly reapers (fear my reaper).be safe.thanks man, i'm not good at writing, but if you want to ask a question then you get evemails so you'll ask a guy what a guy wants a guy to like, understand? i'm not trolling but a guy that wants to know what you think are good ideas._____________oh well, i tried."
"back from hunting (4 deers).righto so@bots: i want to tell you a big big, maybe bigger than the moon, secret. the prices of all dr space my alliance is holding, has standardized rental costs. they range from 15m per belt of a low ss system to 55m of the high end ss system ( high end starts from -0.8 to -1.0). therefore, its impossible for me to charge bot runners more, nor do i intend to charge them at all if i know they are botting (petitions petitions..). if you are a ceo, you can follow instructions here , register on our site and access the rental system and see for yourself.and ofcourse if that doesnt satisfy your interest in bots and rmt (some of you apperently know even more than myself, or do you?), you are free to read evenews24 article on botting, you can write a petition on me, requesting a further investigation :)@callum: from the options you listed ( i already wrote why i dont want to influx the amount of bubbles that are already in systems, nor you could limit their amount at the gate (atleast by dev standards it would require a lot of coding, including creating a special \"grid\" around the gate with also having different limit calculated for different size bubbles (you cant treat them equally seeing as enterance gates from empire are full of small ones \"drag bubbles\" from different solarsystem objects) etc.)), i do like the one about turning off bubbles at dt, but as you know, blob warfare being what it is, involves camping (pr-, d-iz, h-w etc). now, if i recall, you are nc's fleet commander? now here is a scenario, you camping enemy capitals in station system, you have the staging pos bubbled, you have station bubbled, your forces are camping both (or watching both). dt, after dt, you login, 90% of your fleet is still afk (short downtime), enemy capitals mass undock and ... jump out. now, how does that make you feel? you spent, 6 hours camping, you didnt let your guys to logoff and go to bed, you kept telling them that they will have a capital fight (or slaughter, which ever you like) and dt robs you of that (i personally had even better case in d-iz, where after dt, the dead cyno jammer was rolled back to online and full hp, that cost campers about 5 dreadnaughts and x amount of carriers (couldnt hotdrop)).there are a lot better ways to deal with bots, for example changing rat's ai (the biggest difficulty is that a bot is a macro that mimics your behavior and changes to that will involve ruining someone's way of isk making as well and by isk making i mean their isk/hour ratio). this will definitely be a very hot discussion @ the csm.also, a bot would warp out without the need of any bubbles, its the actual players who need them, so that wouldnt really do anything.titan blobs, this also relates to giving titans back their aoe damage. but while this is a boost for them and reduction in blobwarfare tactics, its also should carry a big additional penalty with it. so far penalties include: reduction in hit points, longer immobilization, just massively longer align time and even to the point of it being a self destructing mechanism (aka the big boom, didnt want that titan anyway, thanks for 300 killmails). whatever the choice will be voted on, titans effect the current 0.0 warfare a lot, their doomsdays work in high lag conditions, their massive ehp allows them to logoff and escape a certain death, etc. if i recall correctly ( and i normaly do), ccp kept boasting about titan changes ( that was exactly pre dominion), saying they are working on additonal weapons for it (ofcourse never saying what), something to make them still special after the upcoming nerf (single target doomsday)."
"so its long overdue to give titans said weapon, as well as making them more vulnerable as well as killing blob warfare at the same time.ofcourse this all works in theory, in reality, large alliances might just keep fielding exact number of titans over and over and another tactic will need to be involved, or people will simply not engage (blue balls). whatever the outcome, its time to do those changes, but making penalty is crucial to be successful in balancing this issue."
"i will be on"
"i'll vote for krutoj, because i think he has a good look on 0.0 and low-sec life. as alliance director (renting one and non-renting one) he know a lot about what player want, what they make, how they make their life in eve.and for sure, he have a good experience of the game."
"i still didn<U+FFFD>t hear this csm candidate, as well as uax death from the same alliance for that matter, saying something along the lines which would include that he does aknowledge large scale existence of boters in his alliance and that he is actively doing everything he can to remove them. absolutely nothing, nada, zero about that has been said by \"future csm memeber\"?all i read are some murky and pretty hypocritical statements about changing ai of rats against bots and similar nonsence which is, as he knows very well totally useless as todays bots are already at high level of configuration posibilities againt rats and very capable of adapting with future releases.seriously if that is all you have about batling large amount of bot accounts in your alliance i would suggest much more effective and straightforward solution which also goes along with findings published on eve24 forum. this is something i would expect from csm candidate truly dedicated of solving at least one part of rmt problem:disbanding of shadow of xxdeathxx and depriving bot accounts of par of their safe haven, it would be clear action to prove that krutoj is serious and with true grit about the matter and not some mambo-jambo which is only used to avoid answers on real questions about botting in drone regions. now if i was to see something like that, i would say that krutoj is dedicated and worthy of my vote and votes of eve pilots who despise usage of bots and isk printing which is very evidently happening in drone regions. until then i am not going to vote for krutoj and give my money for tickets to iceland, how ever utopian it might sound as chances are still high enough he is going be elected thanks to drone region superblock voting machine.o7"
"today i did a double drawingcongratulations to the diety for winning the first officer module: vizan's energized adaptive nano membrane!!!hot tubes also won 150x 120mm railgun iichribba dice rollmore people need to start posting in this thread so i am not giving stuff to my alliance members."
"jesus. shenanigans! hot choobs is rigging chribba's dice!"
"i'm new to this game but i created an account for the sole reason that it allows scamming. i'll vote for you for that reason alone."
"alright, just a heads up tonight and wednesday night (or tomorrow and thursday morning eve time) drawings are going to be delayed a few hours."
"rabble rabble rabble! this is an outrage!"
"an audit trail/log for share exchanges would also be nice."
"you mean you're not going to tell them how to restructure their coding processes or how exactly to balance supercaps?what good are you to me then?okay, you're sounding like the best csm candidate so far."
"you have my votes. all of them."
"you have my all of my votes and the votes of my corp."
"at the december summit in iceland, ccp presented the incarna expansion to the current csm. at this meeting the csm urged ccp in the strongest possible terms to step up with the messaging efforts for the expansion as we felt that expectation management would be critical to its success at launch. we are pleased to see that ccp has begun to release initial information about incarna.however, given how crucial incarna is to the future of eve and ccp, the csm feels compelled to make public some significant concerns we have raised that have not yet been addressed by ccp. we wish to stress, in the strongest possible way, that we do not do this in order to be inflammatory. rather, the success or failure of incarna is such an important issue that, in good conscience, we cannot remain silent.our first and most crucial concern is that there is little evidence so far of a roadmap for this feature. we are extremely concerned that development of incarna, the most significant addition to eve since beta, is being done in an ad-hoc, on-the-fly manner.second, we wish to re-iterate our unanimous objection to the forced integration of incarna into the general eve experience, and that we strongly urge ccp to ensure that any new systems will not adversely affect the performance of the eve client.third, regarding metrics, we feel that forced integration will not provide a true picture of the usefulness of the features, while at the same time, these metrics will be used to justify incarna. as in any area of business, using flawed metrics to justify resource allocations can only lead to poor decisions.fourth, while we agree that ccp's decision to stage the release of incarna in small chunks is a wise one, we feel that it is very important for ccp to expand their messaging and provide a clear and detailed vision of the future iteration and potential of incarna, so that players who are highly invested in the current core gameplay of eve will be able to better judge the value they will be receiving for the large amount of time and effort being invested in incarna by ccp.the csm would like to reiterate that we are not opposed to the development of incarna; rather we are primarily concerned about the apparent lack of significant planning for a feature ccp properly regards as crucial to the future of the company, and the game we love so much.we want to see incarna fully fleshed-out. how that is done and how the evolution of incarna is messaged will be key challenges for ccp over the next several expansions. we hope that ccp will view these expressions of concern as useful feedback that will be helpful in properly justifying and measuring the resources being devoted to incarna.most sincerely,members of the fifth council of stellar management(except for mazzillu who objected to public posting of this letter and requested that her name be excluded)"
"planning is important...my what an opportune time to publicly post a letter to ccp that the eve community at large will like.cough csm election in two days cough(obviously this doesn't apply to those not running for re-election so hush mynxee etc.)"
"i think that csm5 has done a marvelous job during their term and their huge efforts are greatly appreciated. however, i do believe that ccp have made a great game here with eve online and i think that they should be given the benefit of the doubt regarding this new content they want to introduce. regardless of how they plan/implement it, i believe it will be good.is it possible that they have plans/ideas that they are not sharing with the csm?all my love to mynxee and the rest of the csm noise"
"for your information, this letter has been in the works for several weeks. we started by communicating our intent to ccp, giving them the courtesy of advance preview, and reasonable time frames to respond. there has been no direct response, except comments from advocates about the upcoming messaging, the first of which was ccp chiliad's dev blog.we felt our concerns were not adequately addressed by ccp, and they did not engage in any dialog with us about those concerns. if more people reading jita park during elections means more eyes on csm's expressed concerns, then so be it. i would call it a lucky coincidence but if i'd had my way about it, the letter would have been published weeks ago."
"thanks for your support, but if that is true, then in my view the csm has even more of an obligation to express concerns because it means we have been isolated and excluded from the process of representing player interests at a critical time in a feature's life cycle."
"i agree with noise, csm5 has done an amazing job with starting to hold ccp accountable, and i hope that csm6 will continue along the same path.this is something that really does worry me about incarna. i know that ccp has stated continually that eve is supposed to be a total sci fi experience, but after years of talking about ambulation/walking in stations/incarna, it is finally going to be upon us, and we see captain's quarters. i am a programmer myself, i understand that this is a monumental task, especially integrating something of the magnitude of incarna with the previously existing game, but not seeing a plan or a direction that incarna is supposed to be heading down concerns me considerably.hopefully, at fanfest, some new information that they have been keeping back will be revealed. i guess we will all have to wait and see."
"this, i completely agree with. it would defeat the purpose and the effort put in from the csm should it be true."
"forced integration? while i concede that ccp have developed a strong tendency to validate decision on the mere basis of \"because it is awesome\" (for who, is one of the questions left open in both sales and retention focus in that regard), but this letter from the csm 5 kinda sounds like ccp would still be subscribing to the delusion of \"incarna cannot be compelling unless it is enforced\" (which from a customer perspective comes down to an admission of desillusion and lack of vision - and thus inspiration towards the customer)? surely that cannot be the case?anyway, i get the idea from the chatter on twitter that this letter did not exactly come out of the blue and was a topic for a while - but i presume internally, between csm and ccp? i agree with the concern though, after reading the latest interview in pc gamer i was afraid from hammer's statements being an exact 180 degree opposite of the new approach of zulu, signalling ccp still having tendencies towards \"awesome\" and \"shiny\" (dump content regardless of finished or tuned and never look back and hey guys there is a new buzzword that will deliver us a personal award). i'm looking forward to incarna, if only for the expansion of the universe with a complete new environment added to it. on the basis of the original principles of sandbox, risk vs reward, player drivent events & trends, it could have been really awesome. but not as an apparent delivery as part of a bigger strategic perspective (that of world of darkness, where i agree that it makes commercial sense, but not a lot for sales or retention in the format of the last 4 years). i wish that letter, the thoughts behind it, the argumentation that must have taken place and the obvious care, had been present 2 or 3 years ago. now i fear it is too late.as for why i fear it is too late? don't get me wrong, i do think particularly zulu with his complete change of approach (and rightly so) is trying to pick up the pieces and doing the right thing (has csm seen or heard of a roadmap or vision document yet?). but well, considering it is clear from the various minutes and media reports that on the topic of incarna csm 5 was isolated from both its job in that regard and the actual topic, including an nda stamp applied, but that ccp did go to the media with - from reports and comments on these forums and others - with exactly what they had shown the csm, i am sorry, but that merely bleeds a part of ccp living in a trench. ccp is still right, the data does indeed not support that polished content sells better, but reading this i fear for ccp's capability to fully understand the value of retention, the cost of recycling customer prospects, and the necessity to take care of matters. it's business."
"opposed to the development of incarna, right here. well, at least when it's done at the dramatic expense of in-space features. make timely balance changes, fix the ui, buff the lag team, iterate on sov, etc.whatever, money talks. unsubscribing is the only thing that works."
"i agree with noise for the most part. i believe that ccp has created a great game. in fact, its a game that all 300,000+ subscribers enjoy and they (ccp) created it without directly announcing every single change that was to be made to the game.the 5th csm has without a doubt been one of the most successful csms ever but this constant push back against incarna is really beginning to leave a taste of bovs in a great number of players mouths. a simple look at the number of bloggers that came out and voiced the need for patience will tell you that they are less concerned about it than csm v. plus, for every blogger there are hundreds if not thousands of players that feel the same way.while i really do appreciate the effort that csm v has put forth, i truly believe that by continuing to push back you are leaving yourselves a negative legacy that will not be forgotten for a long time."
"my apologies, this message was supposed to be posted from this toon."
"don't be silly if anything to be clear from the csm 5 efforts in regards to incarna, it is that they have a genuine care to do their job as tasked by ccp in providing feedback, thoughts and concerns as well as argumentation to enable ccp to not fall prey to the usual traps of \"shiny\" and \"awesome\".i've been following numerous blogs that signal a welcoming of a new side of eve, personally i look forward to it. but ccp has been around for a fair few years now. consistantly ccp have merely focused on sales, and not on retention, and while we can see from zulu that there might be a change to their patterns ... it would be a first for ccp to not simply throw something out there, and never look back. which would be an utter shame. patience, is something which niche after niche has never yielded any iterative results whatsoever coming from ccp - until csm 5 started to apply simple accountability in communications and interaction, doing exactly what an external stakeholder is expected to do (even better, doing exactly what ccp's ceo tasked them to do).so i understand where the concern from csm 5 comes from. the pi iteration, team bff, team gridlock, all consequences of csm 5 efforts which until that point never came from ccp. ever. even a few simple examples of caution with \"ccp and patience\" like cosmos, pos, botting, faction warfare are considerable signals of caution in favour of staying sharp, rather than sitting back and well, giving it another 4 years - i am oversimplifying it, obviously, but i am sure the point is clear.it's been the caution, communication, the accountability applied, that is giving way to meaningful change in ccp's deliverables. patience, has never yielded results. the need for balance is clear. personally i think csm 5 struck a solid balance there, something that should be obvious to us, and to ccp.what were to happen when the blogosphere welcoming incarna were to be forced to face the disappointment of ccp's (hopefully) former style of deliveries & nurturing eve, year after year, with incarna. i am sorry, but it really is time to take care of matters, professionally. nothing \"lolcorporate\", just properly. to do and get done the right things right."
"personally, i feel incarna has great potential and don't begrudge ccp their choice to invest in it. however, the csm as a stakeholder group is obligated to raise concerns and ask hard questions. it is not always easy, comfortable, or fun to hold people accountable for the bare minimum of expected communications with a stakeholder group. in the absence of such (and after having given ccp many chances), and considering that we will hand the reins over to csm6 in a few short weeks, a public record of csm5's concerns in one easily referenced place is all that we hope to accomplish here."
"posting in approval."
"mynxee, i can understand that you simply want your concerns noted. 'nuff said.ipod: if ccp has truly ignored the game (or the areas of the game that you view as broken) why are you still playing?"
"just because ccp say they value the input of the csm, that doesn't elevate you the status you seem to think you have attained. its a method of free idea generation. no one really cares if a new feature spoils your idea of a perfect spaceship game. i fear you've forgotten that eve is a business. and i'm not talking about selling blueprints. you've served your purpose, and it isn't to tell ccp how to run their enterprise. now mop up those tears, and get on with your day. the internet already has enough people whining."
"nobody tells ccp how to run their business. on the contrary. nor is any csm taking on any delusional perception of status: they are just a stakeholder, nothing more, nothing less. they are indeed, a business instrument .. you are right, this is business. and in that context, remarkable isn't it, how both ccp and csm and customers care about eve as more than a game, but as a livelihood that enables livelihoods"
"just wanted to post in support of all these goals. from an outsider's perspective, we have heard basically nothing about what ccp wants incarna to be, other than \"awesome\". i'd love to hear about some actual planned *game* play, even if it is a year or so out."
"/signed.i wrote about this not so long ago: incarna - will history repeat itself?"
"because i love it. eve is more than just a game. hilmar once said that eve is an emerging dynamic, and the good man is right. ccp created life we only quit life when we either get another one, or are left or found alone in misery - bitter or perceived as bitter has nothing to do with that, nor any relevance. please don't mistake constructive criticism for bitter i'm not saying x or y is broken. eve is business, ccp has to expand in order to grow, but in more ways than one. the 350k+ subscribers we see today come from an original strong concept and a lot of tender love, but less and less care - compensated by acquisition focused mrketing and a hell of a lot of word of mouth potential generated by the principle of player driven events & trends.but yes, the past few yers we've seen ccp chase from one buzzword to the next, but less and less capitalising on the potential of delivering on the buzzword and nurturing it beyond the mere point of sales focus. eve is a service model, selling is one thing, keeping is the other half. eve is amazing, and can truly be a generational game, i can't see myself quitting it. i worry because i've seen less and less visible care from ccp translated into care for deliverables (which is not the same as \"care\" in its own right), something which encroaches on retention, unfortunately. and that is something which the past 4 years near continuously increased the difference between what ccp presentes, what they deliver, more so even that the difference between that and how they take care of it.someone else actually made a fun picture bout that once, as analogy fro something known in enterprise development known as the tower of pisa syndrome. while one can establish parallel products within the same ip or even others, continuously vertically expanding (regardless of intent or often even actuality, as perception defines the reality of those within the model)a service model product for content and features without widening the base, or taking care of the deliverables over time, results in a pretty damn high skysc****r. but one which has a very fragile base, empty floors, and a huge ruide for its inhabitants to alwys follow upwards.i'm not saying they are ignoring the game. they don't, it is a business. but they have been chasing too much shiny with the same unchanged message and validations for too long, and that does present a risk of compromising the continuity of the dynamic. that too, is business."
"signed. well written, to the point and expresses what many offs are thinking and would like to see. i vote mynxee for community manager."
"thank you, it's been a rough ride this time around, and it's important to keep it going in a constructive manner, i hope csm 6 will be able to do that.not so subtle hint: i'm running again."
"hope? faith? caring? those have eroded during my time as a csm delegate, sure, but they're not quite extinguished. though much needs attention, i still believe there are a lot of bright spots in the game and a lot of good people at ccp working hard on making more things better. if i didn't believe that, i would have resigned from the csm and quit playing immediately after the june summit.ha. keep in mind that this letter was a joint effort. meissa and helen produced initial drafts, the entire csm made suggestions in the course of a rather lengthy dialog, and then trebor and helen worked closely together to produce the final drafts. i just get the honor of posting because the chair is the most obvious sacrificial lamb for such potentially controversial messages"
"as one of the primary authors of this message (with editorial input from other csm members) i endorse this product and/or service."
"by coincidence, i updated my post just above yours to reflect that in response to thorvik's comment."
"incarna is, to all extents and purposes, vaporware. it doesn't exist. in fact, not even a clear idea of what it is supposed to be exists within ccp. this is very worrying, since years and years of work and money have gone into the project... but no actual gameplay exists.on top of that i will never forgive ccp if their forcing me to use incarna to switch ships and the like causes me to waste even more time when changing vessel (and despite their bold claims, it will).i'd much rather have ccp be open about being empty-handed for now, and actually asking us what we would like in incarna.i'm sorry ccp, i love you guys but \"it's gonna be awesome!!1!\" just doesn't cut it anymore."
"while i am worried about the state of development for incarna i disagree with the csm on the integration issue: if incarna is to have any success or relevancy whatsoever it should be fully integrated within eve and ccp need to have the guts to stick to their guns and not give in to the \"never change anything\" crowd.i do agree you shouldn't have to run down kilometers of tunnels to dock, undock or switch a ship or fitting. but that dosen't mean that all station services present and future should be available outside incarna or that there shouldn't be an incarna-only economy and incarna-only gameplay that is relevant and affects the larger picture - including the spaceship game. it should be optional in the same sense wormhole space is optional. you can opt out, but you also miss out."
"agree with the csm5 group.helicity had a quite nice post as well."
"this is broadly my position as well for what it's worth. i am opposed however to simply shoehorning existing things into incarna as a bandaid for actual content. my concern is that there will be little to no value added to eve by incarna in and of itself and simply giving us what we already have in a new interface is not a compelling reason to tie up so many resources on a huge new feature."
"i respectfully, disagree with what is said here. for me i really couldnt care less about incarna. i highly doubt it will be that important for the way i play eve. moreover, i wish they would just spit it out and go back to spaceships.i do not want them to spend any more time trying to flesh out some as yet unknown game mechanic that we can do in stations. i hope that in this sci fi universe most of the important stuff continues to happen in spaceship battles. i hope the road map is once you can *walk in stations* we are done with incarna until we have polished every aspect of the space ship gamei realize they are going to continue redirect resources to incarna no matter what i or any other player wants. nonetheless i can still express my view that i wish they would stop neglecting everything else in the game to spend even more time on this prized egg called incarna. please ccp get back to the spaceship game asap."
"haha, you guys are super dumb releasing a public letter"
"i couldn't care less about incarna either. chances are ccp does what it always does and run for the next distraction to talk about on a tradeshow. but incarna is a cornerstone to the tech framework for wod, so it's getting a hell of a lot more focus than stuff in the past like fw or such, or so was said last year in cologne at the gdc convention.so they will pursue the path. whether we like it or not. it seems to me to not be a bad thing to watch carefully whether ccp can maintain a balance between spaceships and incarna. god knows they have a history of kneejerking in one way or the other, but never doing two things right at the same time. we're not going to get em back to just spaceships. they can't, not after so many years of repeting it everywhere. moving away from incarna would be akin to tossing the towel in the ring, which they can't do because that's not awesome. nor does that give awards."
"signed...one may hope ccp has prepared some fresh air for the fanfest, but personally i am embracing for the worst scenario. \"you will do stuff here, you know, secret, dark stuff and it will be, hm, err, awesome stuff. yes, awesome !\" all it will be wrapped in some hurp-durp of funny video presentations about nothing. offtopic. have i missed something ? have there been not only a spoongate, but also a mazziliu-got-touched-in-a bad-place-gate ?"
"while i support mynxee absolutely on the issue of ccp needing to communicate their plans on incarna gameplay if such plans actually exist - which i seriously doubt, since i think incarna is just an alpha/beta run for those in ccp who hope to make a name for themselves in wod - i tend to agree with cearain that, knowing ccp's inability to budge on things they're fixated on, it would be better for them to just get it over with and then ignore it like they do most expansions. i hope that after those people in ccp who are responsible for this mess are done with it and move on to wod, that the remaining devs will be able to get on with fixing the more pressing issues of the game.that said, ccp knows full well the consequences of messing up, as they learned at their own cost last year after the june csm summit, and pushing the players a little bit more towards the cliff of rage is something that is not likey to end well for them or their business."
"incarna is a dumb waste of time in a game with overwhelming gameplay issues that need addressing over an expansion that is 90% cosmetic and won't fix any problems. if only mazzillu realized this then that is really depressing."
"pretty sure what mazz realized is what an nda is"
"except that nothing in the open letter isn't public knowledge and therefore not under nda, unless the nda magically means saying nice things about ccp all the time."
"let me explain how an nda works in this circumstance\"**** you, you're out of the running for csm\""
"serious question: what does incarna offer mothership and titan pilots. as a titan pilot i feel slighted that a whole expansion is being dedicated to \"walking in stations\" which i can not partake in."
"what bomberlocks just said regarding nda and the content of the open letter. besides which, our advocates and much of ccp are already familiar with the content of the letter since they were given a preview weeks ago. no one raised the nda flag at that time or since.as far as whether or not incarna should or shouldn't be something added to eve, that is water long over the bridge. it is on the books and there's no going back. with that as a given, the csm's role is to help ensure that it meets players expectations and benefits the game as much as possible--not just in the immediate release but over time. both of those things are only possible if ccp engages with the csm and communicates with the players (or lets the csm do so) in a fact-based and timely manner."
"eve supports many different major play styles. it seems to me that ccp has worked to design mechanics to make many of these play styles more enjoyable. however the small gang and solo pvp playstyle has been passed over time and again. (i will argue that position in the next post if you want to hear my reasons for that belief.) but in any event i would be interested in your opinions on a few topics:1) would you agree that small gang and solo pvp playstyle has been the most neglected major play style?2) if not then which major play style is more neglected by ccp?3) in what ways will you make sure ccp understand it is time they did something for those who like this major playstyle?4) any thoughts on fw plexing would be appreciated. i dont think fw is the only form of small gang pvp but it does seem to me that fw plexing (broken as it is) was about the only thing ccp has ever done to truly promote the small gang/solo pvp. 5) any other comments on making the game more enjoyable for the solo/small gang pvpers.now on this, you may say ccp, wont consider anything to boost small gang or solo pvp or fw etc. if that is the case will you be more likely to say:a) something to convince them that small gang and solo pvp is really fun in their game and warrants attention both for the game itself and for their bottom line. and if that fails inform them they are simply ignoring your playerbase that elected you. and tell them and the players there is no real purpose to your being there. or b) oh well, then lets drink a few beers and talk about incarna and otherwise have everything we say be hidden, by the nda. the player base that elected me dont need to know what is going on. c) something elseyou can see my sig, ideas that i support, but there is no need to comment on that as, i admit, it hasnt garnered enough player support to be voted on by csm. i really think players have given up hope that ccp will revamp fw plexxing. its hard to find anyone who even knows how it works anymore. (ccp actually took their guide to it down) moreover, although i am certainly happy to hear any particular design ideas you may have im more interested in knowing to what extent you intend to push them to promote this play style.."
"let me explain in more detail why i think ccp has long neglected solo and small gang pvp:playstyle 1 industrialist: we have seen ccp create worm holes which yield new types of tech 3 things to produce. wormholes also provide a whole new place for industrialists to base build poses and mine etc. dominion also lead to new opportunities for industrialists in null sec. planetary interaction also provided industrialists with new materials to produce etc. im not an industrialist myself so there may have been other things ccp has done to make the industrialists game more enjoyable.playstyle 2 shooting npcs/missioning: we can shoot npcs in missions in high sec, low sec or null sec. we can shoot rats in fw missions or in belts. there are also the improvements in upgradable sov space to shoot rats. then ccp brings in sleepers for wormholes and now incursions a whole new way to shoot rats. again its clear ccp has done allot who want to do this.playstyle 3 large fleet pvp: everything about sov holding null sec revolves around this. this has been the center of ccps concern from day one it seems. dominion was focused toward making sov warfaret. obviously the lag hurt this. so it is a huge priority of ccp to fix. same with the work on supercaps etc. could it use some work? i suppose as i hear there are many naps. but, if ccp cared as little about large fleet pvp as they do about small gang and solo pvp they would have been saying they will get to lag in about 18 months. ccp obviously cares allot about this style of play and is focused on it.playstyle 4 solo/small gang pvp: this is basically low sec and npc null sec space but it can happen anywhere. what has ccp ever done to boost this play style? what mechanics promote this? 1) fw plexing2) possibly worm hole collapsing based on size (although we will see saying this promoted or even was intended for that purpose is an extreme stretch.)as far as fw plexing it needs fixing and has been more or less ignored from the day it was put out. players have figured out the most effect way to do it is really primarily a method of pve instead of pvp. i could go on and on with the problems but why? everyone agrees it is broken. yet ccp seems insistent that this will be a low priority. thank you, ccp for the broken mechanic to promote solo and small gang pvp.as far as wormhole collapse to promote small gang pvp  well saying this was implemented to promote small gang pvp is a real stretch. it was much more likely implemented to promote small corps being able to put a poses in wormholes. in any event according to the latest economic quarterly very little pvp at all goes on in wormholes compared to null and low sec. so if this was somehow an attempt to help small gang pvp it failed there.so am i missing anything that has been done to promote the solo/small gang pvp play style? anything other than one broken mechanic (fw plexxing) that has been acknowledged as broken for years?i recognize that since ccp has taken no interest in promoting small gang or solo pvp there are fewer and fewer of us left in game. so to the extent you are just pandering for votes this may not seem to be a great topic. but many people who like small gang and solo pvp have stuck with the game for a long time and therefore are more likely to be voters."
"1 and 2) yes and no. i understand the sentiment, since it hasn't been really boosted but it's not been neglected anymore than, say, industry.there have been few instances of improvements to this, other than the faction ships improvements (when you fight solo, you tend to go with the best stuff, right?). however, there's a definite need for improvements to small gang warfare, also notably in 0.0 sov wars where small gangs play no part at all. we have started to talk with ccp about this, and they agree on the general principle, now we have to keep discussing the ways forward on this game style. there are a few things in the pipes that are geared towards improving pvp in general that will benefit small gangs (and to some extent large ones as well)3) ccp understands the need, the few resources that are allocateable to improvements (due to incarna eating most resources, mostly) are directed towards improvements that touch as many people as possible. that being said, as part of csm 5 has pushed for improvements to some classes of ships that are or should be used for small gang pvp but aren't. other than that game mechanics and ui improvements (like overheating ui for instance), would greatly benefit pvping in general, and small gang pvp in particular.4) fw is in dire need of fixes. after evaluation of what it would require to be functional with ccp(a lot of resources), i cannot in good conscience say i'll push for fixes to it in the first part of the term (while incarna is developped, there's few resources available, committing a huuuge chunk to fixing fw may not be the most productive thing). at the end of the term however, it should get back on the radar, that i agree.5) i'm a member of rooks and kings, not a 0.0 powerbloc, we do small gang warfare (from 5 to 25-30 men most commonly) in lowsec and 0.0, as such i really understand the ordeals one has to go through with small gang warfare. you can be certain that i'll keep that play style into account as i have over the past 4 terms.meissa anunthiel, csm 2, 3, 4 and 5."
"since you can gank biger ships like bs's because:they have low ehpthey track badly against smaller targetsdrones dps to support against small targets is a jokeyes, i think so. now some will spit out tons of blah blah about mmo definition team play etc etc and bs is not ment to pvp alone (where ccp said so?) blah blah blah forgeting to say a carrier has 10 to 20x or + ehp than a bs and is able to gank everything on his path and you'll need hundreds of bc's/bs to take a single one down, then the argument about the required sp to pilot that stuff blah blah like piloting a bs is free skill and less intensive than a bc etc etc.solo pvp first then pve.no progress for solo or duo pve for people not playing all day long, it's boring has it is.since feedback threads seem like another game in the game and nothing else, i realy can't think something can/will be donne for a minority asking for solo pvp/pve, has hybrids/blasters threads where you can't see a single dev post something. you represent the minority in the game, you folow or you stfu because you don't count.to make it short and direct: you've traine the bad skills?(gallente) -train the good ones, you'll do it anyway (crosstrain) never played fw yet since it seems for what i read it's not an interesting activity in the game. just another boring ocupation and i can't see wy fw can't assume the faction police role, with strict rules oc but think this would help.there are already many threads about this and if nothing is donne well, you think what you want about forums feedback customers comunication etc etc. it seems obvious incarna it's all it maters and everything else will just be left down, about the beers i never drink with people i don't know or can't trust.yes i'd probably spend some time searching a nice blondy to make me visit and have a drink with, then waste time talking about virtual stuff knowing nothing will change."
"3rd party applications are an essential - with the smallest possible effort on the ccp side. i would really hope that having one csm member dedicated to getting apis fixed and enhanced, this would be an area where more good stuff would come from.because i have very limited hopes of the actual game getting better through csm input, sadly.you, sir, have my mining lazors."
"any other questions the citizens of eve have for me?"
"bump"
"got my vote =)"
"killer2 is sexy. i didn't really read this post though."
"k2 payed me 10b to vote for him, so you got my vote buddy"
"vote secured from me aswell.make sure u dont agree to too much stuff we dont like;-)o/ blue"
"yay for level 5's in high sec!"
"killer2 is so sexy!"
"mynxee just posted an open letter to ccp about incarna. i was one of the primary authors of that letter and of the private letter that has been posted simultaneously to the internal forums. this is a critical time for ccp and the eve playerbase, there is a lot of potential for things to slide off the rails and for eve to lose its way unless ccp get clear and unambiguous feedback from the community. of particular note is the first point about an apparent lack of direction for the feature. too often in the past ccp have seemed to follow a design ethos of 'throw ideas at the wall and see what sticks'. unfortunately that leads to poorly integrated and schizophrenic design, it's easy to look back at major systems that have fallen flat at launch due to a poor understanding of what the players want from them - pi, dominion, eve gate, faction warfare are the most obvious exxamples and it's interesting to note that of all those systems only one (pi) has been iterated upon post-launch. everything else has been left in its launch state despite glaring inadequacies. let's not go down that path again."
"not to degrade the message in that letter, one of constructive concern i share. but i'm a little bit in doubt on that part of \"primary author\". if i remember correctly, you were an inactive alternate until a csm member could not make a trip, at least if the logs in teadaze's csm database with meeting logs are correct. correct me if i'm wrong or confused, on both parts of the question. cheers!"
"i was unable to make the first few online meetings due to a health issue over the summer and early autumn. i still contributed on the internal forums and the various email chains that went around despite being in hospital for most of the weekend meetings and was able to go to reykjavik after i had recovered in the place of mynxee who couldn't attend. the incarna concerns sprang from the summit and were discussed at length internally by the csm. meissa and i wrote draft letters back in january and mine was chosen as the basis for the final draft. over the past month and a half, other csm members have chipped in and suggested edits and changes. the final version was jointly written by trebor and i taking into account all of the input from the other members."
"good luck bruce, you've got my vote."
"how is your campaign not simply a prolonged way of asking ccp to reverse a decision to support an os that they've deemed too marginal to support in any significant way? how does this campaign accomplish what a periodic dev blog cannot? i gues the main question is: \"can you articulate more than two items that require a voice for the linux eve community?\", because \"ccp doesn't officially support us\" is highly unlikely to grab ccp's attention.even with cider support, many players have discovered that various branches of wine are capable of running eve, and in a few cases it performs better than commercial branches do. why then would ccp be compelled to support a platform that seems to support itself better as an independent community?and finally, beyond cheerleading for the linux community, what else can you bring to the table in the event that your linux initiative is vetoed in favour of other eve gameplay issues?i don't mean to trash your candidacy. but as a player i'm concerned that you offer a narrow focus in a highly technical area with little thought to game play issues, which is the traditional area of concern of players who campaign for a seat on the csm.thanks."
"yeah bruce, you got my vote!keep it up and don't let yourself be swayed."
"my vote is here, of course, and whoever else i can \"encourage\" to vote.about concerns expressed:1) the (undeniable) marginality of our platform is also due to the now-defunct official client being used by a tiny fraction of actual linux users, while the majority of us was \"hidden\" behind wine, and counted as windows users even when we're not. i wouldn't be surprised that the actual number of linux players is many orders of magnitude larger than the number of counted transgaming clients. even a way to properly count us would be something i'd like to be presented to the devs.2) while the focus of the campaign is indeed very limited to the technically-enabled, the vocality of our group is also near to annoyingly legendary. who would you rather on a csm seat, someone with a goal and the thrust to reach it against all odds (like... uhm... running eve on an officially unsupported, but community powered platform), or yet-another-power-hungry-replica-of-the-previous-drone? i know my answer."
"what makes you think low sec is broken?? it just has a bad rep with new players a too dangerious? what do you think?? ps. nz ftw"
"try to realise, there is no elephant."
"kalrand does look like an excellent candidate though."
"i think the context you are missing is that the dust link is the top priority for the *pi team*, not the whole company.certainly they are going to devote some resources to linking up to dust, since if they don't dust will be an even worse failure than it is likely to be already. at least this way they might sell a few copies to eve players, i guess.my csm candidate position on this:i would rather see them waste 1 team on dust then waste 7 (or however many teams it is now) on incarna. i hope that ccp is planning on not making dust participation integral to pi or sov or whatever they end up tying dust to, since even in the best case few people are likely to be playing dust a year or so after release."
"why should they have to waste teams on anything? your logic is nonexistent."
"teach the elephant to dance, tbh"
"so what you saying is, ccp please legalize renting and implement it into the current alliance system? is that right? you asking them to do extreme changes while they still fail to finish up a good enough existing system where a bloody ceo cant kick a member whos not in station, where alliance management itself (roles etc) is a mess? good luck m8"
"playing for 8 years, and having so awful ideas :psyduck:"
"- supports the idea of getting rid of jump bridges (big blobs don't need them as they have the numbers to provide escorts)- gives us gates like they used to be, where a dictor could actually bubble a gate (seriously, 5 dictors to cover a regional gate)- b"
"this thread is now about animal farm. discuss."
"great pron"
"hi, this is the point in the campaign where i'm supposed to announce some big new policy to keep your attention. instead i'm just going to link the sountrack that suzi kato sent me to accompany my campaign.great song. it makes me wish i had a moustache i could twiddle while i listen to it.for glory and honour!"
"to be more clear about the fix renterspace, i wrote as it is todayi am pretty sure that no candidate exists that is such a genius that he has a solution for everything, if he would exist he would already work for ccp.more discussion and with decent input (just saying idiot or stupid is not really constructive), is that the solution will get better for everyone.even when you disagree with me your input will help to a better solution.it's naive to think that renterspace will stay the way it is. when alliances start charging between 2b and 4.5b isk for a system a month you may state that something is getting out of control here.if we all not willing to work together on a more balanced solution then i'm pretty sure ccp will start balancing it themselves, mark my words on this!so what i'm suggesting (for now) is: to see implemented is that renting space to others can in future only be done through \"rent slots\"renting through a rent slot can be done by a ceo (or added role).the advantage of this will be that ccp will get control over rent space and their money flows. ccp can then also limit the number of systems and/or corporations that an alliance can rent out to others.example:fictional system: qba-testsovereignty: demo alliancesystem licenced to: rentingcorpthe landlord will get some options in pricing / discount and other influences like the value of a system (belts, moons, station), this in order to stay competitive to other alliances.at least this way there will be some kind of balancing on rent space and a hold on outrageous rentfees.any other way of renting out systems should be a violation of the eula once 'rent slots' are being introduced.alliances wont be able anymore to rent space to other alliances with the introduction of rent slotsi am convinced this solution will serve us all (including the landlords)"
"in adittion:what i want in nullsec is that everyone who is not in your own alliance will appear red.alliances coalition partners will also show red and thus will no longer able to use other alliances jumpbridges and can no longer hide at their pos's.corporations that rent space will appear not red but also not blue to their 'landlord' alliance and vice versa, say yellow .as alliances can no longer rent space from other alliances in this new setup it will prevent that they going to abuse a rented location as a stager.in addition to this if a landlord alliance rents out a system that includes a station the land lord alliance can still enable to refuse docking rights to alliances and corporations they have a negative standing with.* by renting out space like this the landlord alliance will accept the 'risk vs income' situation.* it will give individual corporations (from empire)an opportunity to experience nullsec* renting corporations will not be able to make use of the landlords jumpbridge networks, pos's and alliance channel. renting corporations will appear yellow to the landlord alliance and the landlord alliance yellow to the renting corp. this situation should be interesting to pirates too! * member corporations within the alliance cannot make use of the rent slot system and asking rent 'old style' will be a violation of the eula. * kudo's system for alliancesmember corporations of an alliance can earn 'kudos' (that's where my suggested kudo-system for alliances kicks in.) corporations within alliances can rent systems by paying in 'kudos'only. \"kudos\" can be earned by participation in pvp, kills, industry and so on.corporations in alliances can only use the kudo's in their own alliance. kudo's cannot be traded with other corps to prevent exploits (paying isk for kudo's)the setup of a kudo system will benefit the alliance in participation and rewarding.so far for now..."
"*** reserved ***"
"..ms pacman's eve wikiit has been totally rewritten today thanks to peoples comments and input..."
"eve is a ****ing sandbox game you dumb idiot."
"the nutshell:her ideas taken together will change overall gameplay and economics.it will also help reducing powerblocks.solo corps from empire will have an opportunity to access deepspace now and that again will make pirates happy.power alliances will have a legit way now to rent systems to 3rd party corporations and ccp will get more control over this.for deeper insight on her pack of plans see ms pacman's evelopedia"
"does she offer ponies and rainbows and isk on tap too? you may as well have just posted the link with no text; it would have reflected better on the candidate.here, let me make a better post for you:"
"websites:"
"any dawgs what be runnin wit a dawg in csm please also reprazant, a dawg been down wit mittini, him be a strat up top dawg, but no dawg put much commitmint to recyclien causes so a dawg feel him need to come forth.any comment about a dawg platform or questions to a dawg, tell a dawg and a dawg dig it.be safe."
"all my votes are going to...this guy."
"kuzim <3"
"i really enjoy listing to manalapan ideas and replys. finaly a player that is not in a 0.0 corp. i feel that bunch of the other csm runners dont understand the game mechanics; compared to a player that lives in both high and low sec. in conclusion my vote is going to u manalapan, wish u the best in your campaigngood luck relentless"
"totally agree with op."
"something tells me that ccp is putting off pos redesigns for the expansion of incarna into pos control."
"yes that's a good example, although the arrow for a baddon would probably be way shorter i also think that just the vector, rather than an arrow, would be cleaner."
"1.0"
"great stuff, hope this makes it in."
"this is good stuff, and should definitely be included."
"i feared this thread because of your name and the subject. however, you are clearly closer to dagny taggart than jim taggart."
"i liked it then and i still do!"
"supported"
"or just remove them from the game would be even better :p"
"sure you can, its just a question of how much is dictated by the tiering and how much is down to individual ship attributes. right now (to this extent i agree with your premise) there's too much seemingly dictated by tier, hence things like the low end frigates hopelessly lacking in slots and ehp."
"exactly, most of the evidence of the tier system are the inherent imbalances, so by nuking the tier system, we nuke the imbalances. so you are right.we just need more thumbs up posts."
"create alt. trade security for 0 isk. terminate alt."
"alts start with 0.0 security.edit: also it would be bad if people could trade the sec status they have on chars where they don't require it(chars that never leave empire)."
"hi,i would like to propose that the way fof missiles operate be changed slightly. currently, fof missiles will target anything and everything, without regard - so, if i warp into a complex or mission site or whatever and hit f1, they will rather uselessly go for the large collidable structures first.nice for some pretty fireworks, but useless otherwise, as i'm sure you will agree.what i propose is that, somewhere, there be a little options box (much in the same vein as the drones settings tab on the drone bay/overview box) that only becomes available when you load fof missiles. there, you would hopefully be able to set priorities for the missiles, something like:frigs > cruisers > bs > w/ei realise that this is a fairly low priority fix but it would make new eden a slightly better place, imo.please support, thanks! e:cassus temon's post - - really focuses on my original idea better than i did, really. please support, and make fof missiles actually useful! e2: from kazuo ishigurua good addition to my proposal."
"supporting this"
"that's kind of the whole point of fof missiles. they are suppose to be rather useless, and are only good for when you cant get a target lock, ie against ewar and the like. they are a very specialized type of missile, with limited use."
"someone just wants to afk missions, so no support for you! (okay i want to afk missions too maybe i will) but i wont"
"on the provision the drones steal your cap in doing a self-repair and its not a free-ride for limitless tank then i guess i'd support the op."
"supported. a reasonable feature that has been missing for too long. and since drones can be shot, it's not game-breaking for non-drone ships. and besides, drones working on your enemies are not shooting at you."
"any drone lovin'is good lovin'!"
"signed."
"i'd like to suggest a nerf to the ability to include multiple quotes in forum replies.it makes it way too easy for people to act like they're smarter than they really are and feel better about the fact that they're arguing over a video game.how about only one quote per reply. or one quote per page! or maybe requiring an isk cost for every quote imbedded in your message. or how about just allowing everyone to share the length of their d!cks in the interest of getting it over with.do this ccp, since i'm sure someone important is actually reading all of this..."
"i would say that training up missiles and flying a drake -> raven/tengu is going to be a better pve option than gallente anything. if you absolutely must use long range guns rather than missiles, then amarr is pretty good.so, for pve, drake -> raven -> cnr/tengu/golemcan't speak to pvp as i don't do it yet."
"i support a change to the freighter bonus. i think it would be better the change the warp speed rather than agility so there are still risks associated with moving a freighter. the warp speed change would make it a faster trip and not change a freighter's vulnerability."
"like the idea of destys having a new t2 role tbh :) but some of edteach's thoughts are wildly overpowered! :stheyre the main ones i have issues with.mines should use the drone mechanic of being active when and only when the initial mine laying ship is on the same grid. much like when you warp from drones they disengage and have to be scooped up. so should mines. but mines should die faster than 12 hours. 4 hours at absolute max.mines are supposed to be hard to detect, and by definition should be small, disposable items like that wouldnt and shouldnt have comms systems allowing the sending of notifications. it goes against the nature of their covert doctrine.you touched on a topic actually that got me thinking about sig radius and sensor strength. im sure some that want this are people hounded in nullsec by cloaky nullified t3s and understandably so, it should take a concerted effort to stop them, and not just a fancy new gadget to solve a problem.that being said i would like to see one of the weaknesses of mines if re-implemented to not be able to detect ships that combat scan probes cant detect. that means cloaked ships and ships with a sensor strength to sig radius ratio greater than 1.08 (aka unprobeable). it makes sense that if a scan probes hi-tech sensor packages cant detect that, then a disposable mine wouldnt either.there should be no indication other than to the initial mine layer, as to the status of the mines. whether theyre online or deactivated they should appear the same. so that its educated guesswork as to whether a minelaying ship is on grid but cloaked or if the minelaying ship has gone offgrid and the mines are offline."
"i don't think the mines should be limited to grid but to system. no reason you should be bound to watch the mine like a hawk to make sure it doesn't dissapear while you bounce around system doing stuff.i don't think they should \"sense\" cloaked ships and just go off...but i do believe they should be something that can decloak a ship and detonate if directly impacted at the very least. perhaps a cloaky can brush past a mine but if it goes right into a mine it detonates.an exploding mine should also do the damage to a cloaked ship and decloak it. this could be used as a decloaking tactic on gate camps but not one i think would ruin cov ops. even if you are decloaked you are probably already in warp anyway by that time. and a ship would have to deliberately run into the mine while you are still within the 5k range of the explosion for it to work and that is still pretty far fetched a thing to happen anyway."
"i agree, more weapon options is something we all crave.also, mines do sound pretty sweet indeed."
"updating this so it makes more sense to new readers.if mines were to come back...1. no more than 5 deployed at a time so gates cannot be easily spammed with them and to reduce lag. whether or not they are in groupings of 5 or 8 or whatever can be left to ccp. personally i think a single mine placed up to 5 total is fine.2. when placed they are placed randomly up to 2km from the placing ship and self destruct after a time period to be determined by ccp or when the pilot who placed them logs off or leaves system. this will prevent concordokken on players that lay mines and go into high sec.3. mines have the same 500m trigger range but a larger explosion radius. mines will not act as a decloaking device unless the cloaked ship makes direct contact with the mine.4. mines once deployed are stationary and non-retrievable. friendly ships can detonate them and they also do harm to all ships friend or foe alike. 5. mines like bombs are restricted in high sec and are only deployable in nullsec.6. mines are deployed by a mine layer device. mines also show up on overview and in space as objects that can be targeted and destroyed if so desired. 7. make mines only deployable by destroyer class ships. give them some use...another idea i was thinking of would be to have one mine destroy another if it is set off. this way if you have say all five mines clustered in a big ball and one goes off...the other 4 do not detonate and are simply destroyed. again...when you have a trigger radius of 500m...that leaves plenty of room to move around for cloaky ships. you would have to have several hundred mines layed out around a single gate to effectively stop a single cloaky ship. with the rules so far stated this would be an idiotic waste of time to implement considering how many ships you would need with mine layers attached to do it and the fact that they would all have to stay in system and keep laying the mines over and over. so stop whining about that. another idea is to make mines big...make them take up enough space so that the ship carrying them can only take about 5 out with some ammo for other modules.edit: accidentally posted with my alt."
"bump because this needs to be looked at :p"
"i saw about 200 (not exaggerating) bots running missions in eitu the other day. all magnate frigs. scanned their cargo, mission items. been going nonstop for days, reported all for eula violations but they are still going."
"actually 'market' bots are good for everyone, they create liquidity and make the game better for both buyers and sellers."
"people who say \"bots can't be found\" don't know what they're saying. the ccp client could very well detect popular bot clients in memory on log in and report them to the server.the way to deal with bots from ccp's part is to:- take a good look at the major popular bots existing today- secretly release a client patch that detects those clients in memory (along with incarna or whatever)- do nothing for 3-6 months while collecting evidence of botting- do a massive ban of accounts in one go (that works very well because it sends the botters into a panic)- sue the company making the bots if they're selling themrepeat as necessary. that's been proven to work well for other games.you can't stop all botting. but you can do a lot better than they're doing now."
"good arguments, but it doesn't ban custom written bots that rmt rings might be using."
"there is a corp of bots down in the low sec around ingunn and gusandall that do nothing but run courier missions 23/7. nothing. i sent in a petition about it, and did they get banned? nope. ccp doesnt care about bots."
"doh!"
"this needs to stay up at the top. why isn't anyone supporting this? +1"
"very true!"
"fix the useless stuff!"
"+1 supported!"
"supported. also, i'd love to see an interface for creating hotkeys (or, armok forbid, actual buttons on the hud like every other weapon system has) for \"launch preset drone group 1,\" \"launch preset drone group 2\" etc."
"they could use some love yes.also update the stats of the drones we have in bay and in space according to our skills so we can know what they really do? like missiles that are loaded in launchers..."
"bump"
"you repeat that as if it it any proof of superior efficiency, but actually ecm is pretty crappy on unbonused ships by design. ecm was nerfed and ecm bonused ships got much greter percentage bonus then all other ewar ships just to get ecm to work.the only thing wrong with the other ewar drones is being hit by stacking penalty(and web drones are just too slow), lift the stacking penalty and all those would probably be useful"
"if you take my ec-900s away, don't forget to take the ecm ships i carry them for away too.yes, that's right. my ecm drones are defensive."
"i don't really have a problem with ecm drones, they aren't that hard to deal with. but the other ew drones are indeed very weak. i occasionally use the web/tp drones on my maelstrom to help with tracking while solo and they are effective in that situation. but they could stand to be buffed substantially regardless. so this is what i think should be done:1) increase web drone effect to 40% from 20%, it was 30% back in the 90% webber days and everyone *****ed about them being pathetic back then too. stacking penalties would still apply.2) boost neut drones so 5 of them is equal to a single t2 mod of their size (ie 5x ev-900 = one t2 heavy neut). it's balanced because you're dumping 300 dps from berserker ii's for a single capless heavy neut.3) boost tp drones so a single tp-900 = 40% effect, tp-600 = 30%, tp-300 = 20%. stacking penalties apply.4) split sensor damp drones into two types: scan res and targeting range. increase sd-900 effect to 40%, sd-600 to 30%, sd-300 to 20%. stacking penalties apply.5) split td drones into tracking speed and gun range. increase td-900 effect to 40%, td-600 to 30%, td-300 to 20%. stacking penalties still apply."
"personally i think small ecm drones shouldn't existotherwise it's same situation as with multispecs before they got nerfed - every ship with extra mid slot (drone bay) fits one"
"these forums need better poasters.the large majority of highsec dwellers have no idea what they're talking about, and i'm tired of them ****ting up the assembly hall, f&i, and general discussion."
"these forums need better poasters.the large majority of nullsec dwellers are elitist asshats, and i'm tired of them ****ting up the assembly hall, f&i, c&p, caod, markets, ships & modules, and general discussion.(edit:0/10 - don't try so hard next time)"
"people in 0.0 are just as stupid as people everywhere else. i fail to see how limiting who is able to \"post\" (see? i can spell) in the forums would make them any better at all. you also have no idea who dwells in high sec and who does not...nor do you know who has any experience where? i have never lived in high sec for any extended period of time but i have lived in null and wormhole space. does that mean i should not be allowed to post as well?"
"wow, so just being in 0.0 makes someone an awesome poster? put calculus captcha on forums instead"
"the frig could just jam :)"
"since i already programed a bot for tetris, this would not work. but it's an idea which could be explored...totally agreeing! it should make us more active, and would lower bots income, making us more competitive..."
"out of a pos and being resupplied -> unlimited for defenders."
"supported!"
"this is silly.new zealand is a wealthy developed nation, it is perfectly capable of looking after the victims of the recent earthquake without outside aid donations - in a way that haiti and pakistan clearly weren't. if you wanted to put plex donations to good use you'd far better donating towards something like vaccinations for preventable childhood diseases in sub-saharan africa, which kills and disables many more people than earthquakes, but i guess poor black people dying doesn't grab the same news headlines as affluent white people dying.(also lol at the csm candidates bandwagoning this)"
"ignoring the issue of whether using plex for donations even makes sense in the first place......no."
"i agree with shoban on this...but this comment is just pure ignorance.new zealand is not a 3rd world country in need of assistance. it sucks what happened but they can manage just fine on their own without financial aid. haiti was a much different story. not trying to be a **** but that is just how it is. as for not using plex for donation purposes to begin with...thats being a ****. why shouldn't we have a way as gamers to donate to a good cause? plex was an excellent way to do that and was ccp's decision to do it and up to the player as well...so why not?edit: i am going to change my vote on this and say go ahead...why not? saying not supported after what i already said seems a little hypocritical anyway. even if ccp does do it i do not have to participate if i don't want to anyway so no big deal there."
"because this looks so much better.oh my god its beautifuland if we get a ritter croser....make it happen!"
"i don't think the planets look quite as detailed that close up but i do agree. move the stations in that close as well. this will make the planets seem a lot more sizeable. while you are at it please also make the stations bigger too! make them seriously 5 times the size they are now. it really draws away from the game when i see several capital ships undock and wonder...how do they all fit in there?"
"*ahem*the excuse i think you are looking for is, \"magic.\"\"gravaton generator arrays\" are a good one too... you know... if you want to be all \"technical\" 'n stuff. supported. i want bigger space pls!!!edit1: spellingedit2: they should totally make it so that your ship \"overheats\" (just like it does when you overload) when you dive into the planet going at sub-warp speeds... the end result being a nice fiery 'splosion. could make bumping ships off station more interesting."
"support!!! also if this does occur can we have the music from 2001: a space odyssey playing as we orbit the planets."
"supporting this, because planets should be, well, planet-sized."
"makes sense. i've always seen syndicate as the resourceful, sneaky, semi-legal group."
"supported. really need a fix for this quite unbalanced issue. it's really annoying trying to scramble for pvp in a shield tanked ship. i force myself to logout/sit in my shield tanked vagabond at all times when not in anything else, so i don't have to wait 5 minutes for the shield to recharge at the sound of pvp."
"new feature: right-click tower, recharge shield and cap. only allowed to do once per hour to avoid exploiting it.i think it's easier for ccp to write new code/features then it is to change/fix old code :/"
"supported. mwd and ab should have distinct effects on a ship's engine trails.wait, where the frak are the engine trails?seriously ccp, they've been missing for how many years now?"
"awesomely written.i generally fly an armor tanked ship, and i just dont feel like i've been in a fight unless i hit hull. theres only a few things better than hitting ~10% hull as the other guys ship splodes.+1 for more options for hull tanking."
"hull tanking, best tanking!"
"signed"
"i support this product and/or service and wish to subscribe to your mailing list."
"supported, great idea."
"if some of you csm candidates could carry the banner that ccp needs to announce it's patch days sooner then 12 hours and 19 minutes before a patch is deployed (with a significantly increased downtime).if it was a hot fix, it would be a different story, but this is a planned release and a week notice wouldn't be to much to ask, three days notice would be a minimum.i've noticed this behavior from ccp in the past and it has annoyed me, but this latest patch gives us a warning of a little over 12 hours and increases downtime from 30 minutes to three hours. i don't mind the lost time or the delay in setting my skill training, its the inconvenience of the whole matter.who's with me!"
"reading the patchnotes makes me consider it as a hotfix tbh."
"same"
"did you even read the patch notes?theres like 2 changes. one change is to counter exploits and the other is to improve performance.obvious hot fix."
"no one who's bothered to post in this thread so far."
"the lack of space kittens in this post offends me.thanks for the support karbowiak."
"why should anyone vote for you if you're just going to resign again halfway through because you get emo about plans ccp have?"
"not as effective with a couple of week old character and no trillion isk business right. i've answered this question above,"
"good luck two step and domania, when looking at your blogs you both have good ideas and i can't help think that if one of you ran on the behalf of both of you with both of your ideas you would do even better."
"thanks for the endorsement, ace.i just posted my 0.0 thoughts on my blog. since i am not a current 0.0 resident, i would be relying on the community for what they like and don't like about 0.0. i do have some thoughts and ideas of my own though."
"already have the 'corp permissions' thing on my mind.not part of my platform (as though i want it, if it does not get enough support then i am not going to 'rage quit') but certainly something i would like to see 'fixed'.proposal thread here > corp permissionsthis is an updated version of teh user/role/group paradigm tweaked a little to handle eve.tell me what you think."
"i think this needs to be stickified."
"wow, nice website!none of csm candidates shares more than 69% of my thoughts, though."
"nice work, good to see there are some more options this round and atleast someones vote website is working as intended :p"
"i've been waiting for this!"
"they may, only maybe sometimes slightly more or less than you.also, some of the questions are asked in such a way that although one agrees with the underlying sentiment, if taken stricto sensu, the opposite answer had to be selected. hence the comments.at the end of the day, it's an indication, and you should check out the candidate's programs in more depth before making your choice."
"this is worth repeating."
"i just wanted to thank dierdra and any other folks that worked on the site, you guys did a good job. i did find some of the questions to be a bit odd, since folks could answer that several different areas were the highest priority, it seems like only once choice should have been allowed there."
"i understand what you're saying, but if a candidate wants to contradict himself by claiming two different areas are both the single most important thing in eve, they can :)"
"on the \"results page\", can you make it to where we can keep the questions in view while we scroll through the participants, i get lost having to drag side to side to see what candidates are for/against."
"well based on the votematch i can hardly make a wrong choice as i get at least 50% from every candidate it seems :dnever seen that happen in rl politics."
"oh and can you implement a remove button, some of these people need to be filtered out from my screen."
"both your suggestions are good ones, unfortunately i dont really have time at the moment to do the website restructuring required to make them happen :/"
"it should just ahve a 1-5 scale. something like \"i tend to agree very strongly - 5\" or \"i tend to disagree strongly - 1\". that way someone who for example thought faction war was extremely important but not \"the most important thing ccp can work on\" could give that a 4 instead of having to give it the equivalant of a 2 (disagree)it's just awkward wording it the way you do."
"i'd like to object to this. as you can see through a cursory perusal of the questions asked, they're very slanted: i can determine nearly perfectly what the answer the author thought was correct is.edit:this is also significant in what questions were asked vs. not asked."
"awesome site."
"they can, and it will make them match higher, especially if most users agree with more than one choice."
"i resent the implication that anything i wrote was manufactured or bull****. i have provided links to posts made by trebor and a quote from a csm 5 rep and made no recommendations as to where your vote(s) should go. i merely pointed out the hypocrisy of the terrible players who bandy behind trebor as if he's some sort of messiah when in fact his ideas and platform are very likely going to make your eve experience /worse/. in csm5 he was a recorder and editor and his \"recommendations\" all reflect that he put a basement dweller's level if interest and work into the menial tasks that no one else wanted to do, which is remarkable, if only to note that he's a perfect secretary, but he's not exemplified himself as a leader, someone who can prioritize tasks and delegate work to attain success, coupled with gameplay ideas that can only be described as ccp'esque'.my hope is that people will see him for the sham he is and spare your votes for other more deserving candidates that will better represent your own selfish interests, as a democratic system demands. thus far people have been very receptive to this and i look forward to seeing more deserving candidates on csm6."
"confirming that this is an extremely bizarre way to rally support for someone.no doubt this was what the goon hive mind intended.......but why???"
"i doubt this was a sanctioned post. there is absolutely no doubt that trebor was useful on the 5th csm, he has just been awarded more credit that is his due. alot of what made csm5 successful is the other members, the csms new status, decisions within ccp itself and how they interact with the csm. don't get me wrong, trebor contributed administratively for some things that needed to be done (and quite well), but giving him credit for things outside his control has created this uberversion of him that i just don't think is actual reality. if this image was intentionally crafted (whether by himself or virt and co) it is extremely diabolical and successful especially on shc, and this is why he's deserving of credit. personally i'd like to see the mittani and trebor as co-chairpeople."
"that sounds dubious... how could it not have been sanctioned when courthouse posts it on goonswarm forums and the mittani starts using the quotes on shc soon after? while he has campaigned for his image like everyone else is supposed to do, it seems to have been very specific on differentiating what tasks he did (e.g. crowdsourcing) and what csm5 as a whole managed to do. that <U+FFFD>berversion is the product of angsty bees."
"damage control already....why i never."
"what is more amazing is the amount of alts that pop up during these kinds of things which then go sling there dungheap opinions.those people must really suck badly or be overly concerned to be not posting with their mains.this can have several reasons.- the main trolled soo darn much in the passt so it lost it's credibility ages ago already.- the main is afraid of being kicked out of it's current corp / alliance by some \"fearless\" leader.- the main is such an insignificant speck that it's postings are just as insignificant and by hiding behind a new alt it want's to give it's postings a sort of importance.- some people metagame soo darn much they just can't do anything else than use new alts time and time again to keep the feeling of playing eve."
"confirming i'm an alt, but my mains will vote for trebor. (and seleene tbh)"
"i listened to the podcast debate. trebor had some good ideas, but sounded like he was standing on a soapbox. i'm sure he has been an effective member of csm5, however, politicking is not something we need. nor do we need what appears to be really terrible, potentially game breaking ideas like a pinball doomsday weapon.there is no podcast for the mittani yet, but i'd rather wait to hear what he has to say before shooting him down because of the corp he's in or because someone in his corp wanted to bring up some points that i have yet to see elsewhere on the forums."
"reading the arrogance of the mittani alone about how he's the saviour and will change everything because he's godlike is enough for me.if i want to hear people like that i can just listen to certain politicians which i also don't take serious."
"so let me get this straight: he would like changes to the stale and stagnant status quo to promote in-game conflict, cooperation and make eve more of a challenge for the individual player.sounds like a truly horrible guy!!!!!111say no to anyone who wants alternatives uber-blobs funded by passive income and bots! so sayeth the kitten .. errr, mittens.lazy ass null-sec."
"i don't think my life depends on it (i play eve, so haha life etc) but:you are posting as if it is an auto mittani vote because - well, i don't know, but i guess it has something to do with hating goons - but it isn't, so i am letting you know. i don't think this is something you should have an embolism over. you may disagree (i mean you are not exactly averse to hyperbole) but i think you're getting scared about something that isn't an issue.if the only comeback to these claims is that i should vote for trebor because it will upset the goonies then i don't think you are making a very strong case for your guy (i assume he is your guy, but maybe you are just posting in this angry manner because you think that not voting for trebor is a vote for mittani? hehehehe).edet for grammer"
"if you can't explain why any of trebor's ideas are good with a straight face then you shouldn't be posting in this thread to support him."
"see here for an example in his own thread where he is either incompetent or lying. this sums up better than anything else why i don't want him on the csm (and the poster is very pretty too)"
"all i see is goons and goons alts trying to get ahead by smearing.nothing really new here."
"mittani's campaign has stated thus far that he's in favour of re-balancing moon materials (again), despite apparently feeding his minions on the teet of his moon income. hate him for his personality and his arrogance, but don't knock him for his positions if you don't understand them."
"all the words typed in the op would be better expressed by this single image (you'll have to google invasion of the body snatchers to properly understand the context if you are 11 or something.)please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"don't you have some more gay gallente erotica you're supposed to be writing?"
"i'm guessing that means it was a pretty direct hit on the old collective ego sensitive little flowers you chaps turned out to be!"
"she's not even running and you're mudslinging. care to post substance to this allegation?(is it... yuri?)jade: this is an example of some of the worst kinds of discourse. in that other thread, i can appreciate your positions, but how is a former chair helping to shape the only democracy that matters in eve by posting crappy image macros?:("
"i consider it an entirely on topic, concise and pointed tl:dr of the op post. if you don't understand the context then i suggest you check out the movie from your local dvd store."
"trebor supporters literally believe an image macro is a direct hit to goonswarm's collective egothis is probably the most damning evidence against him"
"like there's no way that could even be a hit to anyone's ego even if we cared what someone who roleplays a spacehooker thought; it's not insulting in the least"
"i apologize my memory failed me: roleplays as a space hooker and space madam of a space *****house"
"that triple post is you literally turning over in the harbour with a broadside full of holes below the waterline ...you know that don't you?"
"i triple post to show i can"
"try it: your inferior posting skills won't let you do it"
"ccp's forums will recognize you as an inferior poster and require the forums to recover before suffering the insult of another post of yours"
"goonwaffe garpa posting technology is state-of-the-art"
"also, can he prove he was born in the usa and is in fact not a terrorist? these are important questions that demand answers"
"please stop this. it's dumb.you too, jade.let the people enjoy the politics and the drama. not pooping on the discourse."
"alot of the player running for csm are moulding the campain around the same point \"fixing low-sec\". my questions are:what is your take on low-sec? is it broken? what is broken? how would you fix it? dose it need a fix?thanksmitch"
"low-sec is *broken* because there's very little reason to be there.pirates like it because they can exploit ad gank players, and drop caps without much trouble. when the going gets tough, dock up.fw is another can of worms because it's essentially a blob fest resulting in little drive for anyone seriously looking into pvp.for the rest of it, the benefits are very minimal and most people would prefer going into 00 or sticking to concord space.this is a pretty broad question, but i'll say yes.yes, it's broken and it needs a fix. no, i don't have a solution for you. low sec is boring and i've been trying to avoid it, so my perspective is not a good one"
"do you think that by increasing the value of solo pvp, you may therefore see an increase in solo pvp in areas where numbers are not required (e.g. everywhere bar sov holding nullsec) which might, unintendedly, make losec a little more enjoyable?or do you think that is being too optimistic?"
"pirates using what exploit exactly ? (and what is wrong with ganking n00bs, like it doesn't happen in 0.0)it has been my experience that if caps are dropped in low-sec, it will be 0.0 entities 99 out of 100 times. this remark, coming from you, your corp and alliance is amusing, to say the least.if you are trying to avoid it, it stands to reason you aren't there much, how can you say its broken then ?or did you take a page from your illustrious allaince member mazz's book and hope to swoon low sec denizens to join your banner in the vain hope you will be able to \"fix\" low sec?"
"i think you're misunderstanding my use of the word exploits. not saying they are doing anything against the rules. more, exploiting the players that travel through. the most important thing about low-sec is that for some it's the first brush with ganking/pvp.slight misunderstanding.i'm referring to the logistics required to create, and deploy said ships. anyone can do it in low sec, which isn't the case in 00. as for my corp, we don't really drop caps. this alliance; well i have no relation to them except name. i don't associate myself with them (i was actually against it).i used to live predominately in low-sec. from day one i was in low sec. be it pirating in yong, running hi-sec fw ganks and operations around old man star, or having a stint with the heretic nation in amamake.i left it because it offers very little for a player such as myself.and once again, i have no relations with pl other than that i happen to be in a corp that joined them. i have not conferred with anyone in pl regarding my stance on anything, nor do i care what is for thier best interests.i am looking out for everyone who enjoys pvp.sidenote: also consider that low-sec is not actually part of my platform. if i had a plausible solution for one, i would have included it as required. i simply stated that the area does need some work"
"hey prom, did you sign up for this?"
"@ mickey,that would be a nice effect, but that's probably a little optimistic.didn't. by the time i realized it existed it was too late at any rate, i'm hoping people can think for themselves"
"do you mean you can't list your views on it anymore?"
"that is correct"
":swoon: great ideas for changes and great ideas to put across. it sucks ccp won't really listen but if elected i hope you will beat their faces in with them."
"hi elise. you write some really entertaining brs on kugu/shc, they're great fun. however i'm interested in your opinion on super caps, as a tool you guys use a lot, and from the perspective of someone who is presumably pretty knowledgeable about them.what do you think about them? do you think they are balanced, at all? the ease at which a titan-equipped alliance can deploy fleets around the place with titan bridges. the dps and logistics which can be brought to bear with supercarriers... i mean to take down a tower or structure- people don't use dreads any more, the things that are meant to be for that. they just drop 10 moms and the fighter-bombers do it in half the time and without having to seige. supercap hp that requires enormous server-destroying fleets to take down...and supercap proliferation. because of the amount of them, i mean there's obviously no point in bringing dreads to a cap fight now, and the only time it's worth bringing carriers is for suicide triage.so yeah, what are your thoughts on this?"
"shameless self-serving bump ;-)"
"i'm a empire carebare with less than two months of play time and your getting my votes, thanks to akay and his excellent lecture pointing me towards your tth column."
"sorry, no kickbacks. if you want those, trebor has a lovely little lottery you can sign up for if your vote is for sale~"
"i'm just going to link everyone to your meltdown on scrapheap so we can stop acting like you have anything serious to say without literally punching a hole in your monitor in a frothing rage. you want to attack me for 'trolling' and 'personal'? heh."
"thanks; you can also find a lecture i gave to eve-u a few years back about espionage on the eve-u website. hope you enjoyed it, and remember, spying is the most fun you can have (in a bad spaceship game made in iceland) with your clothes still on."
"the mittani is a strong man, he will crush his opponents and be powerful like stalin!if you do not vote for him, he will take power!"
"mittani, you're a powerful character in the game. but at the end of the day, that's all we see of you. you boast your ruthlessness, but i can't help but wonder whether that's who you are, or if it's a mask you put on when dealing with the game.but, to your credit, you wear it very well. i've seen alleged chatlogs that feature you, and you have a fierce bite. one of my fears is that you, with vilerat, will tag-team to dominate the discourse of the csm and scare the mouths off the other members of the council.there appears to be a consolidated campaign to keep trebor away from the council, yet you must understand that in the end it's likely that, whether you are on the council or not, you'll probably wind up working with trebor. one of the alligations that stem from the anti-trebor sentiment is that he can't actually come up with good ideas, but trebor provides examples of successful ideas that has gained his support, so it would stand to reason that there are crappy ideas that he's supported as a member of the csm.goon members have also hilighted personal ideas of his that have failed to gain traction. are there ideas that sit in the middle - half-baked proposals that he's supported that can act as an example of shot-gun approval that exists to see which surivive long enough to make a hit? in otherwords, would you be willing to provide examples of trebor supporting a cartload of crappy ideas to sift out a few precious good ideas?i see him as supporting either populist ideas that players have demanded for ages, and for \"making suggestions\" that have been in the ccp-pipeline for years, but i'd like to know if your researchers can list false-start initiatives that would show me, the interested voter (and king of perkone!) if this guy just supports any crappy thing that comes along. put your money where your goony-mouths are!"
"we herd sheep, we drive cattle, we lead people. lead me, follow me, or get out of my way.george s. pattonkeep leading mittani!!!+1 vote"
"most of the discourse of the csm takes place on internal forums. while it's true that strong personalities can dominate a summit, i don't intend to 'scare the mouths off' other representatives at all. that said, i'll do my level best to utterly crush completely ******ed ideas, and make no bones about it. from my perspective, the primary concern is not 'this guy has dumb ideas', because ccp typically ignores 'amateur game design' attempts and clearly has done so thus far. more worrying to me are the personal reports from mazziliu and helen about his tendency to belabor a point and drive devs away from a discussion out of sheer sperg-factor. since jade constantine has now lined up behind trebor, that's the kind of endorsement that should make knowledgeable, socially-adept players cringe in horror."
"thank you mittani for your responses. i'd appreciate seeing helen and mazziliu speak up on that. i'm not gunning for an endorsement in favour of you over another candidate, but if more of past csms could speak on the record about the issues of the previous csm, it would say a lot more about the issues of the csm and what would work out best for it."
"i have another question, this one pointed to one of the more unfortunate aspects of this campaign, but a reality that i most enjoy about this game.in the leaked comments, you seem to take a less than favourable view of the ideas of most of the other candidates, current and past. i'd like to read it from you: what do you think the negatives effects of removing jumpbridges from the game would be? do you believe there is room for compromise?goonswarm has been said to have a vested interest in curtailing reform in 0.0 space. while i've tried to understand the campaign of the big players, i'd like to understand your position better. you are, after all, the leader of the alliance and you speak for them in diplomatic situations. in short, why should we all care about jumpbridges? can you illustrate the challenges of living the 0.0 dream, despite earning hundreds of millions from technetium every few days?thanks again for spending your time on this."
"they've made a number of posts about trebor already. here's mazz:"
"and here's what helen had to say on goonfleet.com, which you can't read."
"i was asked today in #ripardeg what my position is on micro-transactions. this is such an obvious question that i'm surprised that i wasn't asked it until now. my position is this:first, i am the owner of the \"no microtransactions\" toon. that should give you some idea of my default position on this issue. my preference would be that eve have no mts at all.however, we know that hilmar has spoken publicly that mts are part of his long-term strategy for ccp. at the end of the day, ccp is a business. i work in the business world. i've been the technical assistant to a senior executive at a very large company and i can tell you that once an executive at that level makes a decision, it is nearly impossible to change their mind.so my view is that mts are coming to eve.so, in a more realistic sense, though i don't like mts, my position will be that if eve must have mts, they be restricted to vanity items only. clothes, ship skins, alliance logos on jackets and on the sides of ships, and that's it.if anyone has questions about this position, throw them out there."
"i will be participating in the lostineve debate on march 12th.mike dawe - mike azariahmikhail margulev - krutojjordy wille - cyerusrene de vrind - ms pacmandebate will be released as a podcast on their website."
"looking forward to that :)also, i dont think its a real debate, from what i heard (past \"debate\"), seems more like a good way to promote your points and answer some questions :)"
"despite your ostensibly rp-friendly introduction, your comment on match.eve-csm.com about whether roleplay is sufficiently supported demonstrates a lack of understanding of the issue, and maybe even a hostility toward anything that benefits those who take the concept farther than you do due to some irrational fear that your own style will be affected.\"every character in eve is by definition a rping. yet i am still myself and don't want to change that in any way.\""
"it was meant more as something to think about. the statement, in my opinion, should not be if eve has enough to offer rp-wise, but whether if you are contributing enough to eve. it's up to the players to decide how much of their characters is really like themselves in rl, and which parts are fictional and only exist in the game."
"yes... it actually does. i'm not an eve veteran but the only times i've seen ccp actually *do* anything is when the playerbase is unified and furious at them. and in the case of botting not even then.i mean the real activity from the last csm came once \"18 months\" had leaked into the wider gaming media. no one knows what the csm discussed and given that ccp had zero resources to allocate for anything that was raised it was irrelevant.\"good, hardworking people\" get ignored by ccp, the csm gets used as a convenient media relations exercise / rubber-stamp and then they go off and do what they had planned long before you showed up."
"ccp can always do whatever they want. it is, after all, their sandbox.but if ccp, or some group in ccp, fails to engage, or seems set on doing something that concerns us and declines to justify their actions, then there are several things csm can do. for example:1) do the research, and present the facts (which is often related to player opinion polling; the reason the crowdsourcing prioritizations helped was they gave people numbers to chew on).2) present good arguments based on the facts.3) internal pressure, both by posting in the internal csm forum, and also by escalating concerns up the management ladder.4) and as a last resort, public pressure management. we had an example of this yesterday with the publication of the csm public letter about incarna. but before csm took the step of making a public statement of our concerns, we spent months (since right after the december submit) working the other options."
"firstly, before i get to the main point of this post (which i would appreciate you attempting to answer) - how does posting a public letter that contains nothing that the playerbase hasn't made publicly for the last god only knows how long prove that the csm 5 members are capable of anything other than attempting to make themselves look good before an election? okay, you say you spent months working the other options, which are:1) do the research, and present the facts (which is often related to player opinion polling; the reason the crowdsourcing prioritizations helped was they gave people numbers to chew on).2) present good arguments based on the facts.3) internal pressure, both by posting in the internal csm forum, and also by escalating concerns up the management ladder.how long did it take before you realized these weren't working?additionally it is obvious that 1, 2, 3 and 4 are all part of the same process, rather than being an example of 'several things.' for example, how do you present good arguments without the facts you are basing your argument on? you can't. what you described is not 'several things' but a single process, and i think you are being disingenuous by presenting it as a list of options.either you understand the mechanics of the csm or you do not. one of these has to be true.so, if you do not understand the mechanics of the csm i don't want to vote for you based on that.if you do understand the cms mechanics, then you just misrepresented them to the playerbase in order to create an apparently knowledgeable/impressive response to a question, or, in laymans terms, you lied to make yourself look good.therefore, by your own response you have shown yourself to be either incompetent or a liar, and i don't want either of those on the next csm, thanks."
"trebor always seemed a pretty reasonable, hardworking, constructive and independent-minded guy to me. all reasons why the goons will hate him"
"if you are hated by goons you gotta be doing something right. vote trebor! *hands out campaign buttons* \o/"
"ah, but that is not what i said. i said \"rally the other delegates\", not \"rally the players\", and there is a big difference between the two.i believe it is important that the csm behaves in as professional and businesslike manner; every lapse in that professional demeanor gives those inside ccp who don't like the idea that (oh, the horror!) the players should have some influence over them the ability to squawk :lolcsm: as an excuse to avoid engagement.and indeed, the very example you used, :18months:, was an example of the csm being professional and businesslike. we put some hard questions to ccp, got candid replies, and reported our findings in a calm and measured manner in the summit minutes.we didn't even need to rally the players. we just presented you with the facts as we saw them, and did you the courtesy of assuming you are adults who can think for yourselves and come to your own conclusions.turning to yesterday's public letter on incarna, it is just the end result of an extended effort of trying to encourage engagement from the incarna team leads that began with the summit meetings in october and december.we originally published a first version internally, telling ccp we intended to release it publicly, but giving them time to address some of the concerns we raised, in the hopes that the letter could be made more positive, or even rendered unnecessary. i am told that this letter upset certain people at ccp very much.the only significant visible response to that letter was the first incarna devblog. out of courtesy to ccp, we waited and gave them extra time to address the remaining concerns we had; when a response was not forthcoming, we fulfilled our responsibilities to the players by publishing a revised public letter, adjusted to reflect the information provided in the devblog, and additionally internally published a more detailed version of the letter.with respect to botting, which is a concern i share with you, ccp sreegs has engaged with the csm on this issue internally, and also publicly on the forums. he also intends to make a public presentation at fanfest on this issue. i hate to admit it, but i might soon have to give a spork to an ex-goon."
"iterations is imho really the key to improving eve. working on old features will bring new life to them, introduce new features and make using them more effective. there are so many missing features that would make a previous expansion so much more complete. iterations is the way forward."
"seleene, what went through your mind when you first heard this?sidenote: didn't it all feel so real back then, like it actually meant something? wtb those days back tbh."
"i loved it. suas was very... talented. blog update about the lost in eve debates and the eve uni class that i did this weekend is now up: linkage"
"wow. that was a long recording. but damn worth listening to. that really cleared up so much, amazing.thank you, that was really excellent."
"seelene, you are probably the candidate with the broadest perspective in the game. the leader of one of the most successful 0.0 based alliances and later, a member of the eve development team, you seem to be naturally the player with the wildest eve career.what do you feel is an appropriate scope for player/dev interaction? what are the lines of the gm vs a gm? do you feel that they communicate closely enough?without necessarily describing the process of developing resolutions to bugs (which, i'm assuming, is a major nda issue), do you feel that ccp's current process for handling them is appropriate (including the turnaround time to creating and ultimately releasing a fix)?it's often stated that ccp doesn't deal with players who use bots to play the game for them. do you believe that there is a foundation for this perception? do you think that this is a problem that needs to be dealt with? can it? (with respect to your nda obligations!)you've dealt with the csm in the past. how did you feel about meeting teh csm prior to your visit, and did your perception change afterward? do you feel that the csm has enough capacity to affect change to the scope that players tend to promise during the election cycle?edit:as a player, a developer, and a candidate, which of the past csms do you feel were most effective, in general, and in terms of specifics?"
"see post #5, where i cover a few high level points on the opportunities with low sec. it not that the csm can \"do\" any one specific thing, we can however work to identify the communities few larges issues and work with ccp as a focus group or sounding board on new ideas that would help correct some issues.at the end of the day one of the best things we can do is find a workable solution to get carebears into low sec. get them there to harvest the riches (that need to be created) and provide targets for those that aren't care bears *grin*.the only real way to get carebears into low sec is to either a.) reduce the risk or b.) increase the reward."
"i understand that you want to try to improve game mechanics and thats good but what can we do for lols? would you consider giving hulks turret or launcher hard points, (i do not mean to increase the number of high slots just to add varity to the fit allowed)."
"a daily refresh. a vote for issler is a vote for a better eve! rise up industrialists, miners, inventors and small corporations! make sure someone in the next csm has your back!experienced, former csm veteran and here for you!issler dainzethe voice of reason!"
"a vote for darius is a vote for freedom and libertydon't try and steal his bike"
"darius will tell things as they are; he's not one to tip toe around something just because its a taboo subject. certainly the kind of person we need confronting ccp!"
"thank you, i must admit i was still struggling at understanding some parts.so, my personal opinion about salvaging :salvaging is a good and interesting part of eve, of course. it can be used by newcomers to significantly boost their income at the game start, or embraced as a full-time career by noctis-flying salvage masters :)however, i'm not sure that salvaging needs any improvements at the moment : with the addition of the noctis and t2 salvagers, someone can really spend his day salvaging without too much hassle. were you thinking about something in particular ?ninja salvaging is also an important part of it. a reflexion of what kind of aggression mechanisms should be triggered by salvaging someone else's wreck could be interesting, but so far i find it to be an effective yet not too bothersome way of bringing some challenge to these hisec missions."
"/poke:)so what you thinking about various rp issues such as the live events, the end of chronicles and so on?"
"i'm thinking to enforce a policy at the ccp workplace that all employees must be in character 24/7"
"icelanders in-character of power-maddened demi-god capsuleers? get ready for more volcano eruptions."
"great suggestion, kick 3000+ people out of 0.0, because of the botters (which are probably not even 5% of the alliance). the current system of dealing with botters through transactions and petitions is both effective and ineffective. effective, since it does catch a lot of them in the net and bans them, ineffective, because they create new corporations, let alone accounts. so how would you deal with that?lets summarise this right:macros(aka bots) mimic player's behaviorbanning them spawns new corporations of same botsrmt has market and goes through 3d party sites that are made for itmacros adapt to any new changesas far as i remember, csm5 were talking about abolishing belts or somewhere along those lines, or making constant mwding to get in range for example for said ravens, i dont know. all the different options that came up, will hurt the main player base more than fixing the problem, as they adapt to it anyway and the top 2 ways they are caught at the moment, still are: petitions and rmt transactions.so to answer your question, no i do not have a solid solution to this problem."
"if ccp is unwilling to do it when it's literally their job, why should anyone else?"
"u need a reality check......nice replies - how the hell do you transport 4 deers btw?has my vote."
"thank you for your support.deer werent shot all at the same time, so we took 4 legs and back stakes right from 4, then you cut meat from the bones (left bones for dogs). so you left with just meat pieces. we had chillers with us, about 5, all full. then got home and cut meat into smaller \"meal\" portions and stored away."
"oh wow. the sad thing is, due to your massive space-holding renter/botter/rmt whatever operations, you could probably practically afford to blow up a titan every time you wanted to 'old-style' dd."
"i guess it would be pretty ****ty if all the caps jumped out but its not like ccp wont turn them off anyway as we saw when it were camped in"
"krutoj-the-destroyerto kugu thread with some more questions answered there as well@natalia kovac: my ceo's idea is to have titan production prolonged (as another nerf to titan blobs). so instead of say 3 months, increasing it to 4. more fights for titans being built anyone? also, you claim we earn a lot of isk. here is some information on that, about 60-70% of it goes to pay for sov/bridges, another 20%-30% goes for ship reimbursement and what remains goes to people managing the alliance or other needs.as far as isk goes, northern coalition holds like 60 technetium moons, have a look how much that brings, besides their renters (food for thought).@callum545: in the last 3 years i can count only 3-4 cases when ccp interfered with bubbles. as per dominion, large amount of bubbles is considered exploiting and ccp removes them via petition (same goes with deploying sov structures pre extended downtime, even if it was 2 hours before it (and you cant prove that the hostiles didnt mean to take them down in that 2 hours, but that 1 hour of downtime caused you to have the unfair advantage), those are so called \"legal cases\". still you atleast have the hope that you have less than 10 large bubbles or that hostiles wont petition them (being e-honor and all that), while in the case of turning them all off regardless, is a pain."
"your neutral rr fix is stupid. repping someone does get you aggression, but since its not an act of combat, you still get right of passage to stations, gates and that lark. as for the logi just getting away, you've successfully forced it off grid? thus there is no logi, should the logi come in again it will be off gate and could easily be caught? and as for station if it does dock again there is no logi? should it undock chances are the short time it is able to stay out it won't be much good at all. you're concept of it being a game changer is true but if you where good at pvp then you'd be ready to counter this rather than crying you don't know how to and calling for it to be nerfed.as for the rest of your ideas seems like you really don't know what you are on about."
"but how could actively participating in a fight not be considered an act of aggression? it makes no sense that it isn't. and what happens when the target has multiple logistics? say, 3 - 5? sure, you can neut or damnp the logi, or shoot them until they leave, but unless the fight is greatly slanted in your favor in the beginning you will not have time to deal with more than a couple logi ships before you die. and really with 3 spider tanking logi ships you will have a lot of trouble dealing with even one of them if you are by yourself.and then you have the random bored logi pilots sitting outside station who feel the need to ruin every single fight they see by repping one side or the other. and ccp removed the only consequence to repping random people because a bunch of carebears whined about it.basically, \"if you were good at pvp you'd bring your own blob to kill the rr, or have your own fleet of rr alts to counter their rr alts\".way to miss the point."
"let's not turn this into a thread debating neutral rr. there are plenty of threads debating the point ad nauseum, go post in one. i'm sure the other super leet pvp'ers will all agree with you that playing docking games in jita with neutrals is a good time."
"i honestly think that neut remote reping has ruined and tarnished the \"1v1\". in places like rens,hek,amarr and dodixie, new and old players undock in a pvp ship hoping to get a fair 1v1 to test their ship or just have some fun. then they see the very familiar aurora of the rr ships. usually they are fairly off the station and they end up losing their ship. the only counter to rr, is of course more rr. personally i think that neutral rr should caused concord intervention by jamming the rr ship for an indefinite amount of time. usually around 10 minutes as an average depending on the regular 1v1. after some thinking, i have chosen to support you manalapan. best of luck to you and your ideas."
"alright just did the drawing and the winner again.....hot tubes and he wins 50x electron blaster cannon ii. i am standing firm that hot tubes has some how compromised chribba dice. linkplease more people post so hot tubes doesn't win anymore. i am tired of him getting my stuff.also, my concern about neutral rr is that it is:1) breaks war decsthis weakens war declarations in high sec substantially as any predictions about enemy power could be off substantially. the concern is not that some alt with rr will get involved. the concern is some random person can come along and completely change a battle they have no stake in. random involvement of outsiders is my problem here.2) 100% risk freea neutral rr ship can rep someone and get away through a gate or a station with absolutely no threat on itself. now i did think about just adding an aggression time like guns. however, instead of using logistics they would instead use battleships that can tank the 30 seconds before docking. it is only worse now since rr cannot go gcc on accident any longer. yes, i understand that it needed to be fixed for incursions and maybe incursion systems get a different set of rules. you can easily justify that saying concord changes the rules in favor of combating the sansha.urian kandor way to sneak in there, but that is exactly my point. thank you for your support and construction of the concept."
"was going to split my votes between you and trebor - now trebor will get both."
"after reading all this and going through your campaign site you have my vote. i wholeheartedly agree with your take on scamming (i hate scamming, but it is part of the game) and neutral rr.while i think your interdictor idea is nice it seems to be of no use to me living in highsec. or is it meant as a targeted effect and i missed it? otherwise i'd propose to make it a targeted effect and i will train destroyer 5 at once ;)"
"i believe you are talking about the dock/gate jammer script. if so then yes it is intended to make it a targeted effect. that as an aoe would not be balanced.thank you for your support and comments on the ideas.@ payne666do you disagree with my stance that scamming is an integral part of eve? trying to figure out what you didn't like in particular because i believe trebor is not anti-scam unless i just completely failed at reading his stuff (likely it was late)."
"scamming is part of eve in a way that makes the game unique. there have been ample passive anti-scam mechanics that have been put in place, like the writing out of \"100 thousand\" on the contracts, to the removal entirely of free-form contracts, or even painting the navy mega's camo green (catches the eye better for those that buy items linked in local on image alone).and while these changes can be seen as pros or cons depending on your take of scamming, it also blows me away the creativity of players to invent new scam forms. now, if ccp were to make all scamming, griefing, etc, against the rules, they might as well paint all of space pink with rainbow stars and have us only be able to fit snowball launchers.the seedy, unforgiving side of eve is what makes it so different and special."
"i shall join this league of internet spaceship nations."
"serious answer: nothing. but, while incarna has a high potential to be enforced partially or selectively, it is something that solely applies to station environments. cnsidering there's been mention of special incarna \"nodes\" and such, i doubt ccp even considers expanding it to captain's quarters inside ships - i could be wrong though.not so serious answer: look on the bright side. being in a supercap will save you plenty of plexes in not buying pink dresses, tattoes, earrings and hats"
"am still suprised she didnt ask for 2nd term of csm \"just because\" in it."
"so i have to wait 2 years for any chance at content relevant to my playingsounds like a great game these 1 year development cycles are fantastic!"
"if the feature is compelling enough to attract players (be it as an rp environment or with its own gameplay) then it doesn't require enforced participation. how can a feature be defined as a success if the only option to avoid it is to quit?i agree that incarna should have its own gameplay and that it should allow access to the current in hanger features. what it shouldn't be is a total replacement for the hanger environment for those of us who are not interested in walking around when docked. from the information in the cq blog it seems it will be a total replacement of the hanger environment.my concern is that ccp are going to take the easy option and not only make incarna participation required at the docking stage but also provide \"flying in space\" changing stuff only available in station to further enforce participation (we discussed some of this under nda). this would make even an \"optional\" incarna about as optional as actually fitting modules to your ship - yeah you could do it but why would you ;)i agree here and am quite happy to \"miss out\" on minigames and walking around if the option was there. whilst on the subject (and because people have been attacking me for suggesting that incarna being optional would make sense).w-space is optionalplanetary interaction is optional (and most people have opted out according to the figures we have)mining is optional - you can pay others to do it for you or get minerals elsewheremissions are optional - other ways to make money are availablerunning a pos is optionalmarket trading is optionalsov is optional - you can live elsewherepvp can be optional/avoidable (if you stay awake ;))etcbut - incarna participation will be enforced (unless ccp change their mind).making incarna participation optional will not ruin your immersion but making it enforced ruins mine..."
"this has nothing to do with an ndait has everything to do with alienation.see, the csm has benefited greatly from ****storms aimed at ccp. the summer rage meant ccp gave the csm big cookies to help deal with the player concerns, and i think that the csm sort of hopes that this will happen again.that's stupid and it won't, because this is completely different than the summer pr incident. first of all in the summer the rage was aimed at the higherups who have the power to make major changes. this letter is trying to start a ****storm directed at the grunts of ccp, and it's telling because it speaks about implementation details. it's not going to work because those grunts of ccp aren't directly beholden to the media, and they aren't required to answer to the csm or include them in operational details. it's also entirely the wrong way to go about it since they will take it as an insult to their livelihood. incarna to you is a game, incarna to them is a way to feed themselves, and they will do anything to keep that from being jeopardized.devs aren't required to give the csm so much as the time of day, they only do it if they want to. and they're only going to do it if they think it's safe. we've proven ourselves willing to start pr **** when we don't get our way so this isn't going to help their willingness to deal with us. thankfully most of us are leaving office, especially the people who were behind this. trebor and helen were supportive of the letter though, something voters might want to keep in mind.i signed my name to the private letter because i agree with its points, but i'm not going to associate myself with the public letter. even if we get our way it isn't worth the risk that we go back to being csm-in-the-dark that we were during the csm 1-4.this is stupid; i cant believe i'm the only person who thinks this; screw you guys im goin home"
"it would be absurd to say anything in this letter violates an nda. it is simply their requests. i don't see this as any sort of **** storm either. i do agree ccp should communicate - i suppose. i also agree that incarna shouldn't screw up the spaceship game by making docking/undocking take unreasonably long or causing lag etc. i am also not suggesting that ccp scrap incarna. that would just be dumb. but i am saying i do not expect anything more than just being able to walk in stations. i dont expect fireworks or some whole new fantastic game. there are all sorts of games where you can do hand to hand or gun combat in space station settings. im not interested. i dont want ccp thinking that they need to keep working on incarna until they come up with something great. the whole genre has been beat to death. if they get some inspiration 5 years from now thats fine. but dont force it because some players feel they have some sort of right to something more substantial than walking in stations. just make us able to walk in stations in the most basic form possible. then reassign the *vast* majority of devs back to spaceships. i listened to part of the lost in eve csm debate. seleene said ccp had only implemented a small portion of what they had planned for the spaceship game. there is allot more they can do in this game but they need to wrap up the incarna stuff and get to it."
"eh, they left us firsti think you're attributing unduly specific intent to the diffuse anger of tens of thousands of people who quit and posted about it last summer. they were trying to reach senior management but not mid-to-lower management and grunts? what? they were ****ed off and posted everywhere cuz they hoped it would make a difference or because they felt like something was taken from them and were mad.i suspect csm5ers think incarna will provoke :rage: with its bugs and slowness and no gameplay. they'd have to be huffing some pretty sweet ether to imagine a strongly-worded letter is gonna cause rage on its own; they're not morons. they're getting out ahead of the inevitable (to avoid blame, to mitigate damage if possible, to make a point, etc.)if they're looking to feed themselves by continuing to alienate their customers with idiotic priorities way outside their core competencies, then i hope they buried a lot of shark fins in the sand last summer.time was, eve had 60 mil in annual revenue and could feed lots of people if it was tended to. howeer, since that wasn't as much fun as making console fps and repeatedly learning to make a 3d engine, it got de-prioritized. plus, i hear vampires are gonna be all the rage with the young folks around the 2012 holiday season. could be bigger than farmville!what people do or do not say about ccp/incarna/eve and in what forum doesn't much matter except to the extent that it's true or not. if it turns out to be a huge success because what second life was really missing was a buggy, laggy, primitive space sim with a sadistic ui played largely by bots, then nobody will care what was posted where and when and by whom.pretty sure that ship has sailed.first mittens sperging all over shc and now this. trebor, you have a really strange way of lobbying for support."
"this csm term has enjoyed an unprecedented level of inclusion. keeping going in the direction of public complaints at things we don't like will jeopardize thatthe rest of your reply is just spouting off at how you think ccp should be run. that's nice, go get a job in ccp upper management. my concern is with the csm and making sure that next term it gets to have the meaningful discussions that it's enjoyed this term."
"mazz, your new portrait is freaking gold."
"incarna is just code that can be back-ported from wod development without too much work so of course there's no eve specific planning.nor is there any reason for there to be as incarna *has no gameplay*.i don't want a \"roadmap\", i don't expect ccp to stop working on it (they've invested so much in wod they can't stop), i just don't want ccp or the csm considering it as anything other than a cosmetic decoration on eve."
"i thought you were quitting eve so why the concern?"
"the recent release of information about captain's quarters was a good example of the communication efforts the community should receive more often about incarna.but all this lacks a bigger picture, a roadmap of sorts.if i have a seat at the csm, i'll be sure to continue your work on the crucial matter of communication between ccp and the players."
"considering this public letter addresses design (gameplay) how can it be considered aiming at grunts?"
"high level concerns: \"hey you don't have anybody assigned to working on eve\" -summer, 2010, something only the higherups can deal withlow level concerns: \"hey, why is this feature mandatory\" -this letter, 2011, something only the grunts can deal withwhat you think i'm doing and what i'm actually doing are probably two separate things"
"there is something weird happening to the post above me and its freaking me out."
"incarna wouldn't be a problem if there was a way to opt out of it. there isn't, at this point. instead of being able to conveniently click a bunch of buttons we will be forced to walk around in a station to do these things.i don't want to do such a stupid thing. i play this game to fly a spaceship, not wander around struggling with an obnoxious interface."
"i think the csm's concerns about the success or failure of incarna are grossly overblown. while their point of the importantance of planning are spot on, those issues are generic and apply to every project in every business area. let's look at incara:worse case, it's an abject failure and we (the players of eve) are forced to spend a few seconds in an crappy avatar. however the rest of eve should stay generally the same. it's still going to be the game we love. of course, there are the lost cycles that ccp could have been putting into eve. while true, they are already lost if this is a failure...and they are no more lost as if they were put on another pi feature (or pick your preferred \"waste\" of resources). end result., we still have eve and hopefully ccp will go back to doing what it does bestbest case: incarna is a success. it's deepens the game play. increases immersion and player interaction. it enhances the game we love. it bring in new subscribers for us to blow up/sell stuff to/scam/whatever.the bottom line is that this isn't as dire as the csm seems to be making it out to be. if ccp doesn't know where incarna is headed, who cares? they didn't know where eve was headed...and probably still don't. that's an asset. unless the csm knows something we don't, the \"worst case\" isn't that big of a deal. the risk to reward still seems to be in our favor.oh yeah....this is still a game. enjoy it. ...or don't."
"considering the stunt with this letter, its no wonder why ccp doesn't want to show an incarna roadmap at this stage. it's in their best interest (and possibly everyone else's) to at least wait until this csm leaves office. also, as far as timing goes, with fan fest right around the corner, and csm elections coming up, why on earth would they talk more about incarna now?i think mazzilliu is right, this public letter potentially does more harm then good. not just with ccp, but also with regard to how the csm is viewed by the players. if this letter had come out after fan fest, as the result of a lack of information revealed, then that would make sense. as it is, the timing seems to be in the best interest of only a few."
"personally i would have waited the two weeks until fanfest before posting a public letter. two weeks' wait wouldn't change anything. but based on information general public might get about incarna, such a letter might get much more public exposure and support and result in actual action.right now, most players know nothing about incarna beyond captain's quarters, and even that is just a rough idea - we don't know how movement will be handled, etc., etc. it's not on sisi yet either, but should be this or next week unless their schedule changed.as a result, most of us can't honestly say /agree or /disagree or even /you are overreacting, because we simply don't know. won't know, for at least two weeks. so what purpose can such a letter serve at this point in time aside from creating anxiety? sounds like something that should have been worked out privately, or post-fanfest.but that's my take on it based on what i know about incarna. which is practically nothing. i understand csm may be privy to information under nda that makes them act this way, and i find it very disturbing. for many of us incarna is a \"make it or break it\" feature. if it turns out to be a total letdown, and all we get this summer is one character in a tiny room doing nothing except converting oxygen to carbon dioxide, followed by another 6 months or more of iteration of more tiny rooms in which one or more characters will be converting oxygen to carbon dioxide together, that's a year wasted. the payoff for the amount of work spent on it would be slim and none. i understand that ccp needs carbon/incarna both for eve as a platform for future non-ship content as well as wod, but they need to remember that they can't leave the space portion of eve to stagnate for years while they do it. apb is a good example - developers spent an awful lot of time on the character creator - which was frankly amazing - but forgot the rest of the game. as a result, it was one of the quickest and most brutal failures in mmo history - under 3 months from release to server shutdown. bottom line, speaking for myself, i don't know what to think. obviously csm is deeply concerned, and i assume they have more information than we do, albeit under the nda. but is it bad enough to risk bad blood between present/future csm and ccp for going public, especially in light of recent \"ccp and csm strengthening the bond\" interview a month or two ago? i guess time will tell."
"utter drivel it is the management/vision/producer level staff within ccp who should be making those kind of key strategic decisions not the \"grunts\" working on one part of a feature.we've been waiting for answers to questions and constructive feedback raised in december and haven't heard anything. an internal letter was sent to ccp last month and all we got back was the cq blog which didn't address anything significant.this letter hasn't damaged any working relationship with the incarna teams because there wasn't a working relationship with them in the first place"
"frankly i think incarna is going to be great. i spent a lot of time crafting my virtual ass, and i expect to spend a lot of time fapping over it."
"what about all those guys with male avatars tho? if you're not gay... plex for sex-change? these are important questions! i've blogged on this and i'm going to stick with my initial take on incarna - ccp has to 'deliver' the goods and make it interesting. thus far, ccp has not shown that they have a plan (there's that word again) for doing that and i don't think this public letter would have become public if the current csm had been given any kind of bread crumbs to reassure them."
"you still can't disagree that the two complaints are of a completely different nature. one is something that can be seen as a reasonable request all around, the other can be seen as trying to dictate game features by others. one is broad and allows for a lot of leeway in the possible responses, the other is specific and narrow and not to mention ignorant of whatever operational constraints may be imposed on the team.the csm's relationship with the incarna team might not have possibly gotten worse but we've just broadcasted a message to the rest of the teams saying hey guys, if you dont do something we really want you to do, we're going to try publicly shaming you. good work guyswith regards to the timing issues brought forth by others: the letter was supposed to be released two weeks ago, since i raised up such a stink about it and the csm was concerned about being perceived as acting maliciously, and ccp said they would be taking time to draft a response(incarna devblog). but in the end nobody's minds changed because of it. we can't really release this letter much later than this because our term is ending, although most functional activity of the csm seems to have ceased at around the time of this letter anyways."
"sorry, i could not resist that wide open door anyway, earlier today i left a comment on keith's blog, which was promptly turned into a guest post, where i left my own observations on the matter of the incarna open letter. it is best read there, and until we get new forums the character limit here is a bit restrictive anyhow. i understand where the sentiment of buffering against perceptions of butthurt comes from. but it is unwarranted, unnecessary, and counterproductive.unwarranted because this is ccp we are talking about. a company that dares to be different, that wants to conquer the world. they know that is never smooth sailing, and takes a lot of hardship.unnecessary again because this is ccp, they have an open business culture with clear company values which they stick to. if folks working there get butthurt over an open letter, it is more from individual confusion between work and person than from an absence of such company values.counterproductive because this open letter, the process, the communication, the accountability, it is all exactly part of the mission of csm as a stakeholder as laid out by ccp's ceo. providing feedback is but one part of it, challenging ccp another, and both are inherent elements required in any external stakeholder interaction. yes it is a learning curve on all sides, but that is fine. ccp are humans, but strong people, and they are a team.just like in my comments on keith's blog, it is still best demonstrated by the words of ccp's chairman of the board of directors. it's from 2009, yet still applies to everything ccp takes on. as a company, as people. vilhjalmur thorsteinssonthose are very wise words, and the thoughts behind it are even smarter. they are good lessons, and values, not just for ccp as a company, but also as people, and equally for the dynamic that they created - of which ccp, csm and customers alike are a part of."
"meissa thanks for the response. i find it surprising that no other candidates have thus far felt the need to post about small/solo gang pvp. (although to be fair seleene did respond to almost the same question in his thread) i suppose solo/small gang has been sufficiently killed off due to neglect, so no one even needs to address it as an important/crucial concern for the game. but you say faction ship improvements were some sort of boost to small gang and solo pvp. you ask when you fight solo, you tend to go with the best stuff, right? i cant answer for anyone but myself. and the answer is no. when i fly solo i expect to get blown up so the faction ships other than the cheaper frigates are really not on the radar. sure some people fly more expensive stuff because it is fast. vagabonds drams and cynabals obviously are top choices for allot of solo pvpers. (although they also tend to be the bane of solo pilots because little else can really compete with them 1v1) the faction bses are really just used for pve as far as i know. the faction cruisers  well i really dont know what use they are. in sum the vast majority of faction ships have no place in small gang or solo pvp. i do disagree with the thought pattern that goes: faction frigates are used in small gang pvp, therefore ccp isnt neglecting small gang pvp in the extreme. saying faction frigates are boost to small gang pvp is like saying faction bss were a boost to people who like to shoot rats. consider this:what if the only boost ccp gave to people who like to shoot npcs was faction battleships and fw plexing? no faction war missions, no epic missions, no sleepers, no incursions, no upgraded null sec npc spawns, no speed missions. lots of people who like to shoot npcs would leave the game wouldnt they? do we not see lots of people who liked eve for the small gang and solo pvp leaving the game? is it hard to see why?lets face it, ccp has nearly completely ignored this play style and so the players who enjoy it are leaving. fw plexing (the only thing ccp ever did to boost small gang pvp) ended up being more of a method to deal with npcs/pve than a mechanism for pvp. see this thread where a former csm posts about capturing 111 fw complexes in less than a week *without a single pvp kill.*"
"i agree, it's borderline (hence the \"sort of\").but you don't see large fleets consisting only of faction bs.my point is that a faction bs versus a regular bs, the faction bs has the advantage.and this is the kind of scenario more visible in small gang than in large fleet. i admit it's not much of an improvement however (hence why i keep pushing for it :p)i appreciate your comments and concerns, and agree with most of the points you make. i definitely agree that the needed attention to small gang warfare is ill met with faction ships.faction warfare could use improvements indeed, the only \"problem\" is that a series of small improvements and fixes won't change the underlying problems in fw, and it's going to be patch upon patch upon patch and no end in sight. we agreed with ccp that fw needs to be modified in depth to be able to achieve its objectives. now, with the resources available, i can't promise to push for it in the beginning of csm 6. as i said, in the 2nd part we'll have more time available however."
"your ideas are interesting.i'm a small gang low sec pvp player myself (i don't solo often though, 3-15 people fleets mostly, and little to no fancy faction ships), i understand what you mean, and i share lots of your concerns.but \"solo pvp\" regroups lots of different kind of pvp, you can't really compare hi sec wars, low sec piracy, anti-piracy, fw and null sec small gang roamings.i think ccp is aware of the importance of small gang pvp on eve, for instance, alliance tournament, the most important event organized by ccp, is about small gang pvp, not fleet fights, not mining operations or probing contest.i doubt anyone could come up with a solution to improve all kind of small gang pvp playstyles though, i think each of them (war, 0.0, low, fw, etc.) is tightly linked to the game mechanics and population of its environmentas far as lowsec is concerned, i believe small gang pvp concern should arise when discussing a broad low-sec overhaul, factional warfare included.everything is tightly linked in low sec, you can't look at it from the small gang pvp point of view only.making lowsec interesting enough for industrials, for instance, would make the pirate population grow bigger and allow for more fights in general, maybe more small pirate corps and thus more small gang fights.as for fw, i must admit i don't know it really well, but what i know is that it can't be separated from other small gang pvp in low sec. pirates and fw often interacts for instance.the same goes for 0.0, small gang pvp there depends on sovereignty mechanisms, which have a huge influence on population repartition in 0.0 (upgraded systems being full, others being rather empty right now). jump bridges and other fleet projection abilities also have an impact on small gang pvp, either because it allows small gangs to travel fast in their own space, or because it allows defenders to respond more effectively to a roaming gang. changing them will have an impact.and for hi-sec, war mechanisms, aggro timers and neutral remotes... none of this can be taken separately.and so on, everything is related, and small gang pvp is everywhere in eve, impacted by absolutely everything, and impacting everything.focusing on one whole area at a time is, in my opinion, what csm should lead ccp to do, keeping it mind that modifing an area doesn't mean it has to stay the same for years, small meaningful changes when needed should happen : dominion as a 0.0 focused expansion for instance, failed quite horribly, and need to be looked at as soon as possible."
"1) not sure about the most neglected. just as i would say that any pvp chagnes have not been 'focused' on blob warfare. the issue that pvp is facing is thatthat of human nature e.g. if i can do this with 10 people then i can do it twice as fast with 20, and twice as fast again with 40, then when you bring 40 your opponant brings 60, so you call your friends and they bring another 40 etc. what has also added to this is the fact that corporations and alliances are larger, more of them opperate in 0.0, and that is a direct consiquence of eve having more players in the same amount of space. when i first started playing i could make the run from hed-gp to vngj-u and maybe see 2-3 people, now you see 1-2 every couple of jobs and there will be a blob of some kind that needs to be avioded.2) i think ccp have worked hard to try to bring good content to most parts of eve every couple of 'updates', but as a concenquence i do not think any 1 play style as gotten an awesome set of content. take planetary interaction (pi) for example. i have been doing lots of this as an industrialist, but at times it bores me to tears, it is so static, i can not use my other industry and science skills to give me an edge. in normal manufacturing i can research the bpo's to give myself an edge, i can put up a faction tower to get a better research tower to research my bpo's, but with factional warefare all the schematics are the same with nothing to give me (or others that work at it) an edge.3) i know ccp have said that they do not like to impose 'limits' on player interaction, but all the same limits are there (11 research jobs max, 11 manufacturing jobs, 11 people per squad, 5 squads per wing etc). i think it is time that they admitt defeat in trying to control human nature and put in some increasing' negatives for gang size in certain circumstances. like a deadspace complex that eachtime some one warps in it spawns more and bigger rats. the issue is to find something that can not be exploited for the sov mechanic.4) no major experience with that, but i from reading the forums i know it could do with tweaking.5) i want to see more of it. i loved it when i was in 0.0 but one of the reasons i am not there now is that fleets got to big and fights less enjoyable. a number of candidates for csm want more small gang, so i am sure it will be on the agenda very early, it all depends on what options ccp presents.i also think that the csm should continue to push this issue to get some plan of resolution from ccp."
"vote for madcat!!!"
"sshhh. that was supposed to be between just us two. now everyone is going to get the same idea..."
"goo killer :)"
"i was impressed by your results on csm match toolnot perfect, but better than the other idiots. ;)"
"what's up with the opposition to incarna that you expressed on match.eve-csm.com?"
"you can find my personal thoughts on the reasons behind the goon smear campaign in my campaign thread, and you may want to read that first. this thread is devoted to a related issue; the damage it is doing to other qualified candidates.hi everyone,in this election, we've seen a lot of mudslinging, much of it directed at me.that's fine, i don't take it personally, and i know it's just politics.for example, one current csm alternate has apparently been referring to me as a \"dangerous idiot\" on his internal forums, while at the same time, for the last month or so, we've been working together on the public letter on incarna in a quite cordial and professional manner.so either he's not serious, or he has a great deal of experience working with dangerous idiots.but here is the point i want to make: be very wary of changing your vote to me because of an emotional reaction to a provocative campaign message.for example, i've gotten some emails saying things like \"i was going to vote for you and seleene, but after all this, i'm throwing all my votes to you.\"i think this kind of reaction is ill-advised. you will be doing exactly what the mudslingers want you to do.allow me to be blunt.the only reason anger about the mudslinging should cause you to change your vote is if you were going to vote for one of the mudslingers or their candidates.in particular, i strongly urge you not to change your vote to me from one of the solid, non-aligned candidates who are running, such as seleene, ripard teg, meissa anunthiel, jonathon silence, and roc weiler.these are the kind of candidates who will work hard to improve the game, and the csm. for me to be re-elected to a csm that doesn't contain people like them will be a pyrrhic victory -- and deeply pleasing to those who care more about their own personal petty interests than the health of the game as a whole.sincerely,trebor daehdoow"
"and people say goons/solar legion of red noise are trying to form a bloc..."
"in another light, it sounds like you're in favour of splitting the vote among candidates who aren't putting an effort into taking the chair. conversely, lets say a goonswarm candidate such as kalrand, who has the ear of a number of players concerned with industrial aspects of the got a seat on the csm, are you suggesting that they wouldn't have a desire to make progressive contributions?does the [goon] ticker ticker make them an undesirable candidate to you? or are you simply trying to galvanize/generate some anti-goon sentiment?what are your feelings toward the contributions of csms that did boast a goon presence, and how do you feel they compare overall to the quality of csms without the goon presence? what about other goon-sourced community contributions?i hope you'll forgive the provocative nature of this post. i've been trying to be even-handed in my questioning, but i've also been trying to avoid the temptation of posting in threads by people who already players offer strong support. but your reasons for posting this thread are unclear to me and i just want to understand your motivations, as a candidate, for posting this thread."
"the chair has absolutely no power other than opening sessions btw. just saying.it doesn't matter what tag a candidate wears. what matters is how they behave and the contribution they have to make.i have no problem with goonswarm (hell, i have bee stickers on my fridge), i'm more concerned with candidates who preemptively call half the other idiots or morons. chances are these people are going to have to work together.if one wants to debate, one should debate issues, priorities, knowledge, experience, track record of a candidate if one is so inclined. calling names is never a good idea, and certainly not insulting others. it says a lot about a candidate that they think their program/priorities/values do not stand enough on their own that they feel they have to bash others to look better by biased comparison...there have been more than one instance of productive goons in the past csms, there have also been blatant attempts at tilting the proposals towards gameplay changes that would benefit them above all (which, in my view, is bad :p). goons play the game like everyone else, in their own \"unique\" style, one that needs to be represented, but there should be a difference between \"game style\" and the csm. the csm is not pvp, it's a venue to foster changes and improvements, give feedback, it's not the characters, it's collaborative effort of the players behind the characters...above all else, one should vote for candidates who can work with others, especially with people who hold different points of view, for that's what the vast majority of the time is going to be spent on, discussing differences... the ironic thing is, some non-goon candidates that are running would probably do a better job at defending goonswarm's game than some of the goons running..."
"i was quite amused when mittani's apparent alt described you as a higher-functioning autistic. i guess the comment was phrased with a certain level of mental health jealousy"
"right. i agree that there is a lot of mudslinging going on, but i feel that this time around there is a reenforced effort to sling mud at candidates with the wrong ticker and this concerns me. the csm isn't supposed to be about party politics, but that doesn't preclude block politics and it's clear that the goonblock is fighting trebor.trebor's answer appears to be to passively fend off goon candidates by endorsing others, and that worries me. so my interest is to better understand those positions, but i like to ask these questions aggressively.jade: i can't determine if you're calling me a mittani alt, or if you're referring to some other poster. if you are, i guess i could try to prove that i'm not, but then i don't necessarily mind that the image my posting conjours up is some old, retired fart who yells on the internet, and i doubt any attempt short of posting time stamped pics would satisfy you. so i'll keep it trite: whose alt are you? :p"
"i imagine that is quite true."
"of course not. the campaign is totally divorced from the regular work of the csm, and i will base my opinions about a delegate solely on how productive they are. for example, whatever his personal opinion of me may be, once helen highwater was able to devote time to the csm, he did good work."
"meissa anunthiel suggested that the chair has very little power, and i understand that you were once the chair. could you use some of your experience on the csm to explain to the players who will be voting what your experience as the chair was like? i think players in general would like to better understand the scope of the job so we can appreciate why it's been so heavily politicized."
"thank you for your quick and candid response, trebor. i wish i could summon players to a thread. i'd like to better understand why helen, who was voted in, was unable to contribute their more of their time to the csm. i'd assume that delegates would appreciate the experience more, but just as with real-world politics, i suppose you might have a variety of commitment from different sources.but i appreciate your statement on their contribution.the goonblock v. trebor campaign is a hot topic on the forums, and one of the draws to the game for me at the beginning were the politics of war. to the layman, it reads like a futuristic space action novel except the parties involved often have ridiculous names."
"it doesn't have a great deal (if any) actual power. but unless the chair can be considered honest and hardworking its possible that some harm can be done to the process. in this current election its a symbolic gesture that the goons would like to take the chair position to make a point about their role in the game as a power bloc.after all, its likely that the coming session will involve potential alterations to 0.0 mechanics and might impact the bottom line of the space-alliances seeking their candidate's election. the jump bridge logistics argument is pretty important to the spaceship emperors out there.on balance though its better to have more candidate's elected from an independent perspective than it is to control the chair. 2 votes are better than 1 even if the 1 does come from the chairperson.so speaking personally i'd rather see mittani take the chair at the cost of an extra hardworking independent making it onto the council if forced to make the choice."
"ultimately ccp is free to listen to their own whims, based on practicality and simply what makes sense. incarna, for instance, is here to stay, after five+ years of development or whatever and countless amounts of capital burned.personally, i think someone like trebor is motivated at making good things happen. he's been criticized for coming up with and voicing bad ideas, which i'm not going to comment on. i don't think it's appropriate to judge possible execution based on concept and i certainly don't want to do so here, but that concept needs to be informed. i do agree that trebor has shown the motivation to push an idea that he's behind so that it reaches some form of realization, and he is willing to do the labour that people find menial - i get that he's committed, and those are the strengths he brings with him. the problem i have with him as a candidate is that i'm seeing a lack of ideas that come from trebor himself.now i don't mind admitting that i've probably missed things. in some of the other candidate threads i've asked for solid examples of supported items vs. successes; it's too easy to take advantage of the discourse through forum trolling, for example, than it is to hold, er, \"empirical evidence\" in your hand and say \"i'm not here to tell you that you suck, this is documented proof that says that they suck!\"(this is why i keep positioning myself as \"the uninformed mass\". i need useful information, positive and negative, and demand it to be spoonfed to me. i have that right though; people want our vote, and i think it's their job not only to tell me why, but also to show me why.)"
"be careful what you wish for...i didn't attend many of the early meetings in csm 5 for a variety of reasons. the most pertinent was that i was actually pretty ill and spent a lot of time in and out of hospital thanks to a very sudden (and rather scary!) heart problem. additionally i was third alternate to begin with (i later ended up as first alternate following ankh's removal and t'amber's resignation) and, from my experience in csm 4, the third alternate rarely got to do much at the online meetings so the csm meetings were a lower priority than they had been in csm 4. regardless of my attendance at meetings though i kept up with the other work of the csm and contributed to the discussions that were held on the forums and via email. i've mentioned before that the meetings are almost the least important things that the csm does - despite the fact that they are the most visible thing that we do. i can't vote at a meeting unless a full delegate is absent (initially i couldn't vote unless three delegates were absent) but i can bend the ear of someone who can vote at any time prior to the meeting.as soon as i became first alternate i stepped up my meeting attendance dramatically because it became far more likely that i'd be able to contribute to the proceedings.regarding trebor and the original topic of the thread, i have an opinion on trebor's effectiveness as a csm candidate that i did not intend to be published outside of the goonfleet forums. i was saddened and angry when i saw that courthouse (who btw isn't a mittani alt, he's a mrchi director) had reposted my words. for bringing that tone into the campaign i apologise. trebor is a hard-working and conscientious csm delegate but i feel that he often simply doesn't understand the ramifications of the topics he's (often passionately) discussing. this in my opinion makes him a poor choice for a candidate despite his other, undeniable strengths.one of the unfortunate things about being an adult is that you can't always choose who you have to associate with and so, despite my feelings on trebor's opinions, i work with him and with other members of the csm with whom i have disagreed. there was a point during the initial drafts of the incarna letter where trebor and i were going around in circles on the edit and talking past each other. trebor contacted me privately to cool the situation down and as a result we were able to reach an agreement rather than continue to argue over semantics. i appreciated that even though i disagree with almost every opinion that he holds."
"i don't altpost. vov meissa and seleene are both fine candidates who i get along with smashingly, for what it's worth! i have no problems with them being on the council."
"edit: hi mittani! i'm going to but your thread later.helen, i greatly appreciate you taking time to clarify things. personally i believe that the csm would benefit from enabling the alternates more recognition, in the spirit of opposition days - where they can briefly introduce their own perspectives. i hope you're better and appreciate you explaining some of your personal stance.and, for what it's worth, i feel that trebor mischaracterized your early contributions. i think most voters would agree that being number 3 in line toward being president, for example, would make you a rather unlikely candidate.i feel that applying the style of politics appropriate for a community is unfair, particularly if it's a private forum, which is how i can accept posts on scrapheap challenge (or, respectively, something awful.com, which appears to be semi-private) but i disagree with politics posts being mirrored from private forums. mittani knows how to get his people out, and i'm as does trebor. internet communities differ, and so to the processes that initiate activism within those internet communities.one of the things that i found damaging to the public side of the discourse was trebor's promise to pay out eve isk to whoever finds the most effective channel of getting his name out. he's already well known, and so it seems not only redundant, but it's evolved into a back-door way of damaging the debate. mittani has directly attacked competitors, but at least he's knocking on the door before taking a wrecking ball to the speaker's corner, and he appears to be keeping his venom in the cab of his vehicle of mass destruction. he's not paying his supporters, and so they appear more genuine to me.i guess what i'm saying is that, despite your overall friendly everyday player demeanour, it appears that you are unintentionally sabotaging the debate. trebor, i can't ask you to stop people who genuinely agree with your stance and are fervent to express it, but in the interest of good faith, would you consider removing the billions-isk bounty?"
"tacticalvotinggone mad"
"don't let your focus on 'mudslinging' let you be distracted from answering my question to you:do you not understand the mechanics of the csm, or did you lie in your thread?"
"welcome back to the mudpit, madam~a more adept individual may have noticed that i am not even in goonwaffe, and as a director in merch industrial and alliance diplomat for goonswarm federation i am privileged to work with mittani on a regular basis, the research and analysis of trebor's capacities are original research. the conclusions were my own as well. tootles~"
"would you prefer the term catspaw?or would dupe save us all a little time in discussion of semantics?"
"i have received a few messages from other capsuleers saying that i needed to get a web page up and a campaign going. they had read my campaign message and like what they saw because i was like them. so here it goes...i am not a politician, i am a person like you or anyone else in new eden. i have a life out side of eve and as much as i would like to spend all day exploring wormholes and working the 3 m's (mining, missions and manufacturing) i have to tend to my real life. i think there are a lot of people like you and me in new eden. the people that come here to escape the demands of life to become that explorer and adventurer that the our normal lives don't allow us to be. we look forward to that hour a night after the kids have gone to bed and our spouse or significant other is watching tv or reading a book, that time when we can become the captains of our own battleships and fight pirates and other scourges of the universe. i love my time on eve and i am grateful that ccp brought together the talent to create a universe where i can escape the monotony of paying bills and filling out tps reports and watching my cubical mates steal my red stapler.but i think ccp has forgotten that as much as we want to live in new eden, some of us have to spend more time on earth. i appreciate some of the new ships and missions and many of the new features that have been introduced since i started playing just before exodus was released. but in all the upgrades and forums, ships and features can be a bit overwhelming when you can't get on every day and keep up with all of the new things. i can image it is a bit much for the newbs as well. i am not against progress and upgrade, i love it, but i think eve has gotten to the point that a capsuleer can't survive in new eden unless they are in a corp and they can't experience all that eve has to offer if their corp is in an alliance. i'm not saying that corps and alliances need to be done away with. i just think ccp needs to do more to maintain the ability for people to be independent spirits. the introverted rogues of space that wander and do their own things, the han solos of the old republic if you will.i also feel that ccp needs to re-evaluate its role as god over new eden. god created the universe and man created his own troubles. i don't think ccp needs to regulate and define every little rule and nuance of what happens in the universe. let man be man. let us learn that if you are going to go into 0.0 space in a probe, you are going to get ganked. i went into a wh a couple days ago and was having a great ole time cleaning up a pack of sleepers. i got caught unaware and got podded. was i ****ed, a little, but i laughed at myself for being so dumb and not clearing out when i new there was trouble when the first player ship appeared. thank god for clones and insurance. geico of new eden can save you 15% on battlecruiser insurance. when i started in eve there were pirates everywhere and gatecamps were a way of life, now they seem to have died off. i have read various theories as top why this is, allied groups cleaning them out, loss of interest, but the one that i don't like is the claim that ccp punished them. concord is there to police the stars, let concord do what it was created to do. ccp can control the universe, let man control man. i am not a pirate, nor will i ever be one, but i think the loss of the pirate corps has taken a bit of the adventure away from eve that i found appealing.i know my message is a bit mixed, but that is what i think. you can agree with me or not. but i want to know what you think. i know i am under informed, so inform me. what do you want to see in new eden, what don't you want to see in new eden. there is a lot of talk about station missions and walking around, i see the advantages ad disadvantages of this. what do you think? what do you want?if i can serve on the csm i want to represent you, not me."
"it's csm 6 bromaha, bit late if you want to be on csm5how can i trust you to change the game if you can't even read?in all seriousness, interesting platform but i don't think you understand the csm as an entity ; it is not an engine of change, it is a sounding board for people to say 'no that's ******ed' whenever ccp pulls a ccp and suggest how they might change it. besides, you don't seem to know what you're fighting for before going into the election which worries me alot. also you seem like a hisec carebear so vovgood luck in the election"
"the interview was found here"
"love it, but would it be to much to ask for personal wallet divisions also to keep marketing money seperate from my spending money without using a corp wallet or making another char to hold cash?"
"do you find yourself as a pvp/combat pilot with default mining or industry skills? or perhaps you are a miner with default gunnery & turret skills? i propose that a simple and slight change be made to the skill system that allows players to not only \"inject\" skills but to \"un-inject\" skills as well. once the \"un-inject\" tab is selected, a \"caution\" window should pop up to inform the player that the skill will be \"un-injected\". once the skill is deleted off the player's skill sheet, it will remain in a stand-by window for 24 hrs. after 24 hrs, the player can finalize the deletion (similiar to character deletions). players would not get back sp. this would not change game play or affect the main game. it would slim down jumbled skill sheets and decrease clone costs. please comment."
"no, it really wouldn't.do you mean drop a skill and get the sp back? why would that make sense, and how would that not be a huge change to gameplay?"
"i have to agree with danika on this."
"totally agreeing. i fail to see how it would not be the worst possible thing..."
"lol. sorry for the confusion. no you would not get back sp. that is why it is a minor change. it is a functional change. very small."
"i dont know why everyone went high and right on this. nothing was said about sp being re-embursed. this has nothing to do with skill points. stay focused on the topic at hand."
"so what you're suggesting is you should be able to unlearn skills without getting the invested sp back?then my question is:why would you want such an option?"
"those who would want such an option would be anyone who doesnt want a jumbled list of useless skills that the player has no intention of training."
"ive got a few skills i wouldnt mind getting rid of, and cant think of a simpler solution. even a 'hide skill' check-box would be harder to implement...supported"
"sense does make not this."
"oh great, another pointless, destructive option on right click. genius. it should be put on the context menu right between \"train now\" and \"train after current skill\" too. why not. it just makes sense."
"i do not see the point. i usually do find the point too........."
"you really should stop bumping... if it's a good idea, it'll stay afloat on it's own. filling it with literally a full page of bumps just makes you (the op) look bad.that said, while it's a good idea, the problems with it have already been covered. there's no way you can justify slowing the whole game down whenever a big fleet engagement goes down, and the only other solution is to somehow prevent the metagaming (since time has slowed down in that system only, they just need to call their alliance in and wait for reinforcements). as said, this can be done by preventing jumps, but then this kind of ruins the strategy of having vanguards -- basically, you're forcing the attackers to either commit their full force or only part of it, since they won't be able to reinforce.but heck, what am i saying, it's all been covered in this thread probably dozens of times already."
"yes i do believe those comments were made and i do believe that both were met with counters that logically solved them without any game breaking situations, in fact i believe they actually started to achieve what ccp wants from large scale fleet fight + reinforcements, and that was a broken up engagement consisting of the main fight with smaller secondary fights in surrounding systems."
"\"if it's a good idea, it'll stay afloat on it's own\" - i wish that would be true, but my real life experience tells otherwise.anyway... statistics: 86.51% of players live in empire, 11.07% in nullsec, and 2.42% in w-space. (source - qen q3 2010 eveonline.com/community/qen/qen_q3-2010.pdf) so i believe it could be said that only 10% of all players have regular experience with big fleet battles. (i'm not sure how fw fares, never dit that) to simplify things - 90% of people that watch assembly hall aren't really hurt by lag... and it ain't medialized enough to make them care. so they don't care. example: i know nothing about what eunuchs want... i don't care about them and i don't hear about them.and i don't care about homosexuals either - but i surely hear about them.my point is: we have to keep reminding that lag exists to people that don't experience, just like we are reminded that homosexuals exist even when we are heterosexuals.i keep reminding this thread in alliance and fleet and local channels (i'm part of nc and live in ls-jep), and i keep bumping this thread so that it is vissible. if you have other suggestions how to medialize this thread... i'm listening.(statement: i'm not homophobic or anything like that... as long as the people in my fleet keep the cap chain up and leave the wrecks for me, i like them. and if i'm not the only one with full rack of salvagers i hate them, not caring for their religious/sexual/political orientation)"
"there has to be more detractors or something that can say their piece."
"i personaly never really thought of the different ships as in different teirs when i first started playing eve i more thought of them as a different hull with a different role , and i think thats how they should be in the first place with relitively different stats and miniral req's for the different hull types based on size of ship and what it is designed for, like more combat oriantated ships would require more megacite due to it being used more in weapon systems and so on and so forth"
"i like this idea and the neg posts have no standingfof weapons are not what they are namedthey should be renamed very bad bad missiles that are no good and should be recalled and possibly discontinued./..also why do serpents deal 75 dmg and hydras deal 25 dmg???shouldn't heavy missiles deal more than small missiles, while small and fast frigates should be made \"faster\" and \"smaller\" to actually dodge the missile completely, not negate the blast dmg into a state of dumbmissions need to be made more complex obviouslysmall/cruiser ships need buffs (i don't know about anything bigger than a battlecruiser so that doesn't mean buff the drake or buff the apocalypse)kill 2 pirates, collect reward could be changed to1) scan for pirate base with astrometric probes (scanning for ships and wrecks is made easier obviously) 2) fly to pirate base and investigate (investigating means use the archeology/codebreaker or roid scanner or cargo scanner to search objects... i think ships need more medium slots when we start making realisitic missions) 3) kill all hostiles that attack you4) retrieve the mission thingy and return to base5) bonus: mine the roids, salvage the hulls of derelict spacestations/ghost ships, steal the secret blue prints from the central computer or other general industrial ways of making moneys (increase the tech/industry of your faction while decreasing the numbers of the enemy pirate faction)"
"trolling comment removed - adidai shall deign to give you some more information on my use of them. until two days ago, i had never used them. i regularly run exploration sites in high/low sec, and as a lot of the ships in these sites are frigs/cruisers/destroyers, the amount of time spent locking them is proportionatly more than say, a level 4 mission. in my trusty tengu, i decided to experiment to see if the locking time could somehow be negated by loading up hydra fofs. the whole point of my post is that when they do operate (and target ships) they work wonderfully well, and save quite a fair bit of time locking npcs (even taking into account the lower damage output). however, because more often than not they have a tendency to go for lcss, the time saving achieved in blasting away the small crap is eliminated when they go for every bunker, radar post or brothel.my retort to you, sir, is that you obviously haven't used them or even considered a response beyond a typical troll. reported."
"see above. this has nothing to do with missions and all about making an intended weapon system actually viable."
"i think perhaps you went a little off-tangent with the rest of your post but thanks for the support perhaps you could check the 'support' box, too?"
"fair enough... fof missiles arent what theyre named, theyre if anything foae missiles (foe or anything else)i would suggest you read up on the subject matter the fof missiles are based around... identification friend or foe infofof are a combat system designed to partially defeat ecm, then have never been designed for pve, the guidance system mechanic targets anything thats not blue (friendly) so yahh it will hit structures!if you're flying round in a tengu revise ur fit and/or your subsystems to give u that extra mid to fit a sebo, not ***** and moan to change a system thats not designed to do what you specifically want.this whole thread is a complete cascadefail"
"no, because this is a game and as we know, eve bears little relation to reality.says who? source?trolling comment removed - adidaa bit like you, perhaps? now, why couldn't you have posted something worthwhile initially, instead of making you look like stupid and juvenile. you seem to be somewhat polite and reasonably articulate in your proposal threads - i would expect the same for here."
"if their defense is that fof shouldn't let people fly their drakes into plexes and press the +6 missile group button then perhaps missions and npc mobs be made a little stronger... rats have like 50-150-250hp while typical players have almost anywhere from 1000-100000hp (shields/hulls/armorsupgrades included)stronger rats, harder missionstougher missions, better reward, buy/make tougher shipsbetter battle physics could be implementedartillery deal splash dmg (dmg to nearby ships when bullet hits)lasers/autocannons effect velocity/maneuverability of ships when wings'propulsion are dmgedrailguns have the ability to pierce and pass through multiple ships on a single line of pathmissiles can be hacked and retargeted to hit friendlies by scramble fields, be countermeasured(smokeclouded) back to their original launchpoint or far off course, or be intercepted by defender rockets/structures/asteroids/other shipsso infact fofs could hit collidable objects but only when the original \"ship\" target flies by them and puts the structure in their path... fofs don't just whizz off to hit whatever rock or ruin is nearby(which probably is not emenating heat or a spacial distortion)whenever you press the fire button"
"i agree with some of your ideas, but i think that the gist of your post is beginning to move beyond the realms of this thread. i think you should definitely explore this further though, perhaps with a new proposal? your first paragraph certainly bears repeating though. i don't really want to make it possible so that the be all and end all of pve setups is a drake or what have you with 6 launchers and uber fof missiles - not at all! i simply would like to see the ability to somehow prioritise targets for the missiles - fof missiles have quite a severe damage reduction compared to regular heavy missiles, and seriously think that this is appropriate, and maybe should even be reduced further if the ability to prioritise targets is implemented.there is some nice discussion here, more please"
"i have some mixed feelings on this. i do have concerns of imbalance that could occur. gives a substantial disadvantage to non-drone ships. it might be a way to boost gallente though without having to do too many numbers balancing.i am going to go ahead and support this with hopes of getting more discussion out of it as a solution to the gallente/hybrid issue rather than reanalyzing those numbers.vote manalapan for csm. show your support here and get free stuff."
"yess, supported."
"draco llasa / robert weatherly indicated he will focus on hybrid balance. vote him and hybrid users will have a voice in the csm."
"well, in my opinion it is a simple choice. if pve is your primary concern for the moment and you want guns, go minmatar. low signature hulls, capless guns, selectable damage types, good damage projection and fast speed. this way at least your shield skills are not wastet, plus most minmatar ships use missiles as secondary armament. this may be handy if you decide to explore an other facette of caldari playstyle.and as a big plus minmatar guns really sound like guns. i mean guns !"
"railguns, and the mechanic behind it, are fine. the problem isn't the module itself. the reason why railguns seem underused, and underrated is because it's not the simplest solution to logistic-backed fleet that are on the rise recently.in the age where a shield buffered bs/bc can be repped up by scimies/bassies, the high alpha of arties is recommended.so, in conclusion, it's not the railguns that need to be fixed."
"i don't belive you ever used or use them to say such a thing.wy use rails when lasers or artys are much better in any situation? if not give me an example where rails are better because i've tested almost everything/situation to make them spit something close to lasors or artys and i can't so please enlight me.wy use blasters with ridiculous engagement distance when pulses or auto canons are far better in any situation?i think about 3 possible answers:-the guy is a noob-the guy is a masochist-the guy is just stupidor the three all together so what's the trouble?-the shield fleets? -logistics type?-weapon system?sure, wy would you use (ex)100 fail railguns when you can do the job with (ex)20 arties or (ex)25 lasors ships? wy the hell should gallente pilots use artys or ac's on gallente huls, loosing dps bonus?because they hit harder better dps projection bigest numbers etc etc comprende?you're one of the best trolls on this thread has all the non gallente pilots who post here or like some minmatar pilots giving fitting lessons...take your drake away from this thread"
"supportedand maybe we should do something to belatedly celebrate this thread's 1-year anniversary?"
"supporting your answer. going out right know get my new gc and have a beer for this"
"bump"
"i like it."
"supported"
"does that have any chance? i wonder if it is illegal anywhere to make a program like that. it's not malware like ur general trojan or something..."
"200+ read this yet only 8 supports. how hard is it to hit a tick box for support and click post reply? most of us who are affected by this issue have given up looking in the forums for help and i'd wager most don't visit the assembly hall very often, so this proposal needs the support of the general community whether you are affected or not. there is nothing here to oppose and many eve players could certainly use this proposed option. c'mon capsuleers. we all love eve or we wouldn't be playing it and nobody wants to get locked out due to a non-ingame feature (at least, not currently). could really use your support on this before it's too late."
"i would like to think this issue is being looked at/worked on. either way, this is one idea on the table and it is an issue that needs to be addressed. i support this."
"supported."
"agreed"
"/supportedwhile i don't have any issues w/ the cc, i would hate to be in that position."
"the reason for the lack of replyes is becouse everyone is waiting for the new forums to go live. a like quick is so much easier.because of the wait now for the new forums until after fan fest you should be getting more thumbs up now."
"definitely. i had no problems with the cc, but don't want anyone who should be able to, but couldn't, to be locked out of the game through something that was not their fault, hardware wise."
"supported."
"what if: requirements for small/medium smartbombs was reduced by 50-66%?sort of solves the ecm drone problem for the sub-bc hulls by providing a usable counter. allows ccp to ignore the issues with ecm for another cycle so should be a slam dunk, no?"
"obvious flamebait is obvious:kill it with fire.please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"that would be awesome. probably reduce forum traffic by 95% as well..."
"0.0 pilots do stupid things as well:"
"in all fairness, the missions forum should remain open to them."
"posters or toasters? considering the nonsensical nature of the idea i presume the latter.null posters generally behave like brats, spoiled children of a working single mom. personal attacks, mudslinging, tantrums et al. is the standard for the most part.the only difference between coad and the rest of the forum is that null has to reign in the urge to be idiots.restict null posting to coad, with special dispensation available for the few intelligent/cordial individuals."
"supported, this thread shows why."
"while i do think that post quality could improve, i do not think the op should be a leading example."
"and just how do you propose the forums would know who is a hisec resident? maybe posters here should have to pay a fee over and above the regular subscription fee that everyone pays to play the game and which includes access to post in all of the forums. makes as much sense as the op's idea. not supported (and ironically should be classified with the op's suggestion of needing better posters)."
"there's plenty of appalling carebears in nullsec and wh space. make so that only outlaws with a sec status below -5.0 can post instead. brb, off suicide ganking."
"seriously are all the mods on holiday or summat?"
"hahaha.hahahahahahhaha <gasp> haha.ho really. it was funny."
"you are utterly underestimating the level of automation that can be achieved with a simple program. as long as there is an algorithm on the other side, it can be figured out by experienced people and either circumvented or automated within mere days.that said, the more randomness a process includes, the harder it will be to 'bot' it. the key is to find the right randomness, and that requires outside-of-the-box thinking. point a lazer at it and do x and profit will just not cut it."
"making the belts require scanprobes to find may also help. it would be more difficult to write a bot that quickly probes down scan hits.example: a new kind of scan probe is introduced called the specialized grav probe or something. it only finds grav sites, but also finds special grav sites other probes can't find. each of these special sites has one rock in it (like real asteroid belts, the asteroids are spread out) but they are very numerous and easy to find with the right equipment. scan down your rock, warp in, nom it, look for a new rock. now miners are engaged at keys all the time, mining is more interesting, miners don't have to sit exposed in the same place for long stretches of time, and bots have a tough time emulating them.downside: fightclub pvpers don't have a \"belt one\" to gather at for pew any more. though i suppose planets could suffice? needs more work obviously."
"sure nz isn't a third world country. sure there are plenty of other causes to donate to. yet still the red cross are taking donations to aid the people there who are suffering. they seem to think there's a need for aid there, and quite frankly i would take their word for it as they are (some of) the ones on the ground helping out.it doesn't matter whether you're black or white, rich or poor - being squashed by falling buildings is pretty ****ing traumatic, and having your house destroyed is pretty damn devastating.as for the csms \"bandwagoning\" on this, you will note that i (as the op) and most of the other csm candidates supporting it are from new zealand. we would like to be able to support our friends and neighbours in their time of need, regardless of any csm election."
"supported.i don't support the uninformed bs being promulgated.things are actually pretty squalid on the ground, and likely to stay that way for a while."
"to whit:for a start off, what the op forgot to mention is that the feb 22 earthquake was an aftershock of one that occured last september. that earthquake cost 4.5-5 billion usd, this one is tipped to costaround 15 billion usd - for a total of 20 billion, 15% of new zealands gdp. compare that to hurricane katrina, the united states costliest disaster, which weighed in at a mere 6.5% of gdp.also, i feel compelled to point out that the destruction in christchurch is being compared to that in haiti (by people that were involved in both quakes).incidentally - how many people realized that the us accepted donations from afghanistan and kenya in the wake of hurricane katrina?"
"little known fact: the maximum peak ground acceleration (pga) measured during the haiti quake was around 0.5g. the maximum pga measured during the christchurch quake - despite only being a magnitude 6.3 - was 2.2g. this represents some of the most violent shaking ever measured in any earthquake anywhere, and would have utterly decimated many other populated areas around the world.the death toll is only as low as it is because most buildings didn't collapse outright due to high engineering standards, but thousands are damaged at levels beyond safe occupation nonetheless and much of the city will need to be rebuilt from scratch anyway. in the meantime, thousands of people are now homeless and/or are faced with very third world living conditions in the absence of electricity, water and waste systems.it's easy for me to support this since i was there, and i went through some serious **** that i wouldn't wish on my worst enemy, in-game or rl. i've lost my car, my home, possibly my job, and my injured knee is still giving me trouble. and i know i'm one of the lucky ones.but to put things in perspective, i don't think it's worth doing as another one-off event. i'd like to see this and any other such plex drive in the future to be part of a more permanent rolling plex donation feature, where ccp would nominate a different charity every month or so, and anyone could feel free to donate to that cause, or not."
"thanks for lending your personal perspective to this cause ben, sorry to hear that you got caught up in the event.re your suggestion, i would agree. or even go one further and provide a mechanism for people to donate plex to a range of causes (or even the cause of the player's choice, although that would be a push administratively). it would get a lot of in game currency changing hands, and provide players with the opportunity to use in game resources to make a real world difference."
"the reason ecm is so much greater than tracking disruption, target painting and sensor dampening is because the ships that receive bonuses for ecm get a much more superior % bonus...it's almost pointless to fit ecm on a ship that doesn't have a specific bonus, whereas you can fit a td, sd or tp on any ship and have almost the same effect as the so called specialized recon ships.50.25 optimal disruption (default)62.81 optimal disruption (pilgrim/curse)3 ecm str(default) 7.5 ecm str (falcon/rook)i'm not sure of a solution, if this even appears to be a problem to the rest of you it does to me."
"not supported, increase optimal disruption bonus instead. and give falcon/rook the 2nd neut bonus that pilgrim/curse have, otherwise it's too op."
"so your proposal is? nerfing the other ewar modules to a point where they are only effective on the specialized hulls and need lowslot support modules?"
"ecm is like that because it is so intensly full of win that it needs some fail in order to not be unbalenced.the other ewar types have less win, so they are compensated by having less fail. this is balencing.falcon and rook are already used more than any other recon ship because they have the only ewar that can turn a one sided gankfest into a gankfest in the other direction. anyone who says he'd prefer a pilgrim to a falcon needs to lay off the boosters.ewar is fine the way it is. no buffs/nerfs needed."
"like i said i don't have a proposal, i was just bringing it to everyone's attention that there is an imbalance.you can't say not supported then offer a solution that's contradicting yourself rofl"
"so in other words you're saying the falcon is better and it's balanced that way? :/"
"three things. first, if you don't have a proposal, then why did you post this in the assembly hall?second, \"numbers being different\"  \"imbalance\".third, this is a terrible thread."
"the imbalance lies in curse and pilgram having 2 ewar bonuses, instead of just one. they should give them higher tracking disruption bonus and remove neut bonus. that way, it's balanced."
"sorry, read this thread and somehow associated it with a thread that asked for energy neut bonuses on rooks and falcons. thought 'this again?' and proceeded to beat it down thoughtlesslysorry"
"we have carriers, then we have cruiser logis, nothing in between. proposing bs logi for t2 version of tier 3 bs hulls. cruiser logis lack hp and get butchered in incursion sites, unless you manage to fit a 1600mm plate. carriers can't go into site."
"interesting. here is a complaint where someone believes that our current logi ships are \"too weak\" and thus a newer, \"beefier\" class of logi ships is required. i wonder... what do you think about this guy's charge that the current logi ships are \"nigh unkillable\"?also... this is a \"rehash\" of the thread i just linked. just different wording and character posting it.not supported."
"yeah, can't support this. cruisers are the support sized hulls (with a couple of bs exceptions ie tier 1).cruiser logis can have decent hp and spider tank unless you're doing it wrong, so shouldn't \"get butchered\" in incursions.if you really want bs logi, use a domi or form the classic rr bs fleet."
"to be honest, i don't think even capitals should have rr bonuses... nvm bses."
"lrn2fit your logis. a guardian can easily fit a 1600mm plate, 4 large remote reps, a large energy transfer and a medium energy transfer, and it will have an excellent tank, made even more effective by its small sig and afterburner.you... you are fitting abs on them, right?pro-tip: acr rigs are your friend."
"i think the op is a basilisk pilot like myself. i've personally found the ehp on those things to be lacking.in my opinion, the proposed battleship logi should be very similar in repping capability to the cruiser sizes, but they need a lot more tank.if you're having a hard time killing logis, you're doing it wrong. logi ships are easliy killed by arty sniper battleships, energy neuts, and/or focus fire. switching full focus between several targets will also overwork them enough that they might let their repairs on each other slip, especially if they are in charge of more than ten ships. when they can rep that much you really shouldnt focus on dps, because you won't break the tank that way. you have to use huge alpha strikes.sleepers and higher level incursions have enough alpha to take down logi ships easily, and they're coordinated enough to pull off the moving primary. that's why logis have a hard time with this stuff."
"overall not supported, guardians, as noted, can fit a 1600 plate and a trimark for buffer. 4 large reps and 2 large energy xfer (if you know what your doing).. that will give you over 9k raw armor hp (without fleet bonuses) not to mention very good resists if you do it right.can also be cap stable with only 1 energy xfer on you if you have logi 5."
"[basilisk, cookiecutter]power diagnostic system iidamage control ii10mn afterburner iilarge shield extender iiinvulnerability field iiphoton scattering field iilarge shield extender iilarge s95a partial shield transporterlarge s95a partial shield transporterlarge s95a partial shield transporterlarge s95a partial shield transporterlarge 'regard' i power projectormedium 'regard' i power projectormedium ancillary current router imedium core defence field extender i62k ehp with basic leadership skills, fits with room to spare. it does have a rather large sig, but on the other hand, shield reps apply instantly, not at the end of the cycle. his logi buddy can keep him alive vs up to 1500 dps, further modified by his ab speed which should provide a substantial damage reduction from bs sized weapons.edit: overheat the hardeners for 72k ehp / 1800 dps per logi buddy if things get bad. you can do this for 2 minutes without burning out anything.[guardian, cookiecutter]1600mm reinforced rolled tungsten plates idamage control iiadaptive nano plating iiarmor em hardener iiarmor thermic hardener ii10mn afterburner iiconjunctive radar eccm scanning array ilarge 'regard' i power projectormedium 'regard' i power projectorlarge remote armor repair system iilarge 'solace' i remote bulwark reconstructionlarge 'solace' i remote bulwark reconstructionlarge 'solace' i remote bulwark reconstructionmedium ancillary current router imedium ancillary current router i55k ehp with basic leaderships, tiny sig and good ab speed providing excellent damage reduction. 1650 dps tank per logi buddy.edit: you can pimp this up a little with faction hardeners/eanm to get 60k ehp / 1850 dps per logi buddy. that doesn't cost a lot really, i recommend it.tl;dr: not seeing a problem here unless it's that logistics take some practice and proper co-ordination to be really effective."
"800mm plates allows guardian to survive easily in full aggro vanguards, and most assaults. 1600mm lets you survive headquarters. but for moms, you will instapop to one flight of fighters aggro, there is nothing you can fit that will let you survive more than one volley of micro torps, which hits perfectly on cruiser sig and cruiser ab speeds. it's been tested with 1600mm plate on max armor skill guardian plus ganglinks for armor, sig, and speed. full fighter flight aggro = dead logi. there's a reason people don't like to bring guardians to mom sites, they get aggro and die.for highsec pvp, you can bring in artys or just jam them. noobs will keep finding reasons to whine in pvp no matter what. and neut rr is a separate issue that needs to be addressed by itself."
"would it be possible to have another wallet for individual players, i find personally that one wallet is not enough.it maybe ok for pvpers buy indy guys that set ptojects for themselves (not corp) would benefit from this to be able to allocate finds into this wallet.may be charge for the extra account sort of 50 mil or something for admin fees in setting up the extra account with caldari business bank or something, soo it can tie into the story line aswell. :djust a thought"
"try looking for similar threads (like this - still on the front page) before posting.just a thought."
"linked post does not include wallet divisions"
"this is a proposal to re-use the system scanning array in order to scan for cloaked ships. the problem: people away from the keyboard cloaking in systems gives them an advantage over people. one can assume the \"afk cloaky\" isn't there and find out that they are there. there really isn't a direct way to counter this. possible solution: to redo system scanning array that will work like regular combat probe scanning but giving it the ability to find cloaked ships. in order to keep it fair so not every cloaked ship becomes useless by being scanned instantly, here are some ideas for balance.-require certain sov level with i hub upgrade.-have a timed delay on online scanning module. such as \"online\" >>> 15min scan boot up >>> \"online and scanning\".-require anchor v and a new skill on the same level as starbase defense management(or use that skill too).-have it cycle through a pi or ice product item to keep in \"online and scanning\", kind of like siege mode. i figure some of that would be good to have so the player can't just go to tower and turn on the scanning array to find the cloaky instantly, so if someone does plan on a bop hot drop, they got like 15-30mins to do so(or however else long). and having the cycle timer would prevent the scanner from staying on 23/7. this way, it gives the owner of the system a chance to get rid of afk cloakies. since they can just sit there for however long they want to do a hot drop/gank, why should they be safe and have nothing directly to preventing them. eve is about nothing being safe where ever you go. thank you."
"easier and much more appropriate solution: nerf local already.we need to fix the damn local chat for many reasons, and afk cloakers is just one small issue. this game would be so much better if we had proper scanner ranges, such as 15 au sphere of scanning rather than arbitrary system wide player identification tool."
"ephemeron, you appear to have totally missed the point. removing local would make an afk cloaky more impossible to counter. the sterling intelligence of black aces made manifest once more.few points on the op.i think it's a decent idea, but the penalities had better be massive. we all know alliances are rich. unless it costs so much to online the scanner that it's only worth running for an hour or so per day, this whole idea wouldn't work. making the module also extremely costly would be good, and also very hard to transport. essentially making it such a pain in the ass to use/install/purchase/and run.in principle i think this is a decent idea, but if ccp doesn't do it exactly right, it would end up being very game breaking, and as some things like supercarriers can show, ccp has a habit of accidently ruining everything."
"i completely understand the annoyances of afk cloakys, but i would add that if scanning for cloakys becomes possible that it takes in to account the deficiencies of current probe mechanics in the sense that if you set up a ship to be unprobeable, it should still be unprobeable.i would add though to this that cov ops cloaks should get a sig radius percentage penalty when onlined (even when not activated) so that cov ops cloak fitted ships could possibly be scanned out where as 'unprobeable' ships without cloaks couldnt.this would have the effect of former afk cloakys, now not fitting the cloak, but flying an unprobable fitting would be unprobeable, and that cloaked afk's with just a normal setup +1 cloak would be remotely probeable requiring maxxed skills and a multitude of bonuses.as an intelligence tactic, a fit on the same ship with the cov-ops cloak offlined would be unprobable but scanable on d-scan providing that afk red in system alarm bells etc situation.the same fit when the cloak is onlined would be remotely probeable, but more usefull at intel gathering.if and only if probing cloaky ships becomes possible it should be a reserved ability with maxxed lvl5 probing requirements.max skills, ship bonuses, module bonuses and probe bonuses should be the minimum requirement to scan out frig sized cloaked signatures."
"forgive my noobness but what is the actual reason that afk cloaked ships are bad? honestly if they are afk, what \"advantage\" do they actually gain - they aren't actively playing. cloaky ships have a built in counter if they can fit a cov ops cloak they already do terrible dps. if they fit an improved cloak they nerf their scan res and lose the instant lock abilitiy of the cov ops pilot - am i missing something?"
"nope, you haven't missed a thing. in fact you've concisely pointed out why cloaking (afk or otherwise) is working as it should.if you have a hostile cloaky ship in your system, get together with your corp/alliance mates and go about your business as usual. if they uncloak to attack you, smash them to bits. sometimes the best counters are the simplest."
"b-but... what about the 0.0 person who can't be asked/bothered to endure the hassle of setting up a defensive fleet. what about his solo playstyle??? why are you using logic?? logic has no place here!! they should be able to kill anything that enters their system, no questions asked... rabble rabble rabble.[/sarcasm]not supported. grow a spine and adapt your ships/tactics to the threat like everyone else."
"think he may be referring to cloaky t3s or cov ops that jump into a system uncontested and then sit afk cloaked for up to an hour or more while the defence fleet scurries around achieving bugger all. then pops a core probe or scans sanctums and havens out and either ****s out of the blue solo or pops a cov ops cyno and murders sum1 with his buddies.its a genuine **** with an entire system tactic that works if you get a rep in any area of null sec space."
"he may well be, but my comment still stands as it is."
"it would just result it that module becoming a \"must have\" like jammers and bridges.all you need is the ability to send a 'ping' that reveals all objects to regular probes. makes it useless without probing support and won't hurt legitimate cloakers as much as a permanent de-cloak like that which you suggest.has to be a separate pos module or similarly exposed so that it can be knocked out."
"no, the idea is utter crap, along with all the other anti-cloaking whine threads.gas this thread.tia."
"in wormspace, afk cloaking doesn't work well, since it's primarily a tool of terror and psy-ops. remove local and the problem is gone - they must actually take action to prove they are still there. yes, lack of local makes cloaky attacks more likely to succeed when they attack. but it also makes locking down a system with an afk person very difficult.also, if you wanted to propose a sov upgrade that allowed some sort of system scanner sweep to reveal local momentarily at the cost of pos resources, i'd be behind that :)"
"like the above posters thoughts on this! although im not too sure local will dissapear but having a delayed local list would be good... much like some chat channels having delayed chat member lists.you could have a reduced delay dependant on sov and no local chat on contested/unclaimed systems.afk cloakies are really an issue when theyre in fleet formation systems as afk cloakies would be reporting numbers in systems cloaked off grid somewhere.delayed local wouldnt stop this kind of intel... just require the cloakies to be somewhere on grid to fleet formup loactions reporting overview numbers which tbh would still be relatively safe."
"changing fitting requirements on the weapons system would make part of the weapons systems rebalancing but, the ships too need a close look to their bonus so wy not work the pg/cpu/cap recharge on the ships but not both.after a few tests i've changed my mind on the plates, instead of these i work the resists and energised regenerative platings, seems to work quite well but i still got trouble with pg/cap with the sucking armor repper system while the same ship with a full shield buffer/resists i have no trouble at all or need of any cap injector, pathetic.what all those gallente/hybrids/blasters threads learnd me is this: ccp will make no changes to gallente or if they do you must wait untill the pretty graphics show them no one starts gallente char's wich will never happen.learnd me that the absense of any coment from them just means that they don't care at all since you'll crosstrain anyway one day or another, so this kind of rebalance is on the bottom list and it's not important, the fact that you still pay your account shows you're happy enough with their choice.by the way this choice is intended so you'll buy another account, train another race char etc = profit.is it better on other games? -i don't care if it's better or worst, i play eve and the fact is that their comtemptuous attitude versus costumers and threads about this matter is just despleasing, they don't care at all."
"ive never understood why blasters paper dps goes down when you change from neuts (tbh are the longer ranged blasters) to ions (shortest ranged). its completely backwards imho when listening to the whole blaster ideology:s"
"are you proposing this as a flat boost to all blaster sizes? because blasters' problems are much less pronounced on the frigate scale, and this could lead to further balance problems."
"voting is now open. some rl issues have delayed the release of my voting tool."
"cheese nippels and i support this product and/or service!"
"cheese nippels and i support this product and/or service"
"cheese nippels and i support this product and/or service"
"cheese nippels and i support this product and/or service"
"i support this product and or service."
"cheese nippels and i support this service and would like to subscribe to the newsletter :)"
"yes, sephi could really use a translation to this...also, i still support this product and or service."
"i support this product and / or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"serious internet politician promises to stop this from happening (polaroid). look at how serious the serious internet politician is! this has made her even more serious.bonus points for whomever knows what is in the background."
"argh, i recogise it but i dunnnoooo.lawls also to the other person with half their face on the polariod :p :p :p"
"i support this product and or service."
"the requirements are to make a picture. it doesn't have to be a good one! did you see my space cats? i'm not capable of making great art!"
"i support this product and or service.now please post the furry mega for shopping purposes ;)"
"i like your ideas on making changes on wormhole machinics (my personal idea was to introduce a gadget that can change/keep up/recharge mass/time on a wormhole, fuel required ofcourse), making it somewhat easier to move large fleets through wormholes, and ofcourse, improving the obvious nightmare managing pos's in wormhole space (or any other space for that matter) on all levels; individual/corp/alliance level.i realise there is some credability issues here, but voting on one the most experienced wormhole players seems like an easy choice for me. i have no grudges with aharm, in fact i enjoyed everytime we got a chance to fight you guys. (the 2 bil isk bhaal was for you!).+1"
"thanks crazygirly, and we are definitely gonna get your corpse next time, crazyfists has been asking about you again recently.voting is now live, please go vote. my rl name is joshua goldshlag."
"i've spent some more time talking to a bunch of different wormhole corporations this morning, and have been having some great discussions. i'd love to hear from more of the smaller w-space corps, please drop me a not if you have any questions, comments or complaints."
"so voting has opened.i urge you all to vote. if not for me (though i will appreciate if you do) then for someone else that is standing and representing what you want to see in eve.cheers."
"new ccp tweet:15k pilots/4.3% of eligible pilots already voted for the #csm6 elections, up from 1.3%/4k votes at the same point last electionthis is freakin awesome ... the level of support that this election is getting is just enormous."
"not all the candidates are on this.can candidates still get on this or is it closed?"
"ahoy dierdra,you have send me an invite to your tool,and i looked at it a few days ago.now while i'm sure that this did cost you quite a bit work, i will not add myself to it.i don't want to suggest you would do such thing on purpose, since i know you put in alot work for the community, but the tool is just not neutral enough. the questions are mostly stuff that the eve blogger scene is posting about, and another large chunk is stuff from the forums here - while the contents of the campaigns of some candidates are not covered properly.i feel no matter what i answer, the set of questions does not allow me to show why i want people to vote for me.also, when promoting such a tool, which should be neutral, you might want to rethink endorsing specific candidates in the bio of the character promoting it, otherwise it looks... strange."
"perhaps new questions could be suggested?all surveys are biased due to the nature of the beast. how you represent yourself through the survey is up to you. note that ripard teg and mike azariah have commented extensively about their answers.some of the questions are obviously loaded, others are missing (nerf super carriers is missing, for example), it is up to the candidates to position themselves in the space mapped out by the survey. what non-drone compounds are there that factor in the resource generation of the game?but i feel there are questions that are important which were not asked, and the slant of the questions tends to imply that people think the csm has driving power, rather than a share of steering power.thank you diedre for the site, warts and all :)"
"diedra- some comments.i agree with the above posters that the questions with \"highest priority\" should be modified. regardless of whether or not the csm members themselves actually are somehow wanting multiple most important sections, a simple change to \"high priority\" instead of highest above and beyond all else will cause it to flow more. also, it makes those answering want to modify their answers, so they make one higher than the other.in the comparison page, could you please make the questions and your own answers on the left static (is that the word? not a web designer.), while the candidates list can be scrolled, for easy comparison? currently if i scroll the entire screen to far over to see the far right candidates, i lose seeing what question i am on and what my own answers were, so i have to keep scrolling back and forth to keep track."
"the questions were worded as 'highest' in order to highlight the dilemma: if you have to choose one feature over another, would you? because the csm does affect the priority of development, and if the entire csm tells ccp \"we believe 0.0 is the single most important part of the game\", that may well become reflected in the priority ccp gives to 0.0 development. it is important for voters to know which area of the game a candidate will most likely push for.some candidates (like peter powers) chose not to participate despite multiple evemails being sent to them. sign ups are now closed.i disagree that i - as a pilot - should be completely neutral because i make this website: the website is transparent in its operation. questions were simply chosen to be divisive and polarising, and focus on the most popular issues of the moment. this unfortunately means some people will feel misrepresented.i also disagree that the questions are biased or leading: there is no 'right' or 'wrong' answer, just a statement you either agree or disagree with. and we see that all questions have people both agreeing and disagreeing with them. for anyone not happy with this website, you're welcome to make a better one yourself."
"thank you for this awesome tool.i used it and then looked at what my personal keypoints were in regards to priorities and compare them with all csm candidates."
"thank you for running this service again dierdra :)i read some players concerns about votematch being rigged to influence their votes. i can confirm them that, as a candidate, the answers displayed on this website are those i entered, and were not tampered with in any way."
"thnx for this tool though i personally find its use limited. it does send me in the right direction somewhat but i'm missing the extended ideas from the candidates. it might be under the text balloon but the mouse over is not working for me though it does on the other mouse overs.my main issue is that though i agree that the industry side of eve needs alot of love (especially the mining direction) it does not mean that's my main voting point. i do however end up with someone who is running almost completely on a \"carebear\" base. he might have issues concerning ship balance and 0.0 developments but i'm pretty limited in viewing their complete stance on things. i know i could go to their own portals/websites to read their extended views on things but it would be usefull to be able to get it from the tool itself. as said a more in depth answer on some issues could be under the balloon but that's not mousing over for me..dunno if i'm the only one (ie8.0.7600.16385)the main thing i'm really feeling limited in is the extend of the questionaire. sure i can agree that low sec needs development but in what way would my vote match with someone running, since he could have completely different ideas about fixing it than i do. even though i might agree with him on the base level i might totally not agree with the way he wants to handle things."
"good job.also @op: excellent job /bow"
"why are they now closed?"
"great job! certainly helps me to filter all the candidates. however my vote won't just go to the person with the highest match (which is 76%) as i try not to vote someone who's terribly unlikely to make it to a seat anyway."
"i either allow candidates to fill in/change their profile, or allow users to vote match. if i were to do both, candidates could try to change their answers to tailor them to what they perceive are the answers most likely to give them high match percentages, as well as preventing me to get accurate metrics on the answers/matching after the elections (as data then may not necessarily be equal to the data during the election).candidates were given a week to fill in their profile and received a reminder mail on top of the initial evemail urging them to make their profile. some have obviously chosen not to do this (which is entirely their call)."
"a week seems a short time. how do you know they even read the eve-mail?also my question is *why* is it now cut off. not describe the cut off deadline. it seems pretty arbitrary.since it is clear at this point the dierdra vaal is not accepting all the candidates submissions, i would ask that it be unstickied. it's not fair that ccp stickies the views of some candidates and not others. if all the candidates can contribute to this, and arbitrary deadlines that may have been enforced in a biased way, are not preventing anyone from submitting their views then i have no objection to the sticky."
"i think i can answer that simply.if you can't bother to check your mails during a candidacy campaign, how the hell are you gonna manage when you even get elected to represent people.first thing i always do on all my accounts when logging in is check mails. my corpmates know this and they know they can talk as much as they want, my mails first.as to the cut off. equally simple. candidates has sufficient time to respond and fill out the form. if they can't be bothered to either read their mails or fill out a form why would others bother to keep everything open?a service was offered to those who didn't get onto the form. they, for some reason, didn't take up the offer and as such aren't included.simple enough?"
"some players have real lives that sometimes may take them to places where they have no internet access for a week. and some players have real lives that means they do not even log in every week. im not sure that these candidates should automatically be ruled out. and yeah maybe a candidate cant get to answering your set of 40 questions in under a week. anyway im glad you have all sorts of time and log in checking your eve mail every day. but that is not a requirement of a good candidate.why do you think its a bother to keep it open? the op never said it would be any sort of bother to allow those candidates to submit their views. i think the op doesnt like the candidates who didnt submit their answers so decided he would close it. ccp is giving this persons views of candidates he likes or doesnt like a top spot on the forum. bottom line: candidates were excluded from this (not just peter powers btw) and no good answer is offered as to why. ccp knows that, yet they are still going to give this persons biased website a top spot on the forum. thats not how you run an unbiased election."
"i have to jump in here - as i explained, i decided not to put myself on that tool, because i think the selection of questions excludes people by ignoring their campaign topics in the questions.imho the time that candidates had to fill in their information to this tool was ok, also its based on ccps schedule from announcement to voting etc. if a candidate does not find the time in a week - which is the main campaign week, thats a different subject, and those candidates need to look at how important the hobby eve is to them, and if they can actually spare the time that the csm will require from 'em if they are voted in."
"i'll vote for the one who thinks we should be enabled to have a bloodline/race change. now who's the one??"
"as someone actually running for csm, i've never heard of this website before today. i've also had no interaction with the owner, and don't see why she's presenting this as some table of who you should vote for based on all of the csm candidates' positions."
"oh how wrong you are the cut off date was set when i sent evemails to everyone, regardless of which candidates did or did not fill in. if you're campaigning for a seat on the csm and you cannot manage to check your evemails once during that week then i'm sorry but i have to enable voting before the election starts. even now voters only had a day to use the website before voting opened. personally i feel a week during a promotion period should be sufficient for any candidate who is serious about wanting to get elected.if you're donating money to have the system rewritten so candidates can add a profile but not edit an existing profile during the voting period, i'd happily give you my bank account.as for implying i'm excluding candidates i don't like is ridiculous since i really hope peter powers will get elected, while there's several people who did make profiles whom i hope won't get elected.you received an evemail from me with your login details on 2011.03.02 00:31, you also received a reminder evemail 2011.03.04 13:41. i'll happily provide screenshots of my sent folder :)"
"if you had any idea how many eve-mails i get, you would know why that's a bad way to reach out to people.a forum post will always attract my attention. why was this the first announcement of this project?"
"i'm sorry you didn't pay attention to your evemails. this is the first announcement of this project (this election round, there were announcements for the csm5 and 4 elections too) because this is the part where it is useful for the community at large. i'm a bit surprised none of the other 4-5 goons mentioned this to you; the mittani was one of the first people to fill out his profile and i'm quite sure he too gets a lot of evemails."
"if i was in league with those other goons for this election, i'm sure they would have mentioned it to me. i'm not. they didn't.something i've noticed in this game, is that when someone runs a site from year to year, they do eventually burn out. i don't take for granted that a player will run anything again, just because they have before."
"dvthis is the first time you indicated it would cost extra money. how much extra would it cost to add a profile late? who charges it? and can you offer a link to what you are talking about? i guess i question this because the first time i asked why you won't add candidates you said nothing about money. it would seem that would be the obvious and easy first answer to my question, if it were true. my evemail is constantly blinking because of agents telling me missions expire or some garbage about insurance etc. i and as you can see others that play this game do not always check their evemail. checking your evemail is not a requirement to run. moreover if someone came back from a business trip on the fifth day after you sent it, it is not really reasonable to assume they will get right to it. karland is yet another person that you seem to be excluding. if youre saying it will cost more money to add new candidates explain this. if you are just excluding them because you dont like them, then that is something different. ccp shouldnt be promoting your own agenda in this campaign."
"thanks for the tool - it helped. as for the folks who did not respond to email, you are a poor politician."
"someone good enough to actually bother voting!+1 vote"
"voting has begun!vote prom4csm"
"gd luck"
"last time i checked a dev and a csm are not the same job you might be trying to get the wrong job its a csm's job to look at what ccp are going to put in the game or fix and say \"i like it\" or \"i dont like it\" we dont need all this stuff about what u wana change we just need to know if for certain topics or agaisnt them i am not trying to poo poo on you. i agree with alot of what is posted here but lets be honest for a change +1 vote and stopp shooting my rattering toon"
"done, good luck."
"who did you \"check\" with on that? csm can represent the players however they want, last i checked there were no rules. where are you getting this information? some other csm or csm candidate? if you say why you like it or don't like it you are acting like a dev right? if csm is not going to have any effect on the \"development\" of eve whats the point?"
"voted, good luck with the campaign. shame about you missing the questionnaire. (maybe you should fill the answers to this thread?)"
"vote for you, good luck prom"
"i believe in elise randolph"
"i would follow elise randolph to hell and back"
"in the last five months or so i have taken down about 130 towers in a safe estimation. even with the ability to wield a formidable super-capital fleet, i used dreads every single time. mostly because fighter bombers rightfully cannot hit towers, but that is besides the point. also during all-out capital brawls, dreads are great tools for medium-skilled pilots to use and be effective in. even last year if i were to classify dreads as \"medium-skilled\", i'd slap myself, but with an aging eve community that is what they are becoming. the fact that people use supers for a multitude of things is, in a way, good for reducing the number of active supercaps; putting them into risky situations increases the chance that they'll be killed. supers are killed, on average, nearly every other day now.there is the perception that supercarriers are grossly overpowered, with the notion that if a group drops a handful of these suckers it will swing the entire battle. i don't know if that's necessarily the case, really; there is still a large risk associated with deploying them. and, if one were to simply drop a handful of regular carriers on a sub-capital fight it would have the desired effect as well. the ting about supers is, if one is to lose the support battle, even 20-man gangs can take out stranded supers. i know that rote knows what it takes to take supers down, and you guys aren't the biggest giants in eve. either way, with all things in eve there is room for balancing and change and the csm doesn't get to decide everything about it. but i am experienced enough in using supercapitals to make smart decisions when the subject comes up."
"elise 4 csm, he will lead ustz csm to greatness!"
"so many great candidates this time, but elise is still among those few i'm willing to give my votes for."
"i'd like to remind everyone that voting is open. i'll be holding a q&a on sunday with the fine fellows at new eden radio ("
"i voted for elise randolph today.i am a proud member of the randolph party."
"what are your thoughts on updating the pos system to a more \"starbase\" like idea, such as this?what about making 0.0 accessible to smaller groups than omgwtfpwnd alliances?can you expand more on your thoughts on low sec? i honestly think it's safer to be in 0.0 or j-space and i get more money, and i don't get a standings hit if i decide to kill people there. and even with the blueprint incentives on the low sec incursions, any ship i'd bring in to work on an incursion would be one i wouldn't want to lose repeatedly to pirates, because it's more likely i'd get killed 10 times for every new shiny prize i got from an incursion. even a t1 battleship is over 100 mil without fittings, if you go into t2 or even t3, 500 mil+ loss possibilities is going to require some pretty stellar benefits to overcome the major pirate detractor of low sec. what are your thoughts on j-space content? is there enough, is it varied enough, is it an aspect of gameplay that would benefit from improvement or is it good as is?with incarna, are you of the variety of \"incarna can die in a fiery pit of death, i like mah internet spaceships more than internet space people\" or the \"sounds pretty cool, i'm excited to see what it has to offer?\" since this seems to be something ccp is going to be focusing on for a while, what kinds of suggestions do you see yourself making regarding this new track? otherwise, pl is hardly not a powerbloc..."
"+1 from me. good luck."
"you just \"received\" 2 votes from me. good luck."
"looking at the candidate who have only 231 kill records since 2007, with a darwin fit in losses, have no experience in sov warfare, but cares to give his opinion on a balance and 0.0 subject here and there for 4 csm terms (by the way, you was not in csm 2 and 4, you was an alt). this makes me wander why we have this mess in in the game, and what bright ideas of that was yours?"
"voted for someone else, as their platform interested me just slightly more.but, if i could vote twice you'd definitely be second.though i do have an alt somewhere round here..."
"because meissa is a command ship and logistics pilot, i have no gun on my damnation (why would i) though i sometimes do put a civilian ac in there to ***** a mail just for people like you who think non-damage dealing ships have no role :p when flying those, i have other things to do than whoring mails. also, i have alts, the main of which flies carriers and dictors, both light and heavy.considering the alliance i am a member of (rooks and kings), do you think if i was devoid of pvp value they'd still have had me in?as far as me being alt in csm 2 and 4. i was indeed (on purpose for csm 4 due to term limits). do you know that alts participate in discussions and get to vote when a \"full member\" is absent, which is the vast majority of the time, or participate in the forum conversations that happen with the devs on the private forums, among others.also, i never take credit for group efforts, and the csm is very much a group effort. i haven't done that in any past elections and i'm certainly not going to start now. you can see my argumentative contributions in the minutes, or take the word of other csm members (ones i quoted above, or others that you may find in other threads or on shc) for what happens in iceland."
"my 2 are in your favour , good luck"
"our chat confirmed my impression that you will invest time and effort into representing low-sec. got my vote."
"four votes cast and a shameless bump for you. good luck."
"of all the csm candidates, i'd vote for mittens or krutoj.now who should i choose..?"
"krutoj owns. vote for him."
"i did listen to it and thoroughly enjoyed it. i'm really looking forward to tomorrow."
"it is time to vote, at last."
"put my three in, good luck."
"i voted for the mittani and a brighter future."
"i have'nt placed my vote yet so i will sell it to you for 10 billion isk."
"could not resist vote seleene for csm 6 (blog)!please visit your user settings to re-enable images.vote seleene for csm 6 (blog)!"
"seleene has his own thread, so why would you spam that **** here?"
"ignore my english, it's not my first, or even second language.when people vote, vote for 1 of 4 main reasons: vote for the \"party\" the candidate is in (in this case corporation/alliance) (1), vote in a program (2), vote in the advantages he might bring them if he is elected (3) or just vote for the candidate (4). i normally like to vote for a candidate, the other reasons are secondary to me. if i do not find something to identify myself with in the candidate, he will not get my vote. so i need to examine the profile, biography, experience and the character of the candidate. in our case i found a lot of information about biography and experience but i didnt have information about your character... so i did something i pick up from my father job, i profiled you. we can learn plenty just by reading statements and texts that people write down. its not a exact science and by no means i'm a professional doing this, but for this purpose will suffice.most of the candidates profiles i've made are jerks, to put it in a simple way. many didnt show structure and coherent ideas. i found some that reveal their own insecurities in rl in the campaign posts. some are just self-delusion were this is its more than a game, its their entire life! - these people need counselling and quickly, omg!about your profiling, i started with your campaign text: excellent writing skills. the correct use of words in specific places. the arguments used are based in common sense, what reinforces the ideas you want to transmit. its obvious that you choose a very specific public (0.0), research it, found its soft spot and went for the kill. persuasion and manipulation 101 right there. excellent. you grab my attention and since that text left many answers of your profile open i went after more. so i went after your posts in kugu and tenton. i lost an hour reading your stuff. the most impressive thing i discover, is something rare among mmo players, you don't display any signs on disinhibition effect that normally affects most of the mmo players . this means that you behave here, in eve, the same way you behave in rl, that is a plus in your final score.so what is your final score? in my opinion: you seem to be a very determined intelligent and successful man. you are a very talented introspective writer. you have charismatic speaking skills but a knack for manipulative-building opinions. you seem to execute authority with moderation and common sense, but when faced with something that might presents you a problem or a danger to your status, position or way of thinking, you dont blink and go for the kill without take in account consequences to others than yourself and that makes you a egocentric bastard. you seem to behave in eve the same way you behave in rl. so...i totally identify myself with you. you have my vote."
"rofl. i am going to resist because this goal is so darn wide open it's not even funny anymore."
"hello mittani,a few questions.- you have raised the point of \"all expenses\" paid trip to iceland. would you, as an elected delegate, decline to attend the summits in iceland and opt to telecommute from home?- you have mentioned \"my directors\" having been in the past five csm pools; who are they and why are they considered \"your\" directors?- skill queues are mentioned as one of the great featured coming out of csm efforts, but nothing more. do you believe this is the only feature of note worth mentioning? are there others (with examples)?- in your short blurb just before a voter casts their support for you, there is mention that in order to effect change you alone require the csm chair. what advantages do you believe are provided with chair versus a regular delegate? what do you believe can only be achieve by obtaining chair? *why* can such issues not be brought forward as any other position within the csm?- given your belief that one feature of thousands is \"apalling\", what sort of tools or methods will you use if elected to change this track record, whether passively or by force?- do you have any comments on the work done by csm 5 in comparison with previous councils?- you appear to advocate manipulation, hard-line tactics and shotgun diplomacy to get things done, the way you want them. what recourses do you have or have used in the past when someone decides to challenge you/dissent professionally? let us only focus on strong, logical debate and not \"omgudidwhart?!?!lol\" type rebuke.looking forward to your replies."
"dear the mittani,what is your position on rmt'ing and bot'ing in eve? would you advocate any changes in eve to deal with bot corps renting from large 0.0 alliance rental schemes?regards,cyno"
"well, just from your massive post and view count in this thread (in all likelihood, artificially inflated), you will probably be elected.i think the fact that you're spinning so hard for an internet spaceship council is pretty funny, though."
"hey the mittani you have got my vote m8"
"from your commentary about disinhibition you may be amused by the fact that we have a zizek quote as our alliance description. (i think zizek is a big hilarious fraud and that anyone calling themselves a lacanian outside of the realm of academic literary criticism should be shot, but it's a good quote nonetheless).i'm pretty much exactly the same in real life as i am in game. i appreciate your post."
"3 votes send !!"
"the mittani is not lying to you...he is telling you the complete truth. let that sink in for a second...the complete truth...goon style.he is telling you that the csm is nonsense.\"all the promises from the csm candidates, all the issues and features theyre going to address - its all a pack of lies\"he is telling you anyone looking to join is either naive or outright maniplulative.\"its time we stopped being suckers.the truth is that being on the csm has nothing to do with being a game designer, or implementing your favorite features, or fixing railguns, or removing local.\"he is telling you that the candidates are looking for an all expense paid trip to iceland. \"you, the voters, get used - a vicious cycle that pits your wishes for a better eve online against 9 people looking for an all-expenses-paid icelandic vacation.\"therefore, he is telling you he is manipulating you suckers into voting for him so he gets an all expense paid trip to iceland. (not that he really needs the money after all he is a successful lawyer , who found socialism only after he made it big in a capitalist system. its the principle of the matter, why pay when you can get someone else to pay, right?)vote mittani! because everyone knows eve needs another unscrupulous, manipulative, goon (read:scam artist), bent on self-aggrandizement in a postition of \"power\"."
"i looked at the interesting csm's candidates, by far mittani yours seems the most with...realism i should say. i can relate to some of your views, and too add a cherry on top,a good poster! which makes my heart swoon. you have my votes.however a question,we all know that supercaps are breaking the game more so in nullsec. if given the power what adjustments would you make to \"balance things out\" or the like. since fighter bombers, dreads have become obsolete even more so disregarging bringing a fleet of them to cap fights on a general scale now. dreads need some loving~"
"while i don't think the csm actually has the power to implement such things, i think supercaps need to die in droves. right now it's too easy for them to get away. i'd support something like a supercapital point that you could mount on supercarriers; such a thing would result in so much supercap death, as it would ensure that supercap fights are deathgrips. or, as a more 'careful' balance tweak, at the very least fighter-bombers shouldn't be able to kill hics with such ease. note: csm is not amateur game designer hour, and my above views are thus frankly irrelevant. death2allsupercaps."
"the real nexus of botting these days is in l4 empire missions. i think it should be cracked down on, particularly in nullsec; it ruins solo pvp when every 'ratter' auto-logs upon a hostile jump in. but ccp doesn't enforce anti-botting rules, essentially handing out only wrist-slaps. one of the reasons botting is so widespread though is because the pve in eve sucks ass. rmting leads to credit card fraud and should be heavily cracked down by ccp on wherever possible."
"this would be completely, skull****ingly stupid. in-person persuasion is vastly more effective than purely written persuasion. body language communicates more than words, both give and take. like many csm delegates in the past have said, the 'real action' of the csm is face-to-face in reykjavik.i've either run goonswarm or been a eminence grise since its inception. compared to the grand promises of all the candidates over all the years? perhaps this next expansion we'll see huge deliverables sourced from the csm. but for now, the election rhetoric has been little more than twaddle. because i'm a ruthless bastard; i think i can make a lot more out of the 'powerless' chair than its explicitly delineated powers imply. i don't think other candidates grasp the political power of titles. i've answered this question multiple times over the course of this 12 page+ thread. the summer of rage was well done. this 'public letter on incarna' is going to be very popular with voters, yet futile and politically senseless. if you insist upon rationalism and logical debate in all things, you're not going to vote for a guy who mentions charisma as one of his selling points. disputes between humans are not some kind of spreadsheet comparison contest. since you suggested that i should telecommute to reykjavik and skip the face-to-face summit meetings, i'm going to guess that you don't understand how that works. beyond that, my record is not one of 'shotgun diplomacy'; goonswarm has some of the most consistent and effective diplomactic relationships in the history of eve. we win, not alone, but arm-in-arm with our friends."
"it matter little to me what he says i would never vote to put anyone from goon(\"anything\")and their associates in a position to have any say in this game. their ideas of fairness(yeah right), backstabbing, cheating, and out right lying are and forever shall be exemplified by their leadership."
"i would tend to agree. the mittani is certainly an intelligent person and an exemplary spy master. he is emminently qualified to write for ten ton hammer and lead the goons.however, by his own words he has been in goon leadership since its inception, as such he bears responsibility for the goon \"brand\". under his watch the goons have become synonymous with betrayal, weak character, scams and have been encouraged to be as obnoxious as possible. all of the \"accomplishments\" of the goons, and there have been many, are overshadowed by their loathsome reputation. unfortunately,the qualities that make the mittani a natural for the in game work he is currently doing makes him a poor choice as a candidate,in my opinion. also,given his propensity for intrigue and \"e-betrayal\" i just don't see the wisdom in giving him direct access to information protected by the nda.i think that he has a place in the tapestry of eve, he is certainly a celebrity, just not csm.also, this \"anti-candidate candidate\" routine that he is running is transparently insincere. it typifies what i feel his behavior would be like as a csm member."
"you say that we are being lied to, and that we are suckers. that must be why you want to be a csm then. you are the head of the goons and you all lie, scam, sucker people. in fact you brag about it and are proud to be the top scammers of eve. you have nothing to offer the players of eve excpet fellow scammers. and i loled when i read your speech. which was well written but lacked the obvious truth. you and all goons are scamming, lying, players of eve who play to only grief. and you have all said those words many times. i am calling you names. i am quoting your wiki, website, and other statements made from you all over the years. vote no for any goons running for csm."
"well, i'm sold. you got my vote.break some heads over there."
"bump!"
"thanks again for reply.i'd hate to see a fuel bay on em (i wrote more lengthy regarding that, in seleenes thread). would be gamebreaking for me to lose it, heh, guerilla warfare crew checking in. tl;dr, afk cloaking to losen targets up, or to stay alive when blobbed (sometimes for days) is vital when being massively outnumbered. seleene lost my votes on fuel-bay on cloak opinion, alone.will see if you won't at least get some vote from me, since that's no major concern for you."
"i've written part one of a long reply to csm5's open letter to ccp about incarna.here's part one. part two tomorrow."
"you have my vote! good luck."
"enjoyed your reply to the csm's open letter. looking forward to part 2.you've got my vote."
"1 4u 1 4seleene, i can't choose between you both guys since you are the two persons i'd like to see at csm6.both are constructive and complementary, have strong positions base on solid experieces and are mature enough to look at it has a game, but a serious internet spaceship business that must be taken forward by mature people.gl rip, hope to see you soon at csm with seleene and you'll both do great things for our loved game.(sry my english is pretty low)"
"i was impressed with your appearance on lost in eve. you sound level headed and i belive you would be a good addition to the csm. you get my support there is just one comment i'd like to make. in some of your replies to questions about problems in eve, you've responded with some fairly specific ideas about a \"fix\". while i generally agree with your ideas, i feel csm members are better placed to facilitate the communication of ideas from the player base to ccp.i'm a fairly casual player, and sometimes only get a couple of hours a week to play eve. i currently feel trapped in hi-sec because, without the support of a corp, the potential cost of lost ships and equipment is just too great compared to the profit. how do you feel about the transition from hi-sec to low-sec, for players like me?"
"voted for yato bad i could not vote for saleen as well."
"good luck mate :) also enjoy the cookies!"
"thank you, nom nom nom!!"
"you have my vote. especially i hope you will do your best to hunt down bots and isk farmers also your ideas about pos's are interesting"
"thanks for the vote, i will do my best :d"
"the statement is what it is:\"roleplaying is not sufficiently supported in eve online\"the point of the questionnaire was to answer the provided statements, not make up your own and then answer those without even mentioning within your answer that you have done so.it's true that roleplaying is, in essence, a player-generated and player-supported activity. it can occur even in games where the developers do almost nothing to encourage it. but that's not the ideal situation, and there are things that can be done to encourage it and make it easier. for example, making informational pf more readily accessible in-game instead of 1) burying some morsels of it inside mission text and making those morsels available nowhere else, and 2) burying the other morsels in unorganized webpages. that particular issue will be fixed by this, assuming that actually gets done and fulfills its objectives.with the above in mind, at this point i think eve is very supportive of rp and specific advocacy of roleplayers' concerns is only needed in a maintenance capacity, i.e. prodding ccp for clarification if something they propose suggests a pf retcon of some kind may be incoming.it's also true that there's a broad spectrum of opinions about the definition of rp. you are on one end of that spectrum. most people who actually identify themselves as roleplayers are on the opposite end.all that aside, what really bothers me about your response to the rp-related statement on the questionnaire is that it implies a willingness to ignore what people actually say, substitute what they said with your own statements, and then respond to those statements in a very personal, irrelevant manner. is that how you're going to represent players who aren't you?"
"hi harvey,i had the same questions and did a bit of research myself. there are quite a few sources to support the statement:the ultimate wizardry archivesrelease date: 2000platform: ibm pc compatible .there's quite a few search hits on google; seems like the man is level on the claim and anyone doubting the accuracy of his statement now has independently verifiable content to peruse. as for the movie bits? also true...linkage (imdb)"
"i am not voting for you."
"see, you folks have been playing blobfest online for so long that the idea of combat involving tactics is alien to you. trevor put up a proposal, and the null sec denizens just cried out, \"it's crap\" with no discussion, even though the purpose of the modest proposal was to stimulate discussion rather than to put forward a serious proposal.before commenting, go ask google about \"a modest proposal\" and perhaps you can start to understand the geek mindset.as for the questions that aren't answered, perhaps they are not worth paying attention to since they are blatantly trolling or attention whoring?"
"how did trebor misrepresent the mechanics of the csm?"
"actually, he answered all twenty one (21) of them. at least, those that were phrased as actual questions and not simply \"loludidntanswardisone111!!\" statements. :)"
"i don't really see how the consumption of babies would help solve lag... but that doesn't stop it from being a good idea."
"you have my vote."
"no, of course not. i have no problems with people disagreeing with me, and as long as they do it in a polite manner, i am happy to discuss things with them.as i've said before, i'm a skeptic. this means if you can provide good evidence that a position i hold is incorrect, i will accept it without too much of a bruised ego. furthermore, i acknowledge the possibility that any particular position i hold is incorrect, or at least only partially correct.it is for that reason that i try very hard not to project my personal opinions into my work on the csm. after all, i was elected to represent the players.moving on to your question, if i didn't personally agree with a proposal because i thought it was a bad idea, i would have difficulty effectively championing it to the csm and calling for a vote. in such a case, i would have three main bits of advice:first, i would suggest they contact other csms that might have a more personal affinity for the subject matter.second, i would explain the issues i had with the proposal, on both a conceptual (what they want) and structural (how they are asking for it) level. and if they address those issues, or make a good argument that i am mistaken (or perhaps, a bit of both), then i would be able to raise and champion it.third, i would suggest that they contact the other csms, ask for their input, and tweak the proposal as appropriate. that would maximize the chances of the proposal sailing through with a 9-0 vote and everyone saying \"good idea!\", \"no objections,\" \"does this really need discussion? let's vote!\"all of the above can run in parallel, of course.with respect to your other questions, and other posts, do not expect a reply; it's blatantly obvious you're a troll; a three month-old character with only a few posts, all of them about the elections, and all of them recent. however, you did ask an interesting question, and i gave you extra points for having a character name that triggers the forum bad-words filter -- including messing up the link to your posting history on evesearch! i know you won't be satisfied with this answer, but hopefully it will be helpful to other readers of the thread.ps: thanks for the all bumps."
"i wasn't originally planning on voting for you but due to all the hate from goons you ended up with one vote from me."
"even though i dislike goons since the day they formed up i am not avoiding to vote for them due to that dislike.my sole reason to vote for trebos comes from my point of vieuw that a chairman / woman is someone who is organised enough, passionate enough but also willing to redirect any trail offs back on track to get things heading the right way again.these are qualities i see in trebor and as such i would love to see him in the chairman position.this has nothing to do with power or the urgent need to press a hard mark. people need to realise that the csm isn't for fighting against ccp to get changes but it has to fight alongside ccp to get things done.all the energy one would waste fighting against the owners of this game could be used for a lot more productive things.i love eve and i love the people i play with. these are qualities i rather see in a csm than someone who wants to have a position there soley to have another ego boost."
"vote seleene for csm 6 (blog) & vote trebor for csm 6 (blog)!please visit your user settings to re-enable images.vote seleene for csm 6 (blog) & vote trebor for csm 6 (blog)!"
"1 vote gladly given, treb."
"the csm isn't all hard work.one of the fun things ccp asked csm to do recently was come up with slogans for in-game banners promoting the election.here's one of mine that made the cut and is just starting to run -- enjoy! and thanks to ccp diagoras for coming up with the idea in the first place."
"i wonder if thats an example of how the mittani is \"lying to you\" since i've actually declared publicly i am voting for seleene. the fact that i felt it appropriate to point out that the anti-trebor campaign from the goons was more akin to an invasion of the body-snatchers style imhuman screech aside, you should take an effort to post truthfully if you to hope persuade elements of the community not already wearing a goons-4-life sweatshirt while knucklepaging down the turgid prose of your rather awful ten-tonne-hammer vanity publishing extravaganza.still you have to laugh. are these the kind of \"socially-adept\" players you are speaking about mittani?i feel positively awful to be reviled by this group.but on a serious note to mittani - you have a responsibility to your player group. i think you do them a disservice to talk about social inneptitude and ignorance in the way you do. instead you should work towards better integrating them with the rest of the game by seeking the social contact and interaction that will gain them (and you) a little personal confidence in the years ahead.***on other notes, good luck trebor! i did vote for seleene, but lets hope you and the other good independants get a decent share of the independent vote!"
"that's horrible"
"you have all of my votes. having spoken to you, seen your past performance on csm5, as well as reading the deserved confidence mynxee has in you, i share that confidence in your abilities and hope you get chair. good luck!"
"i have updated the 4th post in this thread to explain my position on the smear campaign. i commend it to your attention."
"no sensible person who \"gets it\" that the csm represents the whole community can fail to see the value in what you brought to csm5 and will bring to csm6. i must also comment on the fact that you didn't just go off and work on these things in a vacuum. in many cases, you consulted with other csm members to get feedback to help improve them prior to raising or initiating them.your efforts on behalf of csm5 and the community are very much to be admired and should serve as the gold standard for csm delegate performance."
"to understand why the goons are afraid of trebor is a relatively simple matter. they define their success in eve by their ability to harm or otherwise \"mess up\" the gameworld. they have tried for years now to achieve this through gameplay with little actual impact ... eve eats \"griefers\" alive. the nature of the tooth and claw environment is self correcting.now the goons wish to harm the game by perverting the csm political process to lobby the developers to ensure the utter boring stability in 0.0 by opposing any kind of progressive alteration to nullsec alliance mechanics.this isn't news.for the goon \"mission complete\" in eve the gameworld needs \"wrecking\" in some way and having failed through any alternative source of \"griefing\" or gameplay intervention the best path to the current crop of goon leaders is to seek the solidification of existing power blocs to establish an aristocracy of nullsec that effectively stifles the game.why else do they oppose measures designed to open up the make the game more challenging in the sphere of 0.0 logistics?why oppose the removal of jumpbridges? why oppose the neccessity for escorted freighters?simply to ensure the ongoing stablity (read boring stability) in 0.0 that makes a static mockery of ccp's vaunted endgame of alliance politics.goons have by and large decided they cannot \"grief\" eve to death.but the current leadership believes it might just have a chance at \"boring\" eve to death as a last grasp alternative to enshrine their role in history before burnout and irrelevance sabotages the goon legacy of shameless self-publicists like the mittani."
"my vote goes to the mynxee endorsed candidate, give mittens hell"
"+voted for trebor.good luck mate, i hope you win another year of largely thankless, frustrating unpaid work!"
"you've got my vote. of all the candidates that i read about, you struck me as the most genuine and experienced. while there are others worthy of the position, i wanted to guarantee your own. so good luck!"
"this man works his socks off daily for all of us. he gets all my votes!"
"was going to give the mittani a vote or two until he started with his sock puppet malarky.so now you have all 7 votes."
"folks,i greatly appreciate your expressions of support. it is perhaps the greatest reward from working on csm 5 -- the only close contender would be the coffee at ccp, which is really quite excellent.if i could impose upon you futher, i would greatly appreciate it if you would take a little extra time to make sure all your friends in-game know who you voted for, and why, and encourage them to vote as well -- for whatever candidate they prefer.you may wish to pass on these two links, which explain the stakes at risk in the election:"
"minerva, i'll give your post the attention it deserves in the morning when i have time to make a proper reply. in the meantime: voting has opened!folks, of course i would like you to vote for me, but please just vote. i would not be doing all of this if i did not believe it would matter. i don't need anymore 'free trips to iceland'. i've been on both sides of the fence both as a dev and as a player - believe me, a solid csm can help!go. vote. help make eve a better game for everyone."
"by far the best candidate to vote for!"
"i'll buy two things of that.* that cloaks havn't been revised since implementation, is not ideal.* that certain ships use the cloak as a 'safe' and thus get, in some sense, immortal. like ratting ravens. the npcing ships is one of my targets, playing small-scale, so i understand this sentiment.however, i'd still like you to revise that thought as to looking at the cloak as a whole bares the issue. i'll tell you why this is a major gamebreaking issue for me, personally, and i bet many others:i specialize in cloaking and guerilla combat.right now, for example, i have multiple accounts sitting in hostile 0.0 and hunting targets. using cov ops ships scouting, and non-cov ops ships utilize the cloak to hunt.no-one forces you to play that way, bring friends:that'd be all well and fine, if it wasn't the few things called \"tz\", \"rl interruption\" and \"limited gametime\". without cloaks, i'd be forced to high- and nullsec alone. should null and wh be for fulltime and blobs alone? that is the cost of losing the cloak.why a fuel-bay/timer on the cloak doesn't work:you surely understand i'm often camped in. sometimes by as many as 50+ players camping in my single character. often with many bubbles on the only outgate(s). sometimes i get camped in for days, before i can barge out before/after d/t. remember how the coaltion locked down bob in delve some year ago. it's the same thing, but on a smaller scale.a very recent example; yesterday i killed a drake that was ratting in a dead-end system. my scout found him, i enter local, warp my curse to his belt and engage him. suddenly local doubles up. i keep a close look at scanner, typhoon lands.. the drake died, and i managed to keep the typhoon disabled before anything else arrived and i could get out. then i cloaked up. now there's only one gate out, the locals know my ship and will of course try to get revenge. i manage to slip out near a d/t, using a scout. but already initiating the combat i was at a disadvantage. they have numbers, they have more damage, tank, etc, i have the element of surprise and get to chose when to engage.tl;dr - putting a timer on cloaks, would be a buff to local inhibitants, a great deterrent to guerilla warfare and another boost to blobs.edit; oh and to add to the \"bad\" part, where certain ships like ratting ravens being \"immortal\". yeah, that isn't good and ideal. but the only threat they are, is to ccp through bots. pvp wise, it is no concern. is it worth killing off the guerilla warfare, for that, instead of trying to fight botting through mechanics that would have far less effect on nullsec warfare?"
"two votes added for the good cause.good luck."
"you make a lot of sense.thank you for a mature and logical approach & best of luck, you got my vote. - corbin alistair roime"
"vote seleene for csm 6 (blog)!please visit your user settings to re-enable images.vote seleene for csm 6 (blog)!"
"i actually activated an old account to add a vote for seleene. go get 'em, boy."
"i would like to see serious persons take care of our opinions and there is no doubt for me that you, seleene, are one of them.had to splash my votes between you and someone i realy think can do a great job with you has rip, someone who i'm deeply convinced has the tools opinions and with someone has you that can make the difference we expect from this new csm.wish you good luck and see soon enough my favorite candidates work together."
"voted for seleene with both my accounts. good luck, i reckon you'll do a great job."
"my votes went to seleene as well. i believe that a former ccp dev is in the best position to have positive interactions with ccp.besides, if mynxee supports seleene, that's really all the endorsement i need. mynee is awesome and was a great csm chair."
"i voted for you seleene. i think you've offered the best overall experience portfolio, and the other candidates appear eager to work with you. i also think that ccp would enjoy hearing a seasoned-developer's version of the ideas expressed within the csm. i wish you the best.trebor is probable a shoe-in for a spot as a delegate at this point, but i'm afraid that he'd slow down the csm process as chair - he seems to get the role of the forums and the chats/summits confused, focusing on details when he's in attendance and being too general on the forums. i'm afraid under him, the process would slow down too much. his populist policies, coupled with his voter-bounty system reveal a candidate who is running in bad faith.i was also dissatisfied with his wholesale dismissal of goon candidates; to put it bluntly, he likes them when you call him out, but he marginalizes them when nobody's looking. objectively, goon is a major element in the game, and yes, they have a stake in what happens in 0.0. i think it's a good idea to have them involved in the same way concord was involved with drone region players when it came to naming them. lets all work together to make a game we all enjoy!mittani has a lot to say about the games mechanics, but also has legitimate concerns with the csm process. he's got experience in just about every facet of eve life short of the csm, and he shows good people-handling skills. some might disagree, but i don't think the csm has anything to lose with him on board.my personal first pick is seleene. second place? mittani. trebor gets the third spot. i also want to see helen on again. and this will be exactly how it won't play out."
"i still owe a few answers in this thread and i promise to reply as soon as i can once rl slows down a bit and i can sit in a chair longer than 10 mins! in the meantime, i just wanted to say that a lot of folks seem to think i'm going to get a seat no matter what but i'm taking nothing for granted, certainly not with the field of heavy weights in this election. as a first time candidate, i'm having to pull in new votes or sway old voters to me so thank you to everyone supporting me so far!ccp's twitter feed announced earlier, \"over nine thousand capsuleers have already registered their vote in the ongoing csm elections; make sure your voice is also heard! after the same duration last election, only 2,305 had been cast. vote now!\"this is exciting! i just wish there were 'exit polls' for all of this. the 30th is a long time to wait for results! vote vote vote!!"
"it'll certainly be interesting to see what happens if the % of voting accounts reaches, say, 25%. it'll be much harder for certain people to dismiss the csm with that kind of mandate."
"this is exactly what i am hoping to see. no matter who gets elected, if a large enough percentage of the eve player base votes then csm 6 will have a truly representative mandate.new ccp tweet:15k pilots/4.3% of eligible pilots already voted for the #csm6 elections, up from 1.3%/4k votes at the same point last election"
"you have my vote. you know what teh real truth is because you have dealt with game design, you truly represent the peopel of eve and everything i hear about you , even from your enemies, is good."
"pos: a great thing for a industrial expansion would be to add the capability to rent the research (and maybe even production) slots to the general public. it would be a big projrct but we can always hope. cloaks: fuel as depicted has a problem. in the past i was capable to navigate 0.0 gatecamps in a cloaked bs. i had to spend more than 1 hour moving around carefully to get out of the bubble and far away to be safe warping.if you add a fuel requirement based on mass for cloaks it would became impossible or the fuel requirement would be so low that it will not make a difference for afk cloakers. btw: 4 votes for you already sent."
"a vote for draco is a vote for draco"
"make battle rorqs more epic... how abt that"
"yes in so many ways, battle rorqual 3 needs more dps, 10k tank is fine though"
"you sound the most reasonable off all canidates. +1vote"
"here is a man who knows his onions and at the same time is ready to listen. supported."
"."
"you got my vote m8 :)"
"this man needs your vote people! vote for him and be part of something...real"
"today i'd like to point out that a vote for me is a proven vote. i've been mature and consistent in my positions and support for the care bear and indie/small corp players. i can point at 2 terms of csm participation that should make players of eve confident that will know what i represent.i also want to make it clear that while am a \"carebear\" i support the more agressive play styles, we need nbsi, pirates, wars, scammers and griefers. they make the risk vs. reward part of eve real. i just strive to drive ccp to make sure all aspects of eve are considered in their design decisions.so please consider me as your csm candidate of choice! i will not dissappoint!issler dainzethe voice of reason csm candidate"
"you sir have my vote, not for anything you have said so far,,nor the lack of promises you have made,, but for on thing which comes from in the game, many years ago i contacted you to ask a favour about one of your members greifing one of our corp miners, the attacks stopped and much joy was gained in our tiny lil corp, the fact you bothered was impressive, the fact it worked more sosome call you a liar, a scoundrel,, i just think your effective in what you choose to do,, and thats what the csm needs,, for good or bad, the impass must end"
"you sir have 2 votes from me. please make ccp do the things the players that pay their bills want instead of making us do more boring logistics.every other mmo out there has a fast travel option from place to place. except eve, if you don't count jump gates/titan bridges. imagine wow without mounts or griffins/bats, but instead you can just kill yourself to some remote town and then get new equipment.a vote for vile rat is a vote for anyone who's ever had to haul crap anything through a dangerous system before. and that's pretty much everyone. (rancer extra quick transport checking in!)"
"or mine, most of the people voting for you are goons...kind of obvious."
"you got my vote.. you can release the hostages now"
"vile rat,you have my attention, many of the points you post about are things i have myself examined on my blog in the past. and i believe you are very much on the right train of thought.i'll be voting for you, and i've endorsed you on my little blog. (also i may or may not bully others to vote too)regards,hb"
"i hereby endorse this product and/or service."
"i actually supported this product/ service... which means you got my vote"
"confirmed i shall also be voting for darius iii :)"
"you have my vote, now troll the csm and ccp into the ground"
"no gimmicks, no lottery, no bribes, no free plex, etc. (if i have to \"buy\" your vote, then how effective am i?)review your candidates..please visit your user settings to re-enable images.make your selection...please visit your user settings to re-enable images.and vote!!!please visit your user settings to re-enable images.as neg would say.... simple!vote for butch!!!"
"good luck to all candidates."
"and good luck to you sir!"
"voting is opened, but if you still have any questions, please ask away (there will be 2 weeks i think till it closes, so no rush).if you would like someone with experience and vision of eve as a whole to make decisions/voting on your behalf, vote for me. thank you for your support"
"good luck krutoj,i hope you will become one of csm-6 (together with my alt wich i shall not mention in your topic)"
"hey,i've heard alot of talk about low sec changes and adjustments, what changes would you bring about for wspace? i personally would like to see a means of creating/sustaining preferable high sec wh's or even a special mass scanner introduced. what changes would you lobby for in w space that would help the little guys out, like me?det"
"today's winner is targamarr who is now the proud owner of 45 ice harvester ii. chribba dice linkthank you for the comments burseg.remember voting is now available. vote for manalapan!!!!"
"if i will vote for you, will you be my pet?"
"its not about being for or against scamming. scammers do what they do only to benefit them selves - they are selfish and don't have others best interests at heart. that being said, how do you expect voters to support some1 that puts himself above others?i would prefer to vote for some1 that might actually try and make a positive change for us all and i highly doubt a scammer is such a person. either way - i have already cast my 2 votes....good luck to you anyhow."
"hardly call it a scam, it was more like a child having a new toy to play with.you got bored with it and burned out... hard.easiest option was to call it a scam and move on... even if you were to get on the csm, you'll get bored within a month and break the nda somehow so that you take the easy way out, all the while labelling it a great victory."
"compromising the chribba dice roll was totally worth it so i could make sure i didn't win that officer mod"
"your plan for an overhauled bounty system has bounty hunters being assigned targets with a probability proportional to the bounty on a player's head (so a player with a 500m bounty would be 100 times more likely to be your target than a player with a 5m bounty).what's to stop your new bounty system from being rendered worthless by large bounties on players who aren't really vulnerable to solo player or small gangs (titan pilots, players who don't really log in anymore) resulting in many or even ost of the bounty targets assigned being players you can't realistically kill?"
"(above posted on an alt in error)"
"obviously, anyone who is against rr has been defeated because of it."
"you act like dbank didn't go on for 16+ months. if that is my burnout period for anything then that would work for csm because that would last 12 months. also, huge difference between running a bank and csm in terms of content. csm would be more interesting and would definitely not lead to any burnout especially during a single term.the low bounties probably will not be very frequent missions but still possible. it is unlikely that the system could be rendered worthless by large invulnerable bountied players because low security status or kill rights are required to receive a bounty (something you will find does not apply to titan pilots). also, the system requires that the play be currently logged on for someone to be given the mission (as a tz difference prevention mechanic).for discussion on your point though. lets say a player in my alliance has a 9001 billion isk bounty and everyone else only has a 5m isk bounty. it is still possible for me to draw him as a mission and collect on the bounty and split it with him (the abuse of the current system). while this is not the most desirable result the ability for this still to occur would prevent the instance where 99.99% of all bounty missions are for one character while not making the event common place.and a post from one the biggest benefiters of neutral rr. my personal experience has not been terrible by any means. it has happened to me personally once in a battle i was winning and i just waited and docked, a mild inconvenience.my concerns on the matter are the ones i stated above. it hurts the war mechanics and it also is risk free pvp which should not be possible.@korvin:i thought throwing an utu at you already made me your pet. besides you agree with 90% of my ideas anyways so sure?"
"votematch says 56%, so i need to kill you more to shape your brain the way i want"
"why can't you calculate rr into the equation in the first place? if you know, or suspect that neutral rep is a possibility then don't risk it. i've lost kills and recieved some losses because of neutral rr and i'm not complaining. it's part of eve. plus, i doubt ccp will change this since it would reduce the $$$ rolling in to their bank. (a change on neutral rr is a change on active alts and the reduction of them from the game, think of all the alt's who are dedicated rr which would stop paying 14.99/month)"
"losses are fine by me, the broken hisec wardec system isn't. a mechanic that is exploited to the point where it has become a common expectation for any hi-sec wars is most certainly something that needs a fix. i'm not sure why anyone is opposed to the thought of something being changed for the benefit of fun game play and balance. except, of course, for one that is personally offended by the suggestion because it nullifies a tactic that person uses as a crutch and will be met with minor hardships while the rest of the game would benefit.i guess from the greed standpoint this would hold true. however, ccp really wanted to have micro-transactions put into place (plex for remaps) and that would've been a pretty good financial boost, but a huge backlash from the forums/csm had them change their game plan. profit is important, but it isn't the entire driving force behind game mechanics. besides, people said the same thing about nerfing falcons back-in-the-day, but the nerf was necessary and the balance that emerged is more fun.on another note, logistics would still be a viable alt job, but having them sit invincibly on the back of a station until it is most convenient for the exploiter to use it would no longer be viable. they'd have to be part of the alliance at war to affect the war. i also feel command ships (in hisec) should only boost a fleet that is in war if it, too, is part of that war."
"i did not know there was a drawing and all of a sudden i has vizans thing. thats awesome!i just supporting you because if the other csm guys got their way and made suicide ganking harder my industrial returns wouldn't be as good. i also liked dbank back in the day minus not getting all my money back thanks for the mod....now to figure out how much it is worth probably pays for my dbank loss.already gave you my vote"
"if you read this eve24news article you will understand better why you should vote for ms pacman.in her platform she wants to fix the kartels/renterspace in eve.let me quote some out of this eve24news article:their long list of clients.i just wished this article would had come out a little sooner as it underscribes my campaign so, if you have a character left you still can vote with, then vote for ms pacman"
"it's pointless to vote for other issues before fixing the iskbank issue"
"how is this related to renters?how do you think you can fix this?"
"candidate comments?"
"these real money trades rmt and the list of of who bought isk this way and how it is related to renters...here's my view on this:the isk that they sell, like to the people who are listed, has to come from somewhere.i assume they also sell plex for real money but then cheaper than ccp does.this is a speculation: they invested money, buying isk, in order to create such a power in game so they can create a powervacuum.next is they make 'settlements' by alliances renting space from them.the area's they control will get so large and the isk income will get so high that they will be able to whitewash these isk's for real money and make huge profits.how they whitewash it can be various.rentspace /settlements will prevent anyone to get access to nullsec any other way than renting space.any other way, say pvp, will be a fight like papuans vs the russian army.part of the solution:by replacing the current way systems are being rented out for a by ccp controlled rent-system , like in game rent-slots (and put a limit on the number of slots) and edit the eula that any other way to rent out space to others will be a violation of the eula, you can break open this vacuum.now larger numbers of corps and alliances from empire won't be 'papuans' anymore and can actually fight their way into nullsec and obtain space.while they obtain more space the powerblocks will lose more ways of making income (r64/r32)more numbers of indepandants in nullsec will cause to make it harder for the powerblocks to maintain their (illegal) way of making (real) money.a perfect example of this in real life is currently libia and the revolt that is going on there against kadaffi.he controlled his 'nullsec' and made trillions of oil dollars but now the people are taking over. in a even more wider aspect it happened in tunesia and egypt first, with success. what ccp has to do right now is to freeze all these people's (corp) wallets while they are being investigated (the people who are being listed buying isk in violation of the eula).note that i am not accusing any alliance about the above.i leave the answers to that to ccp"
"only 8 buyers out of 5800 in my alliance? p. happy about that****'em, ban'em"
"i would have to agree - any accounts found engaged in rmt and can be conclusively proven as such should be hit with the banhammer.also rmt is a separate issue to nullsec rental space, although they are linked simply by the fact that rmt activities need to be funded somehow."
"it's quite delicate that a csm candidate his alt has been discovered in that list.and it's even more delicate if you find out who that is, but i am for sure not going to give that away."
"i sincerely hope that eve24news' first action was to inform the authorities when they were handed the database dump .. hacking is rather heavily frowned upon and if the allegations that it was done in order to blackmail individuals/corps then the perpetrator is facing a pretty hefty prison sentence.if eve24 did not inform the authorities (no, ccp are not the authorities) and publishes the information on an add supported public space (ie. making money off it) then they too are going to need lawyers.seeing as eve24 were so kind as to provide pretty much all the evidence needed for successful prosecution i'd say the case will be very swift, so good luck to them.on topic: why vote for a platform wanting what is already there?ccp already has an rmt taskforce perma-camping the logs but are, due to the nature of the beast, always two steps behind .. throwing more money/resources at the problem will not solve it any faster."
"that's not delicate, that's grounds for ineligibility for csm plain and simple, regardless of who it is and what (in-game) position they hold."
"sorry for the harsh words, your proposal is absolutely delusional.not even speaking about obvious ways to work-around any artificial limit put on the interaction of groups - purpose-made sister alliances, etc.simplyfing things a bit, some small alliance is either renter or being shot. now, you want to forbid some alliance a to rent space to alliance b, because it ran out of \"game-rent slots\". are you going to forbid alliance a to shoot alliance b? and, say, ask for ransom for not being shot ? eula, you'd say ? congrats, instead of \"game-rent slots\" you just have instituted \"shooting right slots\".ironically enough, your libya analogue pretty demonstrates what things you are not getting. people are \"taking over\" not because some higher authority changed an eula for kaddafi and he ran out of \"oil slots\"."
"this is a paid endorsement...no, sorry, this is an un-solicited endorsement for this candidate.i endorse this candidate.in all seriousness though, i've known this candidate for a number of years, we were incarcerated at the same institution...sorry, that's not right, his hand writing's a little hard to read as i type this (i should probably edit it). we attended the same tertiary institution, and i know where he lives, so if he fails to come through, for an appropriate fee i could transfer all his assets to you.no wait, i wasn't supposed to say that out loud - where's the delete key again?in all seriousness though, getting imigo onboard the csm can only be good for the game.this has been a paid... sorry, unsolicited endorsement for this candidate."
"i've just read ms pacman's stance on nullsec \"renterspace\" and \"mafia extortion\" and had to comment.to be blunt, this is utter rubbish. currently there are no game mechanics to create/manage rental space anywhere in eve. the whole arrangement of renters/pets/allies is based on player to player interaction, and quite frankly, this is the way it should be.let me be perfectly clear on my stance here: i'm not for or against alliances \"renting\" space, charging large prices for the use of space, alliances imposing rules on other alliance's use of space or any of the wonderful/dastardly things nullsec inhabitants do to/for each other. what i am for is allowing 0.0 entities to make their own decisions about what agreements they make with other entities. any means to regulate this (eg \"rent slots\"!!!) will be artificial and arbitrary. nullsec is player run space, and its use is negotiated between players - whether they negotiate with words, isk, or by blowing stuff up. keep it that way."
"the link you referring to is an older edition.let me relink that to my solution that can be found at this link/post here good luck with your campaign!edit: also more insight here at this interview"
"as a player with more than a years experience, multiple accounts and a corp ceo you have my vote.... all four of them to be precise! keep it real, honest, fun and fair. good luck and best wishes"
"still, rmt and nullsec rental space are two separate issues. the only connection is that rmt needs isk funds from somewhere to sell, and space rent can be one source of those funds."
"bumping!please vote for me as your csm candidate!"
"support for the white tree!"
"voted for wt."
"i voted for whitetree!"
"i am a little sad that this left the first page, some important issues here that need to be adressu"
"i agree mostly with disgruntled flying monkey, and was thinking the same thing before he took the words out of my mouth. i see you have a pretty clear idea of how the csm works to present ideas, and i'm sure you've done your research on each of these ideas you're supporting. but i think you're forgetting that multitudes of players will support bad ideas simply because they aren't able to see the long-term ramifications of said change. that being said, i want to flesh out a few of my concerns with each of your eleven points:this is too vague. what even counts as a small band? sure, i'd like to see giant mega-alliances no longer controlling large chunks of nullsec, but i don't think it's a big issue. the game gets along fine as is, and don't forget that those mega-alliances have lots and lots of players in them. it's just players banding together. eve makes that happen where other games don't. i don't think it's a big enough issue to fuss over when there are pressing economical issues at hand.maybe it's just me but i don't see how this is really needed. i like the idea of tech 2 capital ships, but i don't know if it's really a question if the players want them; more of a question how to implement them. ccp can't just throw it out there, they have to test the design over and over again very carefully to make sure that a minor imbalance doesn't throw everything to heck.once again seems vague, though i admit i haven't had much experience with t3s.this is one point i agree with. whether or not we have incursions, missions still need work; both to make them more fun and engaging for the players and to thwart mission bots.i think you worded this poorly. both t2 battleships have very clearly defined roles. perhaps a better point would be that the black ops is highly restricted in its use and the marauder is for missions; thus there are no t2 battleships for pvp in a pvp game. in any case i think this point also needs a lot of work.i agree 100%. small ships have too strong an advantage when it comes to ninja salvaging. but it's too small a point to put it up here. no matter how many players think this is a big issue, the fact remains that the disgruntled players who lost a salvage opportunity can either learn to fly a better salvage ship, work with friends, or accept that they aren't getting salvage because they aren't taking the steps to ensure that they do.more or less what i said with the above point, though once again i admit that i don't have experience with technetium.action is always being taken, and it's impressive the dedication ccp puts into this area. what we need is the answers to solve the technical problems they are combating in this area; to give them ideas that can be implemented. it's a difficult issue and ccp needs solutions, not lists of concerns they are already aware of.faction warfare is very lucrative and its economic effect is debatably one one of the driving forces behind it. nobody should expect you to know a lot about every issue, but you should be able to admit when you don't know enough about something."
"...cont.some people think these things need a change and some like it the way it is. you need to give both a good reason why it is bad the way it is, and a good idea how to change it and it would be better if changed.i agree, though keep in mind that part of the lack of lucrativeness of lowsec space is that it is inhabited by bot miners. nocxium, the primary lowsec mineral, is quite valuable despite all the bot mining. but if bot mining activity were substantially reduced, the value of nocxium would likely shoot up quickly to the point that several players went to lowsec to mine jaspet, hemorphite, and hedbergite. still, i'd like to see crokite give less nocxium, and i personally think pyroxeres gives way too much nocxium: when you consider its unit volume, it gives about 40% as much nocxium as hemorphite, the top nocxium yielding mineral. but i digress. i speak from fairly general experience in mining, and i believe i have enough experience in these areas to speak about them the way i do. but the point remains that the concern about lowsec isn't how lucrative it is, so much as who is taking the 'gold'. but you're right, lowsec needs fixing. are you hearing me ccp? fix lowsec!!"
"one of the issues with this, is that i don't see how any mechanic could favor a small to mid sized corporation attacking or defending space that wouldn't give an overwhelming advantage to a giant alliance attacking or defending that same space.one thing i've said in the past about this, is that there could be regions of nullsec space that aren't connected to the giant null sec ring that surrounds high sec space currently. this could come as either null-sec pockets in the middle of empire, perhaps as small as a single system, that aren't jumpable to other low or null sec systems, or perhaps entire null sec constellations that are only reachable by going through wormhole space. these would be areas that a small to mid size band of players could defend and own, that the giant alliances would probably ignore.depending on game balance issues, it could have either a jump drive, a clone vat bay, or the ability to compress ore. i really don't think it needs a jump drive, i'd be leaning towards the ability to do ore compression, or greatly expanded cargo holds. mining is a dead or dying profession in both low sec and null sec. people have talked in the past of adding a super-veldspar to null sec, and putting mercoxit in low sec. these sound like ideas i could get behind, but ccp could also add a low-sec-only mineral to complement mercoxit's null sec only status.i see them as a series of instanced mini-incursions that corporations could run, that would be far too powerful for a single player or two in a carrier, and not needing quite as large of a force as the current incursions do.botting has a profound effect on the eve economy, to the point where i feel some game mechanics are developed to diminish its overall effect by \"baking in\" an awareness that a certain percentage of minerals and isk will be bot-generated. i know the csm can't change that, but i'm also not one of the people running for csm that has allowed their alliance members to bot freely.thanks. i hope this helps."
"i've described running for the csm before like this:it's actually an important economic issue that there is no end-game for a small alliance right now. i've posted above about null-sec pockets and w-space connected null sec that small alliances could use, but honestly, its vague because anything i propose would be a specific mechanic, and the csm really doesn't propose specific mechanics successfully. the can highlight problems, like this is.i would hope that once they come up with the specs of any ship that they were thinking of adding to the game, that they would come to the csm for feedback. beyond that, i really do feel that a t2 orca is something people want. in a game, you do want to be giving players more of what they want.in w-space, there is no way to refit a t3-cruiser. there are corps right now that move into w-space to make t3 components, but who can't refit their cruisers with the ferry modules they're creating. that just seems broken to me.nifty."
"having a \"very defined role\" is much different than having a \"better defined role\". they both have a role right now, but its far to niche of a role for what should be the super-ultimate-battleship people should be flying.i like to chunk this in as another example of giving people what they want.in a nutshell, tech is used in a quantity that far exceeds what one would expect in a r32 moon mineral. players noticed this weeks before the changeover to the new t2 component recipes, but ccp went ahead anyway.one of the things the csm does is point and go \"hey this problem is very important, and should moved out of your ever lengthening queue of stuff you'll never get to and get fixed now\". this is me saying that.it may be very lucrative, but it's obviously not lucrative enough if more players aren't doing it.this is more of a ui issue, and while eve has a number of ui issues, this one is pretty bad.neat."
"right. i'm not sure how they could do #2, but adding how many runs are left on a blueprint could easily accomplish #1. either putting in -1 or zero for a bpo and a positive number for a bpc.because they also don't differentiate between a 10 run bpc and a 1 run bpc."
"anyone who supports orca pilots gets my vote.i dont know why but people tend to have some kind of hate directed to the industrial part of the game. especially against orcas."
"well voting has started. thank you for everyone who has spent time in sending me mails with your questions and support. now lets see how we do at the vote."
"- aureleos for csm - the entire purpose of my campaign is to prevent ridiculous changes to eve motivated simply by the urge to nerf 0.0 or it's occupants while encouraging the creation of new content and novelty to keep the game both competitive and enthr"
"games promoting rl values:i like games that have real-life valuable lessons to teach. scamming in eve - this is something that can happen to you in real life, and perhaps you could learn a good lesson by being scammed in eve so you learn to avoid the same in real life (yes there are idiots who will never learn, but eventually those will emoragequit eve and we will be rid of them. though i have never jita scammed someone, jita scamming in eve is a legitimate mechanic that should be left alone as a way of culling the morons from the game. knowing you are at risk of being scammed is a valuable real-life lesson. banking - there are several organizations within eve that offer banking services, but there lacks a system mechanic to make that a truly profitable system. how do you ensure that a loan can be repayed? collateral. how can you save isk? put it in an alt that you don't often use. can you earn interest on money saved? yes you can, but you have to trust it to a player controlled institution that is then making loans or profitable investments with which to pay interest on money you have trusted them with. we could set up some sort of commission to rate capsuleer controlled service organizations for people to use as a gauge of trustworthiness (think evebbb: better business bureau) run by volunteers similar to the isd method. i give chribba's services a triple-a rating :p saving and investing are good real-life values. if you want to say, \"aw, eve is teh game and shouln't haev stuffz like taht!!!1!,\" i say it already teaches a lot of commodity economics, so why not other useful skills? no where does it say that a game can be nothing more than a game, and besides you little kids can then tell your parents (or wives >.>) about valuable sh*t you learned from eve.new content: expand!!!!! wormhole stuff - developable worm holes - (not just the systems) the whs themselves. imagine groups of organized people that can invest in building infrastructure to temporarily stablelize worm hole entrances. the immediate effect of this would be that whs could potentially be safer for large groups of organized players trying to maintain towers and industrial activities - its actually a risk trade-off if you look close at the idea (easier to control the wh, but you become a larger target for pirates or other hostiles. the long-term effect would be reduced prices of t3 ships if the risk-trade-off isn't balanced. everyone is gonna jump on this idea and say, \"aw that is a dumbf**ksh*t idea! what about blah blah blah or blah blah blah?\" to this i say well we can have discussions about the creative aspect of addressing \"blah blah blah\" without trashing the idea altogether. afterall imagine the fella that first said, \"hey lets make an mmo that is all one huge server based in space.\" you know some assh*le troll jumped up in iceland and said, \"aw that is a dumbf**ksh*t idea! what about blah blah blah or blah blah blah?\" well, 8 years later and a whole buttload of \"blah blah blah\" later we have a pretty cool game we all love to play - if you don't love eve then why the heck are you reading this? incarna - yes please - no it doesn't mean ccp is trying to go and be like world of warcraft. its novelty. it puts a face on eve - poor pun intended. it creates an entirely new dimension for the expansion of eve. ccp can easily support the incarna feature by having those mechanics supported by dedicated servers for those of you who are worried that the new content would fudge the servers for the rest of the game. my main reason for wanting incarna is because (like so very many of you) i really want to kick scotty the docking manager in the nards."
"fixes to current game mechanics. this would be the largest section so far, so in the interests of whatever brevity i can salvage from what i have typed so far i would say that fixes and modifications would be looked at from a balance stand-point. ccp has maintainted that certain aspects of eve are balanced despite complaints: the fact is that ccp has its reasons for keeping some things the way they are especially when it comes to ships and mods that are specialized for certain combat situations. understanding the game from the greater perspective and having a bit of realistic experience with real-world military capabilities i can understand the idea of specialization.i am going to leave this open to questions as to what i mean as it pertains to eve. the idea, again, is to prevent certain lulwut forces from nerfing game mechanics simply to gain an advantage in a potentially narrow perspective of the game (that is not to say all concerns are narrow, just most of them).thank you again for taking the time to read my blah blah blah.aure <3"
"this i like. nothing crazy, just measured, conservative advancement. when you have a machine with over a million gears spinning all at once you don't want to move too many at a time. we moderates need a voice and i think you're it."
"something positive aureleos paid me a tengu to say somthing positive on his thread"
"ohhh yeah this guy here aureleos u guys should vote for him because the other candidates are ebil zombies and need to have some shootings ( cause u dont negotiate with zombies) and ccp is the last place we need zombies. lets face it if zombies eat ccp staff then they will eat the hamsters. and if u think down time is long now think again zombies aureleos isn't one of em"
"i see a lot of other peeps running \"having concerns\" over new content ideas while failing to \"have concerns\" over changing the game as it exists while at the same time knowing jacksh*t about what they are talking about (not naming peeps). but there you have it. a lot of witless candidates talking hot air out their a**holes and over their heads. same old sh*t every year... mittani seems to know a lot, but since he is a lawyer in real life i am not gonna vote for him. every vote he steals from the mittani is a win for me.voting for you aureleos! save us from the \"change!\""
"tl;dr?"
"if u havent read what aureleos has to say yet i will give you the short version. blah blah blah key board face roll blah blah blah vote for me i wana go to iceland to see how icy it is.and free tengus if u vote for me"
"what is this...........i dont even :("
"some nice ideas, not over the top. valid pointsvote aure"
"i like this article as well. nurfing just for the sake of nurfing is not an answer and should used as a last resort and i always against it. i have to say that it is the games vs rewards that keeps me coming back, but if i want a game that will hold my hand all the time i would go play wow. eve is more dangerous and less forgiving of mistakes and thats what i like. thats my 2 cents."
"hi mike,where do you stand on the big stuff: sov, pos mechanics, force projection (supercaps + jump bridges)?whats the biggest single thing that bugs you personally in eve?you've mentioned destroyers (and i agree). what other hulls also need a good look at?one last question: what are the various things have you done in eve?"
"i like your stance on lowsec. i really, really think it needs fixing, and i can see how difficult an issue it is. every solution seems to backfire even as early as the planning stage. but more than anything, i like your stance as a whole. to represent the whole playerbase, and to focus on the big picture, that is what the csm should do. i like that you aren't supporting individual little quibbles you have, that you plan to put forth your effort into making everyone else's gaming better; but also that you appear to have a keen understanding of how the game works and that helps you to spot potential problems within an issue.that being said, i'd like to ask for your opinion on a handful of ideas i had to help fix lowsec. and i want to stress that i've already decided my feelings toward you being elected to csm, and i'm merely asking out of both curiosity to hear your viewpoint and a hope that you can poke a few holes in my ideas so that i might better formulate them in the future.idea 1.) i think bot mining (aka macro mining) is a big part of the problem with lowsec since they actively mine in it, bringing down the prices of those minerals (namely nocxium) and thus creating competition that real player miners can't compete with. so my idea is moreover to fix macro mining. i think that if the miner were to aim the mining laser at a slow-scrolling picture of \"asteroid\" in which the minerals and the empty rock would have the same color scheme and would look virtually identical to a computer but would be fairly easy to spot by a human player, that the bot mining would be far less lucrative and the player mining would be more engaging. i realize already that the first big problem with implementation is that these pictures would have to come fresh from the server and be updated frequently. i think that making them very low-quality is step one, as it not only reduces streaming bandwidth but also makes it easier to add in image artefacts that the human eye can detect and that computers cannot.idea 2.) i think the nocxium output of crokite (a major nullsec mineral) and pyroxeres (a major highsec mineral) should be reduced. their current output is quite significant, even to the point of eliminating the need for lowsec minerals. since there are no other minerals that come primarily from lowsec, making nocxium more exclusive to lowsec would increase the value of lowsec mining. and i know that's only one of many steps to solving the issue, but i think it's a valid one.idea 3.) make system security status more gradual. there should still be a hard boundary between \"lowsec\" and \"highsec\", but i think piracy should be much more difficult to get away with in higher security systems of lowsec. ganking in 0.4 systems should be particularly dangerous to the pirates and should require substantial preparation; thus many of the more daring carebears will be willing to enter lowsec despite the (reduced) danger. likewise, high security systems of lower security status values should have a greater difference between concord response times, perhaps, thus allowing a suicide ganker more time to complete the \"objective\", and making the ganking cheaper in those systems. perhaps in 0.5 or 0.6 systems it could even be possible (though definitely not easy, of course!!) to thwart concord and actually manage to escape. whatever fit allows you to do this, however, shouldn't be a very good gank fit. for instance, if it requires you to fit 5 warp core stabilizers on a battleship, then you're pretty much stuck with smart bombs as your weapon. this change would entice more pirates to highsec, and would blur the boundary between highsec and lowsec. with the \"carebear\" playerbase more spread out, lowsec would become a bit safer just from the presence of other non-pirates to help dilute the pirate population.so those are my ideas. curious to hear your input. i don't care if they never get implemented; i just want lowsec to be fixed."
"one final idea; not my own though i have ideas toward implementing it: make pvp and pve fits identical. this goes in-line perhaps with making missions more fun and maybe even thwarting mission bots. if instead of fifteen puny ships, you encounter 1-2 powerful ships and maybe 1-3 flanking puny ships, you would want to fit ships similar to how you would in pvp. if you went up against 1-2 ships that were as powerful as a player ship, it would take some skill to run the missions. perhaps the agent would tell you what you're going to be up against (ship types and faction) and in some cases it may be a good idea to bring a small ship to complete the mission. now i'm not saying missions should be more difficult, just that they should be less hectic."
"just out of curiosity has there been any communication/progress on any other issues in the last 2 months? you know, the other stuff that you guys were actually elected to push ccp to work on? low sec proposals? hybrid fixes? or have all efforts been dedicated to badgering ccp about incarna? i confess i haven't been following much lately, but it seems that since the december summit there hasn't been much done or said that was productive. shame since up until that point a lot had actually been accomplished (i am not being sarcastic).tbh i think the csm's mandate should not be to \"call bull****\" but to help get the things that are currently broken in game, fixed. the players have all been clamouring for things to get fixed and the csm was helping with that. the fixes in \"incursion\" are a clear example of the csm's impact and progress on that front. the outrage in june seemed to stem very much from the perception that ccp wasn't going to be adding or fixing anything other than incarna for 18 months. and now this csm has taken a page from that book and doesn't seem interested in anything other than incarna. ironic."
"i begged the evegate forums team to impose a special 140-character length limit on virtuozzo posts, but they refused, on the grounds that virtposts are incredibly useful as forum stress-tests.on a more serious note, a reply i posted in my campaign thread gives my perspective on how the letter evolved."
"ccp did their release planning in jan so we're at the stage of waiting to hear back on which items are being progressed and which have been shelved. since december ccp have started providing weekly updates to csm of where things are, but unless they give permission we can't discuss features in progress in case they get dropped.just to make it clear, ccp have stated that no stakeholder group within the eve project has guaranteed development time allocated so it is entirely possible that no csm issues will get worked on for a whole release cycle. however in this cycle a team is spending some of their time working on quick fixes identified by csm and players.see above, release planning has been done and so no further issues can realistically be added at this stage. csm focus until the next round of release planning is on providing feedback unless a team has time to work on something else at which point we'll do what we can to get more issues pushed forward. this cycle will continue for as long as ccp have a two release per year schedule.the role of the csm continues to evolve and that is likely to continue into csm6 and beyond. it simply isn't worthwhile going back to the old system of just raising hundreds of new issues because ccp simply don't have the development time to address more than a handful of them. the key time is providing the priority list (from the crowdsourcing) before the release planning (which we did) and attempting (as you pointed out) to get existing things fixed. the reason csm are so interested in getting answers to incarna questions is because that is the main focus of this release cycle."
"they better fix hybrids first. just sayin."
"clearly i am abstaining from signing my name to trick you."
"so why exactly is incarna that important and crucial?eve is about flying spaceships. thats what we all love about it,and i dont see how that incarna stuff improves anything? frankly, i think its a waste of resources."
"it's important because it's taking up a lot of ccp's development resources for a significant amount of time. choosing to spend developer time on incarna means that ccp has chosen not to spend that time on other things. i agree that incarna is likely to offer little to no value for the majority of current eve players. ccp thinks that it will attract new ones but i am sceptical of this."
"no.ccp is developing a character & environment engine for carbon. they happen to have a huge playerbase to test it on in eve-online, so they ahve decided to add the engine to eve to test it out in real life before making world of darkness and/or other carbon based mmo's.incarna is a toy in eve. thats all.ccp gets to develop and refine the content pipeline for the engine on a live game instead as a lab experiment.if you think the reseources would have been used on eve had they not made incarna you are very wrong."
"except that the carbon team is completely separate to the incarna team or any of the other eve teams. there are eve resources being spent on incarna over and above the carbon integration."
"as if i ever do excessive posting :p this i could not resist however, with a bit of a wink vote seleene for csm 6 (blog) & vote trebor for csm 6 (blog)!please visit your user settings to re-enable images.vote seleene for csm 6 (blog) & vote trebor for csm 6 (blog)!"
"this is the kind of post csm should more often/on a regular basis.it is very hard to get a feeling you do something, this is great example of showing what you do, giving transparency, having a dialogue with both sides, etc. it also shows the csm5 already done way more than any of the previous versions, by this post alone.thank you."
"it's a distraction for the players and for the designers. it isn't going to have any new functionality or gameplay that we are aware of, though there are many references to what it might be in the future. it will essentially be a better looking habbo hotel."
"thanks for your comments, misanth. the amount of time and effort it took to get to the point of publishing this letter was far above average, but we do have similar internal discussions and debates about many things that follow a similar process. this is a big part of the \"unseen\" time spent doing csm stuff and it is considerable for those delegates who choose to participate in such discussions (not all do; for example, i contributed very little to the null sec discussion because i have no expertise that would allow useful participation). these discussions often involve topics that ccp has placed under nda which is why they don't get shared with the public. the csm internal forums are by default considered to be nda, which helps to establish a comfort level for csm and ccp to engage freely in discussion--particularly for people on the ccp side of the equation. but ccp participation is optional; no one on the ccp side is required to engage with the csm or answer our questions (with the possible exception of our advocates), nor come to the table to try and resolve grievances. it is easy to assume such a grievance--perhaps due to personality conflicts or personal issues with some csm5 members--is held by the incarna team. we don't know. perhaps we can make some assumptions about that when csm6 takes office and we see how or if they are engaged by team incarna."
"how will incarna be enfoced on supercapital pilots or pilots living in w-space? i'm curious."
"don't be silly, we all know incarna is station environments. unless you have a station on board of your supercap or in a wormhole those niches will be irrelevant for ccp in the topic :p that does not diminish the importance being cautious of the mindset behind the approach of \"x cannot be compelling unless it is enforced\". with incarna that is a topic, let's hope the paradigm does not spread beyond."
"we have no real idea what's incarna about unless \"captain's quarters\" and... and nothing else but \"mabe's\" and stuff alike, how can the csm take players coments/sugestions seriously when even them are in the blackout? -aren't they supposed to be the comunity voice but also the \"coolwater\" for all the boilling threads?it's pretty obvious that the \"comunication\" from ccp vs players has serious issues and vs csm.at the end of the day the major part of the players has i do, whenever i get enraged (that happens pretty often ), we throw on csm's back al this misscomunication issues.now i really hope for the grater good of this game i enjoy that ccp's senior dev's are capable to open their eyes a little bit and see the community waiting for answers from them and not only from you (actually i expect their answers for the issues you repport better than your repport of their answers). knowing whow senior dev's/managers act i will not expect any change in this sens and wish you guys good luck on trying. profit to take some local beers and kiss some local chicks for me, at least that will profit a liitle bit to some eve's community (sry for my poor english, not english native)"
"teadazethank you, for your work on csm. i voted for you last time and definitely feel i got my votes worth. your main point in your campaign and throughout what you did on csm was you were going to push player concerns. but here i think ccp is pulling a form of bait and switch on you. tiny montgomery is correct the players were extremely upset because they didnt care about incarna. csm should continue to inform ccp of this fact and continue to push for the things players care about - iterating on the spaceship game.it seems to me that it is very hard to represent the players views about a game feature that isn't even out yet and they know nothing about. sure you may know some things, but we don't. the only thing you know is that the players dont really care about incarna and were therefore upset that it was taking so many resources for such a long time period. that was clear right?if that was clear then how can the csm as representatives of the players say things like this: given how crucial incarna is to the future of eve and ccp the success or failure of incarna is such an important issue we are extremely concerned that development of incarna, the most significant addition to eve since beta,rather we are primarily concerned about the apparent lack of significant planning for a feature ccp properly regards as crucial to the future of the company, and the game we love so much.huh??i am left to wonder what ccp put in your beer. the players have said the opposite very clearly in june. many left because they saw incarna as a big time waste and a guarantee that what they find crucial to the game may never get worked on. the kicker is really this we want to see incarna fully fleshed-out. i read this as \"ccp spend more time on incarna than the 18 months you already set aside!\" this couldnt be further from representing the players views. i want incarna spit out asap so ccp can go back to spaceships asap. players were ticked off that it took as long as it did. if its not fleshed out so be it, i dont care. i care about ccp getting back to spaceships because that is what is crucial to eve  or at least my subscription to it and others who left the game. not incarna.if ccp wont listen to what the players tell them that does not mean you should ignore what the players say and start playing along with what ccp is forcing down our throat. you simply need to report to the players that ccp is going to continue to ignore them until incarna is done.you have always done a great job of this as far as i can tell and you achieved great results for the players. this letter though. come on. its the opposite of what the clear majority of players said in june. in any event on the whole i would vote for you again  if you were offering to run. i think the csm got suckered into ccps agenda a bit here but you would start to see straight eventually. step back and you will see where tiny montgomery is coming from."
"it was just to point out that incarna will be optional regardless how much ccp tries to enforce it. taedaze listed everything but incarna in eve as optional. i just said it will be optional as well if you really truly hate it with every fibre of your body and don't want to participate. just find a playstyle where you never have to dock."
"i know i am a new player in the grand scheme of things. and i know that i do not speak for anyone other than myself. but as this has become a huge issue and i have heard far more experienced players voice their opinion but not many newer players like me. a lot of you guys (and gals) have noted that there is little or no use to incarna. and perhaps for the experienced players there wont be. it will just be something you see for 30 seconds while you switch ships to go blow some poor person up. but as a newer player i believe that this at least has the makings to be very useful to the newer player. it could be a place that can give you direction, a place to see and understand before being thrown to the wolves. i tried to start this game once before and stopped simply from the fact that it was so open ended i had no idea what to do. now that may seem ignorant and make me sound stupid but it is the truth. at least at the beginning you need some kind of go here do this to at least know how to do the various things. if you are searching for a way to actually make a reason for it think of this. if it even adds a tenth of the amount of people that currently play the game to the universe. then is more then there are now. and that means more people to blow up for the experienced players and a more enjoyable experience being blown up for newer players like me. because no matter how enjoyable a game is you need to have n0obs to make it better. just my thoughts."
"ghost minerthe tutorials will help you learn how to play eve. it's hard to see how you can better learn to fly a spaceship while in a station.no one doubts that incarna will add players who would like a game where they walk around in a space station. but at least as of june of 2010 that was not our playerbase. indeed its pretty clear that the time and resources spent on incarna will cost eve at least some of its current players. there are many players who continue to play with the hope that ccp will someday improve whatever it is they currently do. (for me its faction war.) the june summit minutes forced everyone to realize that whatever it is they would like done will almost certainly not get done for 18 months. that sucked to hear and more than a few quit. but some of us have decided to ride out the 18 months. now we get a csm letter that says flesh out incarna which can be interpreted as asking that they should do more with it than they already planned. well  no. that is the complete opposite of the views of the players that i had read back in june. the csm should represent the players that elected them. for the reasons i set forth in my prior post this letter does not entirely do that and in some ways completely contradicts the players' outcry."
"i think the biggest problem here is people don't know the difference between lag and bad fps.tbh i think the lag issues are under control, and large fleet framerate(framerage?) is bad, at least on common systems (im on a q6600 with geforce 9800gtx and its literally unplayable in some fights)i think more attention needs to be payed to framerate performance, and scaling down visual effects / 3d models automatically to improve framerate and ui responsiveness. also, the option to specifically select what visual effects we see, would be great. (ie: so i can hide all the sebo effects only... etc) tldr: more graphics, more options to turn them off! (preferably, optionally, automatically).... and audio (amarr *kchhhhhh*kchhhhhh*)"
"whoha, hold that quote. it always struck me as more odd than usual that ccp, after having presented a pretty nice demonstration of 'incarca' (or 'walking in stations' at the time), to suddenly announce that they have scrapped the current concept and would make it something else instead. ever since i saw this post in the mission forum i have had a bad feeling about the direction of the concept.i fully support the message of the csm and the last line of your quote in particular, helicity."
"still stuck in the bar at the \"galaxy pub\" where you more then welcoe to visit me for some q&a :) and ofc a cold one"
"hi miogarsormri fully support your motto: more quality! less quantity!"
"a great concept and a great goal to work for as csm. i like it, and you have my vote."
"why is there a peter powers ad on my killboard when i pay for no ads?"
"the evsco guys where so kind to put up a notification for my campaign,its not an ad perse, its the notification system they usually use for news and such.with my campaign focusing on 3rd party development, and killboards being one of the most used3rd party applications, they have the best interest of their customers at heart, when recommending to vote for me."
"vote for peter!!don't let the nc take over the csm as well as 0.0"
"it's bogus is what it is."
"don't think its the place to whine about something at the top of your killboard - do you?.."
"i most definately think it is. i will also be blogging about this abuse of power."
"what is your experience in dealing with disparate groups of individuals and getting them to perform on given tasks? in addition, what is your experience in convincing those who have more control than you come to see things your way? real world and virtual world, please.i do not mean this as a joke or an attempt to discredit you. these are the key things i am looking for in a candidate for this position."
"in my job i have successfully coordinated teams up to 14 people, including external developers. i'd love to give a few examples about how exactly i got us budgets, times, or solved other problems, however most of that stuff falls under nda that i signed and respect.i have been involved with several open source projects, in different roles, and when php4 came out, i tend to believe that quite a bit of what lead to the zend engine being under a proper opensource license was due to the community work / campaigning that i did back then. zend, the company who build php's runtime called zend engine planned to release it under a kind of properitary license back then. zend used to advertise with the slogan \"zend - where php meets business\". the discussion was pretty stuck in its trails, so i put up a banner on a webpage having a logo like theirs saying \"zimt - where php meets needs\". alot of the larger php related sites back then adopted the banner, and the zend guys suddenly felt the need to send someone to a usergroup meeting to talk to us about what we want.. well the rest is history, and nowadays php is one of the most successfull opensource projects arround.in my free time i'm a member of a political party, and have been for several years (well, i recently switched parties, but thats a different story), that alone teaches one quite a bit about how to work with people, and how to push forward (new) ideas, even if there is resistance at first."
"i am your union representative! vote for me!"
"i voted for you with my accounts because you're an idiot forum troll and the csm needs people on it who don't take it seriously"
"+1 vote for my friend windy :-)"
"oh no, its a goon invasion!+1"
"is it about this point in the campaign where i'm supposed to try some complicated mittens / trebor style post to convince you not to vote for me? i don't get how that works but all the cool kids are doing it, so block vote manipulation is clearly the way forward."
"tbh the only voice of reason in this campaign. roc would be a close second.windy, to secure my vote, please answer the following question:steak or prawns ?"
"we're separate entities now?"
"twiglets. see, i'm even anti-establishment when it comes to answering food questions."
"what is your experience in dealing with disparate groups of individuals and getting them to perform on given tasks? in addition, what is your experience in convincing those who have more control than you come to see things your way? real world and virtual world, please.i do not mean this as a joke or an attempt to discredit you. these are the key things i am looking for in a candidate for this position."
"oh god this is like a job interview. wait. it is a job interview.rl examples are kind of pointless, because it's the internet and i can make stuff up. for what it's worth, i'm a departmental manager for one of the uk's largest firms, and management responsibility for several teams and about 20 individuals. managing the politics and personalities of the corporate world is, sadly, by bread and butter. in the virtual world, i think my greatest success in convincing people who don't agree with me to see things my was was my phenomenal campaign to get sons of tangra to reimburse hurley's titan. it just hasn't happened yet. i was also the mastermind behind the 'bee gone' campaign to rid the game of goonfleet. judge the success of that for yourself."
"there are no goons"
"they're called \"non-disclosure agreements\" for a reason. because, you know, disclosures are limited under the terms of the agreement. the idea that they'd expose themselves to lawsuits to gain a superficial advantage in internet spaceships is absurd."
"be sure you will get all three of my votes!"
"may your hand be led by the clarity of consciousness!"
"voting is now open, i encourage everyone to vote!"
"voting is now open! cast your vote for helen highwater today."
"a vote for me is a vote for common sense in the csm. tell your friends, reactivate your accounts and click this button."
"i like your stance, helen highwater. i wish more people would wise up and work with the system rather than try to defeat it.i'm curious about your feelings toward something, and i want to stress that i'm not asking how you would present this to the csm; i'm just curious what you think about the issue known as the thousand papercuts project.regardless of your answer, i will say that i've already decided whether or not i will vote for you, and best of luck on the election!"
"hi helen,can you explain why the voter base should respect you as an individual or trust any words coming from you? i am concerned given multiple sources pointing back to comments you have made regarding another delegate and linked so kindly by the mittani, specifically using discriminatory words to describe someone based on sexual orientation. such actions bring into question your professionalism and integrity; comments?"
"i think there are a bunch of small quality of life features that could and should be worked into the schedule by ccp. i'm aware of akita t's thousand papercuts project and it's something i support. i was pleased when ccp recently announced there would be a patch entirely composed of small fixes along these lines. my concern is that these 'mini-expansions' while welcome may be counter-productive in the long term as there may be a tendency to hold off on small fixes until there are enough ready to go that can be bundled together. i'd rather see them added as bonus fixes to existing releases where possible.i do not use sexual orientation pejoratively. on the goonfleet forum i speak to an audience using terms appropriate for that audience, i would not use those terms outside of that context. in that context it has nothing to do with sexual orientation, it is simply a commonly used term of disparagement that has long since shed its original meaning to that audience. in any case i am strongly opposed to discrimination or prejudice based on sexual orientation and do not intend for my words to be interpreted as hostile to others on that basis."
"i find it interesting to note that there are a lot of people posting to this thread against helen, though not one of them is able to give reasons why we should not vote for him beyond specific, small, circumstantial items/events. i want to know why you don't like him. is it just because his stance is popular and looks good? in any case, i am not ignoring these minor comments; rather they help to reinforce the idea that people should vote for helen - if none of his enemies can come up with anything bad to say about him then why should i be against him?"
"you're absolutely right. sometimes i feel like many of them are being ignored, but it might just be that ccp isn't ready to fix them yet. there could be any number of reasons that we the players don't understand that are delaying their implementation. still, i like to keep pointing these things out to them. that's what gets these things highlighted.regardless of my undisclosed vote, i definitely support helen highwater for csm!!!"
"thanks for your support, don't forget to tell your friends too. for csm 4 and 5 i missed out on a full delegate spot by less than twenty votes each time so every single vote counts."
"hi iain,saying hello and wish you good luck!"
"thanks rene (ren<U+FFFD>?). good luck to you too!"
"you've got my vote!"
"that's right, the head scammer himself, the mittani, is running for csm. all those goon scams that screwed trillions out of people, ruined the game for many, and still scam even today are all from the head guy, the mittani. yet he is running for csm. do we want the top scammer in eve himself representing the people of eve? in fact when you check the list you see a few other goons running for csm. scammers who have no shame and laugh and ridicule the innocents who have be conned by them. if you look in to goon history from other mmo's all they car about is griefing gamers in all the games they are in. and they have done it. i say lets send them a large message and vote for more qualified, non scamming people to represent us."
"yes please send your votes to the mittani"
"not that i've bothered with scamming myself, but scams are an integral part of what makes eve awesome. deal with it."
"while i do not 'personally' like scamming. it is a valid part of eve online, that dark addictive mistress that we must serve."
":smug:"
"i personally do not scam. i grief and i metagame, as well as indulging in sadism and megalomania.my alliance happens to be some of the most effective scammers in eve, though~"
"(the only reason i don't scam is because i don't need isk)"
"scamming is awesome. deal w/it, pubbies."
"lol, ofc i don't believe anything you say. i am \"sure\" you don't scam. just your alts eh? lol. regardless, you are the leader of them all. you approve of it and represent it. you are guilty of it even if you don't scam. which of course you do. well, maybe not anymore since you have scamemd so much you don't need the isk. but ofc by your own admission you enjoy it. so, i doubt that you don't scam. you can try to pretend you are some great person of the people but you are not. you only represent the few in eve who scam and grief."
"i was wondering what the csm candidates stand is on rebalancing the hybrid weapons platform, namely rail guns as right now they (rails) are the most useless weapon in eve. and the player base has been after ccp to \"fix\" them for some time, yet nothing ever appears to get done about it. so i was wondering what each of the candidates stand on this issue is. and would they be willing to bring it to the attention of ccp when they meet with them later on. for me this is an important issue because it's just another case of ccp ignoring the player base and working on more useless \"fluff\" like this officer quarters."
"update with a new blog."
"got my votecpp, should support wine as an official platform for linux/bsd/solaris/macos/... and scrap the stuff from transgaming!simple as that, and to be honest, i doesn't care that this is a single topic thing. there will be plenty of other people in csm that whine about lag and stuff."
"i think that someone going into csm, not really knowing what to expect or do with it, is most likely to vote on changes as they see fit at the time, unlike the ****s from the major alliances that are likely to vote heavily on 0.0 crap."
"because the csm (council of stellar management) are not the ctm (council of terrestrial management).tbh, dust 514 might interact with eve but its a completely separate game. i don't see why the csm, a group devoted to the betterment of eve, should give a **** about other games the company has planned. they might care if it drains resources from eve, but with incarna coming so soon (tm) i cant see that being the case.i really expected incarna to come long after dust... i look at this as a welcome surprise"
"well, first of all \"team pi\" is not the whole of ccp - so its the planetary interaction team that has the highest priority on dust.dust and pi have been named to go hand in hand (actually pi was called preparation for dust a few times before), so its logical that the pi team is now working on this integration.now you can argue that pi itself could use some work, because while it is an income source, there is little fun in doing it - however, i have high hopes that with dust being connected to eve in pi pi needs to change a bit anyways.also, personally i rather see them putting efford in the eve<->dust connection then into incarna. while i don't see how incarna improves what eve is about, dust should introduce a few features that actually add to the gameplay that we know.the only thing that i could think of to bring up with ccp about dust would be to ask them about more information on how dust will impact eve, but from what i have gathered so far they are still working that out."
"folks, i would not be afraid of dust. instead embrace it. because from what i've read, it will expand the world of eve. it is an added dimension where you can go there yourself and some day interact with those that are there from your spaceship or station. some day when technology permits, it will mean walking on planets. a far step more than the current planetary interaction we have. it is a future only eve have the possibility of bringing to life at this point. only because of the uniqueness of eve's online gameplay style. it is the way to go, and it is in the end for us."
"if you want my vote can you please tell em what you are going to do for the black op ships as they are not very useful atm, they need a buff and have been for over a year.so my questions are when are the black ops going to get their jump range boost, when are they going to use less fuel, and most important when are covert cyno going to be allowed to be activated in empire.so if yall can explain to me how are yall going to make this happen because there are more titans than black ops.and i think every black op pilots would agree with me on this make this happen so black op pilot will have more use for the ships than to sit in a station collecting dust.thakswolftin21"
"i own a redeemer, and agree that something needs to be done about black ops ships. there are a lot of balance issues that ccp has been ignoring, bo ships are one of many. they need to devote some time and effort into making bo ships more useful and used."
"that is a ship class that needs luvin to be sure. i think as a csm i am going to continue support that ccp regularly review and rebalance ships over the course of a year. i'd also ask ccp to be able to clearly describe the intended role of any ship, where it fits, how it works in that role and why its worth what the market expects to sell it for.we've seen to many ships sit for too long in the \"wtf is that thing even good for\" or just as bad \"that thig is an i win button\" state and its time for ccp to commit to taking managing ship roles more seriously.issler dainze"
"i cry everytime i look at the widow sitting in my hanger and remember how useful the ship is (i.e. not useful).this ship class has so much potential but it is all unrealised due to the pre-nerf that has not been removed.i believe this ship class is on a lot of csm's agenda's and would expect the next csm to be bringing it up to ccp (again i believe), but as to ccp's reaction to it coming round again, well that is with them.if i get elected i will certainly keep pushing ccp for a satisfactory answer."
"lol, black ops ships are used all the time, although i agree that resists and jump range should be slightly boosted, to say they are useless is wrong.pick your bridging fleet better, to use them as a solo pwnmobile is wrong, an important part of the fleet for example are blockade runners, to tell the truth with a decent fleet you can move around enemy space with impunity and strike with deadly effects.i would love to see the two aspects i mentioned buffed slightly but there are far more important things to sort via the csm.vote for trebor, he is concerned for player led improvements, not power block monopolies."
"i must admit that i am conflicted about black ops. this is because i absolutely love the concept of black ops ships; i've trained black ops to iv even though i've never flown one.i would love to see black ops buffed. and because of the november prioritization crowdsourcing, ccp knows you do too -- black ops buffing was the 4th most popular item on the entire csm backlog, and after the csm filtered the results, it rose to #2!amazingly, a huge number of players want a black ops buff, despite the fact that, like me, almost none of them actually fly them. so ccp has been given a strong message -- lots of players will fly them if they get buffed.now all that remains is for it to get slotted into the pipeline. hopefully, we'll hear something soon.what is the conflict i mentioned at the start? simple: if csm gets consulted about possible black ops buffery, i would have to be very careful to avoid advocating buffing them too much!"
"apart from that last part, i completely agree (vote for me instead).i can't fly black ops yet, but i've been in black ops gangs (flying both sb and recon) and they're damn fun. also been dropped by a black ops gang and while i got toasted it was still fun. they are definitely something you can't do properly without a decent sized gang of sbs recons blops (or just half a dozen or so black ops ships, but that gets damn pricey and not quite as effective) and support (cloaky transports) which emphasises the need for cooperative play (i keep harping on about eve being truly massively multiplayer), which to me says that black ops ships work for what they are intended - sneaking around behind enemy lines coordinating play with other players.they should not be a solo ship, they are not designed as such, and they fulfil the role they were designed for pretty well as i see it."
"as your alliance has been the last couple of successful blops drop we have been involved with i admire your support.dropping multiple supercarriers onto a few cruiser hulls though tells me that you really don't understand how eve works.following on from that, why on earth would i vote for you?"
"i will just clarify a bit. i am not saying the ship 'is completely useless' they have a use, but that use seems to be making covert bridges for bomber or blockade runners.when i hear \"black ops\" i envision ships ships that sneak behind enemy lines and cause chaos and mayhem (maybe not huge damage) but they distrupt people plans, they direvert resources and attention from other areas and this is what i see lacking with the current blackops ships. they have none of the 'flavour' none of the mayhem and chaos they should inspire."
"get some better trained corpmates maybe"
"you may address me as sir and respond in the form of 'yes sir/no sir'."
"i came here expecting a 'complete guide to mud' and all you gave was some boring political ****. ;/"
"it's not mud-slinging if you actually are an idiot. and some of your ideas could easily be taken as evidence, especially since helen is pretty sharp.but it is fairly clear what you actually want. you want to be an amateur game designer, you want to go to iceland and play the csm game the way ccp wants it played and your lack of tangible results will be hidden behind the nda. i'd much rather the csm grew some teeth.how you can actually show your face in public while trying to *buy* votes astounds me. and \"crowd-sourcing\" is a pretty flagrant attempt to sell the dream that the csm is all about getting \"my pet idea\" adapted."
"trebor, i'd like to ask about your game experiences and contributions.i think it's safe to say that mittani is running alongside you in terms of popularity. his thread has attracted over 300 hundred replies. the bulk of his experience comes from playing for a couple of years and in that time refining spy politics. he moved on to writing a column for ten ton hammer, wherein he makes statements about the state of the game un no uncertain terms, and today runs one of the largest alliances in the game, and now has his eyes on having the chair position.seleene has experience as a player for one of the more successful alliances in eve, a csm deligate, an employee, and now wishes to sit on the csm, with little stated for aspirations for chairing. any reasonable player can see that he's a solid contender with broad experience; he's earned the endorsment of yourself and mittani as a possible member of the csm.many of the current delegates have suggested that you'd make a good chair candidate, and you appear to be aspiring toward this position. can you summerize the scope of your eve experience? include your csm work - i think we'd like a complete snapshot!"
"lol? being a professional game designer isn't enough?he is only buying votes because he doesn't have a null sec coalition ready to vote for whoever he tells them to vote for."
"last i checked init was a pretty sizable bloc. also eve doesn't have political parties, which largely do the same thing. democracy is inherently a selfish expression of opinions as the voters are asked to back the candidate that best represents their own personal goals or ideals. it is inherent in the process that people will rally around a candidate that focuses on their aspirations. labeling the nullsec blocs in that way is spinsterish at best and ignores the heart of the democratic process in allowing voters to choose the candidate that best suits them, rather than the candidate that best suits you. blocs will vote for their internally raised candidates precisely because they represent the goals and/or ideals that the bloc stands for. likewise empire voters and lowsec voters should, and do, rally behind candidates that espouse the ideals of the players in those areas. my critique of trebor was based on research conducted on his own public comments and the reports of people who had a close working relationship with him. i was careful to be concise and presented the material in a manner that reflected the audiences i was speaking to. the end result is that trebor is a bad choice for csm for anyone who wishes to continue the success that csm 5 started in terms of having a receptive ccp staff who would actually pay attention to and use the csm as a stakeholder development partner. as the stakes go up, so should the scrutiny of the csm candidates. if this were csm 3 and we knew that ccp, in fact, didn't give a ray's ass about the csm, then this would be unnecessary. for the record i voted for mittani once and vile rat three times. commence the 'mittani alt' trolling."
"most everyone else that has ran for csm in the past claims to be a game designer/programmer.why should i believe this guy?"
"courthouse, for what it's worth, i can appreciate you digging up the details, but i was concerned with the way you presented details that weren't volunteered in the public record first, and second, the way you volunteered the opinion of someone who is running but who was not interested in having their own opinions aired out.you packaged things up in a way that people will hear it? that's a half-hearted description of finding a way to run a scandal rag-quality series of posts. \"look at how bad this guy is! he even does that, oh what a rube!\" if you have reason to question a candidate, use their post as a reason to ask about their views - let them answer (or optionally, hang themselves) for it.hey guys, i think i'll post a thread now."
"helen's opinion was disseminated to other forums by others first. while it hadn't made the rounds at eveo yet, it was there for interested parties to find. in my view that made it already a part of the public record and i copied it here. i referenced the origin of the record instead of a secondary or tertiary source to remain as credible to the original source as possible.all information i posted was obtained from public searches of eve-search, shc, the csm wiki hosted on eve-online.com and the relevant links provided from those sources (i.e. his homepage).trebor had been asked about a few of these 'ideas' before and he avoided answering them, much as he does in many of his 'answers' here, on shc, etc.obviously it would have done no good to directly c/p the post i made to goonfleet.com to here, because the writing reflected the nuances and lingo that readers and posters to goonfleet.com use. i modified the post to shc and k.com to reflect the audiences there. i distilled the information down to base factual records with a supported conclusion in my post here such that any criticism could be offered against the barest of facts and not critiques of my grammar/prose/personal bias.i don't expect people to actually click those links and read the garbage that trebor has spewed on these forums for the past couple years, let alone come to the same conclusions that i and many others since have come to, but it would be difficult to argue against me via the points i bring up because the lions share of :words: are trebor's and helen's, not mine. i merely consolidated them into two concise and pointed posts and offered a logical conclusion based on the information provided.did i pick and choose my references? sure. eve-search gives 35 pages of responses when you search out trebor. on shc he has something like 700+ posts. i couldn't possibly have included all of them because 98% of them are irrelevant to this discourse in the first place.the ones selected were done so because of the specific relevance to this csm election and his recorded opinions and ideas on development or balance issues that, as a csm member, he would have a voice in any future discussions of.edit: if there's mud being slung here, it's because trebor mixed it up, placed it in the launcher and stood in front of it hoping that no one would pull the lever.i pulled the lever."
"when you pick and choose, you are editing. as such, you are not presenting the \"barest fact\" but your own opinion in other's words."
"if i had selectively quoted his posts or paraphrased, as you have, you would be right. rather, i presented his posts in complete context.you're bad at the trolling and only making the trebor fanatics look more zealous and desperate.if you want to discuss the veracity of my claims, i welcome the challenge, trolling, however is not what i'm doing here today."
"for some definitions of 'complete'.e.g. a link to a post and your interpretation of what it say does not equal to 'complete context', especially when that interpretation completely misses aspects such as context, irony and brainstorming."
"is english your second language? i have to ask because your argument would make sense then, as english does tend to have rather bad adjectives for specificity.complete context in this instance refers to the presentation of trebor's posts in their original form, with all preceding and following posts visible. i could have made screenshots of just his singular posts and referenced those, but not having the thread available would have been editorializing his context. i did not do that.okay, so context is taken care of.irony. the irony here is that i'm the only one making sound, logical arguments in this thread.irony, check.brainstorming..."
"how typical.and how typical for goons to derail yet another thread into mudslinging.thout i do have to say in today's politics mudslinging seems to be a valid weapon it also indicates clearly that the side that does the slinging feels weak and as such needs to revert to this kind of tactics.a lot of people will vote trebor to spite goons, some will vote him because he got high credits from other csm.fact is that trebor contacted helen and that way defused a volitile situation and helped clear things enough so they could reach the endgoal. exactly what i see in a chairman-woman.someone who leads / assists / meetings to help reach the endgoals."
"vote seleene for csm 6 (blog) & vote trebor for csm 6 (blog)!please visit your user settings to re-enable images.vote seleene for csm 6 (blog) & vote trebor for csm 6 (blog)!"
"nope, english is actually my third language... and on topic; my fifth language, japanese, has taught me quite a lot about the subject of 'context'.first of all, linking to a thread does not infuse your interpretation of his post with context, let alone 'complete'. your interpretation of his posts are necessarily the product of the context of _your_ views, as those are what read, interpreted and produced the statements about trebor's views. they are your views of his views, not his.why is this important? well, because when _i_ read his posts my interpretation was wildly different from yours. that is because complete context is not just a thread full of text... it is also you.so you could not possibly have the complete context by just posting a hyperlink."
"i have no problem with people honestly disagreeing with me; in fact, i appreciate it, for it challenges my positions and makes them better. and before anyone asks, i checked dierdra vaal's vote match, and all of the candidates who i mentioned in the op have significant differences with my profile!one of the reasons mynxee was such an extraordinarily effective csm chair was that she was far more interested in getting stuff done than getting credit for getting stuff done. the next chair would be wise to follow her example.the lottery was just something i did for fun, and you will note that not only is there no way for me to tell whether or not someone voted for me, but it is specifically designed so that people can scam and get extra entries (this is eve, after all).however, i cannot in good conscience stop the lottery, for one very good reason:given the number of goons who have entered the lottery, if i shut it down, it is entirely likely that they would drag me into a bathroom at fanfest and give me a swirly.finally, with regard to questions about myself and my campaign, i refer you to my campaign page or thread. this thread is not about me; it is about the effects of the smear campaign directed at me upon other deserving candidates."
"you've been my corpmate for how long, and you still expect drama?"
"you're wrong because i know 5 languages and understand what 'context' really is. *doesn't provide a clear definition of context*you set up your credentials just fine but didn't actually make an argument. the following paragraph that was separated by a quote as to suggest a reply to a different part of the post and thus, a different thought was barely a sophists case on interpretation, which was equally misaligned from what would commonly be called a 'logical argument' but i'll attempt to round the edges for you and hopefully your next reply will fill in the blanks. you're incorrect because you're arguing that context is the same as interpretation. it is not. context would refer to his words that were posted within the scope of the thread being discussed as the preferring comments and/or discussion would have prompted that particular reply. unless provided by the author there is no reasonable or rational expectation that a reader of a written piece will understand the personal interpretations of wither the author or other readers. this is the absolute philosophical core of the study of literature in historical context. trevor didn't provide an introspective footnote detailing his mental exercises he went through or how he hoped his piece would be taken in lieu of words that may be misinterpreted at a later time. the reasonable step for a reader is to take the words at face value in context of the thread (in this case) and discussion that was occurring around where he made his comments. you brought up irony before and i'll address that a little more seriously here. i believe your claim may be that one or more of his suggestions were done as ironic asides, not necessarily as serious recommendations. if i were to accept that argument, how many 'ironic asides' are we allowing for these csm reps to have? i detailed many badly thought up ideas that he has shared over the last few years. most of those he posted about more than once, but there seemed little point in indexing his entire posting history. i, personally, don't believe that they were ironic at all. off-the-cuff? maybe. i'll grant that, but then he ran with them as if it were some holy whimsical writ. in the end, they're bad ideas that would be bad for eve. trebor's abject refusal to address serous concerns regarding past posting made by him in light of his having spent the last year on the csm where he may have learned something important or had an experience that changed his mind on x, y or z issue, where his previous posts would no longer be relevant because of a, b or c reasons is a deafening silence."
"for the last few months bots have been heavily discussed on the forums and yet only one candidate clearly sets \"getting rid of macro/bots\" as one of his nine priorities..."
"me?"
"the entire of csm 5 has been working to get ccp to allocate more resources to the fight against bots, right from the beginning of our term. during the june summit, for example, i had several informal conversations with ccp devs about botting and rmt, and still more at subsequent meetings.there has also been an ongoing thread in the csm internal forum on the topic.ccp recognizes that fighting bots deserves more resources, and they have started to allocate them. ccp sreegs will be making a presentation on the subject at fanfest.i discuss my position on botting and rmt in this post in my campaign thread, and mention what ccp sreegs is up to at the end of this post."
"only one? i think every csm candidate has concern about macro use.it's one of my main issues."
"it's always been one of my priorities, and we've finally made some progress there...we'll see later how that turns out, but i'll definitely keep pushing to get rid of them!"
"that is not what the same list i see. i see:\"...reducing powerblocks/ vacuumsa kudo reward system for alliancesa fair chance to empire corporations/ alliances to settle in 0.0 space...\"i believe that. but i was a little disappointed that only one had that explicit concern on the message on the voting list (and yes, you may even have talked about that in the forums before, but 95% of eve community doesn't know that!).thanks for a great response."
"vote for trebor re-election !"
"i am not really fond of most council member at all, and the fact ccp ,is limiting players rights and gmae playing due to pirates in high sec, and the looting going on everywhere with little to no resonse to concord, but yet if you by a ship that was stolden from another corp you get hammered even if you had no knowlege of it, so the bullies (csd and ccp) fubar anyone at any time, with little regarde to players and only there pockets, so he forth i will be challegeing any parties whoo will cause unduely grief, stealing, and scamming, also rulles that need to be put into effect to police the systems better and to keep all pirates and looters at arms reach away so that honorable players have no need to worry about ganking from lowwer class pilots to make a name form themself or selfs. this in some players eye will look like a ***** sesion, but no its not, i have been playing this game for 5 years now and little has changed on the pilots behavior, some good, some bad, and others are just gankers and ****ers. also this new part of joining corps or alliances and stealing from them is also a dishonorable thing witch all that do that should be banned forever. in eve it is possiable to do good and treat new players well and teach the ins and outs of the game. if ccp has the balls for incursion, maybe they should set good standing against bad, that would be a great battle. enough said, good luck to all and fly safe, as for the griefers, die quickly your boring me null"
"i had to respond to your stance, but it relates to how i stand on matters so i posted it in my thread."
"more insight about this topic can be found hereinterviewand the current latest thread of ms pacman can be found here"
"sup sup,guess whattoday is the dayso a dawg speaks his mind, he got somethin to say.an maybe y'all to, so a dawg want to hear itspell it all out, aint no need to fear ita dawg wasn in an dat makes me mad,but runnin up in eveside best time a dawg had.an readin all dawgs make a re-re gladmaybe nex year, a dawg be runnin mad!a dawg go wit a dawg who reprazant,him sound mad smart, make him da presdentmittini him name, mittaking is da gamean a dawg lern mittins got hammertime famemi so confident dat him is numba rightfor da recycliers out there, him is gonan fighti dont know others but him was aightso what about y'all, who you click on da site?be safe dawg. mittini repz"
"get it? it's \"rap up\" instead of \"wrap-up\" 'cause it's actually a rap.edit: kuzim i've been looking for a mass-producer of salvaging bursts do you know where i can find one?"
"i'll have a vodka mittini, shaken not stirred."
"kuzim for chairman"
"dawg dig it a dawg jus handed re-re fleet away to a dawg kuz him aint got no rig what can be eveside, busted in time for newyears ain no good.a dawg one time hook a dawg up with mad bursts, a dawg had thousans of they but ain no easy gettin where they gettin good dig. an when a dawg do it, him computer brokes an then a dawg go broke and wish a dawg can go for broke but a dawg dont want nothing in cash from him folk, dig it.sorry dawg i help a dawg out but ain no way a dawg can.be safe."
"where's my rap, kuzim?"
"as someone who was a big fan of the csm in the past i would like to open this discussion and i would like to know csm candidat's opinion about my open letter to ccp. i do think i make a resonable point witch should be discussable. i have put this in jita speakscorner because i believe i belongs here. so future csm canditas be honest and tell me what u think and i have a few buddies with alooot of accounts willing to vote.my letter:dear ccp somehow i lost my urge to vote after running a black op assemly hall for over 16 months. in those 16 months it got twice the attention of the csm and u in iceland (devs in general of speaking). it got voted on second place in assemply hall voting thingy a while ago, yet i see no changes?i have asked a few times if it got noticed by u (devs in general) yet no reply,so im sorry to say that my opinion is that i can not be botherd to vote for csm anymore. its a joke in my eyes, if u dont agree with me prove me other wise? or do u think 16 months is a too little time to make changes or make a comment \"we are looking into it ect\"??/hemmo playing eve for 2,5 yrs"
"short answer: no.discussions are good. well thought out ideas are good. general consensus among contributors to your thread is also good.however none of these things alone will make changes actually happen. there needs to be a whole lot of things lined up for time to actually be spent on making additions/changes. there's consideration to the impact on the game, development time it will take (and therefore take away from other things), the possibility that any changes will drastically change existing gameplay, ccp management's strategic goals for the game, and of course whether the devs see it as a good idea at all anyway.this particularly applies when it comes to tweaking a ship class - something that is rather subjective.csm isn't there to get every idea through to being developed. it's there to put forward what the representatives feel are the best (which are not necessarily the ones that are popular on the forums) changes/additions that ccp could make and to act as the first line of player feedback to ccp on what ccp are planning to do (hopefully heading off disasters before they go into development).i see having csm delegates who are intimately familiar with game (and general software/multimedia) development concerns as incredibly important, which is why i'm standing.regardless, don't get disillusioned about csm - it provides players a united, representative voice. we should do everything we can to use it."
"i see csm something like a \"union\", as imigo montoya stated, voice of players, but with no actual power. tbh i don't think it meant to have \"power\" in the first place. ccp is a profitable company and as company they make annual plans, what they will do, what they will achieve during the year and so on. if ideas of csm are according to ccp plans, then those ideas see the light, otherwise no."
"i prefer the conciseness. mittani is a lawyer who likes to bloviate too much for the sake of reading his own words. peeps that run for csm w/o knowing anything about it, and who think they are gonna change the world (little obamas?), end up being a huge disappointment. i imagine those of you who have served on the csm previously know of other members who turned out to be worthless i did see mention about peeps being tired of the meeting if they paid attention, yes?"
"essentially mittani and i share a lot of views, but electing a single rep who believes one thing or another isn't enough. if you want to have any chance of making points to ccp and have them listen you have to have a united front so to speak. if the csm was stacked with reps that had similar ideas to the mittani, or he has similar ideas to anyone else (without saying one or another copied anybody's platform message) then the csm might get a lot done in terms of fostering postive development as well as breed a new respect within ccp for the role the csm could play as a voice of the community. so why should you vote for me? the mittani is the goonboss. he's gonna get elected pretty much guaranteed, but do you really trust an unchecked goon? really? no offense to my goon compadres (r3drum <3) but i'd prefer someone a bit more moderate and introspective."
"i will forward you all to my more recent post on specific platform info. thanks for continued commentary. good to see peeps care about the process. it also counters the comment about \"united front\" but not \"all from 0.0.\""
"you can vote on her now"
"well the election's on, so it's once again time for me to advertise the csm public chat channel in-game. this channel has been around since the csm3 election, and lots of past representatives and current candidates hang out in it. if anyone wants to poke their head in for a chat, we'd love to see some new faces."
"i can read, i just can't type. i'm glad you pointed that out so i could change it and keep from looking like too big of an idiot. (too late, i know)i understand that the csm is more of a sounding board than a tool of retro change. i guess the point that i wanted to make is that there have been some change that have occurred in the past that i would have liked to have seen go a different way. however there are some things that are still in place that i would like to see developed or others just left alone.i am not against bettering the system, bit not at the risk of losing the things that players enjoy and look forward to. i will admit i don't know all of the little issues, but like i said, i have a life that requires my time outside of eve. i have been reading the csm reports from the past and am about half way through. but that just leads to the point that i made before. there area lot of us in eve that don't have the hours on end to keep up with everything thing. i read the expansion notes and the dev blogs every day at lunch, and in the evening i run missions. there is a lot to learn, and i am willing to take the time to learn it in order to serve on the csm. i feel there is a demographic here that has been forgotten and that needs a voice, i want to be that voice.i appreciate your comments, and i want to hear more. am i so far off in my opinion?and i am not a carebear, but at the same time i don't see killing newbs at first sight a sport or an accomplishment. an apocalypse against a reaper is not a challenge. its like hitting a kid on a tricycle with a landrover. (i wasn't in the reaper or the apoc, but i saw it happen )"
"poses need love."
"they need to be un-nerfed wrt to ship stats, resists/hp/fitting/hardpoints etc. then their jump range needs to be increased to something reasonable, less than a capital-class ship for sure, but more than it is now, an actual useable range. i mean currently black ops need to make two covert cyno jumps to go about 5 or 6 systems in some cases. it's so bad."
"another round of free gametime. come on devs, make me want to come back for real 'til next time !"
"people keep talking about changes to 0.0. adding more ways in to 0.0 or changing the \"caps\".point here is fact is don't change anything with \"caps\" 'just plain and easy! give them more \"things\" to do in game' more specialization options!"
"today is the 2 year anniversary of this post.anyone with a decent size monitor would at the very least concede that the size of the font is horrible. the ability to customize the displayed font is tantamount to have a successful ui.the player community has asked for this _longer_ than the shortcut change that was implemented, and requires roughly the same development resources in terms of who would write the code and the code layers that will be impacted.please fix this. please."
"old cynos were awesome. i remember the first time i saw one, 2007 or so. i was a noob, barely out of a rifter. i undocked from my corp's home station in half, and saw that there was a nidhoggur carrier outside the station. i was like \"wow, that's pretty cool, really big and awesome\".then it cynoed out in a vortex of lightning and noise (back when people used sound in eve). and i was so excited, it was the coolest thing i'd ever seen in the game. i was like \"cynoooooo!!!!!!\" in corp chat.anyway, i moved on, and over the years gathered a disdain for capitals, deciding that i was going to be a subcap only pilot (also there wasn't much chance of me affording one). last year i grew tired of having no access to the easy logistics a carrier of my own would bring. of course by then all that would happen is the dull \"bloop\" as the ship goes invisible and plops into a pond before the next system loads. it kind of saddens me that i never got to see and hear that dramatic thunder and lightning effect on my own ship.edit: oh i guess i've already supported this. moral support!"
"agree - get it back to the cool way"
"supported... possibly again, but it's not like ccp have done anything."
"jaguar should get an ab bonus. **** everything else."
"i support jiggly boobs. but let us not forget the plight of the jiggly ass, that should not be left behind either."
"heh..you said behind.."
"in between your biting sarcasm, you make a good point. if a \"caution\" window were to pop up after the \"un-inject\" button is selected, it would act as a safety net. this would be like the same caution windows that pop up when you try to attack a neutral target in high sec space. it still makes sense."
"why would you ever want to throw away skill points? your example doesn't even make sense."
"it does though. as stated in my original suggestion-many players are given default skills that they have not trained nor will ever train. you will not lose any skill points because you did not put any on it to begin with. so why have the skill? makes sense to me."
"and only you."
"supported.caldari industrial level 1 i'm looking at you."
"i can see why you might possibly want to do this for the limited benefit of being able to clear the trash out of your character sheet.however i like bang for your buck, and while this wouldn't take heaps of buck (ie development time) to implement, it also adds stuff all bang, so isn't really worth ccp or csm time to take any further.not supported."
"the only point to this i can see would be allowing players to transport valuable skillbooks for others in complete safety (inject skillbooks, podjump to alliance home, uninject, trade skillbooks to fellow players).i don't see why that would be a good thing."
"i'm not sure where anybody got the idea that the op specifically wanted to get the skillbook back, i read it as just wanting to be able to remove the skill.getting the skillbook back however would make this exploitable in the extreme."
"why would we have the skill-book back? because of the used term: \"un-inject\".injecting a skill, you obtain a skill lvl0 and loose the skillbook.un-injecting a skill, logically, would make you loose the skill, and gain a skillbook.logically..."
"i support being able to delete useless skills. what's the point of having a bunch of half-trained mining and industry skills from 2006 on a pvp char that hasn't used said skills for 5 years?we got the ability to delete old jumpclones, why not this? it's just a logical extension."
"exactly. that is how it is intended. as stated above in my suggestion, once the skill is \"uninjected\", it goes to a separate deletion window where it sits for 24 hours. it cannot not be transferred or used from this deletion queue. once 24 hours has passed, you can then confirm deletion or restore the injected skill. (similar to the character deletion feature already used in the game.)"
"it is logical. thanks for the support."
"my only issue with this is account hacking. what would stop someone who hacks your account from just deleting all your skills?"
"if you manage to hack an account, just sell all characters, it's not worth deleting them once the original owner can't get his account back..."
"now, i do agree with your idea, since it's clear of misunderstanding."
"revising my original opinion, since it is now more clear to me what you are actually asking for.i don't see a problem with it, but i also don't see the need. deleting a skill (un-injecting is not a good word for this - it has connotations involving skill books that you probably didn't intend) simply for the sake of the appearance of your character sheet is a bit like ironing your bed sheets in the morning so they'll lay flatter on your bed. you think it looks nice, but no one else really cares about your sheets (bed, character, or any other)."
"now, i do agree with your idea, since it's clear of misunderstanding.thank you for your support."
"can i just lend you some tipp-ex for your monitor?i genuinely can't understand why having a couple of 'not so useful' skills is bothering you so much. ocd?i can, however, see how this could be: a waste of time and a horrible thing to misclick.it just seems like only a very small number of players could possibly want this self-nerf feature unless there is some kind of benefit to balance it out. and none of the benefits are a good idea.seems like asking for the option to send your isk to /dev/null just to make it a round number."
"consistent ui design (something eve lacks in a lot of areas) is always a good thing."
"i'd like to see it for skills you have injected, but never trained.my ocd just can't cope with those level 0 skills that have been sat there for 2 years doing nothing!!"
"hey man. i do really appreciate your support for this idea. but i'm gonna ask you to stop bumping because;a) if the forum mods see that string of bumps they might lock the topic.b) people are going to think you're my alt and i'm bumping my own thread.c) posting without 'supporting' creates a kind of 'counter-support' which people can see when they look at how many replies vs how many supports the topic has. topics that traditionally have many more replies than supports show that many more people disagree with the topic and are posting their arguments against it.d) i have my own method for gathering support and directing people here, that i'm constantly working on behind the scenes thanks so much for your evidently enthusiastic support though! if you really want to help, the best way is to get as many people as you can to post and click \"support\""
"playing slowly beats playing terribly/not at all."
"thread cleaned of spam. please do not \"bump\" this thread, you are more than welcome to discuss the idea."
"right, however currently, all of that is arbitrary and unrelated to role or mass."
"i would say that is apart of how they go. i use fof whenever i do 0.0 ratting solo in a raven. most of the gangs that come in have a jam capacity so it still makes me a threat. i have gotten quite a few kills that way. changing them to be 'smarter' will increase their use as a main pvp missile which is not what should not happen. they fill a unique situation for missile ships that turret based ships can't enjoy. it would be overpowering missile boats to do this."
"supported. this oddity has thrown every player who trained repair drones."
"/signed"
"supported."
"i wouldn't say it needs a nerf, a rebalance maybe. you still die pretty easily in them if you suck, like me."
"i can agree with the speed nerf. it's pretty crazy. but what if they just toned down the speed and buffed the other pirate frigates esp the succubus and worm.? i think it should be t1 frig< ceptor= faction frig < asault frig = destroyer< pirate frig. it's not clear that the succubus and worm are where they should be. daredevils seem ok. but balancing them with ships of a different class does not seem appropriate. dramiels are not just 70 mil. to properly fit them with the grid restrictions i see them more in the 90 mil range. if the problem is that they keep locking t1 frigates then maybe slightly nerf their lock time. that would also make it so they do not replace interceptors. i'm not sure the dram you describe is much better than a lol firetail. havent really looked at it much though."
"drams online."
"matar online is much more accurate"
"as i support this concept and have stated in the past. in celebration of the long thread i will have a special drawing this friday with 3 winners info here.to reiterate some of my comments hybrids in general need a boost. railguns have no clear cut advantage in combat against any other weapons beams have the dps, missiles have the range, arty have alpha. why are railguns neglected?anyways that is all repeat stuff from earlier in the thread. balance eve and vote manalapan csm"
"good, simple, idea."
"doesn't everyone just use webs to instawarp and logoffski when anyone dangerous near gate?"
"bolded the part that i'm going to address - scanning a computer's memory is something that a lot of people consider and invasion of privacy, so it's not so simple.one of the issues with botting is that we don't really know exactly what it is that ccp are doing. some of this is because if they publish how they are detecting bots, then bots will evolve to behave differently. some of it is for privacy reasons. one thing i will push if elected to csm is simply publishing updates showing that they are actually doing something."
"a simple idea to reduce the profitability of bottingbots can currently be detected by some quite simple metrics - number of ships killed, amount of ore mined etc etc. bots tend to produce numbers which are highly unlikely or effcectively impossible to have been player driven. the server should mark these characters [potential bot]having been marked [potential bot] the character will, upon random encounters with npcs (0.0 belt rats, for instance) discover that the belt rats are hitting rather hard on that occasion. really hard. so hard, in fact, that their ship(s) are destroyed, and fast.the won't know when it will happen, but happen it will and they will lose the ship and their bot will fly around in a pod attempting to activate weapons which aren't there. this will have the effect of massively reducing the profitability of botting.the engine which drives this could be geared to increase the frequency of \"death spawns\" over time, on any character which continues ratting/mining/missioning 23/7.(you may be concerned that genuine players could be caught out by this. they can petition and explain their case, but how many \"players\" do you know who are active at the keyboard for more than 8 hours a day, every day? the bot operators may petition too of course, but they just earn themselves fast-track permaban for wasting gm time. word would spread fast enough.)"
"supported"
"drones are so dumb right now. these are some great ideas."
"okay ..i am looking at spaceship command skills and saying, \"that is a lot of redundant skillbooks.\" there are also flaws in consistency.for perspective, let's look at a real world pilot. they start out with a smal single engine trainer, something like a cessna. they then train up to multi engine, and eventually to larger and / or faster moving planes. sounds a lot like eve, right? but here is where i see a divide from real life and eve: you dont have to get a new license to fly similar planes from different manufacturers. if you have a commercial and multi-engine license, you are legally qualified to fly a boeing and an airbus. they are close enough that a small amount of training will actually make you very profficient in both.so .. why do we have racial frigate, cruiser, battleship, even capital ship skills? why not a centralized system with specialization skills for each race? drones have something like that. it would reflect real world training as well.for instance, if i want to fly a logistics ship for the 4 races, i have to train cruiser 5 for all of the races. if i want to switch to matari ships from my original race (gallente,) i have to go up a very lengthy chain to get comparable ships to what i have now.what i would like to propose to strip the race from the ship skills and instead use a \"<racial> spaceship specialization\" for tech 1 ships, capital ships need \"advanced <racial> spaceship secialization,\" \"improved <racial> spaceship specialization\" for tech 2, and \"elite <racial> spaceship specialization\" for tech 2 capitals. in this way, there is a clear, vertical upgrade path for any ship, with small forks in a realistic manner to specialize in a specific ship. battleship as a skill still requires spaceship command to be fully trained and vast \"knowledge\" of smaller ships. but the ship itself has a race specific skill req.why you may ask? because eve is growing, and so are the factions getting pilotable ships in the game. players are also breaking 120k skillpoints by training multiple races (as i have inferred i fly more then one race myself.) going foward we are going to get bogged down by confusing branches in an already large tree.adding an ore spec skillbook, for exmple, allows us to consider adding similar ships to the orca and rorqual, and only train the appropriate faction's spec to fly them.obviously this is going to ruffle a lot of feathers. ccp would basically have to refund up to a quarter of a players skillpoints (yes guessing) on average, along with any isk invested so they could repurchase the correct skillbooks. ranks of skills that havent been touched since before launch day would have to be adjusted to compensate fo the new skills.but, in my humble opinion, it is worth it to new players to have the oppertunity to go the path they choose, and for veteran players to be able to diversify to adapt to eve's dynamic sandbox.thanks,bobedit; adding good ideas to the first post:this makes sense. i can fly any frigate, but i would need to understand the subtle differences in the races to fly it to its potential. so instead of frigate having all the bonuses, only generic bonuses could be applied to the generic skill. any race specific bonuses (in this example, projectiles) would actually be applied to the racial spec."
"i dont support this ideaif this ever made it into the game, this \"<racial> spaceship specialization\" for tech 1 ships should take as long as training for every races t1 ship to that level. for example training that skill to level 1 should be the same as training all the frigate, cruiser, destroyer, battlecruiser and battleship skills to 1 and so on."
"i could support this as long as the ships bonuses were tied back to the \"racial specialization\" skill instead of the basic frigate (for example) skill.so for example:frigate 3 gives you the ability to fly a rifter (or whatever).but you have to have minmatar frigate specilization if you want the bonus % points to small projectiles etc.it's the difference between being good at a lot of things or great at a few."
"i have a bad feeling this proposal won't work because eve always had this original setup for years. it may seem simple to you, but don't forget that eve online is a complex mmo with a learning cliff that is intentionally designed to not only level the playing field for everyone in terms of being able to pilot certain ship but it's also designed to keep eve from being flooded by players who only want a fast-paced game."
"that is the basic idea. a frigate would require the friggy skill and the racial spec skill. the traditional spaceship command requirement would be removed in lieu of minmatar spaceship specialization i and spaceship command would be solely a prerequisite of the actual frigate skill. (in your example)also i very much like where you are going with the \"you can fly it, but not well\" angle. that would actually make sense. going to amend the original post with that.again, that is the idea. it shouldnt take you longer to go up the skill tree for one race. but there is no reason that if you know how to fly a battleship, you cannot fly another race's battleship with minimal familiarization. flying it well, however ..."
"in real life there are not 4 completely different propulsion systems (fusion, ion, magpulse, plasma) 4 completely different electronic systems, (gravimetry, magnetometry, radar, ladar) 4 completely different weapons technologies (projectile/htbrid/energy/missiles), 4 completely different capacitor technologys (electrolytic/oscillator/scalar/tesseract) 4 different reactor technologies (fusion/nuclear/antimatter/graviton) and so on (armour and sheilds are also individual and distinct) before you even consider each race will no doubt have designed everything with different specifications, computer software and of course languages.flying a cesna does not qualify you to fly rockets, scramjets and helicopters, nor does it qualify you to use ladar, magnetographs or sonar, nor does it qualify you to use any sort of reactor."
"lore don't necessarily make for good game mechanics."
"nor does real life. this proposal simply wants to cut down training time on advanced ships. if you think this is a good idea (i don't) you can do it without trampling on the lore. the fundamental premise is that a basilisk and a scimitar are somehow more alike than a scimitar and a munin which is wrong on so many levels."
"i don't support it. the fact that there is a lot of potential sideways training is what makes it so new players have a shot at being competitive by focusing on flying one faction or even ship type well. it also gives the different races more character.since there is no skill cap there has to be \"skill sinks\" in the game. wanting to fly some fancy faction ship you aren't trained for is such a sink, if they were made any easier to get into they'd have to nerf them back down to hangar decoration."
"do not support.it is more akin to piloting a russian fighter vs an american fighter. yes similar and all your suport skills are great, but you still need to train for that plane.also how does piloting a caldari ship let you pilit a mimnitar ship that works on duck tape and hope?"
"this is the best point. under such a streamlined system spacialisation is hurt which gives less oppurtunity for new players to \"catch up\" or even overtake older players. under the proposed system my 2003 char would probably be maxed for every sub-cap ship (and even capitals if i read it right) a new player could never have a better char than me for anything. in the current system pretty much any new player who specialises is anything other than amarr bs can overtake me in their chosen specialisation. this is how it should be."
"that's the thing, it shouldn't, but does atm. the advanced ship skills cover all 4 factions. the proposal is to make it cover only one faction, but more ship within that faction."
"fully qualifying to fly a new type of a big commercial airplane is a big deal for a pilot and takes years.besides, any rl analogies are barely relevant in the game."
"it doesn't take that long to crosstrain if your basic skills are in order.you just need to place realistic goals instead of flying advanced ships from the very beginning.however, general usefulness of for example tech 1 logistic cruisers can be debated. unlike tech 2 they're not all remote repair support etc..."
"so using your example:i am a pilot in the us air force. i have extensive training in say, an f-15 eagle. i am told that i am to train for a mig 29 for a covert mission. are you saying that because i have flown twin engine jet fighters for several years minimum, i cannot fly another twin engine jet at all? that my experience as a pilot means nothing? or are you saying, like myself, it should only be a small amount of specialized training to learn the nuances of the craft?edit; just so we are clear:you would need to train 'spaceship command' to a certain level to enable a ship skill. if it is a higher tier skill, you also need the class below that. but instead of training for frig > cruiser > battleship, etc. in each race, you would train the appropriate racial secondary skill to either pilot a racial ship, or receive bonuses. haven't decided on that.edit2:my brother is a licensed pilot; i know this. but the idea that my knowledge in one battleship and all its prerequisites basically does nothing if i train another race doesn't make sense to me."
"real world aviation requires pilot have a \"type certificate\" for any aircraft over 12,500lbs they fly, therefore, the current ship skills seem entirely appropriate given your \"real world\" scenario"
"the flaw with your argument is that a frig is the size of a boeing. it takes maybe 5 minutes to cross-train racial frigs. there ya go.training from a harrier to an f-15 to a sherman tank to an aircraft carrier is probably rl analogues but even then still not there. don't pretend story (in game or rl) has anything to do with what makes a good game.does it make sense to not have to cross-train races? not really, no. the system might be able to use a little bit of trimming up, but the current system of encouraging specialization (and thus cooperation) is a good thing."
"different races ships are nothing like the difference between boeing and airbus.its closer to the difference between the saturn 5 and the russian ship of the time (not that close, but they'll do). you can't go from one to the other without hours of training.in eve, different race ships use completely different system setups, and completely different direct interfaces (not to be confused with the ui, as that is generated by the pod). like the difference between driving auto and stick."
"making isk is not, go make a few bil and buy new char...."
"hi i have a ship where i would like to fit ab but dont want to give up dps,need all 3 painters .so i was thinking maybe it would be nice that you can buy an extra slot/slots on your ship, for huge ammount of money depending on ship class,but without encreaseing power or cpu grid.cause we all have uselles slots on ships, mostly low and medium (i mean the darked ones).im new here and its a probably a bad idea cause i didnt think it throu,and maybe that subject is already mentioned somewhere , but i proposed it anyway,thank you."
"no. why? just put 3 reactor control units and 3 processor in 6 new low slots and pouf => enough pg and cpu to put 10 more weapons and create an uberpowered t1 cruiser who has (almost) the dps of a bss. i'm not even speaking of t3 cruisers... and i was not even thinking of dramiels, and other faction ships..."
"8/8/8 super caps :]"
"this is one of those ideas that makes me question if the op has ever actually played the game."
"i have a idea for the corpse's with implants, basicly if the corpse you have has implants then you can train a skill to extract salvage parts for implants so that you may be able to manufacter implants."
"many people have suggested this over the years, and i personally like the idea.it would have implications for the lp store and the corresponding reduction of the isk sink though.it would be best if there was a low success rate, around 2% level, perhaps - even a 10% chance of extracting an implant would make an unsalvaged corpse valuable.perhaps the skillbook itself could be a semi-rare drop from certain sansha plexes? that would fit in nicely with the eve lore."
"that would be pretty cool and a nice reward for a pvp kill with the pod - and having the corpse.so you can get something from the corps.+1"
"yeah true about the market and lp for missions but i thought in this game players control the market and such, with these new parts to make imparts would enhance more trading and manufactering"
"not supported. people in null are on cheap clones anyway. all it does is encourage disco bs gank in highsec, while dropping implant cost now that all the implants formerly lost can be salvaged. it adds nothing to the game or your bottom line."
"as above plus anything that can kill a pilot in their pod would reduce the contents of the skull to pulp even if exposure to vacuum didn't. lets face it the idea of an intact corpse (or even familiar looking body parts) surviving a close encounter with the kind of weapon systems we use is ridiculous."
"whilst the idea is fairly novel and i for one would love to go around extracting parts from the multitude of corpses i own (currently hovering around the 350 mark)what can i say its a fetish.having to add all these extra items to the database as well as skills not to mention coding and testing these features, i believe the time could be better spent on something else, improving low sec, nerfing unproabables etc.steps of his soapbox and drops two penneth in to the hat"
"the ew drones do need an overhaul, but i think all the proposed numbers are way over kill. i think slight modifications to effectiveness maybe 8-10% increases and primarily a drone optimal range increase would be most beneficial.i will have to break down numbers to come up with something i think would really work but either way they do need to be looked at.balance eve and support manalapan"
"i am starting to agree with most people in this thread that removing stacking penalties would be a bad move however i do believe that they should be reduced so that the 4th and 5th ew drones are not (essentially) ineffective.if ev drones are buffed up so that 5x ev-300 = 1 small neut and 5x ev-600 = 1 med etc there will need to be a stacking penalty to prevent swarming.i do believe a \"r-click. set mode\" or \"r-click. scan res/targeting range damp target\" options are a better choice for sd drones than two different types of these drones. sensor damping needs to be looked at in general.what if there were t2 versions of electronic warfare drones? (obviously ecm drones would have to be nerfed and the current version would be t2 strength)"
"wow.i'm pretty sure you've just said wildly inappropriate are smarter then a large percentage of eve"
"wow....i can't even believe i am responding to this. that is a terrible idea. you are basically saying that high sec players do not matter, have no mechanics that need fixing, and shouldn't even play eve.......sigh just because you are in 0.0 doesn't mean you are better than everyone."
"i proposethat the buttons on the left of the screen be 'click open, click close'my reasons are that it would more efficient and user freindly, but would not alter the game mechanics in any way, the 'fittings' button already has this facility.regardsspiro tass"
"this would be a great idea. can't count the number of time's i've click the button trying to close the window."
"i don't care which way it works. either click always opens or brings to the top if open, or click opens and closes if open.i just don't want it to be different for different windows.in fact some windows change this behavior dependant on location! (cargo hold, docked vs in space)it's extremely frustrating to have a uselessly inconsistant design on this simple ui action."
"proposing a basic unbonused point or scram on all ships, which does not take a slot. this brings pvp and pve fits closer."
"having to choose to sacrifice something else for a point (or to not fit a point in order to fit something else) is an important choice in pvp and i don't know why you would want to sacrifice that. all it would do is boost ships which previously had to make that choice (ewar ships, logistics, snipers, neut boats) none of which really need boosting. it would also boost passive sheild tank ships (i.e. drake) to even higher hights than they are already at (an extra med slot spare on a drake is a good thing? really?)"
"those are blob ships, they already have no points. a basic t1 point would enable pve fits for pvp, even if not any good at it. the reason there's such a huge gap between pvp and pve fits in eve, unlike all other mmos, is point mechanics. not having one on yourself or fleet vetos you for pvp. having one should bring the level of risk-aversion down in line with typical mmos."
"that's right, they have no points. if they wanted a point they would have to sacrifice something else. you want to give them a free one thus boosting them. the big gap between pve and pvp is not mostly down to point mechanics either, its more to do with damage types, tanking types, weapon types, prop mods and most importantly numbers. i have never ever been in a situation where having a point on a pve ship would have let me kill an attacker (there have been a couple of times i killed them even without a point though), nor can i remember a situation where a pve ship i attacked would have killed me if it had a point.a ratting drake not going to kill that vaga even if it has a 20k point."
"the purpose is not to make pve fits just as good as pvp fits, but to make it not a complete waste of time. and yes, this would likely decrease risk aversion. it would be taking a shot at it instead of just pop out the ecm drones and fun for it, since there's no reason to stay around. the difference between small chance at winning and zero chance is actually huge."
"cue the blob of noob alts in shuttles tackling everything in sight."
"you are a really bad poster.terrible idea."
"same reason ppl do it now in mass noobships with a point fitted, which cost less than a shuttle.this is all about people's need to engage carebears without taking any risk, as they're not pointed and can warp away at any time."
"i don't always point up as it is. most people just assume they can't warp in my experience."
"this. 99% assume you will have the point, so not having the point gives you an advantage (in that you don't waste a slot), which is how it should be."
"you realize that will be a buff to pvp setups, while it doesnt help pve setups at all.the pvp setup now has a free slot to fit more tank, extra ewar, cap injector or eccm. the pve setup gains nothing as they dont need the point and typically are otherwise ill-equipped for combat.you just made it even easier to kill pve setups. not supported."
"what kind of stats did you have in mind for the \"basic point\"?if it's something like a 10km / +1 point then i'll support."
"^^ this."
"my issue is with people who scan down my mission site and start salvaging my wrecks while i'm still running the mission. my proposal is that salvaging a wreck should be the same as looting a wreck. if someone doesn't want them they can be abandoned. if they do want them it gives them a chance to keep them."
"yeh why not, and then when all the missioners like you shoot the ninja salvager and they come back and pop your expensive mission ship can you not come and ask for it to be changed back."
"why are you assuming the wrecks are yours?"
"not this again.ccp has stated time and time again that salvaging works exactly the way they intended it to work. they aren't stealing your salvage, because it's not yours until you turn on a salvager and suck it up into your hold.frankly, what they need to do to stop all this crap is separate the loot can from the wreck - make all wrecks immediately blue, and the loot cans are owned."
"disable ownership for anything unanchored in space."
"i would really love if it returned to the way it was, where it was harder to be probed down if you were inside a mission complex. now any douche in a t1 frig can probe out a mission runner and make more isk than if he'd found an actual complex.salvage thieves are an annoying hassle. it's too easy to do. but i don't think giving aggression rights for salvaging is a good idea."
"per ccp mitnal: per gm faolchu : per senior gm ytterbium : per ccp prism x : per ccp incognito : (these quotes are kept handy for your convenience at ironfleet.com.)"
"as per my new policy, i support this proposal, as well as the hilarity that will result.edit: and by hilarity, i mean the wrecks of foolish mission-runner ships."
"i agree planets should be bigger.this goes well with the move stations closer to planets/moons thread.i also think most of the models should be redone to reflect actual size.edit: forgot to support"
"why?"
"ccp,please consider:while we are interfacing with pi, i find that disconnecting from my ship's hud while in space very unnerving...(makes it hard to tell if someone is taking down my shields or cap.)can we change this to keep the hud active while we are in our ships?then when the option for incarta comes up and we can do pi in our \"room\" and drop the hud. to my fellow pod pilots; although many complain, about certain things that ccp has screwed the pooch on... consider this, what was eve like, back in 2003. then politely thank them for what they have done to improve our gameplay."
"incredibly obviously the right thing to do."
"supported."
"anyone have any ties to any of the csm candidates where you could get them to comment on this issue, or the problems with poss in general?"
"supported!i love a pretty eve."
"you are currently leading the polariod competition :p"
"i support this product and or service."
"thats an interesting statement considering that wh space makes up half the systems in eve. its not like he is asking for a majority membership of wh occupants vs k-space occupants on the csm. you really think that out of 8 cmss that not even 1 of them should represent 1/2 of the space in eve?i think it would be great to have at least one csm who can represent the interest of wh residents.+1 vote"
"yea i've been living in worm space for a while now and while i was impressed with how much was added to it initially i'm very sad that they havn't added anything in a while. worse they have been making life only harder.1) now sleepers neut so you can't solo even low end sites anymore without spending billions on faction fit ships.2) its hard enough to move all the bookmarks from one person to another in wh space since you can't open a trade like in k-space but now you can't even put bookmarks into another players jet can? what was that for except to make it that much harder on us.3) all the active tank fits my corp used were voided overnight when the sleepers started neuting so fleets of ships were instantly obsolete.4) there was no increase in reward for doing sites in wh space since80% of isk from sleeper sites comes fro blue books. the remaining 20% is the only part controled by the player driven market. so even accounting for a decress in supply it adds only a tiny fraction to the expected payouts for any given site. basically it takes a lot longer now to make a lot less isk.meanwhile in 0.0 you can toss up a upgrade hub and farm the best plexes around all day long over and over and they just keep respawning.no i dont have anything against ccp and obviously i like living in wh space regardless of all this compared to k-space that is but it would be nice to have a csm who would at least get them to address concerns like this."
"if he was not banned, then ccp deemed it not an exploit, i suppose.after all, it's not an exploit to thieve from wrecks to get aggro from fof missiles and avoid concord response in high security space, when this perfectly fits the definition of \"using a game mechanic to obtain a result you are not supposed to obtain\".my point is: ccp decides what is an exploit, and may or may not change its stance at its own discretion. you don't."
"oh spare me! that's a change ah would celebrate for a week if this ever comes true! as is would be a change designed for them! but not for all other corps in class 5-6, as this would result in ah eviction cap-fleet being able to come to every door with little problem, and that is what they need their people in csm for.\"ace secunda, allamarr\" - started asking old friends to damage control? think noone will check corp histories?he himself admits it was an exploit and he himself admits that ccp found it an exploit and fined their corp for 60bil or so (though i too think it was a bannable offence). seems like you did not bother to read the topic, but for 2 posts.i am a full-time wh dweller too, and i think that ah coming to csm is their next step to take control of wormholes for themselves, and their corp prospectives is what they bother about, not all the rest of wh dwellers."
"first of all, i used to be in aharm, but i hope that doesnt disqalify me from posting here.two step was ceo when i was with aharm, and ive allready voted for him. i would like for atleast one member to be representing the wormhole community and our issues, and since my current ceo isnt running, two step is as good as it gets, based on the many good people i have run across in eve.i can apreciate the subject of the whole infinete tracking issue, and i would like to adress it shortly. the issue was raised by aharm to ccp - several times as i understand it. that ccp didnt react at the time, i will not blame aharm - or two step for tht matter. i have myself spend 3 months explaining ccp about bugs with no effect, and i would not expect anyone to do the same, no matter the issue.as i see it, the only people that was negatively effected by this, was rooks and kings (who attacked aharm, and (re-)noticed the bug - i tip my hat to them). i would understand them not being happy with the way this was handled - by aharm and/or ccp. it is however likely - to me- that aharm made a ton of isk killing sleepers, while knowing (and using) the tracking issue. but i find it very likely they would have run near the same ammount of sites, had the tracking issue not been in effect.i will not speak for ace or allamar, but i find it very unlikely that ace in particular is posting here by request of two step. nor am i for that matter.im posting here, because i think two step will make a good candidate.+1 voteregards, pocurk"
"i didn't ask anyone to post in this thread. there is certainly no love lost between ace and i, since i was part of the group that asked him to step down as ceo. i would also point out that crazygirly is not in aharm, and there are plenty of other folks out there that have suggested similar changes. i personally would love to see some way for a player to do interesting things to wormholes. i would also point out that we seem to have no problems moving our \"eviction cap fleet\" around just fine with the current mechanics, but our targets have a lot more trouble getting reinforcements. well, i invite you to take some time to talk to me in a convo or something. all i can do is keep repeating that i don't see getting on csm as step 1 in the \"aharm dominates the world\" plan you seem to think we have. i would also point out that if we \"took control\" of all wormholes all the sudden, we would be very bored. i understand there is a lot of resentment from plenty of folks we have evicted/shot at/whatever, but i am truly trying to represent us all. it seems like most of the other w-space corps/alliances are behind me, and i am pleased they are. while we may shoot at each other, we can all get behind changes like corporation bookmarks, fixing pos mechanics and the like."
"well, what i have to admit is that two step is very confident in his answers here, and i respect it. yet, i will stay with my attitude towards all this."
"hi jonathan,i like the way you have thought a lot of these things through and i wanted to let you know i voted for you today. good luck!"
"you got my vote. good luck!"
"no i'm saying in order to change the websites programming to allow candidates to be added later you're looking at at least a few full days' work. time which i don't have, or at least not time i can just spend on that project.despite some of them being being very busy corp and alliance level ceos, 45 candidates managed to fill in the survey in the week that was allotted to this. i was a director every time i ran and despite getting 40+ new mails every day (this was back when directors still got a mail for every person that applied to their corp) i was able to check my mails and act on/reply to them in a timely fashion. now you may not like it, but i'm happy with the signup period and the messaging and it's not going to change. checking your evemail is not a requirement to run but trust me, it becomes a requirement to be a good csm once you're elected.i'm not excluding anyone, people exclude themselves by not keeping track of their evemails and that is not my fault."
"i went to use it and i got an error. all i did was answer the questions on what i want and got this. i am posting this since i don;t know were else it would go since it relates to this site. i also wrote down the time that it broke for me too. i tried e-mailing them, but for a mail demon error. here is what it said:internal server errorthe server encountered an internal error or misconfiguration and was unable to complete your request. please contact the server administrator, webmaster@match.eve-csm.com and inform them of the time the error occurred, and anything you might have done that may have caused the error. more information about this error may be available in the server error log.it happened at 1:39pm cst(-6 utc)"
"this is a non-issue. ccp had all sorts of requirements for candidates like filling in the forms, providing passport details, formatting the candidate's blurb, all of which had deadlines. these deadlines have been added for technical and administrative purposes, it really is that simple.this service is no different."
"great product thank you !!!!!!"
"i tried using it, but i ended up getting a 500 error. :\"
"ccp enforced those requirements to make sure the enforcement was not done in an arbitrary or biased way. not so with this. who gets to post their views on this site is totally up to the arbitrary and biased views of one player."
"just wanted to say thank you for this useful tool in helping me decide who to vote for. thank you, your effort is appreciated."
"me too with 2 different browsers"
"thanks for the help. i still wish i could do a preference vote though"
"great tool - thanks"
"funny, i took the survey and it said to vote for joseph ward morris as darius iiihe was singled out as best candidate. weird-it said he was 100% compatible...."
"sorry guys, server errors will happen occasionally as my little server strains under the load. pressing f5 after 30 seconds or so should fix it :)"
"i'm a new player, just upgraded my trial acct. :) found the link very useful, so it looks like kumi katana will get my vote! i'm very excited about the coming incarna expansion; all good space operas have live people in them after all!cheers,sapph"
"seeing as there has been some rather significant interest in seeing the tally of votes, we thought it would be a good idea for us to put up a thread for it. we'll update this hopefully at least once per day.date & time: total votes - % of eligible voters / csm5 comparison16:00, march 9th: 9,000 - 2.58% / 2,754 - 0.88%22:10, march 9th: 15,016 - 4.31% / 4,023 - 1.29%15:42, march 10th: 21,764 - 6.25% / 6,560 - 2.11%15:56, march 11th: 25,723 - 7.37% / 15,838 - 5.09% ninja update from ccp xhagen22:00, march 11th: 26,287 - 7.55% / 17,257 - 5.55%22:00, march 12th: 28,215 - 8.04% / 18,829 - 6.05%22:00, march 13th: 31,120 - 8.84% / 19,839 - 6.38%23:00, march 14th: 32,911 - 9.35% / 21,668 - 6.96%22:00, march 15th: 34,405 - 9.80% / 23,507 - 7.55%22:00, march 16th: 36,581 - 10.48% / 25,299 - 8.13%22:00, march 17th: 39,104 - 11.25% / 26,999 - 8.68%22:00, march 18th: 40,571 - 11.73% / 27,948 - 8.98%22:00, march 19th: 41,728 - 12.08% / 28,924 - 9.29%22:00, march 20th: 42,777 - 12.39% / 29,907 - 9.61%22:00, march 21st: 45.328 - 13.12% / 31,089 - 9.99%"
"awesome to see the increased turnout. would love to see votes double the almost 40k cast last year. and thanks for posting this update!!! will be fun watching the meter spin"
"yeah, i am really excited about the turnout. so who thinks we might see a candidate break 10k votes (hopefully it will be me!)?"
"i'm winning"
"would be nice to have a teller at the eve client logon screen next year"
"not until you make a new avatar"
"i don't see what's wrong with his avatar"
"damn rebels, always causing trouble.back on topic, wish we could have one of those spinning number dials to show the vote tally as it adds up. that would be pretty cool."
"bi-winning even?"
"\"what's the cure, medicine to make me like them? not gonna happen. i'm....\"oh charle"
"i see you people have been drinking tigerblood."
"every vote is sacred,every votes is great!if a vote gets wasted,oveur gets quite irate!"
"my personal 'gut' feeling; is that trebor is dirty. i really don't have an opinion on goon stance; but i did drop a vote for mittani on my alt. wouldn't vote for vile rat though; one goon is enough, and it might as well be the one i might actually like."
"this is a **lie**. given the character limits of the forums, i'll summarize:original post: both are missing from your quote. to say no edits were done is false. now that i've proven the issue, what claims do you make to back-pedal out of this one?"
"that's called projection.and +1 to jade constantine's \"you are not a goon\" summary of this whole stupid thread :)"
"seems to me that he was talking about a weapon that would chain damage, from ship to ship, gradually decreasing. his exact words \"think of it as a giant pinball of pain bouncing through the grid.\" he wasn't actually advocating turning eve into a pinball game.yeah, because that's what eve needs more of: ascii macro spam. granted, i don't like the idea, but your biggest complaint is that you can't spam ascii? seriously?if there's a need to front load the client with important information, but not allow the client to read it until a certain time, then this is a way to do it. as long as the key is long enough it's perfectly secure. what's your problem with this?i found this to be an interesting idea. in a way it breaks up a large gang into smaller areas of fighting. this brings a host of problems - being able to see what is on the field, where the snipers are, logistics having trouble projecting - and it doesn't fix big blob vs. small gang. but, at least the guy is being creative and thinking outside of the box. even a bad idea has the potential to become a good idea over time.yup, an idea proposed for, essentially, dynamically sized containers. that's so terrible. what is the world coming to?try reading it again. he wanted to allow certain ships to activate a cloak while still under gate cloak. there's nothing in there about preventing someone from using the mwd/cloak trick.yeah, because after a year and a half between posts, he might not have had enough experience to change his mind?yup, a tongue-in-cheek, goofing off thread for \"funny\" fixes to titan jump bridges...tl;dr: goons once again display their lack of character by lying and twisting the truth. or, their inability to read. probably both."
"goons do not have an ability to read, just by design. so in a sense you can't call that \"inability\". semantics"
"the problem i have--retired 0.0 guy, now lowly empire industrialist here--is that he doesn't seem to think things through. you're quick to defend treb and villify the goons' message without reading it. in game (and in caod) i'd never trust their word on things, but in regards to game mechanics you have to give them credit--they do seem to know what they're talking about more than most.if you can't see that plastic wrap on demand would break courier contracts, that the cloaking-under-gate-cloak ability would make covert ops capable ships nigh-invulnerable (and thus render moving expensive things nearly 100% safe) and how inherently insecure it is to send system data to clients \"in advance\" i can't explain it to you simply enough. poorly thought out and silly ideas are a real-life isk per dozen, but a csm rep needs to be able to take the 5 minutes to critically think them through to shut down the game-breaking ones--if for no other reason than to not waste ccp's time. (or, more cynically, to not give them any more ammo to shoot their feet with)oh, and the limited-visibility idea? it already happens on broken nodes, and if you've ever tried to use a carrier to refit in a group you would know how shoddily ccp codes \"closest ships\" and how that idea would never work."
"i don't like a lot of his ideas either, that one included. my point is that he is being misrepresented. that is what i don't like. i'm one of those people who gets very annoyed when people are intentionally misrepresented even if i don't like or agree with that person.for example, i don't like obama at all. i think he's slime. but, when someone goes around spreading lies about him, i'll try to set things straight.you can't have meaningful or constructive conversation when that conversation is based on lies and half truths.also, sending data to clients in advance is not insecure if it is done correctly. there are cryptographic protocols designed to do this specific task. bruce schneier's applied cryptography book has several."
"but then you run into client processing requirements depending on the strength of the encryption and its method. not saying a reasonable level of security can't be attained, but ultimately i think client processing is not the source of lag: it's server processing and the limitations of the single-core system architecture.everyone is entitled to bad ideas. but is it really a misreperesentation to say \"this guy doesn't appear to sift through ideas very well and is running for a job that asks him to do exactly that\"?"
"it is if the ideas being used as examples aren't really his ideas.terrible idea - but i'm pretty sure that the mittani doesn't want to do that. it doesn't matter how terrible that idea is - it can't be used to judge mittani's fitness to be on the csm because it's not true.crucify people but do so honestly."
"there is plenty of cheap encryption that could be used for this purpose. server processing is responsible for some lag, network latency and throughput are responsible for other lag, client processing is responsible for some too. sending a batch of encrypted data as ships start jumping or start warping will help reduce grid loading lag. just send the decryption key at the end of the dump, and make sure the cipher is strong enough to resist brute force for a few minutes.i contend that the job of the csm isn't to sift through ideas, it is to represent the player base. there should not be a requirement to be a game design expert to be on csm, just an ability to read, summarize, present, argue, debate, listen and think critically. oh, and the ability to stick to the facts when presenting the combined opinion of the player base rather than staying on-message to your coalition's political bias.edit: ipad fat fingers"
"nice analysis there; but you are wrong on that count. hunches, and gut feelings do not qualify as projection. they don't ascribe feelings, or redirect personal failures on another. they simply make one feel, that a person is not to be trusted; and is guilty of something, which is currently unidentified.i said it was a gut feeling; because i have no evidence of wrongdoing. i simply feel; that it exists.this is a result of my reading trebor's post, and responses; and subconciously recognizing something, which triggers a defensive mechanism. what it is, cannot be identified; as it results from a familairity with past experience. i cannot say 'who' it was that caused these feeling's; or created the situation, that caused me to subconciously recognize similiar traits and examples of character. i just know that something's fishy; and, that i don't like the individual in question, as a result. this doesn't mean i'm right; thus, it's a hunch.i hope you're not a pshycologist. if you are, you should learn to spend more time; analyzing an individual's responses, before making decisions as to there character. by your call, i'm ascribing personal feelings, decisions, and character; to an individual i have never met, and thus dislike. yet, i don't dislike myself, and i am a 'good' person; who chooses to treat others with respect, when they deserve it. such a person, should then be someone i respect; perhap's even take a liking too, and support. you're assuming, that i don't know myself, and have a denial trait; which prevents me from self-examination. a lack of objectivity; and inability to accept blame.you would, in general, be wrong in any case; as moments where i ascribe to that character, are fleeting. everyone has moments of denial; where they project blame. it is an immediate response, as a result of recognition of wrongdoing; and generally, lasts no longer than the situation it resulted from. ..or 3 days.i have no place, or stake in this race, anyway; aside from voting for candidates. i am simply putting forth an opinion; which i believe is relevent to the case. i think, in time; you will find, i am right."
"if it was just a question of presenting the eve communities' pet requests, csm6 will have to strongly corner ccp about the lack of genitalia customization options in the character creator, as well as the need to order pizza in game. clearly, sifting is part of the job.the csm is not a request aggregator. it's intended to be a useful interface between ccp and the playerbase. one of the functions is a sounding board for ccp's ideas, one is a means for players to request priority fixes. in both these capacities, a csm rep needs to be able to consider the \"fix\" or enhancement and try to figure out if it will break things more than it will help them. if aren't able to apply a basic sniff test to ideas before giving a thumbs up, you're going to be a drag on the rest of the council when they have to shoot down the change that you should have never brought up or nodded at approvingly."
"actually, no, i think we won't."
"you can't tell him what he thinks! this is an outrage!(basically you responded to him saying what he thinks by saying \"actually, no,\" which is a stupid thing to do because that isn't how things work)"
"quoted for even more hilarity! this is excellent stuff. better than charlie sheen at a press interview."
"check.at least you know what you are talking about and thats worth the effort to vote for the first time in my eve life.changing my pvp experiences more and more to small gangs and solo stuff. taking risks is just more fun and satisfying!"
"prom got all my votes,"
"i believe your sentiments, experience and opinions are top notch, but i don't believe that you will be able to cooperate with others. your emo rages (which i experienced firsthand in local, unprovoked) is quite well known. convince me? i'd love to vote for you, but the csm unity has shown to be quite vital (if not a must) for them to be able to achive anything of value.and since i already cluttered up several other threads with this pet peeve of mine, might as well ask you; cloaks, your opinion? working as intended, need fix/balancing/nerf/buff/pie?"
"i rage because i care as for cloaks, what aspect of them are you talking about?i think covert cloaks work as intended. there's really only class of ship that really packs a punch and can use them (bombers).you'll need to be a little more specific.there are a bunch of things that one could perceive as annoying"
"got my vote"
"prom 4 csm+1 votewe should solo together sometime , heh"
"+1 vote"
"my vote goes to the only solo pvper i see here... solo (and small gang) needs boosting, blobs need nerfing.the goal of eve for me is to be the best player as i can, not to join the biggest alliance in the game. we need more advantages to player skill (not skill points). i don't care about sov, however i would like to see 0.0 more populated and fragmented...make it so small groups can get in and stand on their own without paying rent. how about a penalty to member counts of alliances too? alliance fee's multiplied by total member count? :)"
"didnt readall i do is vote vote vote"
"what are your thoughts on the \"megablob\" coalitions such as drf and nc? do you think they are fine as they are or should they be 'nerfed'? if you think they should be nerfed, how would you do it if it were left to you?"
"i will get this, coalitions are formed as an easy option to hold sov in 0.0. if ccp kept their promise of making sov changes (for small corporations to hold space) then this wouldnt of happen. the structures themselves require a large fleet or a fleet of supercapitals, something a coalition can provide during war times. hence everyone blobs up into one."
"will be sending at least one vote your way, perhaps more, we'll see."
"you have my vote."
"+4 votes from me"
"i like your humble, fact-oriented presentation. you make no empty promises and i think you got the role of the csm right, to highlight the small improvements to ccp, not to try to move something big that will get rejected for sure.you have my vote."
"many thanks, to you and others. spread the word if at all possible, i'll be very happy to answer any questions your friends may have.meissa"
"you coming to fanfest this year? i know tyrrax is finally showing his ugly mug. if so, hit me up. drinking, lots."
"id buy that for a dolla +6 votes here ;p"
"as much as you may despise such activities, goonswarm is a large alliance, and in any case, the scams perpetrated in-game by goons are entirely within eve's game policies. violating an nda has far-reaching, real-world consequences. to draw a correlation between in-game activities that you do not agree with, but which are entirely within ccp's policies, and violating a real-world legal contract doesn't make much sense."
"so you assume that i am not as well educated in these affairs as your holiness and eminence grise, the mittani himself. this alone seals my vote against you, but thank you for taking the time.i even had thought of a rhyming poem to thank and compliment you on your expected replies however the professionalism is sorely lacking and thus i take my leave, sorely disappointed. good luck in the days to come!"
"nah, not this year, maybe next though... i miss iceland and its weird hard-boiled egg smell."
"vote added. for the 0.0, and all eve's peoples true representation!"
"seriously? that's your response? how very mccarthy of you.also, you've elicited the very classic example of the fallacy petitio principii (begging the question). any attorney should know this. all politicians will ignore it, of course."
"oh no latin words they burn us they buuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuurn ussssssssssssssssssssss~~~"
"i'm not going to be locking up the furry vote, let's not delude ourselves"
"uhm, you want to get rid of t2 bpos?sorry, that's like a basic intelligence test and you failed horribly. how in gods name can you run a spy ring and be that stupid?"
"thought you were supposed to be a lawyer as well as a leader. it would've been easy to take apart my argument given its own structure. i must assume you're not a very good lawyer if you can't pick a bad argument from a good one."
"what! you're disappointed because he's not role-playing? rp and rl have very little in common; almost nothing in common actually. something i discovered years ago; and why i don't bother with it. role-playing is a fantasy. one in which you idealize, or exemplify traits, which don't truly exist; in fact, never have been seen, in the scope of human behaviour. shakespearean witticism, and the like; have never had a place in real human communication. this is the heart; of where lies begin. in play-acting, pretending, role-playing; all you truly do, is lie.it's delusion."
"hey, you never know. stranger things in eve have happened."
"2 votes for ya :)"
"t2 bpos are nowhere in my campaign message, i don't know why you're ~allmad~ about them that said, trying to insult my intelligence is like trying to suggest i'm unattractive"
"i retired from law last year, lawyering is banal and terrible and mostly evil"
"the mittani for csm! no more bull****, go to iceland and kick ass and chew bubblegum! cya on ts! oh and yeah on fanfest ofcourse! cya in the bar ;)edit 2# sent ya 5 votes :d"
"as mentioned in a certain movie:\"if we are to survive, a new balance must be found. in normal times, evil (ccp) would be fought by good. but in times like these, well, it should be fought by another kind of evil (lawyer).\" voted for the mittani"
"first, you said this in vote match, so yeah, its part of your platform.second, you're right that insulting your intelligence over this is similar to suggesting your unnatractive. both could be insinuated with bayesian probabilities.p(ret|t2)given that you don't support t2 bpos the chance that you are market stupid is high p(u|eve)given that you play eve and are space important the chance that there is something physically wrong with you may be high (haven't evaluated this one yet).the first is definitely right."
"i guess this post is the math nerd version of that guy a few posts back quoting a bunch of latin words and expecting people to care*quotes statistics 101**leans back, satisfied*anyway, i'm literally a beautiful man, deal with it"
"lol i was more likely to vote for you before your campaign.you lost when you set out to smear everyone else instead of showing why you are a better candidate. protip: stop being that arrogant little ****. but then again, that might be your true self after all..."
"if you abhor arrogance, you were never going to vote for me. don't bother lying about it. vov"
"the problem isn't so much mittens. i actually think he'd be a pretty decent csm chair (though i think he's totally misunderstood how much 'power' it would give him). it's the fact that he's trying to pad the whole csm with his cronies, drowning out any independent voices."
"you've got my voice, hope you'll manage to do something.don't pay attention to those trolls."
"what are your thoughts on enhanced roleplaying features being added to the game through incarna?"
"lol, you think he really cares about incarna? not a bit. he is guilty of what he accuses everyone else of. it's called hypocrisy."
"you have my vote."
"the rest of nullsec is his cronioh waitsup windy"
"another vote for ripard teg. good work on lost in eve."
"thank you so much to ira, tyr3l (hope you liked part 2), jita, and chuc. chuc, i totally support one vote for me, one vote for seleene. seleene's a terrific potential csm delegate, and i'd love to serve with him. thank you for your support, and you are absolutely correct. that is item #1 on the list of things i think about the csm. however, i'm finding that a lot of eve players want to know what their potential csm representatives think about issues, and how they would fix specific problems in the game if they had the direct power to do so. doesn't mean i can. i fully recognize i'm running for csm, not game developer. but players do have the right to know what i think about specific issues, and that's a good way to share.first, don't limit yourself! there are an absolute ton of corps out there that cater to the casual eve player and yet still live in 0.0. my own alliance is one (minor plug, heh). \"play when you can\" is increasingly being recognized as a valid way to play eve by a lot of corps. so when looking for a corp or alliance, just be up front about how much play time you can give and when; i think you'll find a lot of corps are more open than you think.low-sec is a good place to look too, though. a lot of faction warfare corps are built around player bases with casual play times, since they don't have to worry about defending sov. so i'd start there.not exactly a csm issue, unless i misunderstood your question. did i?::grins:: are we related? i've never run across another toon with that last name before. thank you for your support, and thanks about the debate. it was fun. jade/jayne are great guys."
"i have received the sole endorsement of (in-game name) marcel devereux, the developer of aura for android phones. this is a fantastic app, and i'm thrilled to be endorsed by someone who knows so much about development of apps for the eve community.thank you, marcel!"
"thanks for taking the time to reply. i was referring more to the stark contrast between hi-sec on low-sec. can or should anything be done to ease the transition, and perhaps blur the lines between hi and low sec?"
"one question rip: you think you are going to be able to spend enough time on csm stuff? as this has proven quite a problem for several candidates in the past."
"believe he answered that question.but yes he is and has talked to prevouse csm members to get an idea of the time commitment.he has also offered to take on additional roles for the csm that would take even more time and effort."
"found the quote"
"the \"learn to fly\" post on your blog made for great reading, and i can't see any reason to disagree with you. good luck, mate!"
"get tech 3 in whs taken care of and you'll be the man. you've got my votes."
"i value every person's opinion, regardless of whom or what they believe in. let me try to explain it the best i can.\"roleplaying is not sufficiently supported in eve online\", which i strongly disagreed with. with the upcoming release of incarna the hole concept of rp will be lifted to the next level. where currently rp is limited to faction warfare, incursions, and a player's imagination, the future will include the concept of walking on stations and having conversations with npcs.\"every character in eve is by definition rping. yet i am still myself and don't want to change that in any way.\"in the first part of this statement i only imply that every player in this game is by definition a rping character.the second part i'm using myself in a philosophical way to say that regardless of the changes to rp in the game, the character would still need to be able to decide whether or not to be part of it. even though using myself as an example may be selfish, it also gives some information on who i am; my character being very close to the rl me.i don't feel that my explanations are irrelevant, only explained in a bad way. i think rping should always pushed further, and made better. everyone's opinion and ideas on how to improve rp will count as equal. i hope that this reply has the answer(s) you are looking for."
"thanks for your vote"
"thank you; that explanation was very explanatory and satisfactory."
"well, my votes are casted."
"you really worked hard on this post and i like the stands your making. you have my vote :)"
"i see you talk a lot of fancy words, but i didn't notice any changes from the last time you sat in the csm chair. i get harassed a lot for having a hot toon. this has been a real peeve. i know you have a lot of eve friends which will probably get you re-elected so i am inclined to vote for you too. i got my isks stolen by d-bank and you weren't there to help me get it back. i contacted the guy who took it and he bought be a golem, which was cool. i wonder what you would buy me in a similar situation. another serious issue that you overlook is the autopilot bug. as far as wormhole mechanics and fixes, if you know how to use bookmarks it all becomes a non-issue. i would like to see you stand up to ccp when the concord doesn't come fast enough when some jerk suicide-ganks my ship. i support you if you make this agenda."
"i would suggest that you repost your request in this thread. it belongs to a candidate who will be eager to promise to do all of these things, and more.thank you for your interest, and, of course, the bump."
"how does anything you said constitute me being a troll? i am genuinely concerned that you are not a good candidate and your smug tone does nothing to enhance my opinion of you. you were caught out misrepresenting the facts and now you are hoping to deflect attention by attacking my character rather than answer the question.your claims don't match your record. hell, your record doesn't match your record.assuming that i created an account with a name that would mess up evesearch for undisclosed (i presume trolling?) purposes is tinfoilhattery of the highest order.if you were any good you'd be able to answer me. calling you a liar when you have been caught lying is a simple statement of fact, not a troll, and not impolite, given that i also allowed for the fact that you simply don't really know how the csm works.ps: i don't know why you would think that any publicity is good publicity, especially when you act like this, but you're welcome, i guess...edit: hahaha i enjoyed your response to the 'smear campaign.' that's the best doublespeak yet :)"
"question @ hero:you have claimed trebor lied. can you cite the specific example(s) leading you to believe this and backing the example with evidence to support your claim?also, tinfoil hattery: this sounds eerily familiar to: hero = mittani? who knows?!"
"honestly.. not someone i would vote for."
"you are convincing, the facts you bring are solid, you get my vote max"
"seleene stole some vote from you, but there been others left. carry on, please."
"hi trebor,have you had any news on this matter, please?thank you in advance!"
"i inquired, and received a brief internal reply. i (and mynxee and dierdra vaal) have requested some more details.i hope to be able to provide a more detailed answer soon."
"hi mittans, someone on shc mentioned that you aren't really liked at sa, and that not all people from sa were in goons. intrigued, i went there and found this: i think velius has something there."
"+1 from me...good job sir..."
"if just would like 1 thing:-no warp scrambler on a lv. 4, none, it only will punish the weak pleayers and they will even lose ships. its not pvp, its mission fun. rather give all enemies more hp instead if they rly just want to have ships destroyed or making the missions harder. i am here for the weak and will always vote for them so everyone can have fun game experience. i know im probably the only one losing ships because of scrambling, so its probably made just in order to hurt me and a few others. it wouldnt be a matter at all just to remove stuff which doesnt hurt anyone else, except the weak. the whole idea only to punish the weak is far from adorable.-another thing which would be nice to see is some boost on command ships maybe, they should be legendary ships but nowadays they are barely above hacs. i would say give them either a additional med or low slot, as they got higher skill requirements than a t3. -ofc there is more stuff such as easy access to clone jump even for rookies (will fix pvp a lot). -aswell special counter measures (module in high slot) in order to provide huge/espensive ships with blobb resistance.-add a new feature called kamikaze attack. self destruct should only be usable on a pod. a ship however, in term its smaller than its oponnent, may be able to use a kamikaze attack which will hurt both ships and the smaller one usualy completly destroyed.if you bring something of that stuff up i will vote, since you did already great work on way to many improvements which i was considering a great addition.@ honor firestorm: i dont find your character hot, so at least one lesser"
"i would suggest that you repost your request in this campaign thread. i am sure that candidate will be eager to promise to do all of these things, and more.regarding the illegal rmt isk that you were scammed out of, i recommend you file a petition and include as much detail as you can -- names, places, your bank account information, etc. i am sure that a helpful gm will take care of you immediately.thank you for your interest in my campaign, and, of course, the bump."
"+1 vote for you trebor.all those arguments against you relating to your \"dumb ideas\" are pretty much pointless. those ideas that are due to a lack of knowledge of eve's very particular game mechanics and technical inner workings or simply just shots is th"
"goons be damed i gave you one of my three votes. i've read your blog and i think you will serve well on csm 6. good luck!1p.s. no my other two votes didn't go to mittens"
"hahaha yes i'm am the mittani ;) maybe i should be running instead!it's not so much that he doesn't know how the csm works necessarily, as that he is pretty obviously spinning furiously to a) defend the public letter that was sent, and b) to make it look like he has a whole bunch of methods to approach issues through the csm, when what he described was a single process.check his post here:"
"did anyone else notice this guys in-game name is his real-life name backwards.not sure i want someone with this much originality of thought involved in the council that looks after my \"spaceships are serious business\" issues."
"you're really terribad at this whole internet thing (tried clicking your own link?). also, using bold text to make your internet drama seem more dramatic is pretty fail.p.s.i think he knows a bit more about the csm and how it works than you do, and trolling him with bull**** doesn't change that. did you goonies ever stop to think that running a smear campaign against someone who has actually been on the csm and is pretty much regarded by most as having been successful would perhaps be a bit more effective if you didn't go absolutely over the top with all the drama? the goons have a bad rep, and you might be too isolated from the rest of eve to see it, but no one is going to shed a tear if the goons all disappeared from eve tomorrow. screaming at trebor does him more good than it does you.don't believe me? we'll see on the 22nd."
"you sound angry. i'm not screaming, or threatening anyone. just pointing out (with due emphasis, mind) why i don't think trebor is a good candidate. nobody has even attempted to explain his comments, which leads me to believe that with all the **** and vinegar on here i have made a reasonable point.oh man i messed up the link. sorry/oops. clicking them still takes you to each post, mind you, so i'll presume you read everything?bold text is awesome you have no idea what you are talking aboutin any case, my point still stands. i know that he isn't ignorant about the csm process, which means he lied. or 'misspoke,' i believe is the new way of saying that. mentioning that isn't bull****, and the fact that all you have to counter my points is ad hominem infinitum.no word on the vuk lau quote, either, but then that was something i heard in local chat, so who knows?as for you including me in 'you goonies,' you couldn't be further from the truth :pquestioning (not screaming at) trebor told me what i wanted to know, and he didn't even have to answer my questions to do it :) if you don't think this csm election is the most important thing you've ever participated in then i don't know that you even deserve to vote. i presume you do though because you're willing to 'argue' your 'points' with a 'troll' what we will see on the 22nd is pretty much nothing to do with what does me good. what does me good is voting my conscience rather than being a blinkered idiot who votes as a bloc for a goon captain because she is told to, or for a guy who spins so much he has his own gravitational field because i hate goonies grr, which just means that we'll end up with another bunch of insufferable ****s instead of people who might actually do something decent. welp."
"i can't actually believe anyone around can take the fact of being member of csm5 as a good point ... i'm playing the game for 2 years and the game is only going worse, the time used by the dev on the request of the csm is for stupid update.there's so many problems around (****ty insurance refunds, all the nullspace belongs to 4-5 alliances no space for any small pvp corp, the game is filled with botters, courrier missions were incredibly nerfed, low sec totally deserted due to lack of interest, caldari ship completely useless in pvp, the list doest end ...) , that i really wonder what was csm5 exactly doing ? there is no way any member of the previous csm is going to have my vote.what did we actually get in this extension ??? 1 year of work to get incursions and a stupid pi revamp, nice job guys ...!"
"i looked it up:from herei don't really see what the fuss is here, other than vuk lau saying \"his complete lack of understanding of real eve\""
"quoted for hilarity."
"a vote for seleene is a vote for a vibrant fun eve universe.helen"
"vote for seleene!"
"1.0"
"you get my, vote, no brainer!iterative design and you have an inside track means you can hit the ground running."
"from the far north you have both my votes.good luck to you!"
"approve"
"+2 good luck"
"ransom piracy a dead end industry? yaar were hated the length and breadth of eve for obvious reasons , but were as much part of eve as the jump gates . the constant nerfing of ships to make them generic , alliance pvp corps calling themselves pirates not honoring ransoms , how are we sposed to stay in eve ? , we dont do blob warfare. is it the end for us are we all to be herd animals? whats in it for us if we lend you our support seleene? talking to my friends they would like to see a ransom contract system that holds ransom in escrow until the victim is in station ransom honoured."
"1 vote in before my account runs out for a bit. after reading most of your messages i can only realise you're the best equiped person to be head chair on the csm. be honored, it's my 1st vote since csm went live and i can see now you're planning on making the csm6 what it was always ment to be. with thanks to all the work done by csm5 ofcourse."
"you have had my vote!you seem the best candidate for my believes of what eve has the potential to be along with the knowledge and experiance to best ensure that it happens.on the subject of iterations; what is your feeling on pve content within eve? should missions be revised & improved? rat ai improved or adjusted to better match a more realistic opponent (ie, less rats but better stats to be closer to pvp combat)what pve content should be improved or implemented to keep us bears happy? :d"
"i voted for you because you'll know when ccp are telling porkies about things like start up delays.they won't be able to pull the wool over your eyes and claim \"issues\". you have the experience to drill down and say \"actually no, that was most likely caused by human error\".having someone with the knowledge to be able to counter ccp deception is critical for the csm. this is the only candidate equiped with this ability!!please vote for seleene, i have. he may be based in 0.0, but he has the interests of all of the community in his mind. don't let apathy or the mistaken belief that power block voting guarentees him to get in, your vote is critical and your vote makes the difference. don't let the opportunity of getting someone with prior knowledge into the csm slip past."
"i logged in this morning and found that seleene had sent a letter to me, personally, thanking me for my support. the rest of you csm candidates should learn a thing or two from this guy! he's nice! being nice gets things done. speaking of being nice... i'm pretty dismayed by the amount of attention and support that mittani is receiving with his negative \"i'm going to be a bastard\" campaign. i really hope that he isn't as much of a bastard as he says that he will be but i'm not betting my life on that. that kind of a confrontational attitude can cause a lot of grief on both sides - why would ccp want to be cooperative with someone whose primary goal seems to emberass them every time they turn around?"
"you have my vote"
"gave you two out of three votes. good luck!"
"in case you aren't sure yet on who to vote and are still reading thru all these stories about what they all will change in this game, i can tell you this.if you vote for this guy, you will vote against vuk, now isn't that something we all want??"
"1.0"
"a vote for draco is saying that you want to have a sane voice in the csm meetings.someone interested in all aspects of eve, not just those of nulsec. lots of block votes are being thrown around for alliance members looking after their own interests. a vote for draco signifies a vote for the players of eve, who want the game to be better."
"thanks pjyes thats a valid point.. while i live in null/low sec with my main i am interested in making eve as a whole a better place and not just one specific area.. i want to represent as many play styles as i can.as noted in my op, i have much experience in many other areas."
"thanks to everyone that hsd contacted me in game to offer their support!also look for me in some upcoming interviews in popular eve news sources.finally, whoever you choose please support the csm and vote for someone!issler dainzevoice of reason candidate."
"how do you respond to charges nobody appears to care about your campaign at all"
"i fully support this candidate. many of his thoughts have been voiced by others in discussions i've sat in on. i do believe he has herd them as well and set up a workable set of solutions. he is not underestimating the complexity of eve and i like that."
"supporting the removal of t2 bpos is a remarkably dangerous position and one that i doubt any of the market community would support."
"up you go! for great balance!"
"if you're sitting on a pile of t2 bpos and my candidacy would hurt your continued enjoyment of this feature then you have a choice to make. i feel this mechanism bad to begin with and horribly unfair to new players and if you are a single issue voter then i strongly encourage you to not vote for me and instead vote for somebody who would better represent your interests."
"i just got a few more choice endorsements :d help me get elected-for great justice and maximum trollageps look at my offical campaign video"
"just voted for you"
"1.0"
"down with the bots:)"
"i must admit, this is the first one i have read in full.two important questions i have are about the station and gate turrets found in high and low security systems selecting their targets: why do they not solely focus the majority of their vollies (fire) on the aggressor? particularly with departure jumps. i have taken station sentry fire for defending my frigate against a battlecruiser pulling a station jump. my frigate didn't last much more than a few seconds under a complete tackle and heavy fire. granted, my frigate's shields were about cruiser-grade.my other question: should station turrets be more powerful? in my opinion, they should be able to more easily melt and/or rip apart the ships of those who attack others departing the station."
"ok lets talk about a few things...- faction warfare. what's the point? so you get to be up another race (kinda like a constant war dec for those who wish to participate). but what do you really get out of it? what is the benefits of being part of the militia? some recommendations have been a boost to lp (to to double depending on how much control of a system you have for missions.) others recommend lp for every kill you get. for you militia out there, what do you think? what do you want?- assault frigates. are they broken? are they just expensive t1 ships? do they need balancing?- hybrid weapons... just projectiles or lasers with different sound effects? how about maiking all hybrids do anywhere from 50 percent to 65 percent more damage or refire total. - banking / investing. can it add another dynamic to gameplay? what about selling shares of your corp on the market.. (day trading :p ), investors receive dividends off of corporation profits.all of these issues and ideas... came from you. with the exception of fw (as i got into a month ago and have the same questions), you the player are telling me these are the issues that affect you. please keep feeding me. catch me on the forums, eve gate, eve mail, or yell at me in local. because everyone has something to bring to the table. your eye catches it, let me be your voice!butch"
"okay quick note, why is everyone trying to make eve to easy, lets take the jb issue as a prime exampleif i want to know where my enemies jb's are i can simply warp around the moons in a system, okay it may take me a few minutes but hell if eve was meant to be simple everyone would start with 50mil sp able to fly a titan and get a gift of 3bil isk per month.for those who complain about the big power blocks with all this space, boo hoo, guess what, they earned it by playing the game and forming alliances that stood up against the s*** that was thrown at them, yeah its hard for new corps to get out into 0.0 but as we have seen in the past nothing lasts forever and failscades do happen, man up wait for your chance and then take it, if u get slammed out of ur nice new space by a massiv fleet from another alliance then guess what, you werent as prepared as them and therefore aint ready to hold the space. as for players from empire trying to impose their views on 0.0 (and vice versa) stick to what you know ffs peeps, i mean really, would you call the sky guy to come fix your prized sports car, or get the guy from the garage to come and deliver your first child, get real +1 for mittens :p"
"i would suggest you not shut down this topic, because its a serious issue for some of us.for myself i could care less about open source or not, and honestly i do think you should have been able to monetize it. but that's not the issue. what i care about is that you took on a very large project, went quite a long way with it, then dropped it. i appreciate that the cost became prohibitive, that killed eve metric as well, but something about this bothers me with regards to the csm. this is a major commitment, and depending on your real life, this is a monetary commitment (i definitely couldn't afford to be in the csm.) understand that i'm not trying to come down on you. you made an amazing product and are obviously a bright fellow that clearly has a good understanding of the game. but there is something about the dropping of capsuleer that bothers me with regards to this.ironically if your platform included pushing for ccp to have a way to integrate/license the high end 3rd party projects i would vote for you without a second thought"
"dude, you support the removal of t2 bpos. i can't think of a faster way to loose support of the market and industry section."
"thing is with nullsec voting blocs we'll already be getting a bunch of 0.0 candidates elected. why should all csm representatives have to be nullsec experts? surely it's better to have some mixed in from other backgrounds. as you say, those who spend all their time in sov space shouldn't impose their views on empire, lowsec, fw etc."
"actually, my goal isn't to make eve easy; it's to make eve balanced. i agree eve should be a very challenging game, and i also admit i'm not the most experienced when it comes to how to resolve jump bridge issues. i think players need to remember that ccp aren't looking for game developers, they're looking for a voice to the players. even if i had the most brilliant solve for every issue, that doesn't mean ccp will go and do it, just because i say so as part of the csm."
"when i say i will not allow capsuleer to be part of my campaign, i am referring to the application itself. my experience and knowledge of all that transpired from the beginning to the end of its life cycle will serve invaluable on the csm, and third party apps and the eve api are incredibly important to me.just want people to stop thinking my campaign is a hidden agenda to somehow resurrect capsuleer and profit from it. that is why i emphasize i will not discuss it."
"i do not support the removal of t2 bpos. i support a change that will bring balance to them. in fact, i discussed the high run bpc change with several industry only players that i have great respect for, and while they didn't like the idea of change, they liked that idea a lot better than simply removing them from game.i'm sorry if you feel that they are not in need of change. i believe otherwise. again, remember ccp may agree with you and never make it a priority change. if it has cost me your vote, then i hope you vote for a candidate that will better represent your needs."
"i have started an ingame 'roc the vote' channel where i will be happy to discuss my csm campaign with players."
"friendly morning bump :)i also voted for you.i though disagree with the aoe back on titans as it was. we do need an aoe weapon but i'd rather see something a bit more limited, maybe 30km to 50km radius is affected not the whole grid.more than that though we need a level 3 dreadnought to counter the level 3 carriers."
"wh space, havnt given it much thought to be honest. i had a char live in one for a while and my former corp was living in lvl4 for ages, as well as my alliance farmed lvl5 ones when wh was released. but with all the patching that happened, i havent been quit in touch of it, so would need to do a bit of a research (industrial effect). currently wormholes are flooded with towers no one can take down as there are no dreadnoughts. that needs to be addressed some what as well.superdreadnaughts, with the last titan boost, thats what they sorta became, i mean gun dps is of a dread but doesnt require siege, 3m doomsday. i guess with the aoe dd it would be like a superdread/titan in one. ccp hate adding new ships, especially another supercapital, they would rather give titans more weapons than adding another ship."
"i see some other candidates have serious life skills, like programming. what do you have outside of eve that you can bring to the table?"
"alright my rl criteria:bsba business managementminor economics and computer sciencethat would be the best way to summarize myself without violating the personal information part of the eula (even though you all know my rl name)."
"from one she-toon to another i think you could be more concerned about some things. i bought this character when my friend told me i could because i didn't want to wait all that time for skills so i could fly a bigger ship and make an impact even though i know it would be better to learn the ropes and get a better feel but i still think i am ahead of the game. programming is important, yes, but also there are social issues in the game that can be addressed like the harassment and the griefing and stealing. will you propose to have programming consoles in game? i wouldn't suggest that because there can be more done from a game play perspective that would really increase players and then we would pay less as enrollment increases (same principle from economics).i wish you well i think you're a really strong candidate with breakthrough ideas that will change the face of gaming."
"well, it is always a risk that you won't be able to kill the target. if you run into that situation you could quit the contract and start a new one. if i remember correctly i think we also discussed being able to take out multiple contracts at once so if there is one target you can't get to, you can hunt another one for a while.in lowsec or nullsec it really won't matter much, as your friends can help you without any interference. in highsec where they can't help you, you aren't likely to encounter a ship that cannot be killed by one skilled person.as far as the inactive targets goes, you could always limit the bounties to people who have logged on in the last day or two, or even to people who are currently online.anyone can see that the current bounty system is completely broken and pointless. if you are going to put a bounty on someone's head, you might as well just deposit the isk directly into their wallet instead, and save them the trouble of podding themselves with an alt. because that's what a bounty really is in most cases: a donation to the person receiving the bounty.the bounty system is in serious need of a change, and if done right bounty hunting could be turned into a viable career for eve players. right now if you want a way to make isk that involves no grinding and is pvp based, the only real option is piracy (or maybe mercenary work, if you enjoy camping and docking games all day). fixing the bounty system will add an \"honest\" way of making isk from pvp, and help promote anti-piracy, which is pretty much dead right now."
"alright i am exhausted so this will be quick and i will comment on everyone in the morning.3/10/11 brusanan - won 50x fleeting propulsion inhibitor i - chribba dice roll"
"not rr, neutral rr. basically we are against cowards who cannot fight without having 5 rr alts in neutral corperations on standby in case there is a danger of them losing a ship.and obviously anyone who claims neut rr doesn't completely screw up pvp in highsec just doesn't want it fixed because they benefit from it on a daily basis, and often cannot actually pvp without it."
"i really like this idea, it's a clever way to get more people into low-sec, but only if it is genuinely possible to prevent them screwing you after the contract completes.i would propose it is *always* tied to a corp if the pirate requesting protection is part of a player corp (requiring the role 'ransom negotiator'). i say this because i suspect that it would be used (almost exclusively) to con people into getting ganked by the corpmate who is *also* warp scamming you.if you made this mechanic mostly reliable - then it would be an excellent buff for lowsec."
"what would you like me to focus on more specifically? i am always looking for some direction for new ideas and research.thank you for the comments shandir. the idea does need some work because as is i have some concerns about abuse. i will discuss it with a bunch of guys ingame to see what other input i can get and update the idea accordingly."
"this part you are mixing up.to be more clear, in the last 2 years the player-base increased significantly.a lot of these players should be made able to 'storm' into nullsec. meanwhile you have to limit the options for the \"umbrella alliance\" in his ways to rent out space but. you will need to give them this option for now at least for a transition period of time.about kadaffi, and \"oil slots\" kadaffi already cashed trillions of dollars/euros, the people will take over 'his' country, his source of constant income. meanwhile countries are freezing his bank accounts.in eve, people have to take space massively and ccp should freeze the (corp) wallets of every individual that is under investigation."
"you can't do that without forbidding players to shoot other players, i.e. stopping what eve is. simple as it is. again, a bit oversimplyfying, if i am not renting - i am shooting. any limitation on this effectively means consensual pvp.yeah, people will take over (or not, this is offtopic however), but not because some supreme being changed the eula, but, we may say, people themselves are changing it. other countries in this analogy are neighbour alliances.please elaborate, investigation about what - rmt or shooting others ?"
"196 different alliances tainted. the ones with the most offenders were:-mostly harmless-goonswarm federationintrepid crossingivy leaguetest alliance please ignorewildly inappropriate.each with about 6-8.no the initiative, initiative mercenaries, or initiative associates members, i am happy to say.as for my personal opinion, that's simple: rmt, and the botting that fuels it, is a plague that needs more attention. i've been telling ccp that since the june summit, and it looks like they're finally putting more resources into the issue.one of my suggestions to ccp was that they engage a forensic accountant to help them develop better ways to detect isk laundering."
"i wouldn't start celebrating just because your friends names aren't on this particular list. this was just the database from one of many isk selling websites and it's quite possible that all your friends just buy from somewhere else.edit: not to mention that i'm kind of angry that you would use the actions of 8 people out of a group of over 5 thousand as some kind of \"taint\" on the rest. it's kind of disrespectful in my opinion."
"rmt"
"most of these transactions appear to have been to throwaway chars where the isk was transferred a second time. consequently, any self-back-patting for not having your people on the list is pretty premature."
"your list is inaccurate, at least according to the copy of the sheet i had access to. the 10 top offenders are, from most to least:1) unaffilliated (1719)2) wildly inappropriate. (12)3) -mostly harmless- (11)4) dead on arrival alliance (11) 5) test alliance please ignore (11)6) ivy league (10)7) intrepid crossing (9)8) goonswarm federation (8)9) vera cruz alliance (7)10) intergalactic exports group (7)generalizing the prevalence of rmt in any alliance from this list is problematic since a client list from a single english language website is prone to systematic bias, and the number of people rmting on their in-alliance characters is insignificant compared with the number of people trading on unaffiliated characters."
"an excellent point. and sorry for the minor mistakes in my list, i just did a quick hand count of a list i made sorted by alliance, and missed a few.it should also be noted that quite a few of the unaffiliated toons were likely laundry-alts."
"bumpalso, i was a tad busy skipper."
"thanks for the support, although i'm sure many candidates meet those criteria! just to clarify, i'm not a corp ceo, not that it really matters. i have however been a director of two different corps (one of which had an afk ceo, so i was for all intents and purposes the ceo), which is much the same function.real, honest (good honest scamming/spying/corp thieving!), fun, and fair are what it's all about."
"hope you get voted in"
"having known and flown with imigo for a while i can verify that he does indeed love eve. i've had numerous discussions with him over the state of the game, mechanics, things that need improving, things that need changing and the like. while we haven't always agreed on every issue, he has a through knowledge of the game and while looking at things commonly shared, is also aiming for various areas most other candidates don't even think of as needing improvement but which could improve the game and game-play remarkably.although i am in the same corp as imigo, i would recommend that people vote for him because of what i've outlined and what he stands for. i'm not just helping out a corpmate, if you're unsure just post a question or hit him up for a chat."
"i support white tree"
"i also voted for white tree!(i am white tree)"
"voted for white tree. you should too!"
"+3 votes for white tree"
"i am voting for white tree"
"sounds good.. got my vote!"
"i think i understand the t3 issue better now. there should definitely be a way to refit a t3 in wh space. it doesn't make any sense to force players to take their t3 out of the wh system into potentially hostile space just to refit."
"+5 votes. good luck!"
"you have my vote."
"and my axe! please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"this morning i got an email asking about a few points in eve. i decided to post the reply i sent to this person here. i thought it would help to see some of my ideas when it comes to certain questions that have been asked.------------------------------1. delayed localthe idea i have on delayed local would be a tier system. empire local would have a 30 second delay. this is for movement around when in a war; this gives both sides an advantage and a disadvantage.low sec would be two minutes. enough time to move through system, dock up and move out again. or to probe out your targets if there are any.null sec (0.0) would be 5 minutes. this is for the ability of moving large fleets into position and allows the use of covert operations to be effective. for example. whats the use of a covert cyno portal if the people you are attacking see you coming in local chat? i want the ability to get behind enemy lines more easily for small fleets, thus boosting smaller gang warfare.2. mining incomethe idea of mining that i have in mind would be to remove all bets from a static position and have them in moveable plex's just like cosmic anomalies. you would be easily able to scan out the belts in your mining barge and hopefully this will disrupt the botting quite a lot. the bots would have to go to planets and then scan mining sites out. then go to the site, and then get in a position from which to mine etc. rather than a botter to set up some simple bookmarks for the bot to warp to.3. lev 5 in empirefor level 5 missions to be move to empire they would have to be improved upon quite a lot. one idea would be to implement the new sansha ai to the missions. making them a lot harder and their fore making them a group thing to do. this way a larger payout would be split to multiple people. the overall payout per person would be slightly larger that lev 4's but the lp would be quite a lot larger.4. more vulnerable wormholeslonger lifespan for wormholes. plus the restriction of pos's in certain class of wormhole. class 1 and 2 would be small pos only. class 3 would me small and medium pos's only and class 4 and 5 would be all types of pos. this would make corps/people have to manage larger scale operations in wormholes with more pos's to do what they would normally do in one single large pos in a c1 wormhole.the attackers would then be able to actually attack a corp in a c1 c2 c3 easier. but rather than just attacking 1 pos they would have to take out multiple small or med towers to completely eradicate a corp from a wh.5. sound alerts in channelssound alerts in channels would be a simple thing. you can set channels to make sound once another person talks. also a separate noise would be played if your name is linked in a channel. the sounds would have to be set to each channel individually to avoid the massive amount of beeping 20 channels would create if you had them all se to making a noise.-----------------------this is just a few of the questions that have been put to me so far.eve truth"
"ok, taking them in order:sov and pos mechanics i have a common thought about. they are boring as all hell and test the patience of saints. i have taken down a pos through legal means and also taken one down the 'hard way'. i do not know what could be done toi make it better but something has to be done.force projection . . . no, i don't think the jump bridges need to be removed. again this a a function of boredom vs playtime. in null the jump bridges were supposed to allow us to skip having to move through large patches of home territory just to get to the fight. the issue that seems to have developed is that larger alliances are using it as an omnipresence so one fleet fights on all fronts.as i said . . . i think removal would be an extreme reaction to a minor problem. if you don't want the omnipresence there must be some mechanic that could keep a ship from leaping hither and yon without shiutting down the ability completely.single biggest thing that bugs me? the ui. from overview to the rigamarole of sharing bookmarks . . . the ui is the albatross that hangs around the neck of every damn player in the game. it scares new players away and frustrates the hell out of veteransaside from dessies there are ship classes i never see mentioned except as pretty hanger queens . . . black ops leap to mind. and with the recent modifications to the super carriers some of the old standards of the capital ships seem to also have fallen from grace. dreadnaughts, for example.but there is always room for more new shinies. i think t3 frigates would be an obvious first choice but i would prefer t3 dessies to get the nod first. it would give us a reason to skill them up and make those hulls the basis for new awesomenessity.( my own word)what have i done in eve? damn . . . i started as a miner, moved on to run missions, joined corps for wars, explored, lived in a wormhole, run missions to 0.0, run races and events in low and null. i have helped manage a pos, i have interviewed and been interviewed. i have recruited people and been assistant fc. i have ganked in a gate-camp and been a dessie squad attacking a hulk. i have run plexes and scanned out anomalies. i have traded and i have built. i have been podded and i have podded other people. i have escaped with a thread of hull left and i have sat in shock as my ship blew up around me. i have done research and invention. lived in lowsec, been in a renter corp in null.things i have yet to do serve on the csm. go to fanfest. huge fleet fight. fly a cap ship of my own. scam. things i won't do lie to a friend (and yes, i think i have friends that i have never met.) exploit a bug and risk removal from the game. macromine. i am a player of the game . . . like youi would like the game to be better (i assume you would too)i haven't done everything . . . but i am looking forward to the future . . . i do think walking is stations may be a tipping point for the game. i want to be on the highwire with it, trying to help tip it on the side of legendary.vote for me, pleasemike azariah for csm6m"
"sorry mate, but from what i read on vote match your opinions on t2 bpos. of the ones that gave a written opinion to match it, yours was probably the worst. your basic failure to understand the oppurtnity cost involved in t2 bpo ownership and describing it as \"printing money\" identifies you as a very dangerous person to put in any position of authority on market/industrial matters.as a matter of fact, if you disagree strongly, maybe you could make your case here:"
"okay, taking your ideas in order (with the immunity from losing votes you promised)((*grins*))i agree that bots are a major influence on the game as a whole, but it is my understanding that they tend to hang in the more distant corners of nullsec for a) better ores) and (b) fewer hunters wandering through any idea to make botting more difficult or just down right non-profit is worth considering. problem is, anything that we can imagine can be programmed around, if the programmer is patient and it is worth the effort. right now rampant botting is reputed to earn multiple plexes worth of isk per month. it is worth it. color shifts might be a way to make it more interesting and slightly tougher on the bots but i would bet dollars to donuts it would only delay them a week or so.i have seen lots of folks suggesting fixes that all boil down to the same thing . . . making lowsec more tempting to bring more people into it. all of these have the same basic problem at the root of them. better bait will only work until the pirates kill off all who come for it again. now this one is slightly more interesting . . . but would you consider a modification into it? rather than just moving the border of where lowsec really begins, what if the border was fluid? as pc kills in an area increased . . . concord might respond with a stronger presence. if there were no pirates in the area concord might go elsewhere and the sec status would slip. this would mean the border would not always be in the same place from week to week. as you said, ideas are easy to come up with and you need a group who can consider them and find the obvious (to someone) flaws within them.that is what the csm is, not devs, they are a group who evaluate ideas put forward by the players, they take the best (as they see it) forward to the ccp. at the same time ccp brings ideas and plans to csm and again, the csm gives opinions. the nda is the bidg fly in this ointment as some of the things the csm sees is not reported back to us. but you have to see it from ccp's view. they are a business . . . giving away future plans is not always good for it and we can be a rabid pack of dogs who take the slightest mention of something as eityher a promise of nirvana or the voice of dooooooom. ((see the reactions to incarna, captains quarters and jump bridges for examples))i agree lowsec needs fixing but i am not sure that an economist is the right guy to consult for the repairs. maybe a biologist or a psych major. re-balance the predator prey or alter the perceptions af risk/reward.m"
"out of curiosity, how would you react to a proposal to bring back the -small- chance of inventing a bpo in modern research? that would make the argument moot without the removal of anything . . . and inviting me to argue for the removal in that thread where you said . . . um, no. i am not prone to feed trolls more than their basic daily requirements.m"
"thanks for standing for csm, mike!hope to see you reporting from reykjavik some day soon :)"
"i was talking about blurring the boundary, not moving it. but i like your idea too. sounds harder to implement, but i'm almost certain i'd find it endlessly exciting to never know for sure what the security status of a system would be tomorrow. i'd definitely live out on a fringe world, just for the thrill of being hurled out into lowsec every now and then (without actually moving, too) but against my will. and i can see it now that the naysayers will claim over fire and brimstone that half of highsec space will become uninhabitable. but that's impossible, because the amount of \"lowsec ganks\" in any area will be limited.if your idea were made real, i'd want what i said also applied, that the security status levels would mean a lot more from one number to the next. that could make systems averaging 0.5 security even safer than with my proposal, as any sharp-minded player can clearly see that that system doesn't have a lot of ganking going on in it if it's to remain at that security level for so long.perhaps ccp would chart out the average amount of ganks per day/week/month per pilot for each security status level increment and use those values to plot a graph that gives each system a number of ganks to expect, depending on the number of pilots in the system. then, at downtime, each system will count up the average number of pilots throughout the day and the total ganks, and adjust its security status down if the gank total is under, or up if it's over. systems close to the top or bottom of security status numbers would vary only slightly, while systems on the \"fringe\" would change rapidly on a day-to-day basis. ah, but you got the ol' hamster wheel turning inside my head. thanks for that.i find this quote interesting. i don't currently have any solutions to offer to that extent, but it'll likewise get me thinking."
"i'm not exactly referring to the csm letter so much as most of the responses in this thread. you know when incarna was first announced five years ago, i remember there being very little objection, i didn't see much support but the \"this is a spaceship game\" bitter vets mostly kept to themselves except for the odd post. back then there was no capital sunk into incarna, we weren't just about to receive the product.now skip ahead to about a year ago. incarna is about a year from it's initial release we now know. three to four years of development time, resources and capital already in use and suddenly the player base unites against the concept?there was a time when we could have stood up and said no, that time has long gone. the product is here, get over it. it will barely effect you if you don't want to use it. if you feel the need to quit over incarna then go have fun trying other mmo's. i did that for a year starting last july and i found myself coming back to make a new character simply because i couldn't find an mmo that satisfies like eve.incarna is coming, you should have spoken up four years ago when it was reasonable for ccp to drop the idea."
"thanks for getting these points out in the open for all to see. those of us who have followed the csm's attempts over the past year have been tracking this, but other players may not have noted the true depth of worry around incarna. frankly, if incarna is to be taken seriously by the player-base, there had better be one helluva huge reveal at this year's fanfest. otherwise, i am going to add this to the long list of semi-implemented bits n' pieces i've seen from ccp since i joined back in 2008. faction warfare = failbig industry expansion => orcaplanetary interaction => clickfest, or as my wife, an avid facebook gamer, noted - \"it's more boring and uglier than farmville.\" pi 2 replaced clickfest with annoying processes = failincursions = happen in only six (6!) random (<cough> bs flag) constellations with little or no impact on the vast amjority of playerswe've seen so many half-delivered promises and this is shaping up to be another one. i appreciate good marketing like the next player, but at least all those had quite a bit of planning and some semblence of intent before being released and abandoned. so, based on ccp's previous history, i'm just not going to hold out much faith this expansion will be any different and given the lack of planning, is on track to be worse."
"i would imagine that before the june minutes were released most people like myself thought incarna would be a 6 month of work and then release deal of like everything else ccp had done. as soon as the players found out that it was going to take 18 months and the rest of eve was to be pretty much abandoned during that time there was the uproar. no one is necessarily united against incarna as a normal release. but its obviously just sort of a graphical update to improve immersion for eve. its not going to add anything of substance to the actual game and abandoning eve for 18 months is a long time for that. it should be not have been a surprise this was not going to make players happy.now we have this csm letter talking about fleshing it out even more  ie longer than 18 months?? sorry, that really sucks for those of us who like to fly space ships. it has already been 3 years and fw occupancy still needs 3 or 4 iterations due to it being broken. everyone acknowledges it is broken. dominion is only half implemented and then will like need fine tuning. no one is really fighting like they used to before. the great wars are in the past history. now you hear more about bots than anything else happening in null sec. and the devs are developing dresses and hair bows instead of new ships. or worse they trying to figure out what sort of gameplay they can bring with incarna. some players complain that they want to punch and shoot at each other. but really that is not how wars in this sci fi universe are fought. we have clones and huge space ships! you dont fight spaceships by kicking them or shooting them with pistols. i would just ask anyone who wants more than just the basics in incarna: how much more time do we need to wait? we have stuck it out for the 18 months. players have already been waiting 3 years for a fix to faction war. do we need to wait another 3 years? really, those who want more out of incarna, i just want to know how long the vast majority of resources will be tied up with incarna. in june 2010 i was told they would be tied up until december of 2011. i wasnt happy but i swallowed it. if they are going to do more fleshing out of incarna before they get to any of the broken features i try to interact with in game, i just want to know how much longer this will take. if csm is just complaining that incarna isnt good enough for them and they expect more in the same amount of time, well i think that is a bit unrealistic. i dont know allot about this but i do see that ccp has made these incarna characters look better than any other game i have seen. if it were easy to do this in a mmo, dont you think lots of games would look that good? that time was spent and they created something really top quality. no you cant punch a pirate or shoot someone. but that is not how the wars are won here. lets just let them get it out and get back to spaceships. then as time passes if good ideas come up for it great. but lets not try to force creativity. the basics are great for incarna. its looking really nice. thats fine for now. they can add stuff later."
"there's nothing in this that wasn't obvious to most people the day the vamps-in-stations tech demo was announced, but despite that i can still imagine ccp devs all sitting around a table tucking into their rotted shark and rolling their eyes at all those silly eve players who lack their 'vision'.honestly i hope they just get the damn thing out as quickly as possible and with as little damage to the existing station interface as possible. that way they can forget about it as quickly as possible, just like every other expansion feature of recent years."
"after doing the candidate analysis survey at"
"you can vote right now, i'd like you to consider the following :what will a csm with 9 0.0 players in it, 6 of them for the sake of their powerbloc will bring to eve ? probably the end of the csm (or turning back to a csm with no power at all), ccp considering it lost in initial purpose -to represent the player-, and turned into another meaningless lobby : except it has no real power apart from what ccp decides.use your vote in a good way, vote for me , to keep the csm representative !"
"i agree, got my vote. sadly i have but one account with which to vote with, but i'll vote for you. would be good to see some fresh unjaded input into the csm. o7"
"i'm honoured :)and i hope all of you, empire players who feel distant from other csm candidates -be it because you don't fly a nyx, don't have 10b in your wallet...- , or 0.0 players tired of 0.0 as it is enjoyed right now by powerblocs -rents, politic immobility due to napfest- and thinking it need a fresh look on it, will consider voting for me."
"bump!"
":tumbleweed:"
"twiglets sold me tbh.+1 vote grats !"
"protip> windy already has enough votes to be in the csm vi grats to windy on the election"
"you're right. i reckon 3 votes just about seals it."
"morsus mihi candidates were always 100% on the task preventing ccp to screw this game even more.mm candidate had my vote this time too"
"there's two weeks of this to go. don't forget to keep reminding corp and alliance mates to get out and vote."
"good question reaver!helen's reply above clears up a bit of the mud. while it isn't sufficient to convince me to that side of the fence it does somewhat put things into overall perspective. going into that further, i am not personally fond of the cynical attitude presented right from the beginning by helen's goonswarm.com post yet we have to take into account that he's been there and i have not.would i pick up a torch and yell \"lynch!\" ? not at this stage. however, you will not see me pressing support pamphlets into the hands of pods and podettes either."
"\"few\"?!?! have you not been to jita lately, say in the past few years?"
"my friend drove drunk and injured two people after i had offered and was on my way to pick him up. he's serving a year for felony hit and run. i happened to be first on the scene immediately after the crash. am i equally responsible for his actions?"
"you sir are mad."
"tbh i rather vote for mittani then any of ther other fake candidates. in fact, i already did, with all my accounts.and what do you got against goons? really? they are enjoying the game as much as any of us, in fact maybe even more sometimes because of their community. you an angry bob alt or something that lost to them?"
"ccp games presents an official trailer."
"oh gee, i don't know. maybe we should ask all the people goons recruitment scammed, or try reading about them saying all they care about is griefing other gamers."
"and how is that differet from other players in eve, exactly? i know i have scammed my fair share, and i have killed my fair share of noobs and empire newbs as well. made me quite rich actually. i know i go out and shoot random people for fun, and have gotten a few billion isk just dropped in my lap.but do you honestly think goons want to ruin a game they spend so much time playing? you are just trying to portrey them as the bad guys, and all they do is bad, regardless.sure, they like doing things like blowing up graveyards and whatnot, but so what? its their right to do as they see fit in the \"sandbox\" that is eve. why do they need to conform to your arbitrary standards? don't like them? start your own alliance and go after them."
"if you don't scam in eve you're not doing things right."
"remember that time our last ceo announced on video that we played this game to ruin your game?good times, good times"
"remember that time you lead the largest coalition of players in the game into the largest war in eve and won?neither do i."
"i should be called king more often, it's got a ring to iti listened to this recording and enjoyed it immensely (start at 16:00). did you, rgarcia?"
"after a bit of thought, i cast my vote for little mittens. why? like him or not, he is one of those guys that have stood out in this game; his force of personality has shaped/swayed/changed many apsects of the eve sandbox.so what will he do if he becomes a csm member? his ego certainly can't get any bigger (maybe his milky white breasts will though). but, he will definitely be an agent of change. no doubt in my mind. i'll go as far to proclaim that he will be the most influential csm member in the history of eve. bar none.will it be better for the game? don't know about that one, but one thing is certain (for me anyway), if he ruins everything, i'll have a valid reason for cancelling my accounts."
"anyone who was dumb enough to get scammed deserved it."
"hi, i have encountered many dishonourable people in our alliance. many of them are rude, uncultured and often infantile. this is a reflection on a community in a game called eve online, but that is not your complaint. i would like to ask you a question. you see someone on a sportsfield shoulder charge an opponent who is off the ball. if the game is called 'american football' then it is fine, because the rules allow it. if the game is called 'soccer' then it is not ok, because the rules do not allow it. eve online has rules. anything that is not forbidden is allowed, and scamming is as legitimate a form of income as suicide ganking, or even running missions and mining. do not complain when people play by the rules. if you dislike them, play a different game that suits your delicate sensibilities. the best advocate on the csm will be someone who knows how the game actually works, and for that reason i'm voting for ron."
"the only thing worse than pubbies crying about ehonor is the people who respond by defending it by saying its part of the game in a boring professor tone instead of sheer mockery"
"scamming is a part of eve. a dirty part but a part nonetheless. but scamming is wrong to do. but everyone plays eve for different reasons. however, i don't want the head scammer himself representing me and all of eve. he has no right too. he hasn't earned it. what has he done to deserve it? nothing. he has no respect for others and now wants people to respect him. so back to the same question, why should a scammer, the head scammer, get the honor of csm? he shouldn't."
"he's gonna"
"maybe. depends on who votes. if people stand up and make the statement \"you are not deserving\" to all scammers and vote accordingly he will lose. but if people don't vote and all goons do it comes down to a numbers game."
"if you'd like i can ensure that happens, though i'll need you to front some isk for the gotv campaign"
"you misspelled e-hounoure."
"not voting for mittani because the goons scam is not a bright idea.not voting for mittani because he's a useless sack of sh*t, however, is. that said, in the end it's just a game. a fantastic game, but a game nonetheless. mittani and his friends on the csm is almost guaranteed to produce some quality internet drama if little else. alex has promised us that he will use his awesome \"words have power\" technique to twist ccp to do his bidding. also be interesting to see if alex and co can refrain from the mobbing in rl or if they'll do a more elaborate version of mazz's sulky spoilt teenage princess routine if things don't go their way."
"i actually liked his article a while back with the \"corruption\" expansion idea. (boosting lowsec)hope he influences a little more development in that area when he's csm chair.dispite many peoples distaste for goons. from my point of view, mittani seems to have more insight and embrace for the spirit of the game than most.my 5cents"
"i got some unused shiny votes. make your offer."
"provide your comments on this tread here and get the chance to win free stuff.there is a lot of trust issues with buying votes. my offer from last csm still stands."
"i am a honest businessmen. you pay isk, i vote. it's called a win-win situation."
"you got my vote(s) as well. this is an important issue. i would use linux if the game were easier to run on it. even if you don't win, ccp should be made aware that there still are folks out here that, even though are not currently using linux, wish to do so. all my attempts to use linux+eve have failed; exacerbated by the number of eve patches. any number of votes for your position shows the desire for linux support is still a valid/relevant issue.good luck!"
"as long as eve runs just fine on wine (and indeed, it does as far as my experiences go). i see no reason to try and force ccp into spending precious manpower on a native client. i'd rather those people were occupied on making the game in general better."
"i used to run eve on linux, and the cedega integration was awful. the eve client is not linux native, period. i had best performance running eve on wine, the linux client sucked hard. i think that the linux client was only for the small part of the linux users that are too lazy to use wine."
"thread lacks meat and potatoes.what are three items you want to change or bring to the table at csm.what is your position in eve? who do you represent?"
"we are all excited about the 3d virtual world that eve is going to introduce in the future but first we shoul have the programmers fix the current problems and focus on the dynamics, engineering of the game! they fixed a lot of things for pirates and gankers but what about miners and industrialist? as we all recall we had a equal choice of choosing a profession when we first started the game! when did the programers become prejudice against the industrialist? while pvp is a favorite amongst many players those players make up the majority of the game. we must keep an equality of all professions in the game! it is not always about fighting and having wars, it's about peace and diplomacy. human decency and clear communication is the key for a growing game such as eve.<U+FFFD>i also believe that attention to details is as much important to every players choice of employment in eve.<U+FFFD>example. the graphics collisions are packets that travel over a network to your computer and back to their network hub. depending on the amount of hops it has to take! the packets in the eve game are really good but only if the engineers work on the compression. pvp has evolved so much that this game has become the best at person to person realtime fighting. but wait that's pvp! they have forgotten about industialist and the pos stations.<U+FFFD>pos: the force field is pretty cool but man does it lag peoples processor so much that it takes longer to get a blueprint in to research. it is really annoying for players and has been going on for years, no changes have been made to organize these packets. this is why you need to vote for me because i know how a game works!thinking of the little people: the poor people of eve! no job, disabled, bed ridden, college student they all don't have the money for the latest computer in gaming! i know the feeling because i too have an older model computer. we need to fight together as a team! if you vote for me i will fight for you and making sure you will not be left behind! \"together we fight, divided we fall\"<U+FFFD>when i become csm 6 i will listen to your evemails and i will convo you for any situation that needs to be fixed or feel that needs to be done. i will not promise you the sun because i cant give it to you but i can promise i will work hard for you and try to find a solution to your problemknowledge is power! vote for mjjackson for csm6this ad has been aproved by candidate mjjackson."
"we play ccp's game. i am a fan of this game.if i wasn't, i wouldn't play anymore. i am glad we have a say in the direction eve may take in the future, i.e. csm. -that is part of the reason i like and play the game.moreover, i am doubly glad that ccp has -as big of- and hopefully a bigger view of eve than alot of our players seem to have.i want eve to be big. if that means encompassing multiple consoles, multiple genres, i.e. rp/fps/spase pew pew whatever, i support it. i want it to be a great game. i want it to suprise me in the future like it suprised me when i discovered the game."
"let me put it this way. i don't really care about the dust, since i don't even have a console, neither i plan to buy one. for me, as an eve player and a member of a csm, the words \"ccp team is working on the dust link\" means that ccp team is working on a combat system for pi, that i am waiting for almost a year. for me, as an eve player, there is no difference, if the combat system gets a random number generated or linked from the dust database instead, and as for the dust itself, that is another developer working on it and it doesn't takes eve developers resources from me. so the dust is out of my concerns."
"please vote for a candidate anyone that has as a part of his or her platform an anti-botting policy. opps, sorry about that. most of the player base is currently botting, knows someone that bots, or doesnt care. plus, ccp likes it too much."
"can i vote with my multiple alts, or is that only one vote per human?"
"one vote per account as i understand it."
"depends, if you mean alts as in separate paying accounts, yes.if you mean the three characters within one account, no.each account gets a vote, doesn't matter who is behind said account. feel free to cast many votes in my direction if you have many accounts.mike azariah(also would appreciate a single vote if that is all you have)m"
"ummm, yeah.... err, how do i respond to that...? i don't fly supercarriers, and so have not dropped supercarriers on any hulls, let alone cruiser hulls, regardless of what some of the thousands of others in my alliance may or may not have done. following on from that, you should vote for me because i have a fairly solid understanding of logic seriously though, while i haven't been able to experience all aspects of eve, particularly those things limited to certain levels of skillpoints (like flying supercarriers), i have delved into every aspect that i can to see what it's like, even if it doesn't particularly interest me (eg mining, pi, spying). regardless of whether or not i personally enjoy an activity, i will try it because what i do particularly enjoy is analysing game play.because of that i have a broad understanding of all aspects of eve which i look at with a critical (often pedantic, part of being an academic) eye. i really like what ccp have done with this game even if some aspects don't specifically appeal to me because what they have created draws in so many people.i recognise eve as being built from the ground up to be a massively multiplayer online game, unlike many which are online, with massive numbers of players all engaged in a singleplayer experience (i'm looking at you wow). the things that people often gripe about (afk cloaking, can flipping, suicide ganking) are mechanics that encourage player cooperation (to defend against in these examples). this to me is what makes eve special, and i will fight to preserve that.amongst many other reasons of course, so just vote for me already!edit: typo"
"so what are the csm's going to do about this buffer because its the most important issues to 60% of the pvp world esp the black op pilots. if you want to improve the game you have to improve the ships that the eve players want."
"where did you get that figure of 60%? also, my experience in software development has confirmed what i learnt doing my degree - what people say they want and what they really want/need are not always the same thing."
"there are problems with blops, but fuel and range isn't it.- the fueling issue has been tweaked already, and on top of that you can jump blockade runners (of which tier one can warp cloaked).- the jump range issue is not something that bothers me at all, considering i'd like eve to retain some sense of scale and range. not to mention that the ships can jump ships into cyno jammed systems.their problem lies in actual combat effectiveness.they have less than t1 raw hit points, weaker grids, and for the most part poor damage/tank ratios.at their very best they are expensive substitutes for their t1 counterparts, only with a cloak and cyno."
"i agree with prom here.the jumping fuel/range thing is a none issue, it is just they are toothless, glass ships at the moment. no i have no objection to a ship being 1 of those things but never both.speaking personalyl i would love to see them buffed with more damage and a damage buff for the first 60-90 seconds after coming out of cloak, but to leave leave them at no more (or only slightly more) effective hp than the tech 1 ships. bigger and tougher is not always needed if you have options.i would love to be in small gangs of these ships that get behind lines and wreck havoc on the opposition's support, but at the moment the firepower and fragility of these ships does not really support it."
"feel free to check out my campaign thread, bo boosts are one of my top items. to be clear... no csm candidate can promise to get them fixed, buffed, or anything... but i can, as well as others, promise to continue to drive the point that has been made clear in previous csm's and the community for almost 2 years now. as a bo and bo bomber pilot i do want to see them used more."
"thank you all for posting your thoughts and what you tend to do, however i have now made my vote,this thread is now closed again thank you.wolftin21"
"i am arguing that you cannot provide 'complete context' despite linking the thread since your interpretation necessarily modifies the context, in addition to not actually being complete.that is to say, even if one were to say that the reader who somehow encounters that thread would be able to achieve the complete context... by prefacing it with your interpretation you are modifying the context in which the reader reads the text.it is, however, not the complete context. if you wish to define complete context to only cover the text, well that's your prerogative however not everyone shares that same view. i don't know what kind of soft philosophical classes you were exposed to while studying law (hi mittens-alt), however on my side completeness is a term used carefully.i'd go so far as to say that the complete context is not possible to recreate, not even for the author when he later rereads his own text.oh, and vote trebor!"
"oh....my....god. walls of text and vitriol flying everywhere. you'd almost think that the us presidential election was underway.i see some folks acting like grownups (well like grownups are supposed to act), and others doing their best to tear things down. hmmmm - lets see, who to support?answer - i'll go with the rational grownup trebor, regardless of whether he knows it all. he doeesn't, and doesn't pretend to either from what i've seen. good luck, and please keep all these forums and posts going. i have lots of popcorn left."
"that's a pejorative argument for the exact philosophical reasons you detail below and i offered previously.it is, however, not the complete context. if you wish to define complete context to only cover the text, well that's your prerogative however not everyone shares that same view. i don't know what kind of soft philosophical classes you were exposed to while studying law (hi mittens-alt), however on my side completeness is a term used carefully.i'd go so far as to say that the complete context is not possible to recreate, not even for the author when he later rereads his own text.i have never claimed to be a lawyer, and in fact am not. i've addressed the mittens' alt accusations as well. you aren't helping your case any by resorting to those tactics either.the end result is that this is a discussion of political, and not philosophical matters. given the tendencies for political punditry to focus on key phrases or buzzwords as opposed to contextual quotations, i'd say that what i provided was as complete as one can reasonably expect to be.that said, the koolaid runs deep in this one, likely for the same reason that i'm bellied up to the mittens/vr/krutoj bar and enjoying my nullsecbloc flavored grape drank as well.you're welcome, as always, to try and address the issues raised, and encouraged to pester trebor to actually answer to the accusation, as i believe i've shown myself to be of reasonable demeanor and capable of rational conversation. i'd love to see trebor respond to these and i'm sure many of the unsure voters would benefit from the exercise."
"simply searching for \"macro\" on the candidates page i find four who explicitly address macro use, in that medium alone.i'm unclear about your concern...?"
"thank you for illustrating a vital role of csm - filtering the ignorant illiterate wall-of-text posting from bothering ccp. csm needs people who can critique and clearly communicate ideas, so that ccp can get on with solid development rather than filtering through keyboard diarrhoea.griefing, stealing, scamming, piracy, looting, and pretty much everything you have mentioned are an integral part of the game. without pirates, who would pirate hunters hunt? without griefers, who would the heroes protect the innocent from? if you've been playing this game for 5 years and haven't worked this out......then again, there are also the forum trolls."
"/signed"
"i'm an indecisive person and i would love to change my name. i'm supporting this."
"seriously is it that hard to fix? font should be bigger and better. it's very difficult to distinguish between il1 89 b6 and so on. i check wide font option in settings and it helps somewhat, but font still looks horrible"
"fully supported."
"1.0"
"i suport this as well but i have one question why the heck do t2 ships have only 2 rig slots makes no senceto have a more advanced ship with less slots then a t1 ccp realy didn't think that one through i think"
"actually it does, wolf... rig slots are supposed to reflect the amount of jury rigging a hull can withstand. the \"i'll tweak this here to get it to do what it's not designed to do\" kind of modifications. so, it makes perfect sense that a more advanced ship, built to higher specs and tolerances, would allow for fewer on-the-fly modifications.well, makes sense to me...oh, yeah, and support for the op!"
"actually the jaguar was one of the reasons why the ab bonus didn't left sissi back in the days(reaching over 4k with a bit of pimp, heavy tanked and unscramble)."
"then nerf matar"
"many ships have bad bonuses and should be dealt with. however, to address the current issue, yes, af's are mostly shunned because there is always some better ship for the job.frankly, i think the 4th bonus should complement inteceptor role, not compete for the role. so no warp scramble or mwd bonus, please.af's need more dps, so a straight damage bonus on a real weapon system (not rate of fire or useless weapon bonus) with the goal that each af can deal as much damage as a daredevil or a dramiel or at least a taranis.otherwise, you might sell the enyo's and hawk's as hot dog stands."
"fix hybrids"
"hey skinsin, you forgot to hit the \"support\" button. lol"
"all capitals must be massive, not bs sized. so far only the titans are.+1"
"i agree totally, which is why i said earlier that i would support an increased damage nerf should target prioritisation become a reality and besides, in my mind it would only be applicable for targetting npc ships, not player ships."
"very true, but in their current form they're useless, you might as well not fire anything at all.at least remove their ability to target lco's and the like."
"another good point. i would in all honesty be happy with this, at a minimum. would you care to support this proposal, kind sir?"
"a suggestion like that would allow them to effectively be targeted missiles in pvp. i'm a big fan of making fofs not useless, but i'm not so sure about this particular boost.-liang"
"quite frankly the dramy is op i meen come on i can run lvl 3 missions in it and just kite the npc's while my t2 hobs do the killin boring but i also agree that there has been to much nerfing already un nerf the ships and mods especaly the drake come on who's stupid idiea was it to nerf a ship thats ment to be a tank all this whineing nerf this nerf that makes me sick it's no wauner councel games are more fun only reason i even have to play eve any more is for my friends so it is now nothing more then a paid chat site like yahoo or facebook mabe i'll run some missions or mine or even find some thing else to do in game but i wont enjoy the game i like i did when i first started so much has changed and not for the better captians corters whats that all these buggs and inballances and thats what they come up with i for one would rather see themfix some isiues with game play"
"i don't really understand all the buffs don't nerf debate. by either boosting or nerfing something you are changing the metagame in some way and everything shifts either upwards or downwards based on the outcome. it's clear that the frigate bracket is generally balanced as a whole, the only problem is the dramiel. why buff every single frigate in the game to match the dramiel, and then have to look at the ramifications of a power creep it has on other classes (are cruisers obsolete now that frigates are stronger? etc.) other than saying \"the glass is half full\" instead of half empty. not only are they more likely to screw something up and change the game balance drastically, but it will take about 20x as long for designers to do properly."
"the daredevil and cruor are more expensive than dramiels and they have weaknesses that can be exploited by other classes of ship. daredevil - no dual prop due to 3 mids if you're using the 90% web (you should), more commited in scram/web range in general. limited range, guns require cap, slower than speed fit interceptors making it more vulnerable to kiting outside web range. cruor - no dual prop due to 3 mids if you're using the 90% web, very slow (slower than some afs), no neut range bonus making it vulnerable to being kited at 6km+, neuts not very effective against ships like jaguar, hawk, hookbill, worm etc.i don't think price should be the only balancing factor, and as pointed out, the cruor and daredevil are indeed more expensive than the dramiel but also are generally balanced."
"actually all the frigate bracket is not generally balanced. t1 <interceptor and faction < asault frigates < pirate frigates (except maybe the succubus and worm which are weak)the problem is dramiels are oped compared to their sub-class of frigate - pirate frigates. if you give them a *slight* nerf and bump the other pirate frigates such as the worm and succubus you have some other variety for those who want to spend 100 million isk on a frigate. like you said the daredevil seems about right. make the other pirate ships about that powerful. trying to balance *all* the frigates so they are equal regardless of whether they cost 200k isk or 100 million isk is a bad idea."
"i would say get rid of them all to gether there useles except to watch them blow up and fix the insurance payout i meen you pay for full covrage insuranse platnum and get a noob ship civ gun char type specifec a civ miner and 1 trit plus fraction of what your ship mods and rigs cost then you gota turn around and spend hours to weeks mineing or doing missions to get enough isk to buy another ship. it makes no sence to pay 20 to 110 mill for a frig of any type and only get mabe 150 k and a noob ship for your purchase if my insurance company did that to me i would cancle them in a hart beat it's clear the insurance program wasn't realy thought out and no before you whienrs start bashing im not saying over pay on inshurance just make it worth geting it pay out with a better ship and closer to the cost of what you lost not some thing worthles and pay acording to the ship and fittings."
"that's because you aren't in your pod. guess what? capitain's quarters will probably eliminate the problem... at least something good can come out of incarna maybe?"
"ccp do some sodding balancing. hybreds should be the most commonly used weapon system being used by half the races in eve (the most popular used races too), yet few use them because they suck."
"don't want a top speed bonus and want an agility bonus instead? get a jump freighter./not supported due to it already existing."
"bump!!!!!!"
"i have to agree with this proposal there is so many pos off line now where ever you go in eve. just take one system (metserel) 23 pos 18 offline. times that by the rest of eve."
"if you really want that location, shoot the pos. mechanics are already in game to help you with this.there is no shortage of moons. additionally, this could be easily exploited through the use of an alt corp.these threads always just give me a vibe of \"i want free stuff.\"ps: war declarations are not costly. people are just lazy. towers are on the corp assets screen. if a corporation is no longer active (closed) you can petition ccp to remove it i believe. as for lag, there is no evidence that poss are contributing to the lag monster."
"i like #3-8. please look in to this ccp."
"all i'd like to see, is the ability to reprocess frozen corpses for frozen food."
"im a 3 year eve player and i have myshare of posts in the forum but this topic is by far the most irasponcible and down right prejeduce topic i have ever seen any one who agrees with this should be ashaimd and arested for hate crimes get a life plz it's a game after all and no one haht say where some one else can or cant post you make me sick"
"bump"
"as a keres pilot, i have to say that it seems a lot of you have never really flown an eaf before. the keres is a fun tackler with the ability to hold them down and not get shot at (assuming you have the right fitting, which someone hinted at earlier....small cap booster ftw). and for those of you suggesting a dps increase from the ewar frigs, they are not solomobiles. the eaf's role is ewar while the other fleet members take down the target. if you want a solo frig, then you need to fly interceptors.but......the ship does need some changes. the speed and the agility of the ship needs to be buffed. damps require you to keep range, but if you can't keep an orbit at 25km around a target so your damps actually do something, then it's not gonna do you any good. the other complaint is the ehp. if your strength in the ship comes from throwing damps and kiting the ship, i need to be able to survive long enough to pop their drones...aka not die in 3 vollies from a wave of warrior iis. better resist and more hp will make people fly the ship more."
"they are going to change the ui to be more like what, a windows taskbar? none the less, might as well hammer some logic into it.i'm calling low-hanging fruit on this."
"same as meta 0 modules: scram i, 7.5km 2 strength, or disruptor i, 20km 1 strength.1 free mid is fine, and making it slightly easier to kill pve fit is fine, at the tradeoff of making it possible at all to kill a pvp fit in it. more ship popping is what eve needs, regardless of which side."
"that's the same stat as the t1. in fact for the disruptor, it's the same stats as the meta 4. overpowered. do not support. lose the 2-point scram, reduce the 1-point to the same range as a t1 2-point and i would consider it."
"that's just dumb, i always try to warp if my ship is going down. usually align and overheat to try and outrun point. even if someone has a point on you stuff happens to get you free. you can pull enough range to get oor, they can cap out. as to the op's request i'm a bit torn on it. on one hand it would instantly upset the balance of the game. suddenly shield tankers would get a massive boost to their tanks of course this would be balanced a bit by giving armor tankers the ability to use their mids for different things (cap boosters, tracking comps,ewar, moar webs)it would definitely boost the hell out of the retribution which would suddenly become quite the solo boat. not to mention helping the 2 mid slot frigs as well. enyo/wolf with a web heheheh. such a change would also boost mwd's since more people would fit them on frigates since they'd be less likely to run into a scram. all that said having to make choices and sacrifices to achieve certain capabilities is an important part of the game. choosing to fit a point and which point to use is an important choice in the game, without points pvp doesn't happen so the choice has consequences. if you choose to not fit a point and count on a gang mate for tackle you get an advantage somewhere else in your fit for that advantage you trade the assurance that your enemy will stay around to die. making a point an integrated feature to all ships removes that choice and it's corresponding consequence.while it would be nice to balance things a bit between pvp and pve fits in the end though i think the idea would just create too many balance problems so ...not supported."
"wrong, those are the stats of meta 0 t1 mods. the worst mods in the entire game cannot be overpowered, unless you're looking for risk free kms against them. those stats are too low, to be viable, it needs to be more than meta 0. 7.5 km scram range of the meta 0 is too low to be viable, at least give it 9km or so."
"worst idea ever.i counter propose that only pods have built in warp scramblers lol.-still a horrible idea.not supported."
"support. it should have been on every ship in eve to begin with."
"while the idea has potential merit, it's too late in eve development to add such a thing. such fundamental design concept should have been added in beta, or not at all. it just changes the dynamics of pvp too much.if the purpose is to bring pve setups closer to pvp, the proper way to go would be to change npcs to be more like players - much smaller numbers, stronger attacks/defense, much shorter battles. and make npcs warp off when they get into hull, unless pointed"
"ok guys useing frigs in highsec wont work at all do to macro programing ease but bigger rats will put a major cramp in there day by bigger i meen like cruiser's and or the ocasional bs granted lower bounties the low or nullsec rats of course dont want them qqing that highsec is to opas for the rorqual leave it a lone it's ment to be the biggest for a reason if you make it smaller to fit in wh's you gota give up it's main purpos and that is a flag ship for industrial and combat operations"
"make those probable mining belts spawned with dynamic location, and not static like the current ones, too."
"what's the new policy, mal? i might be interested in subscribing to it too, if it's amusing enough."
"i'm assuming to support the proposal that salvaging flags you to the \"owner\" and thus resulting in an aggression timer. loot steal baiting meet salvage steal baiting. killmails to follow."
"never understood baiting in high sec.......i'm going to try it today in a mining system, ty.also, i've ninja salvaged before. the funniest part? seems like 75% of the time, instead of hitting a player, i'd hit a bot in a mission. they didn't particularly care if i thieved from them"
"what hilarity? mission runner shoots you, your salvage boat escapes, they dock up and bring their own pvp ship out and gank the hell out of you because you think all mission runners are carebears. or they dock up, come out in a cheap frig, let you nail them kill rights, and hunt you down when you are salvaging or transporting goods.yes, please change it."
"there wouldnt be any kill rights if they shoot you, only if he ganks you."
"well said makes no sence to give them another way to bait people only thing to do is make it harder to scan them down i myself and pretty good at scanning but i dont mess with missioners i would rather hit a complex and get much better salvage and loot if any thing ccp should give more incentive to run complexes in highsec as of now they are far and few between for any decent ones in the years that i have been playing i have been scaning for about 2 mabe 3 months and only scanned down 1 decent complexso i say lets increase the sawn rate of them or give corps a and alliances a low or nullsec system off highsec of there own to work with free from invasion oh wait cant do that pvp wine fest there"
"give them what they ask for and then laugh cruelly as they regret it forever."
"i'm down with that."
"forgot to support before"
"a lot of the times you can't be close enough to see the ships you are shooting at. why not replace the ship icons with the \"look at\" camera and increase the size of the window? of course this function should be optional.(another example would be the cameras in x3 terran conflict: see here youtube - x3 terran conflict gameplay)"
"what i would love to see is a sytem wide scramer and webber over a jammer those to would be much more benificial to any corp or alliance in 0.0 to proteckt there main system and it should be deplyod at the pos like the turets and other pos defencis but instead of just targeting one ship at a time there system wide bubblesthat only corp or alliance members could warp in"
"can we extend the request to japan too... looks pretty devastating."
"wow, that is a fantastic idea.. i support it 100%"
"i support the idea of revamping corp permissions. i'm personally fond of a unix like group based permissions system.... it seems a bit easier to understand. as an added bonus, there's tons of documentation out there explaining it already.-liang"
"eve doesn't allow enough departmentalization at the corp level."
"i voted for mittani. cus i did. i do not endorce this lie. ccp already have a census thing going on, it's the fricken forums you're using right now.pff."
"i support this product and or service.and i used the whip on my slave to type it faster."
"i'm voting for the op because of the awesome portrait"
"wat?"
"i support this product and or service."
"i support this product and or service."
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support you!!!!!"
"i support this product and or service."
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"soi decided that due to the intense seriousness of this politicianthere needed to be a suitably serious ad.this is that campaign ad.(here's looking at you, barry goldwater)"
"vote match said you were the closest one who shared my views although sadly i had already voted by the time i did the vote match, good luck though, some nice ideas, i dont agree with everything you said but majority of the stuff is decent"
"on behalf of witchkingofangmari support this product and or service"
"you were very consistent, in taking full advantage of that bug/exploit for months.i don't call that a mistake."
"thread title should state: [csm 6] two step exploits in a wormhole, do you?"
"i understand some folks are still upset about the whole tracking disrupter thing, but i think i have covered this pretty thoroughly on my blog. if you don't like it, don't vote for me, but there is no need to keep posting the same thing over and over again."
"pretty thoroughly? if you mean basically saying 'it wasn't me gov' is thorough, then you did a great job in that blog.you and your corp are nothing but cheating exploiters and now you want in on the csm for insider knowledge. i'd hate to think what you'd do with that."
"good luck two step"
"raised several times as in: they kept making petitions with different wordings until they found a gm who didnt understand the issue and gave them permission after having a list of gms declaring it an exploit.@two step, even if we ignore that you used it during pvp (honestly i dont get why it would matter if you used it before rnk came or not, you used it in pvp) is it a correct deduction then that you think botting is okay since it is only used for pve?if people vote for k162 members then that is their choice, but they lose the right to complain when exploits are used (against them) imo."
"again, if you read my blog, that isn't what happened. no, that isn't correct. botting is clearly against the eula. people should be perma-banned for doing it. period, end of story.oh of course, that makes perfect sense.look, one of the criteria for being allowed to run as a csm is that you cannot have any serious warnings or bans against your account. ccp has allowed me to run, therefore *they* consider me not to have been found guilty of exploiting. i understand that people are concerned about the whole thing, and as i have said many many many times by now, it was clearly a mistake, both by me personally and by the corp as a whole. what i am asking is that i am judged only on my personal mistakes, which is that i didn't ask clearly enough about exactly what the gms said when we were told it was ok to use tracking disruptors."
"vote to re-elect mayor goldie wilson!"
"um, thanks for the obscure back to the future reference. is there some meme going around that i missed?"
"i voted for you, hope you win!"
"go jonathon!!!"
"you got my vote.. good luck!"
"the questions didn't match my campaign, so i did not participate.next year i would like to see some other questions in vote match or have the community pick the questions.kind regards.ms pacman"
"well.. appreciate the insight; but that was absolutely useless for me.best match was mike azaria at 63%; and down the list from there. the problem however, is that each canditate; either feels strongly, opposing me, about something, or identifies something as important, while opposing my opinion. some of these are non-issues; but others, i can't agree with. good.. good.. goo.. bad.. bad.. bad... crap! which tells me i shouldn't vote for anyone. nerf titan jump bridges? couldn't care less! nerf sov jump bridges? you bet your ass!ccp should spend all it's time improving nullsec? not likely.ccp should develop an entire expansion to improving the ui? i'm sure trebor would love this; i however, do not, and think not. some time? part of an expansion? sure, why not...oh yeah.. let's make everything keyboard short cut's, and clickies; so it can be fully hackable. good idea! yeah.. right. i don't think so.let's see.. what else was there?how about, a monthly rebalance of ships and weapons? nope. i agree, it should be done; but i'm not going to agree with anyone who feels strongly about it; much less, concludes that it is 'very important.' once would be great; followed again, in six years, or six months. whichever comes first...let's not waste any more time than we have too.lot's more. can't remember it all.site was running fine by the way; didn't have any lag whatsoever. ..maybe it was just quiet time :)cheers,temon"
"filled in form, hit submitgo back, form's reset. rage!"
"if the website had not excluded certain candidates, it would be very nice. it is really the only mechanism that tells you how these candidates will actually vote on proposals. the campaign posts herein jita are mostly fluff. of course if someone says they disagree that ccp have one thing be a priority over all others and you think they should  well that may cause a big discrepancy in the percentage. maybe that candidate thinks ccp should spend allot of their time on that but not more than everything else therefore they disagree. it was pointed out that these sorts of questions cause problems to the mechanic if they are answered honestly. so you have to sort it out for yourself and not just go by the percentage. if someone agrees agrees strongly to one thing being a priority over everything else then the only truly honest answers to the rest these sorts of priority questions would be disagree or disagree strongly. but that doesnt necessarily give an accurate overall reading of their perspective."
"oh god the website is telling me to vote for seriousinternetpolitician.com."
"make your vote serious,even if your drugged up delirious,i can't tell if trebor is trolling,but i guess that how hes a'rolling"
"that dev wouldn't voom if you put a million volts through him..!"
"ok, time for the long version. though i admit, i had to cut the 2nd and 3rd stanza's of the original, too hard to tie into the theme and not enough coffee yet.there are traders in the world, there are miners.there are carebears and pirates and then,there are those that follow the mittani, buti've never been one of them. every vote is sacred,every vote is great!if a vote gets wasted,oveur gets quite irate!every vote is sacred,every vote is great!if a vote gets wasted,oveur gets quite irate!let the bittervets waste theirsby staying unsubscribed.oveur shall make them pay foreach vote that's not applied!every vote is wanted,every vote is good,every vote is needed,oveur says vote you should.scammers, gankers, botters,cast theirs just anywhere.but oveur loves those who treat theirballots with more care.every vote is sacred,every vote is great!if a vote gets wasted,oveur gets quite irate!every vote is wanted,every vote is good,every vote is needed,oveur says vote you should.every vote is useful!every vote is fine!oveur needs everybody's...mine... and mine... and mine!let the spam alts spill theirs,o'er jita, curse, and domain,oveur shall strike them down foreach vote that's cast in vain.every vote is wanted,every vote is good,every vote is needed,oveur says vote you should.every vote is sacred,every vote is great!if a vote gets wasted,oveur gets quite irate!"
"be involved! the csm is here to represent your ideas and feedback to ccp. you pay your monthly subscription, you spend time online, now have your voice heard. the are many candidates running, one of us is sure to have the same ideas that you have. get out there and vote!"
"something's wrong here :/"
"and now in ha<U+FFFD>ku :just when spring startsvoting will come to an enddemocracy win"
"ccp turns thread into a charlie sheen quote-fest, three posts in. well done, sir, well done."
"thank you sir, may i have another?"
"grrr shhhhh !! -go take a look at my hybrids !-nice idea this thread"
"i noticed that ms pacman can use even more votes"
"yeah, i'm still not seeing what you're getting at as both of those lines are in the quoted part of my post. if there was a character mish-mash between the copy-paste from goonfleet.com to eveo, i was unaware of it and any undesired changes to the formatting were unintentional.it's sort of hard to **** up a copy-paste mechanic, especially since i did it twice, but if you're hung up on that then i doubt there's much i could do to satify your need to troll this thread."
"\"'pinball' style doomsday weapon\". where did i even suggest that he was looking to turn eve into a piball game?if that was my biggest complaint then i would have focused on it. it was included in a list of bad ideas he had brought up.dedicated individuals could crack the encryption, client-side, leading to significant advantages. you think monkeysphere's invisible-in-local stunt was bad? this would be much much worse.hang on, let me titan-cannon a hundred alts in newbie frigates on your fleet and **** you, we'll continue this discussion when you load in station.i'll just wrap up a couple hundred construction blocks and issue a contract called caldari navy raven for 700m isk. trust me, it's a navy raven in there.due to the limitations of post length i'll have to address the rest of your post in a follow up. it'll be posted shortly."
"someone else posted a decent retort to this point, but for the record i'll just put out there that there are very few ways to survive a gate camp and without an in-game means of determining what's on the other side of a gate before you jump through. making any changes to further limit survivability options would be bad for the average eve player. furthermore, making recons and covops into invincible perma-cloakers instead of having the ridiculously short vulerability period they have now is also a bad idea. eve thrives on risk-versus-reward. implement this and you'd hardly ever see a person outside of a gang/fleet in anything other than a covops/recon, not to mention making it perfectly safe to transport high value items like bpos without risk.i mentioned in a previous post that i would have loved if he would address these points and even gave away a very powerful escape mechanism by mentioning that a reply to the tune of 'i used to think that but my experiences in x, y, z have changed my mind.'he hasn't bothered to reply to those, so for now i won't substitute an excuse for bad ideas.it's almost comedic how many 'funny' fix ideas turn into real implementation. perhaps an astute reader may catch on to this and say \"okay, so tongue-in-cheek reply on this one, but that's still one. bad. idea. which really only serves to further my original thesis that trebor is bad at eve and would be a bad choice when it came down to ccp saying 'hey, we want to do this next, what do you guys think?'neither really, as i've maintained decorum throughout this thread and have taken the time to address several people's posts with reasonable, constructive replies. catch-all commentary works well in caod, but it really undermines your credibility when you're trying to make a high road argument."
"alright alright. while i can agree with the op on a few points, i hardly think that bringing up a few examples of bad ideas in which are simply original suggestions that, indeed may sound stupid, but in my book \"and probably trebors as well\" just shooting ideas on the table, no matter how terrible they may sound can serve as starting points for other ideas, we all do that when brainstorming.and yea yea... trebor might not know eve as much as you or i, but we have to think on what exactly makes the difference between a good and a bad csm. your arguments against trebor are only one-dimensional as they attack his one major weakness, which in this case is probably game knowledge. but his many other qualities far outshine that. of course they're are plenty of csm that are probably more suited, but i disagree that this lack of knowledge is as detrimental to his abilities as csm as you believe it to be.the facts are indeed laid out, and now, the interpretation of these facts is what it's all about.another fact is that i can see a lot of agressivity towards trebor in the sense that you are trying to undermine his campaign by exposing his less pretty qualities. fair game, but still, all it is, is negative projection, just like negative advertising. cold hard fact or not, people's opinions about who makes a good csm is entirely subjective!"
"once again goons need to train up reading comprehension (if possible, which apparently it is not). i didn't like a lot of the ideas that were brought up; a lot of them have major issues. however, that wasn't the point of my post: my point is that you are intentionally misrepresenting him.typical goon behavior, but i figured that the casual reader, or one unfamiliar with the lameness of the goons in general, should be made aware of your stunts."
"shotgunning ideas is what you do when you're developing from the ground up. once your platform/program/presentation is framed up you stop throwing out random ideas and start working within constructs and limiters. people who continue to shotgun ideas after this stage are detrimental to the process and ultimately will cause delays due to investigations into plausibility of implausible or improbable functions or drama due to their ideas being summarily dismissed.this is business development 101 stuff, if you're interested i highly recommend checking out ted.com and watching some of their presentations on dynamic development process.this is where you and i are going to diverge on our opinions.i would hope for, and expect my csm reps to have outstanding knowledge of at least one major thematic 'area' of eve. whether that is mission-running, lowsec piracy, industry and marketing, 0.0 bloc politics, etc. i do not expect a csm rep to be an expert in all of these examples, or any other examples one may want to bring up. being highly knowledgeable in one area and perhaps familiar in one or two others would be fantastic, as that person would potentially have a very keen mind to any changes or additions that ccp may offer along the lines of or affected by whichever their area of expertise lies.someone who is verbose, charismatic and lacks understanding of many basic areas of eve would use the csm as an 'it's all about me' show (vis-a-vie jade constantine's run in csm 1). as a csm and a playerbase we've grown past that stage to the point where ccp is beginning to utilize the csm as a development partner, not just a focus group that they wind up ignoring afterwards. i want all of the csm reps, not just my favored few, to reflect this.i never presented my opinion as objective. i presented the sources/facts that laid the foundations of my opinion in an objective manner, but i was clear when i made my case that it was my subjective opinion behind the post.yes, this is a negative piece on trebor. he's had some very zealous sycophants giving his nether orifice a good tonguing for the last few weeks and it was clear that he was to be a crowd favorite. i chose to look into him to see what the hype was all about and was appalled at what i saw. the shock of it all led me to want to share my findings as i felt that others would feel equally duped by him and would help me to see better candidates to the csm this time around."
"you've made a point that i was misrepresenting him and have yet to back that accusation with anything resembling an argument, let alone a convincing one. it's hard to picture that taking someone's words within the context that they presented them, collating multiple instances of these, and presenting them as a theme is somehow misrepresentative. typical goon behavior would involve more **** jokes and 4chan memes. it's bad enough that you're making a horrible argument, but when you can't even identify what a 'typical goon' action is and see that what i'm doing here is extremely atypical i would question the basis of your understanding of politics and the electoral process and suggest that you may be too young or immature to contribute meaningfully."
"you saw that, huh?"
"the whole point, is that they are generalizing the goon mentality; and using that to discredit any argument you might put forward, as having evolved from the goon hive mind. they refuse to allow for the fact; that you are all indivduals, with different perspectives. that's typical, for trolling forum posts with propaganda; intended soley, to discredit the original author of the post, and any who agree with him/her.for all we know; the are all trebor's alt's. ..but that too; would be generalizing. trebor might not be a bad guy. for all we know, he just lacks the ability to communicate himself; and reach his intended audience, with a post that truly represents his point of view, and character. there is a software engineer, here in canada; that has developed a 'letter' editing tool, intended to eliminate an author's miscommunication of his intent. effectively, it pulls apart a post, letter, or other document; and analyzes it for communication of the idea's therein. once this is done, and the process has 'found' a typical audiences interpretation; it will communicate this to the author, and allow him to edit his writing, for better communication of idea's. thus, when he has finished his document; the intended audience should receive it, with little difficulty in understanding the intent behind it. useful tool.. wish i had one."
"if you can recall the engineer's name or company or the name of the software post it. that sounds intriguing."
"are you blind? your quote is 1,700 characters, with spaces. the actual quotation is 1,920 characters with spaces. this isn't about trolling, it's about outright lying and blatant misrepresentation, coupled with additional coping mechanisms to deny factual truth when caught.you've been busted. stop trying to hide it."
"after seeing a lot of johnathan walker posts this csm election, i mostly just want to know if he's a furry, a roleplayer, or a 'bear'. or some combination of all threethis is a pretty pressing issue, please address it"
"tell you what, how about you link me your source? i know exactly where i pulled mine from, and it's unaltered. link yours and we'll compare notes."
"sure, no problem.your postmittani's postapparently your post, in this same thread, but with additional contentsatisfied?"
"after all the drama that the goons and their bunnies have gone through to smear trebor, he could support replacing eve with ponies online and i'd still vote for him.fact is that the drama has almost certainly helped his campaign more that hurt it.what remains to be seen is what happens during csm6. it'll be interesting to see if alex and his boys can behave constructively or if they'll resort to the same sort of drama there that led earlier csms to irrelevance. vov"
"roleplayer = no\"bear\" = absolutely notfurry = this one amuses me. but no.-edit-someone who's not intimidated by fame/popular support and calls \"bs\" on brainwashing: hell yes."
"honestly, no. i did an overlay and all 3 posts have the exact same content with a very simple exception. after the 2nd paragraph there is a :cripes: in mittani's post that didn't appear in either of the ones you linked of mine.i have previously explained that :cripes: is an emoticon that we use on our forums and it doesn't translate here. i did include it in an additional copy/paste along with underlining two words to match the exact appearance of the post from goonfleet.comactually, i'm done trying to explain to you how copy/paste works. you're clearly getting angry because your trolling isn't working."
"wouldn't that imply that since eve is already created then we should try to stay as close to the original product as possible? of course improvement upon the already established system is what we want, but nothing says fresh ideas can't also be something to think about.drama due to their ideas being summarily dismissed really seems childish in a professional environment. i don't see a reason to get attached to ideas that were simply \"shotguned\" out there. also the csm does not have much say in suggesting full fledged solutions, ccp devs do that. i'm not that worried that it will cause much of a problem.i don't think it would be productive to argue about that since i do believe this is really a matter of opinion. the \"all about me\" factor, in my opinion, depends greatly on the csm's personality. it's not easy to measure when you base yourself on what they say, especially when the speeches are part of a politic-esque campaign.i laughed at this one, because it is indeed true. i do think that trebor does indeed get way more credit than he deserves, but then again, this does reflect human nature. people follow the masses and can be converted by the slightest indication of \"good leadership\". and after they chose they're allignement, changing one's mind is almost shameful. too much pride to give up on what you believed, so much that you'd hide your disappointment by blaming the goons of foul-play.i don't believe trebor is a bad csm candidate, but he's not the best either. his other qualities in terms of organisation and communication is what i think is good about him, but there's plenty reasons to expect more"
"you must be a complete idiot.fifteen seconds of clicking:your post: he has zero clue about how this game works but doesn't let his lack of knowledge get in the way of offering an opinion he wrote some pascal games back in the 80smittani's post: he has zero clue about how this game works but doesn't let his lack of knowledge get in the way of offering an opinion, he's also even more of an unfunny ***got in real life than he is on the internet - a feat that i didn't think was possible until i ended up trapped in a room with him for 8 hours a day. he wrote some pascal games back in the 80slet's play spot the difference(s). if you can tell me that there is no difference between these two snips courthouse, the entire community should realize how ridiculous your wild claims are as a whole when your comprehension is seriously in need of some work."
"i'm browsing/posting from an iphone. maybe it's the platform and limited screen size, but your links are all the samefrom here. if theres a difference somewhere from a later copy/paste then it's likely an edit done to the original post after i posted here. i've put far more time than what would be reasonable into your phantom tinfoil ravings that honestly have nothing to do with the topic at hand. i've been reasonable and evenhanded this entire thread. your lunatic ravings about goon conspiracies is not only unfounded but likely having the opposite effect as the people looking to these threads for guidance in placing their votes are seeing a lot of angry posters making wild intangible claims. you're best bet will likely be to set the keyboard down and go for a run or something. you look like you could use some endorphins right about now."
"i wonder if we can get this thread to 15 pages?--sent from my iphone"
"for me peak comedic value would be if this thread got longer than trebor's csm thread."
"how stupid do you think we are?your original post does not match the source at the time. stop blaming others; be a man (or woman?) and take responsibility!!!pathetic display of manipulation. community 1, goons 0. try again."
"johnnie walker go drink some whiskey and calm down a bit. you're trying to stir up a conspiracy theory but i just don't see it."
"someone who's better at database parses should query how often this tired write-off has been used on these forums because i'm pretty sure the score would be much higher on the 'community' side."
"conspiracy? not at all. this is just simple facts. now if i wanted to talk about stealth edits to the forums in a way that doesn't show \"edited by\", now that would be a conspiracy."
"good post, quoting that. blobs were cool when i started playing eve. im still enjoying large scale warfare(and with supercarriers online im not sure about that), but solo and small gang pvp is so much >>> better. its actually the only way to play the game and have fun. btw penalty to member counts wont do much, we will just get razor mk. i, mk. ii etc .. ++ vote for prom"
"theres nothing wrong with fleet warfare.its the fact that pvp does not scale very well that needs looking into"
"deservedly the longest-serving csm & long may it continue. meissa works harder to help improve this strange place in the stars that we call home, than anyone i've ever met."
"a well-deserved bump for meissa. he doesn't make a lot of noise, but his qualifications are strong. a vote for meissa will not be a wasted vote.(a vote for me will be better, of course! )"
"meissa is probably hard at work one vs one'ing in local and i don't know what a csm would be like without him, so goodluck where ever you are and i hope to spahm you on facebook soon please stop recycling my campaign from last year"
"goons often mock roleplayers in eve, because they have to do so much goddamned work to roleplay. this is because the ingame client provides essentially no immersion whatsoever, so you might as well be rping by post on a forum somewhere, yakking about space politics or whatever. i've actually unironically enjoyed roleplaying in better formats. i used to be a huge oldworldofdarkness mush addict, and that worked out great because the medium of text on a mush is very conducive to rp. incarna is a controversial issue in some circles. however it's going to happen. period. incarna is the wod mmo engine alpha. ccp is developing it. you cannot stop it; the csm cannot stop it. it's foolish to think otherwise. however, it's also a nuanced issue, because if ccp /didn't/ use the wod code in eve, making the games cross-compatible where possible, the development resources ccp is expending on wod would provide no utility for eve whatsoever. the eve playerbase can't prevent the wod mmo. nor can the csm. but through incarna, eve can at least see some benefits of the wod development. personally, i think eve desperately needs immersion. part of the reason why people point out that i'm the same 'in eve' as i am 'in real life' is because there's no immersion. i'm watching a ****ty, dated ui and a picture of a spaceship, but in practice i'm zoomed way the **** out anyway because the game lags so badly.so my 'immersion' is: 1. a ui that is based off an excel spreadsheet 2. a zoomed out bracket [ ] and a bunch of other [ ]'s around me. you could practically turn eve into a multiplayer roguelike. :/ anyhoo, you get a seriouspost from me w/r/t rp, because i think incarna is something that eve needs, even though a lot of people do not realize it. it needs the immersion factor. some people will instarage because i say 'eve needs incarna', but they are fools. they are fools not because they are wrong to disagree with me (some may say eve is immersive enough, etc), but because since incarna and wod are inevitable, and thus thoroughly pointless to rage against."
"dude i'm sure you're a chill nerd brosef to hang out with in rl, but you're kinda losing it. just go away."
"first, i could give a flying f*** what you look like. second, you still haven't responded to your full ****** statement in the vote match system about t2 bpos.i mean....wtf dude? i may have done it in a **** way but i did call you out on something you wrote down that pretty much any market veteran would consider the intellectual equivalent of peeing into your own mouth to deal with your dehydration. your response ultimately is to link facebook photos of yourself? good god dude, the only think you are unmasking here is how far your opinion of your abilities out-paces reality. of course, like you've mentioned, you are a lawyer so this shouldn't be a surprise."
"you seem like you're on a nerd crusade and you're not voting for me anyway, idgaf vov oh hey you edited your post seconds after i repliedyou're unironically surprised that after popping up like an antagonistic sperg raging about bpos that i trolled you? really?you might be mistaking me for a candidate who will grovel or suffer fools for votes. i am not that candidate; one of my planks is ruthlessness, and my ~space empire~ is based on cruelty.who even cares? md's blocvoting for kalrand if they have any sense, you're not going to vote for me, feel free to angrypost some more though"
"no, i am disappointed that i once thought mittani to be above the negative stereotypes i have come to believe of all goons; where i once believed pure cunning, brilliant strategy and execution were dominant traits i have found these overshadowed by arrogance and condescension. it is unfortunate; life is full of disappointments. i had hoped that i was just mis-reading but this was not the case.moving along to the next candidate who i may be able to rally behind; certainly not stopping here...<insert rebuttal flames about \"feelings being hurt blah blah blah\", i know they're coming> : ****ing off potential voters is never good political strategy."
"from where i see things csm is a sounding board as said before (many times); when i read your (the mittani) statements and posts i'm interpreting that you will turn it into more then a sounding board. (lobbyist group is the closest thing in my mind for comparison)the actual question(s):1. you say the other candidates are lying to us and promising us things. but aren't you promising us things as well? at it's core, each candidate is telling us how they want to do things, you appear to me as no different. (same dish, different flavors if you understand my analogy)2. in regards to unifying the csm: do you intend to do this through your own personality and way of doing things? i don't see much detail on how you will accomplish this.3. if you do so, what do you think of the event that ccp just shuts out csm alltogether? will you take action(if any) to circumvent such an event? (i apologize if this has been asked already, 14 posts of reading and mind went blurry)thank you for your time."
"i will be voting for you. i am resident in low-sec 99% of the time that i am in eve. whilst this would normally be the springboard for me to rant in tedious length about what i personally do or do not like about low-sec, i will not be doing that. \"fix\" it or don't, i don't really care. i don't really mind the low-sec mechanics. i even don't care about gcc and gate guns, and i would argue that most pirates don't really care about them, regardless of what they might say when they get all riled up and shouty. as you mention, and as is glaringly obvious to any eve player with even a teeny brain, the csm will never be responsible for massive play-changing modifications to the game. so, regardless who i and my alts choose to vote for, the likelihood is that not much will change.so why am i bothering to vote at all, why am i bothering to vote for you, and why am i bothering to waste all the forum-kids time writing about it? simply put, because from reading your articles and from watching the parts of your career that have floated, dreg-like, down to us low-sec scumbags, you seem to be an intelligent, articulate guy who has a deep commitment to the game. i'm sure we wouldn't agree on a lot of stuff, but we agree on quite a bit of it, and that's enough for me. i know you won't change anything for the better, but **** it, you'll be a cat amongst the pigeons, and that's good enough.also, nice puppy."
"itt mittani still says unironicallylol!i was considering voting for mittani because maybe if this game got worse ccp would do something and having mittani as csm (the same guy who cant even manage an alliance and destroyed his own alliance 3  4 times) the game would get worse and ccp would do something.unless this was the plan all along, because if it is then mittani only you would be capable of making something go from bad to worse"
"thank you for your reply, mittani :)and from one old school wod musher to another, you have my vote."
"by that logic shouldn't everyone responding to this thread be trolling you since the candidacy is little more than an angry sperg? anyways, i would assume that the mittani could handle a little harsh criticism and not repeatedly refuse to acknowledge his original statement. good lord, you would think a clever and ruthless type you claim to be could come off more as a 'slick willy' instead of a 'dubya'. don't mistake power with the undestanding of how to actualize it.so, one more time, definitely not the last. did you state that the removal of t2 bpos was a good idea in the vote match system?"
"there is only one true god,and the mittani is his profit."
"freudian slip there?"
"oh man, you've really lost the plot. but please don't stop, it's not often we get quality stuff like this."
"dear leader hasn't destroyed the alliance even once. under the kind guidance and wisdom of the dear leader we have grown strong and numerous and our reach extended greatly. the five year economic plans are all on track to exceed quota and every goon has bread in one hand and a rifle in the other. to think that the dear leader is responsible for our past hardships is the strange ranting of revisionists and capitalist roaders. once dear leader has ascended to csm chairmanship and you have experienced the brilliance of themittani thought you will see the insanity in opposing dear leader's will, through his guidance we will all flourish in a new post-trebor society."
"seriously, its some pro ruthless clever stuff here.please link pictures to show how hot you are again. that was some pro stuff mate."
"that's not a bad analogy; an effective advocate for the players would, essentially, be a lobbyist group. i've hit these questions before, but like you say, it's a loooong thread. 1. since my campaign was announced, many candidates have moderated their statements so they aren't caught in the open promising to fix blasters, which was the stereotypical 'lol csm platform' joke in years past. the issue isn't people making promises, but making promised wildly outside the scope of the csm - promising to make design changes, etc. i can promise to be a ruthless bastard and to /attempt/ to increase the power of the csm.2. i won't know exactly the best path until i know the makeup of the csm after the 30th. different personalities have to be handled in different ways. i have one of the best records of 'making disparate groups work together for a common goal' of anyone in eve, however. 3. i have serious concerns that ccp might stonewall the csm, especially after the monstrously daft open letter that was just published. such a letter plays well with the voting base - and i'll probably be pilloried for daring to criticize it, but **** it. you need to apply pressure in a canny way. pressure on the upper management from the media w/r/t the summer of discontent appeared to work quite well, as the pressure was tailored to people who can do something about it (ie: \"****, we're getting nuked in the press, order our line devs to do an interative bugfix expansion and do more blogs about lagfixes\") as opposed to the open letter, which complained about a lack of gameplay in the wod engine alpha (ie, incarna) to line-level devs - people who 1. can't alter incarna or axe it, since it's an engine test 2. aren't beholden to player or media pressure at all, anyway. so that's an example of a political move which is popular with voters, but accomplishes nothing. incarna isn't going to have much 'gameplay', the line devs can't stop it or change it, and the playerbase raging about it isn't going to change it. all the letter can do is **** over csm6 such that we start from a position of 'ccp expects the csm to throw tantrums and resign en masse (note how few from csm5 are going for reelection), don't bother with these idiots'. how will i try to overcome this? i have no idea at this juncture. the first step, once elected, will be to gather intel and talk to as many ccp people as will be willing to chat with me about how the csm5 did from ccp's perspective. because it's all well and good for us to hurf about high profile stunts from jita park, in practice none of us actually know how the csm is doing from the ccp side. i suspect what i uncover will be ugly, and possibly damning. the job will be much harder now, that's for sure."
"i'm going to take a wild stab in the dark here and answer on mittens behelf. \"by ensuring that 90% of the people on the csm are the leaders of my closest allies\"."
"thanks for the endorsement. i have some (dated) views on lowsec, for what it's worth; i think the region is the most neglected area of the game. a couple of years ago at eve vegas there was a 'design competition' which my team won, drafting a 'corruption' expansion for lowsec. there's a tth column about it. however, like you say, me being on the csm isn't likely to have any direct impact on lowsec gameplay. as for a cat being among pigeons, there are a bunch of posters in this thread who are absolutely certain that because i'm ****ting on people who are idiots and not being ~nice~ to every poster, i will lose this election and lose it badly. i appreciate your savvy analysis of the situation. pigeons are tasty."
"let me get this straight. i openly announce myself to be an arrogant, manipulative sadist and now you are shocked, shocked that i'm an arrogant, manipulative sadist? i got nothin'."
"i just picked up the eve tribune endorsement for csm chairman:"
"i bet you feel real good about brown nosing in a creepy rp way but you should stop"
"friday bump"
"thank you good sir!"
"good question, and yes, as e man correctly states, this is a job that i wouldn't be \"applying\" for if i wasn't willing to commit to it. i spoke to several csm members to get an idea of the time commitment required, and will be devoting at least an hour or two a day to being a csm member (and much more during busy weeks). i've also volunteered to keep up and host teadaze's csm database for the new term, and could probably be talked into taking the role of the csm secretary as well.on top of that, i've also commited to hosting regular player round-tables on topics ccp is asking us about to get direct player feed-back on issues. if elected, i expect i'll be doing that once a month or so during my term.and that doesn't include the time i'm updating my own blog. i invite anyone interested in my run to read it.thank you so much! for those that are interested, i've written two long posts regarding why i think ccp is so focused on incarna and what csm6 can do about incarna. the second post, i called \"learn to fly\" and covers why i think the development of incarna can be a hopeful thing and how i think csm6 can affect the course of incarna."
"i am really hoping you get a chance to help fight the good fight, sir."
"well, i think i might swing form trebor to ripard. you'll get at least one of my votes. hope you get in!"
"i spend months of hesitation because of many points but i made my way for it.now i'm successfully living in low sec and became co-ceo, having fun with blues -10 ss has i've never thaught it was possible and belive me, you'll learn hundred times more with those guys than in months of high sec grinding forum reading or high sec grieffing/grieffers.low sec living is a large team work where trust is something you can't fail or your days are over, you must fix your goals and the time you can spend playing, and belive me corps living in low sec accepting casual players who want to learn and want play in team, they flow more than you think.try to convo some low sec corps dimplomatics or join ig chanels, explain your goals, the time you're willing to spend in game and then find the one that suit you. it's that simple to find one where you can get tons of fun either with winnings or with losses.we don't ask api keys to our players and we have no trouble with our guys, trust goes on both ways and it's the most important, if they want to give it to us than it's their choice but we don't ask them because this must be a volunteer act of trust. and we're not the only ones doing this so you have all your chances."
"even though \"trebor sucks\", he's got my 2 votes."
"hi trebor. if you look in the eve stuff files there are new fonts already (they've actually been there for a while now) that aren't in use ingame. they're much easier to read than the current one although they're obviously based off them. maybe half of this question has already been done."
"if by \"playerbase is unified and furious at them\" you mean the 5% of them that are screaming in the forums?i can't seriously believe they are still people who thought that for 18 months they're wasn't going to be \"anything\" devoted to eve. this \"rumor\" arised from a misinterpretation of the ccp team allocation chart and sheer pessimism of some very loud forum hogs who spent their days just broadcasting their miscontentment with the game. the csm has helped the changes come through very progressively as their role became a bit more defined over time, also, these changes were mostly incorporated during the tyrannis/incursion expansion production timelines (which by the way, were full of content for the space eve evidently). the 18-month rumor was never a deciding factor in the evolution of the csm roles, in fact, that's all it was, a rumor.and i'm pretty sure ccp does an excellent job ignoring the loud forum hogs because they know that they don't necessarily represent the playerbase.the csm on the other hand, they do represent the players, they do it in a contructive way rather than by screaming and shouting. i believe that that's what trebor was trying to say. expressing miscontentement agressively to ccp is probably not the most effective way. he favors a more diplomatic method where analysis of the problems at hand can be done in a more civil and contructive manner."
"oddly, at least we have common ground. at least this much is somewhat reassuring."
"i'll tell you, from an outsider's perspective, what csm5 was \"exactly doing\":- csm5 publicly engaged, in a very visible manner, the players at large in crowd sourcing efforts.november 2010 crowdsourcingaugust 2010 crowdsourcing- csm5 aggressively pressured ccp regarding the often cited \"backlog\" for timelines and deliverables. in the june summit which mynxee blogged about, it was discovered then that currently, there is no process in place to ensure that csm issues placed in the backlog are properly tagged, named, or otherwise identified for purposes of querying or tracking. this second point alone is massive; forget campaign promises, forget \"if elected, i will...\" speeches. the very core of keeping track of our ideas was found to be sorely lacking. no member of csm 1, csm 2, csm 3 or csm 4 sat down with a copy of hansoft (used by ccp), went through the wiki, and produced a list of items from records to push back on to ccp. as a result of efforts by csm5, we were provided with the june 2010 ccp deliverables.if anyone is serious about the csm, having this kind of public call to accountability and with measured, transparent updates from ccp is critical to the entire effort of both sides. unless this continues to be pushed, all other points are moot. forget lag, forget 0.0, forget industry or missions or botting... if your questions and concerns are lost in the \"shuffle\", it is all pointless.in short, csm5 loudly, professionally, and aggressively called ccp to be accountable to us all with such dedication, perseverance and skillful execution that refusal to comment was not an option. we, the community, won a major battle and the work goes on.that, among hundreds of other examples, is the level of commitment csm5 brought to the table... and with that in mind, should be one of many dominating factors to re-elect trebor; i would be hard pressed to split my votes were all previous csm5 candidates running."
"those list is the proof of what i say about csm5.we have new icons on faction ammo, new mwd icons, nice that's such a huge leap forward, i mean the game was absolutely dying because of that !you just forgot to speak about what interest real players around ... balance ... why an honest miner player should end up with a ****ty gameplay in front of a rock for 1 hour to get a ridiculous amount of isk ? because there are thousand of bots around that makes the same thing 24/24h and ruins the economy of the honest player.what actually did csm5 about that ? nothing.why should a caldari player discover he is just good to be a joke in pvp ? why his missiles are only good to fill space with lags and never reach their target who has already been destroyed by muns or lasers ? that's minimum a 1/4 th of the population of eve that has to make an alt to be able to enjoy even just a little pvp (should it be nullsec/lowsec or factionnal).what actually did csm5 about that ? nothing.nah, instead of this you guys have faction icons on your missiles or modules .... after the \"farmville\" pi, you can try to do a corp hangar mahjong. csm5 really saved the day."
"no csm can just bring things up for a vote. before that can happen, a proposal has to be raised in assembly hall, and if it gets sufficient support, an interested csm will raise in one of our meetings. often ideas are tested and refined in features & ideas before being moved to the assembly hall.this process is slow and requires some effort, but that is by design. it makes sure that proposals are subject to scrutiny (and hopefully improvement), first by players, then by an interested csm, and finally by the full council.proposals that make it through this gauntlet are hopefully battle-tested enough to give them a chance of getting noticed by ccp.ps: my apologies for getting a bit behind in replying to questions in the thread. yesterday was a wonderful day -- my eldest son was accepted into his college of choice, and there was much celebration -- but that meant i had less time to devote to composing replies."
"the point is, we asked ccp in our internal forums--which our advocates monitor so that such questions can be passed on to the appropriate teams inside ccp--on 7 march for an update about the new font, including specific questions about the status of that font. those questions have not been answered as of this post. the only response received so far was a sentence in response to an earlier question in that same thread related to sharing information with the community about the status of the new font. no promises made, so far. digging into .stuff files just provides one piece of isolated information: the fact that a different font is there. it does not answer the questions we asked about whether the new font ccp told us at the june summit that it was commissioning is still a go; if so, what its current status is; and what the plan is right now regarding deploying a new font. the csm has asked ccp a simple question that has a simple answer. we should not have to search through the eve client data files or constantly monitor sisi in an attempt to discover clues--the meaning of which we can only speculate about--that point only to possible answers to such questions. on topics like this that were discussed at a summit and about which users make direct inquiries, it is not unreasonable to expect straightforward and timely answers from ccp. especially for something as uncomplicated as a status update request."
"you're wrong there. we actually discussed quite a lot of balance issues at the june and december summits. balance-related proposals were part of the crowdsourcing exercises. balance discussions have been conducted in our internal forums. if you bother to inform yourself about what csm5 has done by reading the detailed information that is available to anyone who wants to know (and which has been typically been announced, linked, and discussed in this forum along the way), then i think you will come to a different conclusion than that csm5 has done nothing. just because your pet issues did not get attention doesn't mean we've been laying around eating bon-bon's for 10 months."
"i just blogged about why i feel it is so important to vote in this election for a diverse csm and for people who will fight the good fight for eve, like trebor."
"wicked blog post mynxee, and yes, this is indeed a call to arms. well done!"
"trebor daehdoow, i do hope to see you get in, you have alot of great ideas sadly nc envy you for your awesomeness but thats ok no one takes them serious (minus their minions)"
"no one takes them seriously (besides the largest single faction of people in the game)well then"
"thanks for the wizardry callout, but it's actually \"trebor sux\"quite possibly, but as i said (and mynxee comments on), i'm trying to get a clarification and possibly an eta.ps: some of you may enjoy these election-themed lyrics."
"my bad, but it has been at least 25 years since i've played that game? memory fades when you've done as many drugs as i have (not to mention being old)."
"a few questions for trebor...in csm5, it was noted that there is concern about tracking of submitted items to ccp. what can we expect from ccp and csm 6 going forward? we have seen some comments indicating that new or improved tools would be of great benefit to future councils; are there any plans on either side to have this happen?will the csm-news mailing list see an increase in activity this year?assuming top vote count, would you choose to go for chair of csm6 or return to secretary duties (would you mind explaining your reasoning for either or)?"
"good luck"
"my issue with him is that hes simply failed to outline any sort of idea related to anything the csm does, instead resorting to grandstanding and a childish 'youre all lying liers!!' platform. the other goon candidates have at least attempted to show they understand what the csm is for and outlined some of their ideas but mittani just seems to be relying on the fact that hes the mittani and there are hordes of goon ******s who will vote him up purely based on that."
"go, seleene, go! this is a call to arms! as my blog post linked there says, i believe you are a vital front runner in continuing to fight the good fight for the future of eve."
"as a change of pace, gumpy is actually not trolling. a vote for draco is a vote to grief vuk."
"i have known draco for many years now (god help him lol) and if you vote for him like i have ur not be disappointed he is 100% commited and always has been and he knows wot he is talking about.so make your vote count and vote draco llasa gl mate"
"it's true, a lot of folks aren't posting here why they won't be voting for me. but i think there is support for someone with my viewpoint and proven experience as a csm.i'm not doing this for a vacation to iceland, i think since a certian spork tosser got piched out of the csm and now there is a huge number of folks that need a candidate and if enough of those folks vote for me i'll commit the time to represent them. i will show up, do the work and keep my silverware on the table no matter what the emotional climate may be!issler diainzevoice of reason csm candidate"
"issler is always my choice. there is such a unique depth to this game, unlike most other mmorpgs. i would just say that without a voice for the side of producing and building things there would be less stuff to blow up! do you really want that to happen? you want someone in there to help make sure you never have a lack of targets!"
"i've voted for issler. i didn't see any other candidates that seemed to talk about what miners like myself need to see changed in eve.good luck issler!js"
"i am excited to see this election will have record participation. the csm can make eve a better place.so who should vote for me? any of the below:- industrialist- independent pilots- anyone interested in seeing low sec being made relevant again- pilots that think most candidates are only interested in big 0.0 power blocks- you think that the huge increase in the population of eve requires new resources (moons for example)- miners- pve focused pilots- folks that like spacellamas!- pilots worried about the stations being flooded with a deadly neurotoxinso i promise if elected i wll do all i can to bring focus to these issues.issler dainzevoice of reason csm candidate"
"i didn't vote for you issler, but i wish you good luck all the same. the manufacturing and mining part definitely needs some love."
"thank you :)i can only hope that this interest will grant me your vote for the csm :)these are very specific questions !before answering, i think that these concerns, although important to you and highly influential of your game experience, should not be the main thing dictating who will receive your vote in the csm.to give you my personal opinion about these matters : i strongly believe in the sandbox.rules of engagement and firing power of station and gate turrets should be variable, especially in 0.0 - i'd be delighted to see dominion's system upgrades allowing for turret placement and configuration in claimed systems.when it comes to high and low security space, i believe they are quite balanced at the moment. perhaps it would be a good idea to increase their damage and reduce their ability to hit small ships, so the damage is a bit more even on various shiptypes. any changes to the turrets would have to be closely calculated thus, as eve has a very fragile balance.additionally, it makes no sense that someone docked in a station cannot look out a window to see who's camping outside. it's a whole new game mechanic, but i feel such a thing should be implemented, which would change the way station blockades are made. of course, such radical additions to the gameplay require a much in-depth analysis, and the will to evolve in that direction from ccp."
"good morning!any other topics to discuss? hope everyone has a great day. fly safe!"
"appearances:11th: 2200 for eve university12th: 22:30 for lost in eve radio13th: 1900 for new eden radioedit: interview for en24 in regards to iskbank.com(ru) story (sometime 12-13th as well):)"
"i support that manalappapapdappa dude....yeah him. manalapan. :)"
"awesome ty for the support.today's winner3/11/11 burseg sardaukar - won 10x large polycarbon engine housing i - chribba dice roll"
"i support manalapan!"
"i support manalapan"
"seems my corp has been rejected rentspace \"for political reasons\" i will try to find a clarification on these political reasons.seems to me that if you are not involved in any 'eula violation' that you have no political reasons.i will not hand out details on this matter (yet).this underscribes the need for ms pacman to get into the council!!!"
"the questions you should be asking is1. how did iskbank get away with rmt for so long freely without ccp doing anything?2. why are nc buying the most isk?3. why the sudden interest on iskbank? ;)i did make a thread about this exaplaining all of the above but nc devs deleted the thread"
"one thing you touched on in your blog csm platform that interests me greatly is black-ops battleships, also a subject i have yet to come across on any other platform(others may have touched it but i'm only about 1/3 way thru)now this issue to me as a black ops pilot is very low on the list, there are many ways arounda limited fuel bay and you have to keep in mind that this is a sub-capital with jump drive capabilities.what i am interested in is what other issues you see plaguing the ships and what improvements you would bring to the table"
"vote white tree!"
"votes cast."
"voting a goons candidate, whatever he may say, means voting for goons politics, isn't it obvious enough?how can you trust a player who's in an alliance who made griefing scamming and metagaming its trademark?any goon, once elected, will do whatever he pleases, and possibly annoys the highest number fo players, and will say: \"rotfl i'm a goon, whoever was stupid enough to vote me expecting to not be scammed deserves to be scammed\""
"aureleos > hey demi i ate \"c word for a part of the female anatomy\" onceaureleos > did you know i have a daughter?i knew eliphal's quote thread of doom would have some use, apart from swallowing up db space :p"
"got to love eli for that oh, that reminds me, aureleos was in dthi with us wasn't he demi? what did he get kicked out for again?hal."
"for being a racist, thats why hal.which is why i voted for him, a vote for aureloes is a vote for purging the unwanted elements of eve (pl/macros/rmt/pi/wis/incursions/lag)."
"hurray for being useful! also, doesn't our blacklist list the reason as \"for being a buggering ****burger\"?"
"im selling ingame advertising spaces special low prices for cms candidates.mail or contact me ingame"
"one way to get a bpo (even a t2 version) could be dependant on getting your hands on a ship (by fair means or foul) and diassembling it. fast and dirty, low percentage chance, slow and considerate, higher. deconstruction times should at the very least be matched by the build time.way i look at is if you're prepared to sacrifice a ship (and up to multi-billion ones at that) to roll the dice on a bpo, why shouldn't you be able to? certainly makes sense on an external to the game basis. the only downside as per usual, is that the massive null sec entities can throw iskies at an issue until they get what they want. mind you, the same could be said of existing t2 bpos.skills would also affect chance. thoughts?"
"reverse engineering? i like that idea. the percentage chance could be modified by the relevant skills of the inventor. tell me, aside from the possibility of the bpo, would the player get some of the materials back as well? sort of a semi focused reprocessing.it is not that i hate bpo's of the t2 variety . . . far from it. i just have a problem with awards from what has been thought to be a flawed original process (the lottery) still being in existence with no chance for a more equitable process working in a similar vein.as for large organizations throwing isk at something till they get it? why not? there should be some advantage to having a huge organization and lots of isk.m"
"minerals and/or components? i can't see why not, though it should again be skill and chance based. probably better left to those people who have a better idea of in game balances... and csmer's :)as a side effect, it might be a carrot for those people involved in industrial espionage. if you can't sell the ship or move it, break it down and move the bpo...best of luck m!"
"no, their original introduction was a terrible idea and should not be repeated. think of it like knocking up some chick you don't love. you shouldn't have done it, but that doesn't mean that your only remaining option is an 8th trimester abortion or knuckling down and spitting out another 100 bowel babies.you have to appreciate that to market folk like myself this is the equivalent of arguing that all pve should be instanced or that titans should be handed out to all. market folk generally keep to themselves. we are probably the single most solo-players in eve because there is little reason to work with others. consider us the eve ronin. this means that we don't often make our desires heard. on the other hand, we have very strong opinions on matters we understand, and on a handful of positions we will go to the mats with anyone who disagrees because its not a matter of opinion, its a provable fact if you follow basic economic theory like time value of money and oppurtunity cost.you should also appreciate that the md crowd are some of the most cut-throat people in the game, and when someone makes a statement that we know is wrong-headed we will swarm over them like pirahnnas on a mildly ******ed donkey. so don't take it personally, i've done the same to most of the other people who have posted this stance. the mittanni decided to ignore the issue and instead post pictures that prove he is an attractive man. seriously. so, you at least are doing better than he is.while i don't expect every csm candidate to understand the complexities of the eve economy, i do expect them to be willing to investigate complicated market issues. the threadnaught i linked is probably the single strongest set of arguments for why the removal of t2 bpos is a terrible idea."
"@ tehg - as you've pointed out, not many have the fortitude (or willingness) to take part in market pvp. it could be argued that the complexities mean that there are fewer opponents, meaning an easier road for those that do take it. until your liquidity r"
"i'm glad you're so in touch with the playerbase, even more so than the players themselves are... for a moment there i was convinced me and many, many other players i've talked to really wanted incarna to be a success."
"as i saw almost only fanboys on the coments of the cq devblogs, i began to though that i was alone thinking there were something wrong here...seems i was not.there will be no use to cq with the initial release, except the 1st minutes of discoveries of the superb graphics, and playing on the room with your shiny avatar finally moving.but what's worry me mostly here, is that you seems to say that we will be forced to activate cq after the patch... while i really don't want to.i remember well when i anchored my 1st pos, on high sec, on abudan (do'nt remember the typo), <U+FFFD> ice belt system 1 jump from rens allowing rd pos, that one of his interest was to gain time with no undocking while mining.i don't stay on jita when i'm doing business, i'm almost always on a safe 1 jump from jita, cause there way too much lag on jita, and being docked on 4-4 is awful.i don't even want to think about what would happen if i have to be on captain quarter of jita 4-4... would be a nightmare.i'm very interested by what we can gain with incarna, but i don't want some shiny graphics, but no gameplay and only lost time when docking.i'm really not on pvp, but honstly i would prefer having pvp as only activity on incarna than nothing.just give us an option to not unpod or be on a safe place if forced to, and i will happily go fight my comrades. cause hell i don't risk to lost my shiny ship here, and i suppose my vest and boots won't cost me that much to buy back after being killed.if we have to go to qc when docking at least give us some minigames. it will only ask you a few hours of coding, and will change lots of things.the webbroswer on the big wall of our cq, some cards games, and why not a oldie arcade game lying somewhere. it's always better than nothing. and moreover people won't have to alt-tab to do that if you add them ingame, while if done well can give a lot of immersion."
"of course everyone wants incarna to be a success. no one is hoping for failure. if the outcry after the june csm minutes was not because ccp was taking so long and using so many resources on incarna and therefore ignoring the rest of eve, what was it about? or do you not think anything happened after the june minutes were published?i really don't think what i said is controversial."
"i concur. i hope kumi wins."
"bump"
"what kind of ships you want to bring in the game also what do you think of ducks?"
"i would love to pass a vote for a warp cloaky interdictor, or t3 battleships and frigates. my duck policy speaks for itself... you feed them grapes."
"how will you be able to form an effective coalition to fight the goons when the only replies you have managed to get are goons pity trolling you"
"as stated in the passt. goons aren't here to ruin the game, they just want to ruin your game.a goon never did anything good for the community but only for goons. well, not completely true. some goons have done something good for the community. that's when they logged off and stopped playing.i think the biggest difference between me and a goon is that i look at making the game as enjoyable as possible for me without ruining it for others and where i can even help them to enjoy the game more.i think that's also what created my biggest personal clash i have with goons in general.i am sure my feelings about goons have been well documented since the first of them popped up years ago and are no secret at all.that is in general also the reason why i don't see anything good comming froma goon in the csm.why would they be actually be helpfull in there for the community?i feel this is just one of the many scams and tricks the goons want to play to ruin your game. a lot of sheep will hop over that bridge because let's face it. in all of history of mankind there were always sheep who jumped on a big mouth bandwagon.sadly enough virtually all of those cases the sheep found out they actually walked into a lair of wolves ready to have them for dinner.ow and look, i am not hiding behind an alt to post my opinion. why? not because i am a fool but because i don't care if people disagree with me. i don't need to use alts to defend my opinion because i feel weak in it.thing is the goons never did anything ingame to warrent them being trustworthy in any case. so why would i even consider trusting one or even more of them to represent the community as a whole and not just as a community of goons."
"preach on, amen!"
"some goon created evemon and released it to the community. do you use it ?"
"thank you for having an unreasonable hatred of me even though you and i have never met or interacted in this game all because of what i am."
"there is a difference between hating someone and disliking their playstyle and because of that not willing to trust any of them.goons have a well documented history of being untrustworthy. you decided to join them and thus accepted you would become untrustworthy in the eyes of most of the community.so why would i be held responcible for your choice of direction?.a bad apple ruins a barrel of appels, a lot of bad apples in a barrel only speed that up."
"this hatred must endwhat have we become"
"we shall overcome, we shall overcome,we shall overcome someday;oh, deep in my heart, i do believe,we shall overcome someday.the lord will see us through, the lord will see us through,the lord will see us through someday;oh, deep in my heart, i do believe,we shall overcome someday.we're on to victory, we're on to victory,we're on to victory someday;oh, deep in my heart, i do believe,we're on to victory someday.we'll walk hand in hand, we'll walk hand in hand,we'll walk hand in hand someday;oh, deep in my heart, i do believe,we'll walk hand in hand someday.we are not afraid, we are not afraid,we are not afraid today;oh, deep in my heart, i do believe,we are not afraid today.the truth shall make us free, the truth shall make us free,the truth shall make us free someday;oh, deep in my heart, i do believe,the truth shall make us free someday.we shall live in peace, we shall live in peace,we shall live in peace someday;oh, deep in my heart, i do believe,we shall live in peace someday."
"that is like a klansmen from the ***, or a al quaida member saying, \"why hate on me, i have never doen anything to you?\" lol"
"your hatred is preventing you from being the person you want to be"
"posting in a goon alt thread"
"goons cant ruin any game, they made the game better, more people more advertisement, saying that they havent achieved anything in game yet claim to have won eve.being part of nc doesnt mean you won eve it just means you hate pvp.mittani tries his hardest to mimic previous goons that actually made goons something, in fact ever since he got 'power' goons have been failing, if tcf didnt dissolve and merge into goons, gs federation would just be another crappy renter alliance in the north.dont mistaken goonswarm pre mittani era with goonswarm federation, theres a huge difference"
"i'm fapping pretty hard to this here thread"
"dear op,a cure was recently developed for butthurtness. it involves quitting and giving all your stuff to me. please, sir, rid yourself of the loathsome butthurt, and heal thyself immediately.tl;dr shut up and give me your stuff, then quit.also u mad"
"renaming an insane asylum or prison doesn't make it a social gathering."
"most of the goons answering to my posts have always finished by \"not english native\" or other sweetness like this, so even if opposed to how they answered my posts i can't judge people i don't know, the fact is that i don't have a very good opinion about them.now can i think they have nothing good in their opinions? - i don't really know since for what i read atm nothing serious or structured has ben put on the table (posts). but i can't seriously say they can't or haven't something positive to add.anyway most of the answers right here has on many posts from them are close to insults or teen attitudes so... just ignore them."
"are you for real?i flew alongside goons/test in fountain and there were times when they were asking for people not to join the fleet so they could get a fight from it - you know, that alliance that was the biggest, and apparently richest in the game which has now crumpled under the pressure. goons failing, lol!as for gsf being the big baddies - they're just a bunch of people playing a game and having fun. eve is designed as a pvp game, and they're getting into that. if you don't like them because the hurt you or you disagree with their playstyle, that's too bad.however, consider what the game would be like if there weren't any pirates, scammers, griefers, or any other kind of \"bad guy\". without villians, would there ever be any heroes?"
"you realize the mittani was fairly influential in goonswarm before we conquered (and subsequently lost) delve, right? and was at one point ceo prior to this current tenure?"
"confirming goonswarm was created in jan 2009 there was a reason i said pre-mittani era and as for your influence remark, goonswarm were weeks away from dying before they disbanded bob, they lost their allies and were losing space faster than any other alliance, that hardly makes mittani look good :p"
"i really should have kept this thread going, so nice to see the loyal minions put so much effort in brown nosing their masters, with clich<U+FFFD> memes :orkasm:.i think i got the message across, but once a sheep always a sheepoh and to all the fanatics that stopped posting, it wouldnt by any chance have todo with everything i said being true would it \"a vote for mittani is a vote for changing the ui\" hahahahahahahahahahahaha!"
"everybody please take a moment to appreciate delegado's avatar."
"that inability to see the big picture is why you, sir, are a civilian and i am a bonafide general. the key point here is that it is the leaders of numerous allied alliances who are looking to stitch up the csm. this means that they can discuss and make long term plans for the advancement of their powerbloc without even causing the nda to break a sweat."
"+1 from me. :)"
"+1 for a man who will push ccp to make good on it's backlog of broken promises and empty feature."
"hi everybody, its me dr ****!i have been busy in rl and i have noticed the more i focus on rl the more nc is easier to laugh at, taking the game way too seriously to a point where they have to control all csm seats directly or indirectly, just for some security :/.thanks to dierdra vaal, the vote match is on, this isnt the first time the vote match has been used and i would love for you guys to see the one from last year, the reason is simply to show who is sincere and who isnt, for example last year vuk lau (queen of nc) was against number warfare and blobbing to the point where it was a priority however all through his term(s) he made sure numbers always had the upper hand.i was surprised mittani didnt do the same thing of being insincere yet has done the error of making it once again obvious what his agenda is and in short it is \"ccp hold ncs hand make us evade pvp make the broken mechanics stay, supercaps for all!\". by now though he has already gotten all his flying monkeys to vote for him, so you can almost guarantee he will be in, if he isnt then i guess his coalition thinks he is a joke much like rest of eve.i like the vote match, it gives a clear idea of who is talking **** and who has contradicted themselves, nc should really read what they say, alot of the stuff they are against on the vote match is what they said they will improve :/i did also notice trebor deahdoow have the same opinions of eve now that he did a year ago, what people need to understand is the csm need to have a balance, if everyone from nc are in eve will just become pro-pve. voting for trebot isnt a bad thing, he has some really good ideas and having him as csm creates that much balance we need which will be missing if only nc are there.most my votes went to prom / peter power, reasons for this is because there has to be a balance, it would be nice to see someone focused on api and third party tools to get in as lets face it third party tools make your eve life easier.degrading people who are not 100% 0.0 focused is really stupid, people that focus on each area should work in a team, whether they like it or not hisec is important and changes in highsec need to be made as well as lowsec and 0.0.tldr: if you voted for mittani then you really are an idiot, according to the vote match, his priorities are keeping everything the same, buffing number warfare aka nc and the key areas he wishes to work on is \"changing the ui, buffing macro mining and making it harder to claim space\" omfg, at least vile rat put an effort into his prioritiesas for me, rl is getting really fun and sadly i dont have enough time to play alternative reality online, but good luck to all the people who want to help improve eve, though i doubt in a year from now things will be different sadly by then there will be an estimated total of 10000+ supercarriers and unless there is a change now 500+ supercarriers will get pooped out monthly (bearing in mind theres approx. 4000+ supercarriers in 0.0 as we speak!edit: oh noes i used a ? instead of a !, so glad i changed it before the internet police noticed."
"while i wont deny that other nc based representatives are running solely to protect their 0.0 interests, some have clearly admitted so. i want to confirm that i am not one of them.while 0.0 and nc are a very important part of my eve life, i do care about the whole universe of people. from the high sec carebears to the 0.0 pvpers. my campaign calls out specific areas of focus where i want to address low sec, and reduce blob warfare. i want to support the community and ccp in addressing concerns in all areas of the game.now lets address the 500 lbs gorilla, most 0.0 reps, and many nc reps are here to stop the nerfing of jump bridges and titan bridges.the joke of it is that so many people think axing titan bridges and jump bridges will prevent blobs and limit range.. they will not.. i dont care what anyone says.. with or without these things, fleets will still move around, and nc allies will still move to protect one another. it will just be slower.so thats what you want right? limit range.. think about it, range is not the issue. i have been in ops where we spent an hour getting to destination to help allies. without jbs or titan bridges we will just lag out 3 times as many systems in the process but the large fleet will still get there.. you have not prevented anything but upset players. which i might add will not stop them from going after good fights.so its about speed? how is slowness a promoter of good pvp. the aggressor would then have the ability to move in attack and leave with less fear of counter attack cause they cant get there fast enough. you think thats good game mechanics? maybe it is, in some casesthe real point is we have to find ways, through game mechanics to reduce the effectiveness of blob warfare. find reasons to use varying ship types and split fleets up so there are multiple things that have to be done by multiple fleets. large alliances and coalitions will always have the ability to send 1500 people into single system, to blot out the sun with our drones. no amount of mobility nerfing will stop that. at the end of the day large groups like nc, deklien coalition, and droneland russians will project there forces if and as needed. lets focus on reducing the need or effectiveness of blobs, not nerf the ability."
"look it thinks its people"
"on the vote match what i found funny was nc saying yes to moving lvl 4s to low sec \"because there is no risk\" yet promoted blobbing and number warfare to the point where nc say \"this is our sandbox if we want to feel secure by naping everyone then so be it\".i laugh at people doing lvl 4s or even lvl 5s when it is so much easier and safer doing sanctums in the north, most people have an alt in a nc alliance to rat, test, stella polaris, wi and mostly harmless made this really easy and anyone can confirm how easy it is todo sanctums without any problems.tldr: nc, you talk about no risk / reward yet your actions and 'way of playing' is no different than lvl 4 mission runners, risk / reward should go both ways, there should be a risk involved in naping 50k people."
"don't generalize, i did not support moving all level 4's to low sec, nor do i promote blobbing mechanics, i just put a whole post about that above yours...in fact, i have clearly stated that the risk/reward balance is low sec is a mess.. one of them has to be adjusted.."
"can you really blame anyone for criticising nc?everytime kim jong lau went up he lied out of his arse and contradicted everything he said, however he only got in because of his status.now we see a \"lets control and ruin eve\" campaign by nc, now i know some nc people genuinely dont want to ruin eve but it doesnt help that you are in nc when theres a campaign set out and work in their favour again.people may have different ideas of eve but it doesnt help when you are nc and saying \"i dont share ncs views\", kind of makes you sound like a hypocrite dont you think?thats like working for ccp and saying i dont like ccp, wtf?!if you want people to take you serious and believe you arent part of the problem you would have campaigned without being part of nc but lets face it you are more in favour of nc ruining eve just by being in their coalition"
"ok let me set some things straight herethat may be so.. and i def cant speak to past events as i was not part of them. i do understand the overall point of what you are saying. but im not here to debate the validity or integrity of other players.i am one of those people. in fact you might be surprised to know that i am not an official candidate for nc, in fact, the main nc leadership does not support my position as a candidate. i am actually only running as a representative of my alliance. now that said, my alliance is in the nc, and i do have a stake in the ncs well being, but im not going to tailor my campaign to only suit those interests.please get it straight, i never said i don't support the view of the nc.. what i said is i am not one of the people campaigning solely for 0.0 interests. i didn't claim to have no 0.0 interests. i do.. but only in the overall view of the game. i am not here to make sure nc stays what it is or keep what it has.. in fact anything that brings us more pew pew is wonderful."
"anger will tear you down and tear apart your souljoin me, in praising the lord and spreading our message of forgiveness"
"10/10 that was so funny and original, well done mate:unironic:"
"this.what you've done is summarised a whole group of candidate responses, and done so with flagrant disregard for accuracy. your alt posting is infact so far off the mark that it doesn't really seem to summarise any candidate's position. is this deliberate misdirection or just poor reasoning?you also seem to be exuding a highly toxic amount of butthurt. please show me on the doll where the big bad nc touched you..."
"kalle demos, the worst poster on these forums, hates me. vote mittani."
"actually you can have the 10/10 for being a clich<U+FFFD>, honestly what is it with widot and generic commentslets once again look at all the facts shall we.1. mittani didnt even understand half of the points on the vote match, check his comments, he even comments and gets confused with basic questions and prefers to focus on ui changes over everything. 2. for the past several years nc have branded themselves as one voice, one opinion, one thought, can you blame everyone for thinking you guys are all the same, after all you are who your (best) friends are3. you set out in a \"nc to take over csm\" campaign, then complain when people criticise you, if you had issues with this then you would have done what two shots did and left nc4. now that it is obvious why nc are getting branded as one big f*cking fail, how can you expect anyone to take their candidates serious when half of them are contradicting themselves and openly saying they only want csm seats so they dont have to pvp5. your thought 'may' be different but lets face it you are in nc and nc only have one thought, after all \"there will be no diplomacy\".saying you are not part of the problem yet holding the razor banner just makes you a hypocrite, but by the looks of it anyway on vote match most people wont require alot of time to work out what ncs agendas is."
"so let me guess, you got goonswarm recruitment scammed even though their recruitment process is detailed on their site as only recruiting from somethingawful?"
"lol, no i just don't think scammers should be in a position if influence with ccp such as the csm's are. and mittani is the head scammer of the worst scammers in eve."
"and it's hilariously funny that idiots who were too ******ed to know that fell for it."
"these tears are beautiful."
"some of us are voting for mittins, wi., & test on the off chance something bad happens and the game becomes unplayable...thus providing an exit window from the game, without making it feel like quitting. i'm not a goon, testie, or wi. (this isn't a wi. thread anyhow) but i've flown with them and they make local chat fun for us that are in corps and alliances that are prohibited from using local. there's not really anything wrong with any of them save the occasional racist or sexist comment coming from the minority. scamming is part of the game, it's not limited to goons. accounts belonging to guys predating alliances scammed from time to time, well before goons entered/organized in eve.and truthfully, if you've been scammed by any of those three alliances, you've probably been scammed by a nigerian prince or banker. grow up."
"why would you want to be in such an alliance?"
"voting for mittani, or any goon candidate, simply and explicitly means voting for a certain kind of playstyle.while it's undoubtedly right to say that they know how the game works, that doesn't mean they may want to improve the gaming experience for those gamers who don't enjoy hulkageddons, scams, griefing etc. etc...so, it all simply boils down to what you like do do in eve, what do you like being done to you, and where do you want it to steer towards.anyway, i believe mittani will be elected anyway, given the huge number of goons who will vote for him, so mittani's election is not the point...the point is, if you don't like that kind of playstyle you should simply focus on the candidates who look the more interested to develop the game in its general structure, scope and options, and simply avoid those who want to keep the loopholes in place, and would even advocate a sharp reduction of contracts' font size telling you that \"the player who isn't able to use a 10x magnifying glass when reading contracts, deserves to be scammed\""
"of all the scamms the recruitment scam is the worst. people pay money to play eve, they don't know much, they joina corp, get scammed, leave. some stay ofc but scamming recruits isn't the most obvious scam. sure, if you have played eve a while you should know the goons are scammers for recruiting. but sonehow not all do. why should the worst scammer of scammers who loses money for ccp and causes true grief be aloud a position of honor as csm? and i don't think mittani will represent eve like most of the other candidates will. i don't think any goon should get cam as well. if they win what does that say about eve?"
"this is the internet.i don't even know you.you've probably never even seen me in game.i don't scam, i've got about 8m isk across four accounts and 5 characters.i couldn't care less about ruining the game for you, especially since ccp has done a good enough job of that already.you despise me because i gave someone :10bux: to feed his kid. i'm the evil one here?you discriminate against me because of what i am.now i know what my grandfather went through in the first half of the 20th century as a black man living in the south. thanks for bringing bigotry into an online video game."
"it's your posting."
"this is the internetwe only hate you on the internetwho gives a **** about what you are in rlthis is why people link kill:death ratio not rl credentials -.-another nc bot down"
"locking thread for being off topic."
"if you want to seriously increase your chance of victory any of you should consider my very affordable and reasonable offer to sell 90 votes at 15mil each."
"if you don't vote for me ccp is going to charge plex to enter station in ship mode.be a man.do the right thing.please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"votes are sold"
"devblog ccp grimmi"
"what is your stance on corps, that take advantage of game bugs and exploits?"
"supported."
"yes"
"yep, let worm turn - these are the ships of choice for entry level pve - so lets make them them a pvp asset then these guys can make the transition into skirmish gangs."
"supporting buff on the af"
"how will that make them any more useful or complimentary to the interceptors? you'll still be way better off picking a cruiser just as you are now.other options exist that can do what you want:- give them ability to use warp disruption field generators by giving them a cpu bonus for fitting them.- give them ability to use gang links with a fitting bonus like that of the bc's.- give them limited ewar immunity through a charge consuming module. make charges rather large to allow for 5-10m total before needing to restock.etc.cruisers already fill the medium tank/gank niche and since they will always be much cheaper thanks to insurance and lower base cost, making af's into direct competitors to them is counter productive."
"yep boost, make'm more so!"
"i would propose that perhaps a further damage reduction might mitigate any advantages gained from this change"
"idea while i was spamming fofs this morning...how about make fofs like a smart bomb/or any kind of timer based activated weapon/shield/repair, then while your fof missile bay is loaded and launched it will begin autotargeting local nearby objects (it cannot be scrambled and doens't count to max targets) but this will atleast tell you who you are going to fire your fof at and perhaps the \"fof tracking time duration\" will make fofs not as potent as just pressing the buttonexample:enter plexspot nearby ships press fof bay buttonfof begins spinning green and tracking 1 or several of the enemy ships (makes tracking sound)then when it finds a target, the missile launches...this adds a slight 20 sec delay to instant fof spam (while fof finds soomething to home in on)a variation of this could be you launch a fof missile instantaneous but it starts with a very low velocity like 50mps and as it homes in on a target it will increase speedc and change directions"
"supported."
"agility is completely irrelevant as any half-decent freighter pilot enters warp instantly. if anything, a warp speed bonus would be something that would actually help."
"please give the phantasm a bit of quality, its not much better than a t1 cruiser :("
"i like pos mods, especially disruptors, affecting caps and supercaps; i am indifferent to the rest of the changes."
"agreeing the csm should push/challenge ccp on this issue. one of the selling points of eve is the player driven economy. with the massive influx of isk that bots can achieve, their existence in game threatens the legitimacy of that economy. since warfare (including sov) is directly linked to the economy, this issue calls into question whether eve is really a competitive game or not. if it continues to be dominated by botting, i certainly will be playing it less and probably drop down to one sub. ccp should take this issue seriously."
"apologies if this has been suggested before- a cursory search on eve-search found nothing.there are many faction items available exclusively via the lp store that are seldom purchased there. when they are, it is typically to expand the collections of a handful of connoiseurs and faction loyalists. these tend to be items that are only marginally useful to most pilots, but which could potentially be very useful to those in certain specialist roles, e.g. faction target painters.the low availability of these items is primarily the result of the unduly large and inflexible amount of lp required to purchase them. more mainstream items dominate the market; as there is much higher demand for them, sellers are assured of a greater rate of isk / lp redeemed and a speedier sale.one possible way of righting this market failure would be to periodically increase the lp prices of the most popular items in each faction store (e.g. as ranked by total lp spent on them per month) and reduce the lp prices of the least popular. this wouldn't need to be done more than once per month, or however often insurance values are adjusted to match mineral prices.mission runners would still earn a premium on the popular items, but i think we'd see a bit more diversity in what people spent their lp on, and eve will be the richer for it."
"i don't if they need to be continually reevaluated but the numbers definitely need to be looked at again. i think changing the lp price of the popular items would only increase their isk price and not see any change to the compilation of the faction modules. the under utilized modules are likely not popular because their numbers do not justify the cost so either these modules only need to lower in lp cost or the statistics increased."
"i always did think that there should be something else to do with the bodies except brag about them. you can't even properly display them.offtopic: make an anchorable item in which you can display frozen corpses. it'd be like the heads on poles for space"
"no support,i like the way pod killing right now is only to grief and to resolve a personal issue, once it becomes a source of income it will be less special."
"sounds like something for the station... a trophy room to put all the corpses"
"you already can put it in your cargo and use it seriously, yes maybe the primary skill \"biology\" and a second one needed to do this like learn speed x8 \"autopsy\", looks crazy but wy not"
"it introduces nothing meaningful into gameplay, and will ruin implant market."
"it would not hurt the imp market....... if it was used to make imps that were different than the lp store ones, dare i a say t3 imps."
"this"
"pointless... humanoids are the same where ever you go. there is good and bad in everyone, we learn to live...."
"nullsec players already read/post on kugu, the place where stupid people go to get made fun of. and then banned by mods.that said, the eve-o forums could really use some improvements. locking out those most likely to post crap (yes, that's you we're talking about, mr. level 4 mission runner) is a great first step."
"10/10 would support again"
"i'd say go further. put all the hi-sec players on a separate server. make it pve with consensual pvp. voila, no more carebears clogging up this forum."
"buy big ship with big gunshoot small ship with big gunreload, repeat...or how about the all powerful orbit commandhover above enemy slowly so that drake missiles cannot hit target"
"math doesn't indicate intelligence, it just shows how much time someone is willing to waste on a subject that barely serves any purpose.anyways, this game has it's dumbtards (atleast the ratio is considerably smaller compared to world of daycarecraft), some dwell in highsec, some dwell everywhere else. location has hardly anything to do with it."
"i like where this is going.but trebor should not even get read-only access, he could still come up with ideas that way.****heap: where the pubbies belong."
"supportedneeds more effective bonus, and needs higher ehp. dps is not an issue - they are eaf."
"eas are too fragile, have bad capacitor and really bad lock range to make their work.they need either resist bonuses or signature radius bonus like interceptors for survivability and capacitor/lock range balanced with their range need for using ewar effectively. their speed and agility however, seem relatively fine."
"i agree with most of this, but i also feel that ewar friggs are the step to combat recons and as such there skill should be removed and skills returned also they should be added to the covert op skill"
"it seems to me that the repackaging system really only applies to ships, containers and pos/sov modules..is it really necessary to be able to repackage every mod/item?i propose that all mods which dont have a smaller repackaging size are automatically repackaged and stacked on action (ex. removal from ship slot).where a mod is damaged and cant be repackaged, its gets a new icon that shows its damaged.modify the rclick context menu to remove repackage and only allow repackage on single items. (or maybe only items of same type, ex multiple containers, ships pos/sov items).i tend to wait till i have a number of unpackaged items, then i'll select all, and repackage all. the server seems to process every item when i do this, surely putting undue load on the servers... if items were repackaged and restacked automatically it would spread the load and eliminate the number of false repackage requests.any views?edit: addressed pos/sov and damaged mods."
"i highly doubt the 'false' repackage requests actually ever occur. as a means of spreading load its probally extremely negligable, the code would do pretty much the same amount of work either way and possibly a little more due to the calls on 'repackage' being automatic. its not a situation in which load needs to be spread out, either way the same amount of server 'work' needs be done and rapid-response isn't important, as long as its done in a reasonable time."
"when i said 'select all' i mean select all items (like many 100's of them) where i may only have 15 mods to repackage.... its a lot easier to select all, and rclick> repackage, than finding each mod and ctrl-clicking each one.even if you have 1 mod to repackage and you select all and repackage, it takes a lot longer to work than if selecting individual mods. even if this is a low priority thread at the server end, i still think its putting unnessessary load on the serverside.changing the way repackaging works would reduce the workload (however small) of people methods of doing things... and reduce the amount of click>rclicks in the game."
"auto-repackaging every single item every single time you change a fitting is not a good idea. mission runners will change fittings between practically every single mission. this would add up to a lot of extra database stuff for both repackaging and reassembling. it's also good the way it is because repackaged items would tend to get stacked and when applying stacks to a fitting it only applies one, when you may need several fit. you would also lose your drone groupings every time you swapped drones, which would go a long way to making drone groupings useless.in short, no. it would make life more difficult for more people, increase server load, and provide zero real benefit to the game.*edit: considering to how rarely i actually repackage things, i would assume that most players don't repackage modules until they are going into storage or being sold. your \"select all -> repackage\" issue is probably a non-issue compared to what you are proposing. you're trying to fix something that's not broken."
"personally, i don't want all my items repackaged automatically. have you ever had to swap out a set of 8 guns, especially fitting the new set when they are packaged? unless im completely missing something, hitting fit to active ship on a stack of packaged items only does it one at a time, but on 8 unpackaged items it fits them all at the same time."
"you are missing something, it's the same.what is the source of that information? provide some evidence before you make claims about server load.in any case, it's as simple as making auto-repackaging a client side option, you're not required to use it."
"do you even play this game? \"nuh-uh\" isn't a valid point of argument. \"magically make it so more database calls is no longer more\" isn't an intelligent suggestion.fact 1: it would make it more of a hassle to quickly change fittings (more database calls per item means worse performance, and when fitting something in a stack, only 1 gets fit, not all meaning more up to 8x as many clicks client-side.)fact 2: it will degrade server-side performance (removing a fitting would do 3 database calls rather than 1, and fitting a new would be 2 database calls rather than 1)this is why the eve database is managed by people who know how to do databases and not you."
"confirming this is not how mmos work. a single point entry causes no more server load than any cycle sync check that happens constantly in the background, in other words, any mundane action or non-action in gameplay. in fact, if packaged item do not have unique id, it's probably healthier for the server (not sure how eve handles this specifically). no offense, but you're making a fool out of yourself."
"supported"
"pointless proposal (pun intended)."
"in my first days of eve i was planning to become a glorious miner.however.soon after couple of days i discovered that mining was just about using dumb exploits and bots or reprocessing drone loot from macro space. how in the hell it does make sense to mine your frigging minerals and jettison them in space then get alt to haul it. oh god.what i would need is hidden asteroids i can find by exploring and scanning for minerals in the asteroids. when i'd finally find a good one i could spend a little time mining it and relatively quickly (under level 4 combat mission time) get the minerals, without absolute need for alts. curse them."
"no probs! thanks for taking the time to post your support, and to everyone else :pthe csm portion of the census should be activated shortly, apologies for the delay."
"\"i support this product and or service\""
"i support this product and or service"
"thanks to the lost in eve guys, i just participated in a great debate, which should hopefully be posted early next week."
"what all pos owners need but - especially worm hole dwellers - is some type of new corp hanger that will have 20-25 separate divisions, and each division can be assigned to one alt (and each divison able to be given a different name) and made secure from any one else but directors.the current 7 divisions is not enough for living out of a pos in worm hole space."
"is that with or without the illegal votes?"
"of course !when the votes are castwe will travel to icelandfanfest beer and sin !i've made it rhyming with the first one, just in case.if you really enjoy them trebor, if i get a seat next to yours in the csm, i could consider offering a haiku per meeting. :pvote gehen for ha<U+FFFD>kus !"
"i endorse this candidate's poetry."
"eve is one of the most interesting games around. but is it also badass?! the answer is yes. and it can be more so. prometheus knows - watch his vids. he's got my vote."
"good luck prom"
"hi elise,it's been argued in the serious discussion section on kugu and i'm sure on here as well (though i don't troll this forum nearly as much) that there needs to be a technetium rebalance. what are your thoughts on this?love,dental floss"
"for those unfamiliar with the issue, some 18 months ago or so (perhaps longer, i'm terrible with dates) ccp changed the materials required to build tech-2 components. moreover, they rebalanced the component need for tech-2 items. what this did was remove the promethium/dysprosium bottleneck, a problem which had begun to spiral out of control. unfortunately all this did was create a new bottleneck in technetium, which exists pretty much solely in the northern regions of eve. so there are two alternatives to deal with the problem, the one that people are drawn to is a completely redistribution all moon minerals. while on a personal level i'd be tickled pink, ultimately this will not solve the problem. the bottleneck will still exist, it would just have different benefactors. the easiest and most pragmatic solution is to use a tool that already exists: alchemy. there is an excess of moon minerals that are simply not worth mining (including r64s), why not just tack onto alchemy to include r32s. you'll hit four birds with a single stone, and the tool is already there so there's no added work involved. now about the pos question. i remember when poses first came out, i was so excited. when it online'd i excitedly mashed buttons and asked \"ok sweet so what can i do...oh, i see - i can sit in this little blip\". needless to say, it was a bit of a let down. but that topic is ancient by eve standards - the major complaint was that small entities couldn't fathom building an outpost. the harsh truth of the matter is that outposts aren't that big of an expense anymore. so while a revamp of the pos system would be welcomed, it's not that huge of an issue for me. hey, i'd just be happy if the anchoring skill let me queue up pos mod anchoring/onlining."
"low-sec, to me, has the most potential in eve to be awesome. right now it has little going for it, but there is promise with ccp adding some low-sec content with incursions. as i mentioned earlier, i don't want low-sec to be a ****tier version of 0.0. the reason low-sec isn't super popular is, essentially, because of the risk vs reward - simply put it is too risky and not nearly rewarding enough. to rectify this obviously you can either decrease the risk, increase the reward, or find some sort of happy medium. decreasing risk would be selling low-sec short - that is not the answer. all that leaves is increasing reward. the rewards don't have to be straight isk, it could be something that's more intangible, something unique. there is no one single fix that can bring low-sec back, but there are a few small things that, together, can make a big difference. booster production exclusively in low-sec would be a start. add in bonuses to alchemy (after making alchemy relevant again), commitment to boosting factional warfare, more high-quality level 4 agents, better exploration, et cetera. on their own, all these small changes won't do much - but together they snowball into uniquely rewarding part of the game. and the final question, about incarna. from a gameplay level i don't see the big draw with wis; at the end of the day i'm going to continue to play eve because of what drew me to the game: the spaceship flying around looking pretty ba. from a business level, i understand why ccp is devoting so many resources: it opens up a new director for their business and their game. micro-transactions for cool hats, space-plastic surgery will, and probably somewhere down the line some wild minigames, will net ccp's business some mad bank. this freight train is already on the tracks and there is no stopping it. what i can do, however, is make sure the train doesn't go careening into a village. perhaps i took the metaphor too far. what i mean to say is that i will make sure that incarna will not adversely affect the core fundamentals of eve online - the game we all play. i don't see this as a looming problem on the horizon, but if it turns out to be i will be the first one yelling about it. thanks for all the questions thus far, keep em coming and don't forget that voting closes march 22!"
"for what it's worth, the eve tribune thinks you'd make a great csm delegate."
"thanks for the intelligent responses. excellent points and i agree with your views. +1 vote."
"hehehe, how did you guess?to each their own, i like to do my campaigning up close and personal ;-)and thanks mate, i hope there's enough sensible people to get the right people in :-)"
"k, fine. let's ignore your statement about t2 bpos for the moment. let's look at your platform.1) the csm makes unrealistic promises to get elected.this is a no-brained dude. of course they do. anyone running for a political office makes unrealistic promises. including yourself. the difference is that the unrealistic promises they make involve design changes that are supported by their developer stakeholder status. your unrealistic promise (if there is one, i'll get to that latter) involves a much larger change in the very nature of the csm, which ccp may not actually have any obligation or interest in listening to. 2) now while i just argued that you are making large promises that you have no ability to back, im going to do a 180 and say that you actually are campaigning on an empty platform. your basic campaign comes down to \"there is clearly a problem, i'm going to fix it because i'm a proven cut-throat dude\". this is a completely empty statement. 3) you say your ability to redirect the csm is proven through your ability to politic. now, honestly i don't know you irl, and you very well may have that, bu there is no evidence of that any of us could possibly see. the leadership and politickig you have shown in eve is meaningless for a task like what you are mentioning. part of this is because, while leading in eve does take talent, it also takes the kind of skewed priorities and ego-mania that make for terrible collaborative leaders in the real world. this isn't just targeted at you, but anyone who claims that. anyone who can devote 40 hours of their life to leading people in a computer game are not the kind of people i would ever want sitting in a board room negotiating a deal that involves real issues, becausethat person has already shown that real issues come second to games.it's a bit anti-intellectual.3) what this all boils down to, for me, is that you are arguing against the excessive politicking and lack of results from the csm (which strikes me as a somewhat unfounded statement, see stakeholder status), but this picture you are showing of the problem, and the solution, is painted by the most grandiose politic double speak i have seen in quite a while.\"the csm shouldn't bring player problems to ccp, it should bring ccp to the players\"how you get a pass on criticising empty promises and flowery politicking while writig the sappiest politicking campaign of any of the candidates is beyond me. the only explanation i have for it is that you are riding the cult of personality you, to be fair, have rightfully earned. the entire spiel quote about how the csm does all it's business on their private forums and at the summit instead of publicly and spin that as some insidious plot is hilarious. of course that's where they do their work. i mean....i don't get that in the slightest. how could you have a usefull conversation with devs about a potential feature in public without either violating nda. as for transparency the recent csm was pretty quality about releasing good minutes and informing the players about what they can.but you turn on the 'loose change\" music and make them all a pack of evil liars.ironically, you getting elected may only prove your campaign stance that the csm is filled with double speak politicians who promise the world that they can't deliver and in the end bring nothing to the table."
"the csm has proved 5 times to be a toothless paper tiger that sell out for a free holiday in iceland. from what i can see the mittani is simply saying lets change this. as a result he is standing. coincidentally, or perhaps because of this the number of players voting in the csm elections is dramatically higher. for that reason i'm voting for the mittani."
"you're attributing a higher voter turnout because one person is running? =laughs=let the mittani-washing-continue there, moderated. =eyeroll="
"please present your assertion for the reason there is a higher vote turnout this year, i am all ears."
"man, this was almost off the first page. not cool."
"mittens, a selfish request:can you bring up the legion and how much it sucks, once you get to sulphurville? it needs a 7th turret. this probably won't work, but heck, doesn't hurt to try."
"you have my votes.if trebor wins the chair i'm going to have to /lifequit."
"i went out drinking last night and only now, around 6pm have recovered from the hangover. welp.sure, and no doubt i'll also bang the drum - again - about a second midslot on the retribution. no doubt i will be ignored, because lol amateurgamedesignersoncsm. i love votes. votes make me happy. mmmm, votes."
"one of my main concerns with all the claims csm candidates make about what they feel needs re-balancing is they never really elaborate on how they imagine it being fixed. sure, we can say this or that is broken, and we want some utopian new eden, but as far as quantifying the changes they are proposing?i hear you say you want to break up the power blocks by changing 0.0 logistics, but i cannot imagine how you could do that without hurting the smaller ones even more. large coalitions have an easier time with self-sufficiency. i can't even fathom a way to accomplish these 'problems', and frankly, i have not heard any here either."
"i do not necessarily want to make logistics more difficult. what i do like to see happening is several tweaks to the way things work in general in 0.0. i don't claim to know the perfect means to do so in every case but i feel that if it's done well, in cooperation with the players, it can turn out really nice.examples:- if you make mining and industry in 0.0 easier with more production slots (don't know much about mining but i'm sure there are plenty of ways to 'improve' that lol), not as much stuff will have to be ferried in from empire. this reduces the dependency on supply lines and makes 0.0 more self sufficient.- an increase in the number of entry systems would make it easier to get in and out and open up 0.0 to more casual visitors, and reduces the ability to pretty much 'lock down' a region for regular traffic by permacamping a small number of entry systems.- by making it more difficult/expensive to control many systems with just one corp or alliance you force them to concentrate on where they really want to be, where the nice resources etc are.these, among other changes large and small, would stimulate the existence of multiple smaller entities that battle over shorter distances and smaller areas than today. the exact ways and means however will need to be discussed at length and none of this is final or unalterable. i do however feel strongly that a change in the current 0.0 that has been moving towards a more uniform, stale and generally boring state ever since around '06 would be a huge improvement to eve. more small scale wars, more opportunities for small groups of players and less of the current state of powerblock vs. powerblock."
"thank you for your support. hope so, too. thanks for your continued support despite my annoying blog posts."
"endorsed. good luck."
"thank you for your support! diomedes calypso made a good point in another thread, so i want to echo my response in here:yeah, you've hit on why i ultimately decided not to promote the vote match tool on my blog. it was and is a great idea in theory, but the questions really should have been more clear cut and less loaded.they were great interview questions, but poor poll questions. as a result, it didn't surprise me to learn that most people didn't get more than a 60-65% match with any candidate, and then got a 60-65% match with a lot of them.looking over my own answers and how other candidates answered, i realized i could have selected the exact opposite position on many of the questions and not have to change a single word on the comments i posted.for anyone who matched with me at 60% or more, if you're thinking about voting for me but an issue or two is making you hesitate, send me an evemail or post in my jita park thread with your concerns and i'll be happy to talk with you about them.i want to commend diedra vaal on what was a great, great idea. but the execution was ultimately flawed. hopefully, the tool will be a little cleaner next year."
"well, to be fair, ccp does not have a lot else to go on. and also, people active on the forums tend to be the most engaged and best-informed players -- canaries in the coal mine, if you will.sure, some people over-reacted to :18months:. but a lot more expressed significant concerns over the allocation of resources ccp had decided upon and the apparent disconnect with the player-base.and to ccp's credit, they did listen to the players, the level of engagement with the csm rose, and some resources were reallocated.the result was that the october meeting and the december summit were much more pleasant and productive for everyone. sure, we raised significant concerns with ccp about microtransactions and incarna (for example), but there were no \"are you kidding me?\" moments like in june.with respect to ccp and the forums, ccp does pay more attention to them than you might think. some devs are afraid to engage for fear of being beaten up, but i think this is a mistake. constructive personal engagement with the players has generated some significant benefits.for example, last year ccp karkur approached the csm about her skunk-works project to improve the contextual menus. we gave her some feedback, but i and other csms urged her to engage with the players directly. she did so, and the resulting thread was very helpful and made the end result better. not to mention, it got her a coveted tech-ii titanium assault spork.and right now, ccp sreegs seems to be following in her footsteps in a thread on bots.i think this kind of engagement is just flat-out good business. it improves the game, and it builds connections between the players and the devs -- both of which directly impact the bottom-line through improved retention.if i were ccp hellmar, i would award significant prizes to the devs who demonstrate the best engagement with the players, both about game issues and socially. i think the return-on-investment is compelling."
"the evidence does not support that ccp has the faintest idea what that means"
"it sounds like this is precisely the kind of attention you've been trying to draw with the \"spork\" awards; totally agree!"
"all that comes into my head after reading this is \"you unctuous sycophant\""
"i have to admit that jonathan is one of my more enthusiastic supporters, and will probably be disappointed to learn that i cannot walk on water unless it is frozen, but his point is well taken.the sporks, while entirely silly, are a token of appreciation for hard work that has helped the players and the csm, intended to draw attention that effort, and encourage more of it.if you support the csm, and the devs that engage with the csm, then you can join in the fun by bringing a spork to fanfest and displaying it. i'll bring some extras (plastic, not titanium!) to give out."
"cheap gitt"
"in order to get a titanium spork, just like the devs, you must perform a meritorious service that benefits the players of eve.i always keep a few on my person, so if you manage to do so in my presence at fanfest, you might just get one on the spot."
"i have a shiney presence."
"upon reflection, that alone will not be sufficient."
"the women in my corporation will not agree with you.*checks wallet* yup, they won't agree with you."
"i am impressed with your work on csm5. endorsed and good luck."
"ccp xhagen and ccp diagoras have spent a lot of time making sure every csm item in the backlog is tagged as being a csm item, which increases their visibility. teams now know that if they pick up a certain item because it's csm, they'll get the additional bonus of some :hugs: and the potential for free beer at fanfest.not a big thing, but every little bit helps.while there have been discussions about putting resources into extra csm tools, i would prefer, if at all possible, that those resources be put into work that can benefit the entire player-base, not just 15 people (awesome though we all are). one possible avenue is forum-based tools that can be used for csm tasks but are also adaptable for use by everyone else -- as anyone who has seen my stomach will tell you, i personally love to have my cake and eat it too.csm-news was intended to be a low-volume mailing list for important announcements, so as the manager i was reticent to put too much through it -- perhaps too reticent. it is worth considering making it a little bit noisier, so i have started an internal discussion about the feasibility of doing a weekly status update summarizing what issues the csm is currently working on (nda permitting).finally, with regard to your question about what i might do if i was elected chairman, i can neither confirm nor deny the confirmation or denial of any potential plans i may or may not have to even consider the possibility of entertaining any thoughts in that regard whatsoever.i trust this makes my position perfectly clear."
"you've got my vote!"
"new blog update posted. my eve mail has been flooded the last few days and i'm struggling to reply and keep up with as much of that as i can while following various forums as well. thank you to everyone so far for your support. with this field of candidates i am going to need every vote."
"i have to admit at being very impress with the q and a you did for eve uni. so much so that you have my 3 votes.good luck"
"iterations! 0.0 needs some serious love for small to medium gangs. there seems to be just nobody around except botters or huge blobs. there isn't much in between."
"i noticed that you strongly support moving all l4s to lowsec. could you explain why you feel this is a good idea?"
"fixing old problems is something that should not be forgotten. also, i liked those few ideas i read about exploring... one time use folding space modules, local that can be changed by sovereignty holder.and you got inside look on things on top of that, and managed to \"show your case\" in such way that old employer can't tell you to be quiet.i don't like microtransactions at all, but i understand your view and point on allowing it on vanity items. keep it only on those and it's good. can't win on everything spaceships expansions indeed!you'll get my votes."
"if l4 missions were moved to low sec if i wanted to do them i would just get in a t3 ship have it setup so cant be probed down.it looks to me you think there too profitable so you want them moved to low sec so if i want to goto low sec to kill people im going to have to get back in my t3 ship and stay in low sec because l3 missions will take ages to get sec status backup.this may push the price down of the best loot that drops in the 0.0 plexes because the people that use to buy it for doing l4 missions in high sec i doubt are going to want to use it in low sec."
"draco is on the slate of candidates that the tribune has endorsed for the csm. for those who are curious."
"i have it on good authority that mr t, laurence fishboune, milla jovovich and brian blessed all support this product and/or service."
"last year we conducted interviews with what seemed like roughly eight or nine billion candidates running for the csm. i can't imagine that many people read them, i know that most of our staff didn't. we're still open to anybody who wants to run an interview, but this year we're not aggressively seeking them out. indeed, last year the one candidate that we spoke strongly against turned out to be a complete embarrassment when she did get elected, and finally ended up being removed for an nda violation. we're still having fun with the \"i told you so\" bit over that.in any case, after careful study and after long conversations with several of the csm candidates, we have decided to endorse a slate for this year's election.happy voting."
"huge thanks for supporting the csm with your vote!i'm hoping that a lot of the folks that i would best represent aren't active forum folks. i definitely hope i get to be the person to fill the hole that seems to exist in supporting the miners and pve types of eve.bomberlocks, you rock for voting for someone!issler dainze - voice of reason csm candidate"
"i'd vote for that"
"hii like your presentation and i have voted for you because i think you would make a serious and welcome addition to the csm being another helping hand between players and ccp.i do ask you though for some reflections on the following.as a roleplayer i'm disturbed by the lack of physical realism this universe has to offer. the real universe is a dynamic place in which moons orbit planets orbiting stars that vaporize any spaceship coming too close i miss bad spaceweather induced by the local star[s] making it hard to navigate, don't wanna see the nebulea as we saw them in the early '60 red plasma planets in young solar systems with lots of astroids, blue plasma in nebulous systems with lots of gas and ice and - by jove - ice astroids always farest away from the star.ofcourse gameplay and the war on lag are of utter importance but since none of the csm candidates have mentioned these, do you think physical realism will get a place on your agenda ?make love not warand fly safe while doing it"
"hanging out in nourvukaiken this morning, come on by and say hi!butch"
"i realize i didnt do the drawing yesterday, so i will do a large drawing tonight. expect a bunch of winners."
"from your campaign blog: players to be forced into war-decable npc corps after their first month.why do you feel players staying in npc corps is a problem?"
"you come out as one of my highest matches on vote match, but one of the areas where we disagree is that you feel the war dec system needs completely overhauled - what's wrong with it as it stands?"
"i endorse this candidate!"
"the idea is to fix near riskless gameplay, characters immune to wardecs. this just an idea to fix that issue it also has an added bonus of encouraging group play. the only risk they are vulnerable to is suicide ganking which is not substantial enough. i do not want to force pvp on players but there should not be a game mechanic that over protects them from it.like all my ideas if i get a lot people that dislike the idea i will definitely drop it from my campaign or even change my opinion on the matter.i feel that there is too much advantage with the aggressor. i also think adding a mechanic where win conditions can be set (optionally) would be awesome as well. it is currently an imbalanced mechanic in favor of the the aggressor that is now just used primarily to grief.i am always open to thoughts."
"i fail to see your point. i doubt there is any candidate in favor of rmt.besides, you should post this kind of things with ms pacman. not all the people know that she's your alt. :/"
"in the platform it has been declared that ms pacman is an alt of extreme and also explained why."
"today ms pacman will be interviewed by eve uni (approx 19.00 hrs evetime) and will also be one of the four guests at debate 4 of lostineve"
"i thank eve uni for their time, you are a great group of people.i enjoyed being with you taking and answering your questions"
"chribba killers for csm"
"imigo i spent a good amount of time living in 0.0, but one of the things i missed out there was missions. i like the fact that in high sec if you had a bit of time to kill, or wanted to raise standings, there was a mechanic for doing that. what i would like to see in 0.0 is the introduction of a method for raising standings, whether it is in the form of bounty tags being redeemable for standings with various factions, or the implementation of mission npc's in stations. with all the alliances out there that have stations, and also have good standings with different npc corps, it just seems odd, story wise, that those factions would not send emissaries to extend the reach of their influence.what would you lobby for, as a method for raising standings while living in 0.0?"
"whats your position on.pos mechanics, i.e. how very little works right.the \"flogging the dead horse\" thread has lots of support.and has been ignored, by ccp.i think people who run for the csm,should keep there alliance/corp roles seperate from their csm roles.the csm should not be a place for metagaming.or ego boosting"
"in what way do you think pos are broken?"
"the number of roles needed to enable jobs to be done.public use is an option but it dosen't work.alliance use isn't as easy as it could be."
"i miss you haldon't let it go to your head now.....you had me at racist.....i too will cast my vote for this dude!!"
"i don't want to derail mike's thread, but my previous issue aside i actually do support ho's campaign so i'll respond simply to bump his thread.your first comment is contradictory. market is difficult to make money in which drives down competition which males it easy to make money in. the reality is that it is difficult to male money in the market, bit that doesn't mean there isn't competition. the reason for this is that it's the single highest potential income source in eve. there really is no limit to your earnings except for your abilitity.which brings me to the point about bots. i'm not convinced bots are as significant an issue in the market place as some people think. consider the .01 concept which lead to the eve001 tool. i can say that i only barely thought about picking this up, because real money making on the eve markets doesn't have to involve updating all of your orders 24/7. simply .01ing up to some limit is a really good way to get manipulated and see your profits cut apart.that's why i question how a bot could work without getting easily manipulated. the worst thing about a bot is that it will keep doing stupid stuff if it's told to, which means it could be manipulated into bankrupting someone overnight. the botter could limit this risk by maintaining a limited wallet balance but that limits the effectiveness of the bot.also, @mike, kind of wanted to apologize for the tone i took earlier. just took a hellish midterm that i had been studying for and took the wrong path with how i stated this. i do hope that if you are elected and this topic comes up you will take another look at it and reverse you position."
"see, this is one of the differences in style you should be paying attention to. yes, i may disagree with you about a subject but i do not depend on my 'cult of personality' to drive through it. i go and i read the thread you referenced. i listen to your opinion . . . this is what you want . . . someone who will listen, is willing to learn about the things he doesn't know and maybe even be willing to change his or her mind if the arguments are valid.the vote matching is a great concept but more than that you should not just look for a representative who agrees with you on 20 odd selected topics. you want someone who will listen to you when you disagree on some as yet unnamed topic in the future. maybe they still will disagree after they listen to you, but you will know you had a chance to put your ideas out there and not get a picture of your candidate in return.that is why i think i should stuill be considered a posibility for your vote even if you do think my original answer was just plain wrong.m"
"no worries, i appreciate being asked questions . . . and the bumps. as to midterms, i remember those . . . no offense was taken. i actually read it as you were doing serious consideration of a topic and gave me a chance to explain rather than just reading the vote match comment and writing me off as an idiot.m"
"your comment on the 'cult of personality' made me smile quite a bit because that is something i see as a huge problem with the csm (and to be honest politics in general.). the sad fact is that the ability of the cult of personality to get someone elected is inversely proportional to how useful they will actually be in a collaborative group.a cop (cult of personality) will build on someone because they are charismatic, dogmatic, strong and/or entertaining. these aren't inherently negative attributes, however for many people being a recipient of a cop will lead to arrogance. that is where the problem comes from. copers mistake adulation for moral authority. celebrities commenting on politics irl is a good example of this, but it can be seen anywhere. heavily published phds often have problems working together for the same reason.ultimately the 2 most important qualities for a leader in a collaborative setting are:humuility - the ability to accept that you *may* be wrong, which leads to better listening and independant research.anda self sufficient ego - anyone who has read raynd understands the difference betweenarrogance and ego. ego is important because to be a decision maker you have to be able to male your final decision indendantly of others views at the end of the day. that may seem contradictory, but it's not. humility allows for listening, ego allows you to make the decision you think is right, and not live and act for others. a leader must have ego. a cult of personality is not built on either of these. they gain a feeling of self worth and a belief in their skills through the eyes of others, which ends up keeping them from actually ever learning anything, or realizing that they don't know what they are talking about.the main reason that term made me smile is because i just used that exact phrase to describe the mittani's authority."
"i suppose, i`ll give you my last two votes after all. there are certain points we disagree on; but short of running for csm myself, that applies to any candidate. here`s my hope: that csm doesn`t ruin the game. that a council of players, does not become so corrupted; that they place their voice first, over the interests of individual players.i`m fairly certain that csm5; was fairly seeded with corruption. fairly certain, corruption has progressively increased; since the csm was initiated, and made available to the player base. i agree with community involvement, and would like to see more; but the csm delegates are becoming increasingly more likely, to press their own interests. some, or most, even think they know better; how to improve the game for all, than those they represent.a csm delegate needs to recognize; that his opinion, is only a drop in the bucket. that he, or she, is only one member among many; of the total playerbase, for which he represents. they need to recognize that the assembly hall posters; represent only the opinions of a few more individuals, than make up the csm.games get ruined, by player input and suggestions. i`ve seen this happen a dozen times, or more; and watched the games topple and die. what started as something good; soon saw it`s downfall, in playerbase input. there will always be players who think, or pretend, they know; while they push forth idea`s to satisfy their own ego`s, or make the game easier for them. old player`s, from beta, or shortly after; who want to make themselves more powerful, by reducing the ability for new players to gain power. there is almost always, a motive; when a player volunteers his time and effort. they are not doing something for nothing, in most cases; but instead, applying themselves, to strengthen their personal position within the game. potentially, to make themselves a profit; outside of the game. people are demons, monsters; who have no interests besides themselves. this is true; in almost every instance."
"trolling is the only thing a goon knows. how could i possibly try to interfere with that.."
"wow. that was almost edgy. wrong, but at least almost edgy."
"historic moment! goons are now in a position in which they don't have any good will left.their current leader has effectively completly annihilated any sympathy left with his natural unlikability.goons, a well meant pro tip. your leader is a confused nerd with aspirations of grandeur. he is, as i'm posting, poking his little **** at your very recieving *******s. get rid of him!"
"naw.......goons are great. they're like this neat alien disease injected into eve. for the most part they dont even recruit members from within eve. they strive not only to play the game as it is, but to change the game to give advantage to their play style. griefing, scamming and breaking as much stuff as they can. if they can skew the nerfs and boosts of ships and weapons to better suit their style, so much the better.goons are also the only gaming group im aware of that have their own real life legal defense fund. they need it. people for some strange reason sue them. go figure. guess theres no sense of humor with some people.since they were formed, before and after they entered eve, in every endeavor (inside and outside eve), goons have one primary driving motto. if it can be broken, it should be broken. this simple motto drives everything they do.they say, were not out to break the game, whatever game that may be. this is true. they are not out to break a game. theyre just out to break the way anyone else plays it.if all that sounds appealing to you, then you should vote for mittens.or perhaps some other goon.-windjammerp.s. i write this with the full expectation that the mittani will be on the next csm. he should be able to get enough votes from his own corporation to ensure that. it wont be the first time a big mouth goon with a large image of himself got up on his soap box inside the csm and it wont be the last. however, this one just may cause ccp staffers to be hospitalized due to splitting a gut from laughter."
"that is quite interesting that you would say that. goons are ofc indeed great. their guidance of how one should experience online entertainment, and ofc, judgement when one does not fall between the paramaters of online gaming bounderies of experience, have indeed been shaping, educational, and indeed plainly helpfull to progress our species."
"i support the goons ruining killer gandry's game."
"if the nc control the csm then the majority of this game (eve) may as well just quit now....ccp already devotes enough resources to 0.0 time to focus on empire space for a change."
"\"facts\" huh? looks like you need to look up the definition of fact so you can distinguish them from rumour, speculation, marketing, and opinion. let me demonstrate:1. you seem of the opinion that mittani is confused. opinion is not fact.2. you seem of the opinion that nc has one voice, one opinion, one thought. i can tell you from my perspective that i have seen considerable evidence to the contrary.3. people have speculated that the fact there is a large number of nc candidates means that the nc is trying to take over the csm. there are however plenty of other perfectly reasonable explanations for this, such as the other fact that there are a lot of nc members. speculation is not fact.4. branding a group a one \"big f*cking fail\" is marketing. also, which half are openly saying they want to be on csm to avoid pvp? please make a list with quotes rather than starting a rumour. rumour is not fact, but here's a fact: one of the issues i'm standing for is more opportunities for pvp.5. that the nc only has one thought and that is \"there will be no diplomacy\" is something you pulled out of your ass. something you pull out of your ass is not fact.on that note i'm calling you out as being full of excrement. i'll be happy to continue this discourse if you have some actual facts that are relevant to the csm discussion to discuss."
"the degree of inchoate hate directed at the nc by people who have a fingernail's grip on reality is impressive. and it definitely shows that whatever we're doing, if it drives some people this nuts, we're doing it right. i wish that a lot of nc candidates had run in years past, we might have caused someone to start throwing grenades into their local post office or something."
"its cool when people call me angry and mad considering how entertaining this is for me watching you all get emo, whats cooler is finn calling anyone mad, its like someone rolling around in horse **** then jumping up and down and calling everyone **** face.finn, at the risk of being generic like every widot / goon / test member, stop posting now!"
"my question is; with the nc completely dominating the list of rmt that was leaked to evenews24.com and spreading like wildfire across all gaming websites, what steps is nc taking to get ride of the rmters riddled all through their coalition?does any leaders within the nc have any statements about this so voters don't think, \"by voting for a nc candidate, i'm voting for someone who harbors rmters.\""
"i think there are a few miss conceptions.first: i am a 0.0 resident and also member of the nc.second: not every nc member votes for a nc representative or atleast not with all accounts.third: finnnotagain zero is as relevant as the last part of his name states.the empire community and alliances outside the nc can blame themselves more than the nc if the nc get's a more prominent representation in the csm.why blame the nc for getting more people to vote? isn't the real issue that empire and the other alliance blocks just don't care a lot less who is in the csm and thus generating a lot less votes?the reason the nc works is because the alliances in it realise that being a solo alliance or only a small block alliance won't help you survive.xdeathx, ra, wn etc work like a team too where certain intrests are at stake.it made the big fubar to allienate most alliances in the game which at a certain point made them stand virtually solo. the end result is well known.this doesn't mean the nc will live forever. nothing remains, everything changes. but you shouldn't be mad about the fact some people work together. you should more focus on why others can't."
"i have 4 votes to give, you're getting the lot of them. i appreciate people that like balance!"
"the way people act behind \"closed doors\" is usually a reliable indicator of their personal attitudes and personality. how enlightening that you defend your exposed behavior by suggesting that using such language to viciously insult people is done only because the goon audience is more likely to accept the message that way. it also suggests you will say whatever you think you need to say to any audience (including all other voters) to gain acceptance for your message. whether or not your message is what you actually mean."
"this is basic communication, you frame your message for the audience who is to receive it. it doesn't mean that the message changes fundamentally or that the person is presenting themselves dishonestly. for that to be true you'd need to demonstrate that my opinions and positions expressed in different places are incompatible with each other. which you can't so you are resorting to rather dull faux-outrage in lieu of making an honest argument.in any case i came here to post that i've just wrapped up an interview with lost in eve and it should be available on their site by early next week."
"complaining about getting scammed in eve is like complaining about getting shot in call of duty."
"my name is kell tarhun and i am proud to announce i will not vote for any csm candidate.reason why not:- i see no point in giving rights to start support action on my name when i personally got no influence or interest in it. when i am interested in something i give my own opinion in proper place for example forum, or reporting somehow to proper place.limiting my own voice to voice to some dude who thinks he might be better representing myself just beacuase 1000 voted for him i find stupid.if suicaidal self exploding leader of 2000 votes is more important than santa or even better example: how about representing men of top 1000 models in their relations with those 1000 models while their free time. who wouldn't like to. does it make sense for those models? nope. i bet that lucky guy would die happy.making structures that gives rights to being heard better as ccp suggest makes me personally sick. for me it is just aproving someone is more important than you avarage eve player if i do not accept sth i can just quit and do not pay my share to eve online community.- i feel personally offended by idea of csm. csm candidates got no rights to implement anything - they can just talk. i do not thing that eve players are not capable of writing or talking - even with mistaces as me, my language is understandable.- those representants are minority of eve online. this game got way more players than couple of csm candidates voted by players.i u think that president or politican of your own country represent your interests in any way i think you might be naive.what is more they will get propably some votes however with same pleasure i can vote for pizza, lasagne. that food could represent me in pretty same way as csm candidates.- i belive every players should be represented by himself.do you feel better when someone else talking about some stuff in your name? even if in many cases he might be right there are lots of situation when u will disagree with his opinion. but you voted for him it means damage was done and you can nothing. he will represent your ideas even if he get mentaly sick while that.to csm candidates:i personally not attend to harm your feelings or argue with your ideas or that you want to sell your soul to ccp's game. you are interested in making real ideas in way you find interesting. you put lots of effort to to get support in game mechanic ccp organised. propably less or more succesfull. however in this game i belive every player is important. so making you more important than guy who just play this game for fun and ocasionally write his opinion i find very very wrong.thats why i am not going to support any of you.not because you are right or wrong. i find your ideas, statement as important as any other eve online player. if game designers are interest on ideas of minority of eve who support voting or read forum in time of elections, thats a way of organising community. in my opinion i belive your will be representants of minority.wish you best in your choices."
"i'm running because there should be atleast one good looking avatar on the csm."
"it would be nice if this were possible but to listen to every damn player would logistically be the full time job for a group, not one community manager. question is, what group would be willing to listen to the idea of the huge population, to distill those ideas and find the gems amongst the gravel? if there was such a group, how would you choose them? let ccp put their own people with preconceived ideas? no, wait.what if the players chose amongst themselves to form this group?that is what this election is.m"
"greetings,my alternate candidate match tool is ready for release and any last suggestions for items and issues that you'd like included in it must be made before monday 14th. once the tool has been opened to the public no more changes can be made.these suggestions or statements can be relevant to all candidates or just one and should be worded so that they aren't leading where possible. your submission will be placed where i deem it is best suited and it may edited if needed. depending on where your submission is placed, users will be to:\"agree\" or \"disagree\" in varying degreessort it against other submissions and statementsassign limited points to it that represent either:a percentage of timeimportance to the userthe user's experiencesuggested statements:buying csm votes through direct or indirect means should not be allowed.concord needs a player militia to make its law respected in low-seclow sec needs to be a lot more profitable for everyonekillright system should be expandedpirate mission agents should be moved to lowsec and be only available to pirates0.0 npc shouldn't give any sec status augmentation : concord is not there to watchyours,serious ip."
"you can scratch that one from your list as at the end of csm-2, csm and ccp agreed on such a procedure. in our case pattern clark removed himself (under csm pressure) from council and i replaced him.he got removed as he never attended to meetings, he just was in csm2 for the \"free\" trip to iceland.after this issue there is a procedure possible to remove a csm from council."
"here's a statement for you:* if csm have democratic elections, then buying votes (includes lottery) should not be allowed."
"its just an example.yes, this is an interesting question and worded well, it is now included.yours,serious ip."
"concord needs a player militia to make its law respected in low-seclow sec needs to be a lot more profitable for everyonekillright system should be expandedpirate missions agents should be moved to lowsec and allowed only to pirates0.0 npc shouldn't give any sec status augmentation : concord is not there to watch"
"a call to all csm candidates and interested parties. call us with your views and be on the next podcast"
"we now have another number so if you are calling from the u.s.a. this number might be handy!(646) 736-7891"
"next episode is wrapping up - get your messages in and reach another audience."
"...who's paid for by big business (rmters) and which ones are sponsored by religious freaks (amarians) like in real life american politics?also who's giving out plex's to pay for votes....real questions though which seem to be completely ignored:1) who's for cleaning up the forums, banning the constant stupid spam topics and totally special posts (proper racist, sexist, obcene religious mumbo jumbo) as this has risen massively in the last year or so.2) who's against rmt and macro/botting ratters/miners etc3) who's for balanced game play both pvp and pve4) who's not ******edly biased when it comes to null sec and hold stupid views regarding ccp's impartiality (eg who's a it hater).last and no means least.5) if a goon or test alliance candidate is chosen, are they going to undergo psychiatric personality screening before being flown to iceland. i wouldn't want any damage done to such a lovely country!"
"i'm canadian"
"i'm belgian, but as far as your questions go:- i have no link whatsoever to rmt, been consistently bashing the existence of them (and non-rmting macros)- i'm for a balanced gameplay for both pve and pvp- i'm not biased when it comes to nullsec or anything, really. if it ruins my game but is better for the game as a whole, i'll support it."
"hello there !as you may have read, i'm french, and ingame, unaffiliated to any \"powerbloc\" (not 0.0 ones, at least).while i agree that not all seats should be taken by goons or their associates, and in rl, not all representatives should come from the same country... i think you're going a bit far. (isn't the part about american politics being sponsored by big businesses and religious freaks a bit uncalled for ?)however, i understand your concern. for what it's worth :1 and 2) i very much am. if you had word of my recent posts about rmt, (regarding the info leak of iskbank) and my general opinion about this forums, i vouch for severity against both those problems, as they prevent us for enjoying the game to it's fullest.3) i am. every aspect of the game, from miners to pirates, from space nuns to scammers, is important to have a complete and coherent universe.4) i feel that ccp is impartial (or can be made so easily), because if the csm doesn't trust ccp, then nothing can be achieved. 0.0 needs balancing, as the rest of the game does.5) i must admit i lol'ed :) that said, i'm sure the goons will get at least a csm representative, if only due to their sheer numbers - which, when you look at it that way, seems only right. i'm quite sure mittens doesn't needs any more votes to be elected already, and i'm looking forward the opportunity to seat at the same meeting than him, it will surely be interesting, to say the least."
"ya see nobody cares about the important issues that face eve..... so why should any of you get my vote. when not one of you took the time to answer my question on a topic that the player base has been after for a few years."
"we've put that issue to ccp during csm 5, but i wouldn't qualify any weapon system as useless, just not as useful as they could be (that's a significant difference), however we requested ccp does take a look at the hybrid guns and come back to us with a sensible tangible proposal to make them more useful.so during csm 6, the elected members, among which i hope to be, will most likely check what solution ccp has in answer to our request.we haven't ignored you during csm 5, be assured of that. (this is in the csm 5 meeting minutes by the way).cheers"
"i did express my opinion once about name changing. it is here:"
"basically, i vote for a name change like 9/10just, i have different opinion..."
"everyone - read and support. read and support! this idea has to get more attention."
"am i correct in assuming the sp that's in these deleted skills would not count towards the character's total sp? if so, that would make my 900k cyno alts even more versatile once i remove the unneeded skills.you might also want to suggest that if a skill is a prereq of a skill that's in your char sheet, it can't be deleted until the offending skill is deleted (not just queued for deletion)."
"supporting this."
"shameless bump. where are the freakin trolls?"
"it's really simple actually. fof missiles should target aggressors only; with no need for removing lco's or the like. however, the primary issue; is how your ship's computer tells the fof what is an aggressor. with ewar on you, what is the system that deals with that? obviously, there is a target recognition system; as all aggressors are still shown on the hud, targeting or no. problem solved. no friendlies, no neutral's; and certainly no misc. structures. gates for example."
"/signed. dram is nice but it chases away all the other frigs except for slicers."
"supported, would be nice to go out in my taranis again and find something that wasn't a dramiel."
"dramiels are only good for noobs and cowards."
"and yet, dramiels still die by the truck load to skilled pilots.didn't malcanos just kill another dramiel with a badger this last week?anyway not supported, they are not that hard to kill. step 1 get neuts, step 2 ???? step 3 dead dramiel.seriously just get your curse pilots onto the field to primary and solo the dramiels. neuts will stop their mwd and ab fun, tracking disruptors will nullify their guns and you cant outrun a full wave of warrior iis."
"i supportthis for as long long as the nerf to dramiel does not denature it. dramiels should remain dramiels... just wash it down enough so its got something to fear beside its own pilot stoopidity."
"you are literally ******ed.the point is not that they are killable. it's not hard to kill a frigate with something bigger.the point is that within their own class they are unbalanced, which is why every scrub who has trained minmatar frig i and gallente frig i flies them. the fact that a good pilot in a less impressive ship can kill a bad pilot in a dramiel does not make them balanced."
"supported on the condition that a rookie ship be requestable at any time from the station's insurance office....just in case you usually don't need one, but find yourself in the rare situation when you do need one."
"supported"
".supported"
"..supported"
"...and, supported. clearly, i agree with this idea!"
"id love to know what youre talking about. warp instantly you say. youve discovered something that has escaped the attention of everyone else. id really like to be able to enter warp instantly after jumping through a gate. if this can be used with other ships, itll have a major impact in eve.i support the ops proposal. the sub warp speed bonus is a legacy from the days before warp to zero, though it still has some small use for moving the great ships when they fall short by a km or two when jumping to a station. agility would be a much more important bonus for a freighter these days.regards,windjammer"
"do want!also, while you're at it, give freighters a low slot to put a dcu ii in."
"good idea"
"makes perfect sense."
"+1 angel ships are taking over the scene and you see nothing else, nerf the angels a bit too"
"if this was implemented while leaving seiged dreads immune to pos ewar, this would not only nerf scs, but make the dread relevant again.+1"
"i really like this."
"supported"
"if botting is really as bad as you suggest, (and, as bad as it appears from my own observations); how many accounts out of 400+ k, do you think would be left, after you banned them all?"
"bump"
"*random pirate wannabe logs into eve*random pirate wannabe sets up his laptop, and logs into the leadership/t3 alt that he bought at the character bazaar with illegally-bought isk.*random pirate wannabe flies his alt's loki into a safespot, turns on the warfare links and eccm*random pirate wannabe subsequently goes to his desktop computer with his main logged in, undocks in his hurricane, warps to a stargate, and leaves his laptop afk to give him 30% better of 3 stats that he wants.*random pirate wannabe is hardly a 'wannabe' anymore, he just dumped a few rl [insert national units of currency] into a alt that he bought to make him make up for his weak sp.to put it this way,legit pvp'ers without a second computer, extra isk, or a second account lose. 'outlaw' wins. (sarcastically. read the third bullet on the next section)*will now quell some of the useless and destructive posts that i forsee people will try to make*no, i am not suggesting that all unprobable t3 alts were bought with illegal isk.no, i am not suggesting that all unprobable t3-users are just weak pirate wannabes.no, i am not suggesting that all unprobable t3-users will always win as compared to non-t3 players. but 30% boosted stats can be the matter of life or death in quite a few fights. i don't necessarily agree about how ccp set it up that you just leave your friend's laptop and get, without any work, a good panel of fleet-boosting.my proposal:make fleet boosting work on-grid only.if you are going to complain about how then the fc can't boost a full fleet that is fighting on multiple battlefields, then please think of wing commanders first. and squad commanders.-----please provide feedback to this, but please keep it constructive criticism or gtfo."
"you might want to remove a bit of rage, tears and ridiculous sweeping accusations from your proposal, it is kinda hard to take something serious that is written like this."
"hi fellas.. the whole neutral repping thing needs to get nerfed a bit. if someone's going to sit outside rens station in their logistics and repair whoever's going down hardest i think these neutrals need to share the risk of the warriors.two options are:- a 60 second aggression timer that prevents neutral reppers from docking or jumping gates- 30 days of kill rights awarded to the party who lost due to neutral reppers.i'm more partial to the aggression timer. after a squad of 4 neutral logistics repped my opponent i lost my drake. my corp mates decided to spring a trap. well the next guy to neutral rep on an engagement was doing so in an machariel. upon our battlefleet landing he just docked up pretty as you please. with a 60 second timer he'd have been dead. it's obvious the \"neutrals\" just want to hold that status until they can aggress something \"easy\" to kill that poses low-risk. eve is about pvp. which involves risk. it's also about choosing sides. let's make it so that choice sticks to neutral reppers just as it does to active combat pilots.best regards,isaiah harms"
"have you tried \"pvp\" away from stations?"
"90% of engagements happen on stations and gates."
"not much to comment on. i support the idea greatly."
"you tell me goose99. kb linked:"
"uh.....i'm not into war decs these days.....but yeah if neutrals are going to take part in a battle they ought to have consequences. this seems like an exploit to me. it's just a great way to win simply because you own more accounts."
"eve pvp is all around. pvp comes in many shapes and you cannot always avoid it. the structure of eve really means there are few places to pvp:stations, gates, belts and safespots/anomaliesno matter if you're in hi-sec, low-sec or 0.0 everybody deserves a fair chance. and currently neutral logistics isn't really fair.neutral remote repairing logistics have been ruining the spirit of eve ever since they overtook the role from alt falcons. being able to have a neutral logistic in hi-sec gives you the advantage of moving around free of risc and wait commiting the logistic in combat until you decide to. this phenonema is an increasing factor of why people don't even want to engage in fighting in empire wars they didn't start themself. in fact they're preventing the desire to play the game as intended.unfortunately for the victim of neutral reps there are really very little to do. if you engage the neutral logistic ship it can dock up as soon it wants and then you have wasted important time.i am in total support of this suggestion. logistic ships are fragile but repairing people that have aggression should indeed transfer aggression and make you unable to dock/jump for 60 seconds like if you had shot someone.eve is all risc vs reward and logistics in hi-sec have almost 0 risc and is very very rewarding. when you commit a ship in an engagement it should be commited and not have a natural ability to just disengage instantly the moment you don't want to commit anymore./signedpinky denmark"
"hello council members and fellow eve players. my name is paintchk and i got a few ideas you guys should consider.i'm not sure what you guys can do but here are somethings you guys might like.first is cockpit view: this is when incarsion(if i'm spelling it right)comes out.this view is a option a pilot can have in the options. normal or cockpit.what this does is bring your character in the bridge of your ship or the cockpit. it depends on what your flying. lets say in a hurricane. you have set the option and can move around with ais just sitting at computers working or walking around doing random stuff. you can customize it to have chairs, posters, etc, etc. you have a chair which you can steer your ship and lock on to stuff right outside a massive window. you also choice to move the chair around. targeting sounds like a problem but when you sit in the chair more screens appear to see around the ship. or that overview in normal view. but when you sit in the chair it goes into first person view of your character.if your interested in this just message me or replay and i'll fill you in on the rest.as for the cockpit of a frigate it shows the body(arms, legs, chest)of your character from their eyes setting in a chair with steering, targeting and other controls around you. this also gives you the chance to introduce the stick control. like the ones you can use in flying games or something. but you can use both a mouse and the stick at the same time. just throwing the stick option out there. i think people will like it. some i hope. but for customizing it you can add some small posters or hula girls.(come on, how can you not have a hula girl in a cockpit? )also a small radio to listen to the sound track. so again reply if you want more info about it."
"hmm...i hope you know that what you posted called wall of text (by meaning nobody going to read because of reading process difficulty)however, as my bio says: i am stupidthat is why i did read it...you mate giving suggestions about awesome graphic effects, which is cool. i just not sure about how many players have such powerful pc that could afford it.no offence, just rethink it..."
"you mate giving suggestions about awesome graphic effects, which is cool. i just not sure about how many players have such powerful pc that could afford it.yeah i know most people don't have computers that can handle that type of effects. but its just a suggestion. my computer could hardly handle the character creation thing when it came out."
"second is ship damage or destruction. as well as objects that can be destroyed or damage:now its cool to see a massive explosion when defeating a ship or blowing up a station. or escaping a battle and your ships is on fire a bit. but overtime a poof of fire and a massive shock wave gets a little old and the fire doesn't appear to often for you to notice.so what i purpose is better destruction looks or design.lets start with ship damage. okay i'm flying a hurricane and come under attack. they get past my shields and start getting through my armor. then i see parts of my ship falling off. then my shields drop to 25% then major parts of the ship fall off. one of engines go. a massive hole is shoot into my ship and i can see inside my ship. it just falls apart with more damage. then i warp out and get somewhere safe. after coming to a stop fire from spots that were hit start show massive fires. i then repair myself in a station and it shows the parts i lost get re-attached. that is one cool effect on ships. the bigger the ship the more pieces come off. now for destruction of ships: i didn't get the chance to warp out and everything is o% and my ship is going to blow. my capsule ejects and my ship explodes from the inside out. not in a poof of smoke but in pieces and fire. they don't float away completely so you can still salvage of course. now if a enemy hits me with a round or missile it either goes through it or stops and explodes and then my ship starts to explode. boom. for frigates they don't really loss many pieces as a bc but tiny parts. so when your ship explodes it fly's out of control and then explodes. now here's a option you should really consider. when your frigate is about to blow you have the last chance to smash your ship into the enemy's. the bigger the ship the more damage it does. but your capsule doesn't survive sadly. now here's the best part of that. when that ship smash's into, lets say your ship and the smoke clears you see part of that ship in your ship as damage. think about it and get a picture in your head.. yeah. pretty cool huh? as for repairing your ship the station pulls the wreck out and you can sell for scrap or something.as for object destruction.its the same deal as ships. a big poof of smoke and a shock wave. now lets start with pos's. now during a siege the shields start to fade as the strength decreases and static electricity starts to spark inside the bubble. not effecting anything in it. then the shield fades and the station starts to take fire. as the armor takes damage small explosions happen in random places and pieces start to rip off. fire and smoke come out and then the final shot hits it. you start to see explosions from the inside start to happen and then you see tiny bright lights come out. those are escape pods. just a add on effect. then the station either explodes from the middle, the hole thing, or from the bottom or top down or up. pieces fly off after the explosion. the shock passes the ship(s) and rocks the ship. no damage but the effect from the shock wave. now if your in the **** pit view it rocks the inside the ship and everyone fells it. now for turrets and other objects they do pretty much the same thing. but now there is such a thing as a \"lucky shot\". there are two types. first lucky shot is hitting the objects power-core and destroying it instantly.the second type hits it in the power-core but damages it but doesn't destroy. it then makes it venerable to capture from enemy's. this lucky shot can also be used for ships. same deal. but the guy inside the ship that is disable has the choice to abandon ship or self destruct. then the attacker can capture the ship. a pirates dream.."
"hi!we met again!"
"+1 for better graphics"
"actually, being able to claim salvage rights wouldn't be such a bad idea. who want's to declare war on 18 corp's, (above example); just to clean up the pos' in one system. where is the personal benefit? aside from a costly killmail; they get nothing.once a pos shields go down, it should be reasonable; for anyone who finds the pos, to have the option of salvaging it. i don't think a 30 day salvage claim is really viable; at least, with the way it was presented in the op. 15 days, with no option for the original owner to recover; after that period has passed. the claimant, who wants access to the pos; then gets an unlock item for the pos. concord issued, and capable of installation in a mid or high slot for use; where it can be cycled up, within 5km of the derelict pos, and allow the pos ownership to transfer to the player, or his corporation. simple easy, and you can use it anytime; after the fifteen days has passed. easier yet, would be a concord issued script; which could be loaded into a high slot module for the purpose. 5 min cycle time."
"better idea: offline poses take constant damage (from meteorite impacts and such).small towers might be destroyed in about 3 weeks, and larger ones take longer.1) no free stuff2) you can still get stuff by war decing the offline tower3) benefits people who are less inactive."
"i'll have to add to the wardec and shoot the tower crowd. this is a mechanic that is working as intended.a pos is a corp asset, a corp is a group of players, a group of players should be able to keep a tower online and defend it if they really want to keep/use it. this should mitigate the issue of unforseen rl circumstances because a whole corp hopefully won't be hit by concurrent rl issues.eve is a game that encourages cooperative and competitive play. if you want to play solo that's fine too, but if you play with others you'll get far more benefits."
"its not working as intended. space is littered with hundreds to thousands of offline poses that nobody wants to get a group of people to spend ten hours shooting. the point of this isnt to make it easier to knock down a pos, its to make it harder to keep an offline one up."
"aside from that, many faction mods are same or worse than t2 counterparts. in order to \"justify their costs\" they'll have to cost less than t2. it's not just the prices that need to be looked at, but stats too."
"yesthey won't do this or anything else besides fapfap over wod until subscription losses get too badbut what the hell i'm bored, supported"
"i agree the lp/isk cost for lp items shoudn't be as static as they are, however i'm unsure if tweaking the lp cost is the only way to go there. changing the isk required would make for a more dynamic isk sink.changing low demand/value faction items to be more desirable for buyers as well as sellers would be a good step to streamline faction items more.it would help to make missioning for corporations which currently have bad lp stores worthwhile too, spreading out the population in the process.could go wrong with a bad implementation though"
"supported!actually this might help to get gallente looked at. right now few use them for pvp except for a few specific ships, but they still see a lot of use in pve. if pve becomes heavily anti-drone, nobody will fly gallente pvp or pve."
"3-8 supported. 1 -2 bad idea i think. maybe resist and dps can have random value in range dfined by faction group."
"which skill lets you launch 15-20 probes?"
"no"
"lol no to horid lazy people wanting easy isk."
"next purpose is fighter or bomber control.now i haven't gotten this yet but if this isn't available yet here's a good option for carrier pilots.what you can do is fly a fighter or bomber plane. having this can create dogfights between fighters and help you take out problems your ship or other fighters or bombers can't handle. but when you blow up you don't go to your clone. it wouldn't be right. so this is just a small thing to consider.so that's all i purpose for you guys. i hope you like it and consider it. if you still need info just ask me and i'll answer. as for the rest below its just add-ons for the other things i couldn't fit in.soon when in cockpit view and your ship takes damage red lights come on as warnings, sparks fly, small explosions and cracks in the windows appear. and when your sitting in you chair and your ship explodes your character puts his/her hands up and a explosion happens. you then wake up spinning out of control in your capsule and your character regains control. the ais don't survive but they're not important.a good side of cockpit view you can set your ship to autopilot and it fly's itself and you can roam around. but the bridge with just chairs, couch, and other isn't that fun all the time but you can walk around your ship. cargo bay, drone bay, gun deck, captains quarters, engine room, and a viewing room. you can do a few things in each room for entertainment. but by yourself isn't fun so you can have your friends on board as well. say he/she is trapped in a station and you fly in and they can fly with you, hang and chat. cool right? this can really make chatting more fun. i know you guys are gonna ask \"what if the ship explodes?\" well you guys can either have sacrifice or escape pods for everyone. sacrifice is basically when pilots come on-board the captain has the choice to either give up his capsule for one of them. a good captain goes down with the ship.so that's all i got. i hope you guys consider this and hope to see it in the game."
"hey, nice name - i got shot far too many times doing paint checks in the last tourney i reffed...the issue i see with all three of your suggestions is this: what do they add to the game besides eye candy?not that i don't like eye candy mind you, but eve is a deep game with an abundance of interesting choices. to spend a significant amount of time (i would estimate that's precisely how much time these features would take) to add eye candy features like this just wouldn't be worth putting off the other things that could use developer time for much more engaging results.let's be honest - once you've wandered around the bridge of your ship and had a look around a few times, why would you ever go back there?"
"stop posting walls of text."
"let's be honest - once you've wandered around the bridge of your ship and had a look around a few times, why would you ever go back there?true i have to admit. but with incarna coming out i think its a thing to consider doing. and plus it would take a significant of time to do so. good points but its just something i think would be a good add on for the game."
"details my friend, details.it be pointless to putbridge walkingother areas to walketcetc.i like to get into details about things. but i sometimes overdo it."
"to sum up the best ideas i have seen:using a drone group as the indicator for when to apply a stacking effect, rather then each individual drone.matching the effectiveness of the drone sizes to their counterparts in a module sense. small ecm drones should be balanced to reflect this, as there is no\"small\" ecm mod.the reasoning behind both of these is the amount of dps lost when you dont use combat drones. on avaerage even a flight of small drones equates to about 80 dps, sometimes more. the stacking protocol by group makes swarming a lot less effective(i would even support a larger stack penalty for each additional group than is given to mods)and would make up for that substantial dps loss, if done in conjuction with a balanceing to equivalent modules.ew as a whole has recieved a large boot to the head; multispecs are near worthless even on bonused ships. i understand the reasoning, but i think there is a general cry for alarm, as i have seen a large decrease in the number of ecm ships in fleets and small gangs. dps is the new battlecry, as ecm is not effective enough at this point to warrant droping dps ships for it. sensor dampeners are strictly for snipers now, as it should be, but even snipers dont use them. tracking disruptors are wholly ignored, even when scripted. sorry to move on to the ecm track there.drones need the two changes i opened with, and thanks to those who thought of them, when stated, it seems to me that there is no other solution that could be better, or keep in game balance as well."
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product or service"
"my forehead and donald trump impressionist forehead endorses this product and stuff."
"you won marriage, you are perfect for me in every way.please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"i support this product and or service, mostly because i'm a ***** for free things.although to be fair i like your style/campaign model. shame i already voted, really."
"please visit your user settings to re-enable images.not sure which contest i wanted to enter, the space kittens or the polaroid contest, so i did both.you've got my vote!"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service."
"please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"\"hachi ironfist and i support this product and or service\""
"i support this product and or service."
"fitz, i agree that something needs to be done in this area. i am not too sure about having that many tabs, seems like it would be difficult for leadership that would have to be able to see them all.i was just on new eden radio, hopefully they will have a recording up sometime as well."
"i was thinking more about it... and it could be coded so that when you anchor for corp and then right click as a director on the hanger in space you will see some thing like \"assignment\" tab. when you select that it opens a window and it lists each section with a drop down window. if the director selects the drop down he then see every corp member. all he has to do is select the corp member and the section then becomes that corp members area and their name is assigned to it and no one but them or a director can get into it. (no idea how to code that) when people leave the corp it becomes unassigned. any stuff in it falls into a hanger that directors can then do with as they want. (or something along these lines)"
"thank you for your support and votes."
"biomass yourself. reroll jonathan silence. profit.end the proliferation of misspelled names!"
"spelling was choosen deliberately. i did not want the 'an' spelling."
"i am expecting that general windypoops has at least 50% of the current 28215 votes. this will put him clearly in first place with an almost unassailable position.with this in mind has the campaigning changed? are you now all aligining yourselves with his obviously superior manifesto? is there a quote from the great man himself ?"
"well i've voted with my 2 accounts.good luck!"
"may a thousand falcon alts spontaneously combust."
"he was awesome in ch and is awesome and most importantly active in not just eve but the community, also there arent to many canidates who will preserve small gang war or even have it in there best interest to, how could a mm/gsf or any nc member really promote small anything since outnumbering enemies and making record fleet numbers is there primary tactic.also he has handled peeps like viper for along time...he can handle anything :)also fixxing the tech problem is number 1 on my list, they replaced one evil with another and this one is in basically all 1 coalition and since its r32 its way to avalible for how much income it spits out...sorry nc guys but its true"
":bestcandidate:"
"i would follow this proud spacewarrior to spacehell and back.he has my vote for sure and i vow to shoot anybody i can get my hands on that doesnt vote for him!"
"i have been playing this terrible game for 6 years and have voted in every csm while playing - the presence of the mittani and his spamming crew of thousands appears to be the only difference in how things are being run this year. if the presence of person who can \"entice\" 6000 accounts to vote and the backlash of those who despise his kind is not the reason for the significantly higher voter turnout thus far what is? its easy to point and laugh ask galileo"
"i enjoy harassing hammerhead about retribution midslots. deal with it. vov"
"plus, technically he did tell the cold hard truth, in that this probably won't work. :f"
"i have a question for you: what are your rl feelings towards cats?"
"you cut that out right meow!"
"since, you know, ccp follows the csm's advice and suggestions part and parcel all the time.this process is no different than any high school student council election process. the difference is our guy isn't promising soda machines in the cafeteria, or that they'd be a really good class president because they watched the west wing."
"got my vote."
"being in uk i often forget what happens in us or what doesnt in mittanis case , things are starting to make sense on why mittani is so desperate and serious about playing sarah palin online, making up for lost time i see im just glad we dont have an internet spaceship prom, he would probably go all out for that too, i kindda feel bad for all the things i said about him now, i just figured it was some political ambition, you know something to keep the alliance moving, wasnt aware it was all about closure and building self-esteem.well since you are probably already in, due to numbers again and nothing else, have fun in iceland though dont expect anything will change just because you are hot headed and emotionally unstable."
"new campaign slogan:\"vote for the mittani - hey, you never know, he might get frustrated and quit!\""
"i have three cats. this is not my fault.i once had two cats, but my orange tabby died not too long ago. this sent me into a bit of a state, and my wife decided that i should get a kitten to try to get over it. i resisted for a long while, then one day she showed me the webpage of a local rescue; a tiny black kitten with a broken tail had been found in a wheel-well of a car trying to keep warm in the depths of the wisconsin winter. black cats are adopted far less than any other kind of cat, too. anyway, so i melted and we ran out and adopted the kitten, and since she had become 'foster buddies' with the kitten in the crate next to her, we adopted her friend too. so i'm now at 1 cat, 2 kittens, and an increasingly massive alaskan malamute.darius was the hotheaded gsf ceo. i have ice in my veins. vov"
"please inform sreegs that kalle demos is once again evading hisher forum ban"
"1 vote for mittens! ...sold me on the promise of being a manipulative bastard."
"alexander, the giant turkey!"
"i voted for the best candidate running under the goonfleet banner today. i voted for kalrand! you should too.mittens, don't made me read walls of text. we all know that ccp are mouth-breathing, paste-eating, short-bus riding, golden-goose killing, bait-and-switching, failcascading, lying scum. what we differ on is how to address that issue. you ask for power but give no inkling on how you would use that power. not a word about bots or incarna. you, sir, are a charlatan."
"i addressed incarna specifically on the previous page; you're dumb."
"i'm dumb? you're the one chasing after the vote of someone who already voted!vote kalrand for csm! he's the goonswarm candidate you can trust and if he fails miserably, he has a handy (rl) name that lends itself well to childish barbs like dillhole or dillweed."
"hi mittens since you won't lie to us at all please tell us how much you paid evenews 24 and eve tribune?"
"test and goonswarm paid 2b/4b respectively for the en24 ad, and nothing for eve tribune since that's an endorsement, not a paid advertseleene's people got pretty angry that we'd beaten them to the punch for the en24 top-of-the-page space, so their paid ad ended up on a sideline. you angry about that, too?"
"mittens it's pretty ****ty that you and your alts have been slagging off people like me and trebor for runnining entirely open competitions saying that it's \"immoral\" to \"buy votes\" while you're spending billions behind the scenes buying endorsements and advertising...at least with our competitions everyone stands a chance to win. you're just lining the pockets of the media.i guess that's eh \"honesty\" people get when they vote for you, huh."
"i'm sure it's entirely coincidence that en24 which previously was a blatent supporter of pandemic legion has suddenly started posting links to pl's leaked forums at exactly the time that mittani and the nc started bankrolling them."
"woah, there are still people who think you can buy somebody for as little as 6 bil?"
"sunday bump :d"
"the questions are a bit broad on the vote match website. however, that website was what lead me to vote for you. but, it was only after i tried prioritising a number of different ways and really looked at what it was telling me. after i looked at the individual comments and tried a number of different variations it pointed to you being an interesting candidate to find out a bit more about. my recommendations are for anyone using this tool to not take it at face value. if it was twice as long and factored in the candidates comments then maybe you could use it without asking anymore questions. as it is, it is an excellent guide to sift through the large number of candidates. but only as a starting point.wait, this is just a video game?"
"looking a bit more into the comments is what persuaded me to vote ripard too. i's a great tool but when you score at least 50% with almost every candidate including ppl you almost never agreed with in the past, it calls for closer examination.tl;dr:vote ripard!"
"you're both exactly right. thank you for your comments and for your support. i felt much better about how i stacked up compared to the other candidates when i saw how the comments were presented, and i'm glad to see they made a difference. in new news, i'm happy to report that i am one of the nine candidates endorsed by eve tribune for a seat on csm6. i find their comments about me to be fair and accurate. thanks, guys!"
"i support your support of this and feel the same. i think you would be an excellent co-... council... member. whatever! hope to see you in iceland."
"i voted for ****** pig today. you should too!(if he turns out to be a ****ty csm delegate, blame mynxee, not me. i voted for all of her choices except that dude who said that there were no cynos/caps in lowsec and that other dude who insider traded.)"
"just picked up an endorsement from the eve tribune:not someone we always agree with, and not someone in our political sphere in eve, but through numerous conversations he's made it very clear that he loves the game and is committed to working within the csm to improve it. we believe he should be re-elected and that he would help provide balance and still work cooperatively within the csm.their choice for chairman was a classic example of an \"off-by-1\" error, however..."
"since you deleted my latest comment on your blog post i guess i'll have to post it here instead.allow me to refresh your memory: you said that either mittens would be bad for the csm or he is lying, and ask \"how can you trust a man whose entire election campaign is based on lies?\"i replied thusly:\"that's actually a really interesting question. the only reason i know who you are is your unsourced accusations (read: lies) about mittens' actions and intentions. setting yourself up as the anti-goon candidate seems to be working out pretty well for you, so maybe you should try asking your constituents.\"for those just joining us, the unsourced accusations in question are that mittens is involved in the supposed smear campaign against trebor, and that mittens \"wants to try to use [the csm] as a vehicle to advance his own petty in-game interests, at the expense of the vast majority of the players of eve.\""
"why should he not delete your post when you don't even get the timeline right?"
"because deleting comments you don't like is bad, that's why. i don't know anything about timelines.on topic, i'll accept that as mittens mobilizing goons against trebor. could be fake, but i doubt it. if trebor had had linked it when i asked for citations, i would have dropped it from my argument.got anything for the \"he wants to try to use it as a vehicle to advance his own petty in-game interests, at the expense of the vast majority of the players of eve\" part?"
"i deleted your post because i did in fact already address the questions you asked (which were not quite, by the way, the specific points you make above), but also because i knew you almost certainly couldn't resist the bait and would post about it in this thread, where i could address it in front of a wider audience. thanks!as for the mittani's involvement in the smear campaign against me, according to a goon jabber leak, he ordered a \"no-holds-barred posting op\". he hasn't bothered to deny it, and a previous leak from the same source in which he identifies me as a target was confirmed by him in the very next post in the thread.with respect to your second concern, the mittani would be a fool to admit this in public, but given his history in-game (which, i hasten to repeat, i entirely admire -- in an in-game context), you would have to be a fool not to be concerned. i addressed this issue in a comment to the blog post; interested readers should check it out.another interesting post is a wonderful demolition of the goon smear talking points by andrea griffin. it's a fascinating exposure of how out-of-context quote-mining works.finally, with regard to setting myself up as the \"anti-goon\" candidate, i did not do that; the mittani did. and to be precise, i'm not anti-goon -- or anti-anyone for that matter. i'm pro-eve.i am not at all worried about the smear campaign -- on the contrary, i was praying the mittani would be foolish enough to go after a candidate with strong qualifications, such as seleene or myself, and thus increase non-powerbloc turnout. it's a classic case of \"the emperor has made a critical mistake...\" and \"his pattern indicates two-dimensional thinking\".my only concern, as i pointed out in my guide to mud, is that it will generate too many extra votes for me, and divert votes away from other qualified candidates.unlike the mittani, i don't have any particular desire to be chairman. my primary concern is that csm 6 contain delegates that will work their asses off to improve the game for all players.including, of course, the goons."
"because that's so much easier than copy pasting, sweet damage control brah.\"given his in-game history\"? is that all you have? you say as a statement of fact and in bold that \"he wants to try to use it as a vehicle to advance his own petty in-game interests, at the expense of the vast majority of the players of eve\" and when i ask for citations you present nothing but wordy variations on \"he's a tricky sort of guy and i don't trust him\"? can you provide a single case of out-of-game malfeasance? a quote that says he would abuse power, or even push for a change which would benefit his alliance over others? would you deny that he has been against overpowered supercarriers and against the technetium buff, which benefit his alliance?facts are awesome. please provide one."
"you have my vote.thank you for your work on csm5 and best of luck with your csm6 campaign."
"thanks for your previous work, and i wish you the best of scottish luck for csm6, here's hoping the 'pothole' fixing continues, rather than sticking on new content every 6 months. you'll be getting my vote, and hopefully those of my corp members.as an industrial player & a corp mainly doing missions and industrial work, i would like to see some effort put into bringing the indy part of eve some much needed care an attention. the last few updates and new add-ons seem to have been mainly aimed at pvp/0.0/alliances. its about time the smaller corps were also given some attention, and stop ccp always aiming to get players out of empire and into 0.0 to be able to play half of the game mechanics or any new ships they decide to introduce), or adding pi to totally feck things up for indy's.i'd like for the small fixes and changes to continue, such as icon fixing, ui corrections, drone ai etc.....now fix things like the lab and factory use restrictions, and i will be even happier -- 11 is very poor for a game based on advanced science and space-age technology, that had been set way back many years ago (been playing 6 years), long before the player base grew over the quarter million mark, and the settings of any npc station have not been upgraded/adapted to match the number of players wishing to build/research/invent. i like to play my own way, and i am paying to play after all. if we are to retain good players and good friends made over the years, we need to fix what's broken first, before adding more 'dough' to the mix!!"
"hey there trebor, you are getting all of my votes because of the great work that you did with csm5, good luck ;)"
"dear seleene; do you think space brothels will be full service in incarna?"
"this is where the vote matching falls a bit short. as eve stands right now, no, there's no point to move them to low-sec. what i would like to see is an expansion that adds incentives to low-sec and re-balances all agent missions in general. the goal is multi-pronged, not favoring any one 'group' over another. the goal would be an improvement of the entire agent system, with more options and opportunity at every level of play.if such a change did occur, it's not going to go out of it's way to alienate anyone. ccp understands where their bread and butter is and any alterations to the current system would certainly take into account all of the above and much more. bear in mind that my entire campaign is focused on iteration. i want to see the game move forward; i want to see unfinished features fleshed out and more game play emerge from the game we currently enjoy. the agent system has not had a fundamental re-work or iteration in the better part of four years. the underlying code of the agent system dates back to 2004. i don't think anyone can deny that it needs help!"
"stop trolling; of course they will be. i assume that's what ccp has in mind for the \"ultimate sci-fi simulator\", right? also, my replies to this thread will be slow in coming. in egypt for the week and finding a stable net connection here is proving to be a tad difficult."
"eve tribune has published their list of endorsements and i am on it!a good overall list, considering the huge field to chose from."
"my votes, you have them, all of them. i'd like to see a lot of people make it to csm, but not only are you campaigning on issues that i personally find relevant, i feel you've got the strongest ability to see them implemented. good luck!"
"saileene will make a good csm *****............i promise"
"i endorse this endorsement, since it it endorses me~"
"i find it quite sad that you didn't take the time to be completely thorough in your study of the csm candidates.of course, i say this because i haven't been interviewed i can understand that the process is a bit tedious with all those candidates, thus.otherwise, this list doesn't seem bad. most of the people on there are those i'd enjoy seeing at the csm with me. i'd like to add something thus, for anyone interested by this list as a way of guiding your vote : remember that some of these candidates have either big alliances backing them up, or are already very popular due to their previous work with the csm or ccp. while they have every right to be at the csm, and are likely to bring something interesting to the table, they are pretty much elected already. your vote won't make a difference on the first few candidates (except for chair maybe, which is not really important), but is very much needed by the smaller ones, who will have the remaining seats."
"well, mostly being bittervets, we went off what we knew about the candidates, what conversations we'd had with them in our capacity as an internet spaceship fanzine, and what their campaign threads were like. while we aren't going to be altering our endorsements, you're certainly welcome to speak to a tribune staffer and give us an interview in order to prove us wrong and show why we should have endorsed you."
"someone post the list of names ffs, without that this is a ******ed click-fishing thread. i give insufficient ****s to do so myself."
"the mittani for chair??? i was under the impression the goal was to make things better, not worse. sorry but i'm not voting for a silly goon. any of them. he has already stated that the only reason he is running is to keep ccp from touching jump bridges and to make sure 0.0 stays the same as it is now. ****.not voting for any nc candidate either. harboring rmters is not exactly the shining example of leaders we need on the csm."
"i couldn't agree more, being endorsed and all ;-)"
"glad to see ripard on that list (along with me!). a good selection, considering the huge field to chose from."
"my thanks to the staff of the eve tribune for their endorsement."
"well, this just about says what everyone needs to know. i for one will be completely disregarding each and every person \"endorsed\" by your faux publication."
"thank you for the free bump."
"i, for one, am pleased i didn't get endorseemnts from this fine publication."
"typos, in my eve"
"i guess it's just a coincidence that mittens bought out the editors of en24 (figure being discussed is 10bn) and that mysteriously eve tribune also jumps over. \"they lying to you\"....ain't that right, mittens?thanks for 'telling it straight'."
"wait, i was supposed to get paid ???mittens!"
"in all seriousness, if you didn't you lost out, as he's been chucking isk at everyone else. everyone's supposed to get their cut along the way as the nc and mittani buy their way into the csm.i know you're nc and you kind of have to vote for mittens as chair but you should probably at least get what the other guys got."
"conspiracy theories own, i should have run for csm years ago. perhaps next alex jones can do a special about me~"
"ok since you loathe people who 'lie to us' how much did you pay eve news 24 to run a huge take over ad supporting you?since you plan to be completely honest with us i know you'll answer."
"idk why you think buying adspace is a big scandal, lil altposteranswered your question already in the other thread"
"lady crazy: you are partially correct, seeing as how were going to endorse mittens anyways, i should have tried to shake him down for some major isk first. ah well, maybe next time."
"independent endorsements best endorsements keep up the awesome independent work and thanks for your (definitely not paid for) suggestions."
"thanks again to all the in game support i'm getting. sad that the eve tribune didn't bother to reach out to me for an interview but i think it just goes to show i'm not an \"insider\" candidate.miners and industrialists, members of small corps or independent pilots, let me be your voice in the csm!issler dainzethe voice of reason csm candidate!"
"hey issler,just want to say that you have my vote, best of luck with your campaign for csm.phlyk"
"backtothetop"
"clearly these candidates have overinflated sense of importance of self."
"hello there ! thanks for your vote, it's very appreciated. :)honestly, \"no\". let me elaborate a bit :while physical realism is something no-one can really dislike, i fear that correcting the astrophysics of eve is too big of a task, for a too small public. most of the players, even amongst the roleplayers, are quite happy with a vaguely realistic universe, without entering too much in the details.for example, i'm sure a much greater proportion of the roleplayers would enjoy seeing binary stars first. remember, all those systems are binary starsystems. although i believe that it would be so much of a change that they'll retcon everything eventually.a dynamic universe is a big no-no in any case : this was discussed before, and ccp stated that not only having the celestials moving would cause much more stress on the servers, it would also render the current bookmark system completely useless. so unless they someday want some kind of grand change to the bookmark system for other reasons, i don't think they'll invest the development resources in such a feature.don't lose hope thus : other improvements are on the way !some of the things you mentioned may be in the pipes :there was recently a debate concerning accessibility in eve, which was not made very easy by the nebulas. also, the recent addition in terms of effects (such as god rays) and new texture sizes are all factors pointing toward an iteration of our space background someday. maybe towards more realism. (something like stars relative luminescence would be pretty cool)also, i remember reading that ccp was rather dissatisfied with the current look of stars. this, along with the addition of large-scale game effects, could pave the way for a redo of the stars, possibly with effects such as thermal damage when too close, solar flares, etc...all this is pure speculation based on a few facts thus. i think the best advances we will get during the csm 6 term in terms of rolepalying will be through incarna. but who knows ? if ccp opens the discussion about physical realism, i'll be glad to weigh in."
"having held many conversations with gehen, i am impressed with his commitment and interpretation of ccp's guidelines, and will be voting for him. i urge my friends and colleagues to do likewise."
"thank you darranibal. :) i'll also use this opportunity to thank the other players who have sent me emails of support, and the kind players at eve-university who i had a very nice chat with. i welcome all players unsure of my dedication to eve and my selfless commitment to it's improvement in case of an election to ask me further questions :)"
"the problem is the cost ratio. you need a counter that is equal in cost, you can get 2 supercarriers for a titan, so naturally they'll build more supercarriers. they'll continue to dominate until a like cost ship capable of destroying them 1 on 1 (50/50 chance) is introduced.other options would present other problems, like a drone screening vessel for instance. you could introduce it with a bubble effect that just damages drones. problem is the dsv would have to have such a tank that it could reasonable protect itself long enough to be of use. this could lead to other problems."
"i still, like discophoons more :)titans/scs/carriers all carry smartbombs (or atleast in my alliance) to be able to refit and kill off drone dpshere is new eden radio live interview podcast that happened earlier today linkothers i will post as they get released."
"i endorse this charecter, u have my support and vote"
"alright tonight is a big drawing. i have done 5 rolls and the winners are:#1trinneth - won 50x warp disruption field generator i#2brusanan - won 225x heavy unstable power fluctuator i#3kuroda ayumu - won 100x medium armor repairer ii#4brusanan - won 200x dual 150mm railgun ii#5hot tubes - won 150x magnetic field stabilizer iicongratulations to all the winners!"
"brus! you won twice? rigged!! hahaharemind me to duel with ya next time ya on.dart"
"lol sadly not... unless he hacked chribba dice which i suppose is possible.....chribba dice link below"
"lol. i won twice today, and i also won a couple days ago. and hot tubes won 4 times in total.clearly choobs and i are both chribba alts.stay tuned for brusanan's 3rd party escrow service, coming soon(tm)."
"i have been following your posts. in the time that you have been running for csm you have wrote about most of the topics that are important to me. i know you must feel as i do and it seems that the programers and staff at ccp may communicate with us and act as though they understand what is going on, they still seem to have no true understading of the effects that each issue has on the game play. we need someone who will be our voice to the people in ccp and have the persistant attitude to not give up but continually press the importance of the issue being actually fixed and not just masked as ccp seems to have the potential to do now. you are still my vote for csm"
"hey manalpan i like what you have to say man. you are right about the problems with eve. i vote for you man. please get them to fix the problems."
"it seems to me that you are the csm canidate that has his finger on my pulse of concerns and therefore i vote for you."
"manalapan, i was just curious as to what your actual ideas about fixing neut rr are. they are obviously bad, except to carebears and high-sec weekend warriors, but how do you propose that ccp fix them?"
"oh, and also to what about corp taxes are you referring? increasing the things that can be taxed, or eliminating the corp tax altogether?"
"if you get elected i would like to see the idea brought up to include a bit more diversity in what is offered on the lp store. for mission runners you hit a point where there is nothing new and exciting to work towards on lp so it looses its appeal. maybe rotating what is available every so often to keep it fresh?"
"i thank lostineve.net for having me at debate 4.podcast of this debate will be released monday march 15."
"vote this guy. he's bringing up good stuff unlike these 0.0 alliance muppets."
"hi allus, thanks for the interesting question.firstly, there already are agents available in 0.0, either in npc stations or agents in space. i would be hesitant to suggest npc agents being available in player stations because they wouldn't be accessible to all players who have sufficient standing with that agent because of player standings. this goes against how missions work.also, if you've got some time to kill and there are no roams going down or you just want to chill, there are always anomolies and complex sites. doesn't raise standings (does a pretty good job at lowering standings with the faction you're shooting though...), but still good cash.one thing i would like to see (and is a specific part of my campaign) is more npc nullsec, which would work as a stepping stone for newer players/groups to get a taste for 0.0. this would also make for more agents in 0.0.more (ie higher density of) agents in space would be cool, as well as further expansion on the 'pirate missions' which require interceptors or something small and fast to complete (avoiding hostile gangs that might be around).edit: typos"
"you get my vote for the use of the word pendantic"
"that's as good a reason as any!i've had an interesting discussion with roeth whitestar via eve mail which i thought i'd share because it covered some pertinent topics:"
"wow! kal, you hold up pretty darn well when trolls are out looking for blood. but seriously folks, lets be frank.i have been reading up a bit and a lot of players are interested in your corp's doings since they are labeling you as a goon. but most aren't really that aware that there are more than one goon corp in eve.omg! really?and, really, honestly, truly...(forgot where i was going on this...) um...dang.===================================================reply reset===================================================this doesn't seem to be the \"bread-and-butter\" style of running for office that i've seen in the past. ideas are laid out in a public forum and discussed with relative ease. there really hasn't been a \"going-back-on-his-word\" kind of moment that i've seen yet.and while the points are generalized to the point that a six-year-old can understand it and also that it isn't centralized on high-sec/low-sec/null-sec, you have to realize that [a point], when implemented, will change the game. this means that if [a point] directly impacts you, cursing of csm and ccp will ensue. these candidates are, for the most part, sharing the role of ccp in directing change. and offering a vote for someone who doesn't care about making a personal image, but more of the common player; that is the person that will outshine the rest (without need of a spotlight) and make things better.that is why i vote for kalrand."
"i endorse this candidate for csm."
"i voted for kalrand! you should too. (even if he gets his its and it's confused sometimes.)as for the small/mid-size corps controlling space in 0.0, i think the current systems should have backwater/extremely low-end systems attached to them. maybe with hinky-looking stargates that might go off-line periodically. maybe 1 belt, a planet and a moon or something that makes it too much of a pita for big alliances/corps to bother with but that would be enough to interest a smaller group and let them lay claim to their piece of the pie."
"i do agree pos roles do need a good look at. a few points i think should definatly be lookd at are.the condensing or roles, maby only 3 or 4 types,the ability for public use as you said.the ability to set the use of certain things on the pos to use standings rather than a password, ie. jump bridges and control of pos guns.as a csm rep i would defiantly put forward the pos revamp idea. so if that happens i would defiantly like some more input on how pos's and their uses effect you.eve truth"
"thanks for the comments people. and yes, i might be a weirdo, but it's part of the charme of getting things done i guess. i sure hope to get the win, i am full with ideas i love to see added, and i am sure a lot of you will love to see someone in office that actually does do something for all the community and not just for selfish reasons, may it be for corp, alliance or a single pilot. csm is a team that mediates between the players and ccp, and thus no place for solo play or own corp and/or alliance."
"question: how will someone with admitted (self-diagnosed?) asperger's syndrome--which makes social interaction extremely difficult--succeed in both working closely with the other council members and ccp? you know you're going to be in the same room and having (potentially) high-level talks (or banal talks, for that matter)...are you sure you can keep things productive?also: your list of promises makes it look like you're trying to run for junior dev, which is not what the csm does, really."
"i will not even comment to that, i rather be the smarter one in this know the truth about aspergers first before you post."
"i'm actually going to give one of my votes to kumi, and i'm standing for csm myself sounds like you can bring something really new and innovative to the csm, and that sounds damn good to me."
"thanks! sure can use every vote i can get in!"
"rofl, ruining my game would be a hard thing to do because i do all sorts of things in this game and not only with this character.the only real downpart at the moment is you still trying to sound interesting. are you sure you aren't just a goon alt which got into razor to spy on socalled allies.you sure sound like a goon."
"the op really amuses me in how uninformed they seem to be. very unfortunate."
"the op is not they you very silly lad."
"i've enjoyed killer's posting so much that he features prominently in 'csm.txt', the ongoing archive of the grief i've caused merely by running for officeluv2csm~"
"you don't cause me grief mitty, for that you just aren't important enough for me. so sadly your ego won't really have any effect here.fact for me is that you or any other goon wouldn't bring anything to the table which would represent the community. the only group you and your puppets would represent are the goons but presenting it as something everything needs.for goons this is just another scam or trick they are doing.so accept the fact i vote for people who care for the game and want it to be a good game for everyone and not for some semi-players who's biggest goal has just been the opposite."
"1.0"
"yeah killer - you represent the opinion of a great majority of players. it would be nice if they stayed in their own area of space and be gooney to each other and their nieghbors, but i guess they are lonely and want to mingle. well it'll be a year of goon watching to see if they can restrain themselves.timely post - thanks"
"and indeed your own.intorweb pixel faces aside, is it true gerneal, sir, that half the other csm candidates have approached you to 'buy' your manifesto and remove yourself from the race for the princely prize of a fully t1 fitted bait maller ?"
"good luck, i voted for you with all four of my accounts. yes, i am turkey voting for christmas. the 0.0 factions wield a lot of power and historically they have been well represented in the csm community. secondly, eve needs new subscribers, these subscribers will initially spend a lot of time in empire so its important to have a csm who is willing to look after empire interests. finally, i support the development of more open-interfaces within eve. a player-based developer community would be a major asset to ccp and citizens of eve and should be encouraged."
"you got my vote ! as long as certain people use the csm for their own agenda to protect their own interests,we all know it will never be given any real kinda power to make eve better for all of us.the csm has so much potential and it was our chance to pull together as a customer base and get the game working better so we can all have more fun,but sadly due to the selfish few i can't see it changing anytime soon."
"actually, the 0.0 alliances are pulling new subscriber's, not yet out of their baby slippers; to go off into 0.0, and take advantage of all that is available there. they've been actively recruiting like this for some time; with no more requirement, than 1 million sp.i know this, because i have been attempting to recruit for a month for an alt corp; and my recruiting campaign's worst competition, is nullsec corp's, that have access to the most valuable resources in the game. rather difficult, to offer something; which can compare to that, overall.they even put alt's into your corp, or recruiting chat; to snipe the guy's, who might be interested. a member of goonswaffe told me that, i think; in a rather candid moment in recruiting. it really is quite disappointing; seeing a corp grow to 7 members, and drop to 3 in a couple weeks. most of those lost were kicked; and the other was a test alliance spy, according to his old ceo. he dropped inside of 5 hours.so... will they really be in highsec?"
"further proof why we need people to stand up against those alliances. if they have their way this will be one hell of a dull game. good to see someone like windy actually trying to spice up empire again, and take on the big boys."
"just to clarify, those people caught in the rmt expos<U+FFFD> were customers. not that this excuses them, buying isk outside of plex is still against the eula, it's just not quite as bad as running the isk selling racket.i just don't want people to get the two confused."
"so what is the nc going to do with all those people in their coalition on that list that were customers of a rmt site?since wildly inappropriate. is #1 on that list, does that mean they encourage this behaviour?is it a sign of having a nonprofitable section of space that is being rented to you? forcing members to seek alternate ways to gain income?has vuk lau, leader of the nc, made any statement condemning or embracing rmt since this list was leaked?has anyone at all been kicked from the nc that was on the list?"
"let's also be clear that there are a lot of players from a lot of alliances involved here. i can imagine what nc/wi. leadership would say about this, but i'm not going to put words in somebody else's mouth.that said, an alliance couldn't and shouldn't have any control over what one of their members does with their own credit card, against the rules of the game or not.i just had a good look through the spreadsheet on eve news 24 and noted the 85% of those involved being in unaffiliated/npc corps so as not to tie back to their main. how many of those are associated with your corp/alliance i wonder...?personally, they should all be banned, plain and simple. but that's up to ccp. i would like to know as part of my campaign how much they do actually do about rmt, including this event."
"another interview and discussion on new eden radio tonight. they assure me that the download will be available in a couple of hours. listen in to me and a bunch of other csm candidates answer questions from the irc channel.edit: it's available to download from this link."
"how can we trust you to repersent players who dont lie cheat or steal their way through the game to make a good rep for the other players?"
"....i belive those who created game can easily handle whole stuff. they made into real so sophisticated mathematic equations that are not very common in other space games. propably thats why they decided to get us to idea of csm. i admire ccp for being open to ideas. even more i admire freedom of speach to let me disagree with some :) but i belive giving just a group of people theoreticly more rights to influence ccp minds is move that will move to slow extinction of our community.it is like you on your own limit your own pool of imagination and ideas by letting small gruop of people inside game decide for the rest. that small group will change game in the way they like not in the way whole player base like.sure some ideas are wrong, some are good. but why guys who are not capable of doing such a cool game are in charge of decidions that influence us all.most of them are just capable to make proper impression i belive they are very creative in self presentation. csm idea propably gives them some meta fun.about your last question. sure we form ourselves into groups. that what corporations, alliances are made for. thing is look on those structure in current game play.how many existing corporations/alliances are in charge of game map. i belive about 0.5% of eve population. minority who is slightly more organised takes control over the rest. do you think those minorites are capable of represanting whole eve universe? in my opinion that what election is in this game. thats why i am not supporting it.according to me csm construction by defoult support minority structures. correct me if i am wrong but i bet that 99% of eve players got no possibilites to participate as electors due to their style of game play. some are indyviduals, some hate structures, some play in random way for fun. giving up freedom of ideas of developing game. narrowing possibilites to suggest your own idea. why narrowing? well one single genious mind need to convince brick wall of csm electors to even get to ccp. convincing us that csm represent our ideas and minds is in my opinion very cruel. sure it makes things simpler for ccp menagement but it is not the reason why i play eve. i like diversity."
"it is your right not to vote or believe in the electoral process just as it is mine to try to take part in it. i didn't expect i would turn you around in one note.in one sad way, you are right that the election and the game is run by minorities. so many people don't vote that the minority elect the representatives. that is one truth i wish was not so.kell may have lost faith in the process but maybe a few folks reading this have not.i am asking that you don't.read, listen, learn. maybe run in the next election. once this election is decided go to the assembly hall with your proposals. your voice can be heard because it is not just the 9 seats and that is it. the election is the beginning of the process, not the end.andif you think of itand haven't given upmaybevote for mike azariahm"
"how much actual impact does the csm have? have a read, m8. it may not change your mind, but it might help you understand why some of us are running."
"so basicly u are saying that csm exist because ccp employees dont play eve or if they do they do not know what is going on? i find this a very good conclusion giving the fact that soo many spaceships are broken, even entire races. i would sugest giving employees chars and send them out to 0.0 sec allaicnes and get them to know the game outside pve. (we all know dev's dont pvp )"
"i'd like to know when, or if, the tech ii bpos be removed.so here's the bullet:tech 2 bpos should be removed from game and the owners should be compensated in some way."
"i like."
"supported. bring back the old jumping and cyno generator effects."
"well, of course it can be done. just do know that it will add lagg, meaning the war on lagg will go bad. but i guess we can always do some tests and figure out a way to have the idea and with minimum lagg issues. perhaps add a on/off button for it as well."
"i am pretty sure that movement of bodily tissue will be minute enough that it will be hard to notice. we've already been told no running and jumping, so there probably won't be much movement that proper undergarments couldnt dampen.even so, this thread is about going for total realism in this game, even when such realism is not pc. therefore, i cannot in good concience not support this thread. just don't make it ridiculous, ok ccp?edit, spelling"
"that is smart. maybe when ccp adopts this idea, they will incorporate your suggestion as well. thanks for the input."
"i cannot endorse this idea enough. the amount of useless skills i \"injected\" whilst not sure what to do with this charecter drives my ocd nuts!i dont care for the sp back, most of the useless science, trade, and industry skills i would delete are trained no higher than level 2 anyway :)"
"the isk difference between a tier 1 bc and a tier 2 bc is next to nothing, but the performance difference is enormous, making almost all of the tier 1 bcs useless. same goes for frigates, cruisers and bs's.the tier system is horrible."
"bump"
"security status need to be easier. if im not allowed to gank people easier in hi-sec the economy will be going nuts...maybe i should just be regenerating sec status pr hour instead of having to kill rats. low sec pirates shouldn't be able to just camp all day - come to 0.0 and work for your fun..."
"i love to see the same thing happen, what is the point in having repair drones of any kind if you do solo missions etc? it sure will be a good change to have this simple change added!"
"this, quite simply. to which i would add:balancing by cost doesn't work. especially when isk inflation (faucets) and rmt are rampant.supporting op."
"valid point, besides the waste on database keys, it's also causing extra lag all put together. so a simple 'switch' in the option menu would be good to have indeed."
"noob ships are only fun for duelling ^^ nothing better to solve an issue noobship to noobship...pinky"
"this is a better version of this idea, but i support the general concept.if it was simply an on/off switch, i would not use this - if it was an off switch with a button to 'request noobship', i would."
"i vote yes"
"except the caldari boats are supposed to shield tank while gallente are supposed to use armor tank - hence a clear difference in powergrid and cpu.certainly hybrids need soemthing happening."
"well, it could be done but you forgetting that the caldari race uses launchers pretty much as default weapon. but i do agree with you, a lot of ships are made useless because of the railguns not working as they should. the guns are simply to weak for it. so csm needs to take a look in it how to improve them just enough to make these ships usable again."
"i would really like to see a ccp post about hybrids. just a very simple \"yes, we are looking into it.\" or a \"no, we think they're fine/not a priority right now\". basically let your paying customers know whether they should start cross-training or cancel right now, without having them waste any more of their time. it would really be helpful."
"i have to agree to this, although there is a usage for this very speed bonus. as seen in any other ship as well, trying to get to a dock or in some cases to a gate, you can jump to 0 km. but you will often reach 1km or slightly more. or the same with a gate of course. then you need to use the engine to reach that gate.now, call me stupid all you want, but i say even that 5% speed bonus can help out to get that faster, specially since a lot of the capsuleers do automated runs and go afk. knowing the auto pilot only goes up to 10km and flies the rest at normal speed, you will need that tiny bit extra to get there faster.so i say why not keep it and then add the 5% agility to that, this should improve the ship more then changing it from speed to agility.what do you think about that?"
"don't you get agility from training advanced spaceship command?pinky"
"fat ships need love too ccp! stop the discrimination of the obese internet spaceships"
"not everyone have an alt account or a friend nice enough to provide the web."
"this is a great idea. i would love to see this implemented."
"wouldn't it be easier to make super carriers vulnerable to ew and give figher bombers a smaller scan resolution (or give pos turrets a smaller signature)"
"this is a great idea, there needs to be a balance."
"i would say that e-war only affects supercarriers not titans but the warp scram and warp disruptor mods need to be able to tackle any ship (not warp stabbed that is)"
"i often said it, and i guess ill be saying it again, bots are bad. they need to be made illegal and owners banned if they do not take their bots offline. eve was not designed to have bots running around doing the job you should be doing as capsuleer, it takes the fun out which causes goons in the long run. besides that, specially new capsuleers are victim of bots since they can not mine as fast and much as a bot. so bots are very unfair in that as well. specially if you know that some bots are actually mining in fleets (multiple retrievers, hulks or similar ships)."
"no he is doing just fine. he has just enough rope."
"so what you're saying is that everyone with a t3/leadership alt bought that character with illegally purchased isk.wow - can you just send the list to ccp so we can get those cheaters banned straight away and make the game a better place for all of us?hint: if you want constructive dialog in response to your post, don't make stupid sweeping generalizations at the beginning of it. dumbass."
"while offgrid boosting is a terrible mechanic on many levels, the op is a hilariously dumb whiner.and fwiw, my link alt was entirely home-grown."
"on-grid only makes some sense.the alternative would be for warfare link modules to increase sig radius or decrease sensor strength while active, making the ship no longer unprobeable.fleet command ships would get a role bonus that negated these penalties."
"the problem you're looking for is \"unprobeable\"-liang"
"no, the problem is a force multiplier sitting god knows where, providing more support than a bloody triage carrier at point-blank range ever could .. the probing part is just something \"leet pvp'ers\" such as yourself latch on to in the hopes of defusing legitimate complaints about a broken gameplay aspect.off-grid links are worse than the 150-200km failcons of times past since their presence may not even be known (off scan) and require specialised boats to find even when/if they can be probed.cut gang-link effects by 80% when boosting from off-grid or make on-grid the only option.- to facilitate t3 survival in the role, add a combat bonus to command sub-system or give them +1 \"free\" link to allow for more firepower/tank (saves a command proc.)"
"you are assuming that it's just wannabes and rmt buyers, i'm sure established pirates and plex buyers that use it to.you have to understand, eve pvp has absolutely nothing to do with good fights, and all about securing wins via any advantage you can find. this is why you have things like this, and i think it's pointless to try and change things like this."
"i am tempted to make my own version of this post, to keep the idea, minus the rage-tears.op - please reword your original post to not sound like a complete douchebag?"
"why are you so angry? and why are you so bent on turning this into some turn base game play?"
"then why mention those things at all? eve is always going to be a place where the many have an advantage over the few, and where multiboxing is not only allowed but actively encouraged. that's an entirely separate issue - if you think that should change, you should post about it in another thread.whether you mean to or not, your words suggest an association or correlation. the most you can claim is that you don't imply a 1 to 1 relationship between rmt and <broken game mechanic>; implication being much stronger than suggestion. better to leave it out of the discussion.i would encourage people not to support the issue until you change the op accordingly.personally, i'm against it because of the extra checking required - the server overhead for fleet bonus calculation is problematic enough already. you're effectively saying that as well as fleets suffering from massive lag when jumping through gates, they should risk encountering even more lag whenever anyone warps to a new location. the whole thing suddenly becomes much more sensitive to the actions of the fc, and a lot of bonuses would end up being recalculated twice: once when a fleet member arrives on a new grid, and again when the fc catches up."
"guess it's time to bump this back to the top. sure could use some support here folks."
"every year this is a hulkageddon, and this year we saw more ships added to the kill list, my question is \"will ccp draw a line at some point if hulkageddon goes too far\"while i'll admit i don't like the idea of hulkageddon, i tolerate it, however i am concerned that it may at some point become too powerful i don't want a 3 month long hulkageddon, as a matter of fact limiting it to 1 week would be nice, or to at least have some ground rules imposed by ccp for player run events like this. as it was this year i don't see a major problem, but if it continues to grow un-checked, it could result in carebears letting their subscription lapse during hulkageddon."
"not possible.at any time i/you can go to high sec and gank someone. at anytime someone can gank me coming out of a station - for my cargo or for the kill ( just like jita ).ccp has concord to take care of it - but other than that... there is nothing ccp can do. that is the game mechanics.for ccp to impose even more rules to high sec / low sec / what you can do in the game would be silly."
"as long as there are to many goons in the csm, you most likely won't see much happen to it. something sad to see actually. hulkageddon should be banned or at least have some rules attached so 1.0 and 0.9 systems for example are offlimit to hulkageddon."
"mmmmmhhmmmm, sweet sweet tears. this, ladies and gent's is the most concentrated form of energy and the fuel behind hulkageddon."
"if you really have a problem with hulkageddon, i know an mmo that's much more suitable for your gaming type"
"you were aware of the rules and the type of game you to play prior to putting down cash to play this game? right?i mean who is stupid enough to play a game and try to change it with out really know wtf?"
"first to cry \"you're qqing\" gratswhile i'm not sure how broadly you define such things for me crying has a higher standard of angryness behind it, but if even the slightest dislike of anything is crying, then yeah, enjoy! (also enjoy this post as well, as it's a bit defensive in nature.)anyway yeah, i don't like hulkageddon, or ganking in general, that's just my personal preference like how i don't like mushrooms on my pizza, sure some people get really emotional about it, some don't, and some people pretend to be overly passionate about it in order to entertain themselves and others, but you'll never guess which one i am... :)on subject i see that their is not really much ccp can do in this case. ah well, just my 2 cents."
"cockpit view: well, simply put this is not one of the things that i would be getting. i rather would focus on the space stations first, getting the whole station available for exploration is more a priority then the cockpit of a ship. but it is however on my long term list, but again, after the stations.and please, make it a little easier on everyone with your text next time. a lot of text and all in a big wall as mentioned. it could be handy to have a few breaks"
"cockpit? damn, i can't even see my ship most the time because i'm zoomed out so far. there's simply too much going on around the ship to just use a cockpit view.the only time i could see myself using this would be when traveling gate-to-gate in high-sec."
"actually a good one, skills are often done 4 times to get each race. besides that it takes way to long to learn them all, specially if you add in the fitting that will be required as well.so making 4 skills into 1 and then in some what shorter time periods, then i mean the lvl 3-5 skills, the rest is easy. this should solve the problem. however, i fear ccp will refuse this since they want you to pay up for the game, so giving you a lot of time needed for the skills, insures them they will get payed more. so unfortunately this good post has a bad side and may never be solved. i hope i will get in csm6, then i will try my best to get at least something done in this."
"nope."
"lets not. its a bad idea along with the rest of your post.its good the way it is."
"ship damage and destruction: well to show ship damage could be fun to see, sure can use additional graphical features! for the destruction, well there are already some graphical features in this although you don't really see much of it thanks to the bright flash during the explosions. i would however say that this should be added, but with a switch to turn this on or off when wanted.since such graphical enhancements give extra lag, you may want to turn this on only if you are sure your pc and connection can take it. and most of all, are not in the wrong place to view something like this."
"no.let's get customizable paint schemes first."
"this ^ good idea. blast wave that pushes ships away (non-damagingly) from large explosions such as structure destruction would be cool, if lagtastic.this ^ terrible idea. cheap 1 hit kills just because you rolled a '20' are dumb, and there's already a coded critical hit mechanic for 300%(?) damage called a wrecking shot. this ^ bad idea, there should be a mechanic for capturing/boarding/proper piracy, but this is not it."
"dear ccp after a few mounths playing eve i have descoverd the joys our writeing in my own persinal bio! but there is one problem, its too small we need bios to allow us more text for more intresting and funny bio's so people can get to know each outher more and spred funny jokes via the bio please ccp this would be much appreciated and i would love if a csm member brought this up."
"well it is a nice idea, i sure would love to bring it up if i get in csm6! can always use good ideas like this!"
"it's set at the current size to stop people creating lag - apparently one of the things that has to be downloaded to the client before you load a grid is the full text of the bio of every pilot on that grid. i wish i was joking, but i can't support this idea as it stands, and fixing this properly would probably involve a disproportionate amount of work."
"it's ugly as **** looks like a minmatar present...how about some ports on the sides and maybe, you know, a small-station feel to it."
"i can see why this topic was made, the lp store is indeed rather pointless at this current moment. items are to highly priced, items you can get are rather useless compared to the regular versions and for some you need other items to get the lp store version. so i am suggesting to change the values on the current items in the lp store and on top of that change what they need a little bit so they are more wanted. besides that it might be interesting to get new items in, including fittings and ships. perhaps skillbooks that are only available in the lp store. this should make it a lot more interesting to get those lp points and taking the time getting them."
"supporting my own proposal."
"1. make all the rats have omni-resists.a: this wouldnt be a smart idea to do as many already suggested2. make all the rats have omni-dps.a: this wouldnt be a smart idea to do as many already suggested3. make all the rats run away when losing, if not warp scrambled/disrupted.a: already happening with belt rats, although not all will.4. make all the rats drop better loot and have higher bounties.a: well, sure sounds good. but bounties can not be too high and drops can not be to valuable. but there must be a slight change indeed.5. make all the rat spawns smaller.a: likely not happening, if you like smaller rat spawns, go to high 1.0 space. no rats there. 6. make all the rats switch targets.a: having shield/armor -tanks would be pointless if they would switch targets. but i think there is something that can be done about this to improve at least a little.7. make all the rats use capacitor and let us neut them and turn off their modules if they run out of cap.a: could be interesting, although it would make them a lot weaker at the same time."
"npc's have been running away since forever... this happens if you into a spawn and kill the smaller ships first (escorts). then the larger ships might warp out."
"if this is just going to apply to belt rats, that should be simple enough and good changes, as long as the spawn difficulty is in line with what can be accomplished now at approximately the same speed (i.e. highsec rats should still be doable in a t1 fit t1 frig, 0.0 rats in a solo battlecruiser.)if this is going to apply to missions and other pve, every single mission and site will need to be reworked so completion time is roughly the same as it is now. missions have been nerfed non-stop over the past couple years with every possible nerf except reducing bounties/time (salvage value nerfed with additional rig sizes, lp nerf with fw buffs, meta 0 drop rate nerf, mwds in deadspaces, too easy probing mechanics, etc.) reducing game-wide bounties (due to longer completion times, too difficult sites, etc) would have serious deleterious effects on the whole eve economy. however, bringing pve fits closer in line with pvp fits is good as long as income rates can remain relatively balanced."
"all of the above, and maybe i want npc battleships launching one or two tech i or augmented drones now and again!"
"1. make all the rats have omni-resists.-- i don't agree with this completely.... pvp ships often have resistance holes, and so should npc's.... 2. make all the rats have omni-dps-- pvp ships often do specific damage types, so its logical npc's should follow along in similar style. 3. make all the rats run away when losing, if not warp scrambled/disrupted. -- too often npc's try to kite, and use long range weapons. so warp disrupting them isn't an option. hence i don't agree with this for every ship. 4. make all the rats drop better loot and have higher bounties.-- only if they scram/disrupt and have higher resists and better ai. 6. make all the rats switch targets.-- i like this... 7. make all the rats use capacitor and let us neut them and turn off their modules if they run out of cap.-- perhaps.... i think you have an unrealistic goal of merging pve and pvp fits. a pve'er will still not be too quick to engage a new local, as they often have backup. and i think making all npc's tanking/dps'ing the same would hurt a lot of the diversity that makes eve kewl."
"the ultimate science fiction simulator? let's have some science then...this proposal is about a massive science and technology eve expansion.empires throughout history have invented and adapted technology to gain advantage. in eve, all technology is commoditized. everybody has access to the same modules, rigs and ships. there is no concept of design quality or innovation.this proposal seeks to introduce these 2 concepts. in doing so, we hope to see:players competing in a new ongoing technology race to discover new superweapons, efficient powercores, faster ships, fewer drawbacks, better bonuses, new abilities.skulduggery in spying and stealing these advances to merge with your own or to sell onlicensing, mass-production and hitting the market with these unique selling points, or hoarding for your own allianceeventual commoditization (open for all)side effects, we'd also hope to seereduction of 0.01isk trading: people can making buying decisions on specifications as well as priceentire new tree of advanced science skillsthis proposal is not designed to replace t1, t2 and t3 modules. as with all older technologies, they become commoditized, and t1-3 is no exception. these new items are an addition that we're going to call \"innovate\"-items here. but perhaps this could also be an idea for what t4 would be.it should be pointed out that this will not create an explosion of new advanced items. for each success that produces something desirable, there will be dozens of failures and unremarkable products. compounding this, the super-product might not be reproduceable.how best to implement it i don't know. i suspect it will take a lot of thinking by clever game designers. but here's a few of my thoughts:the output of \"innovation\" will be blueprints. they will be produced through an invention-like process, where you put all your items in the cooker, wait a few hours/days/weeks and see what you get out. the difference is there will be a lot more input items. to achieve something \"really good\" cannot be achieved by trying mass-innovating with the same inputs over and over again.the buildable items' will have different attribute values to their t1/t2 counterpartsmuch of the time it's a zero-sum game. for example an innovated tracking enhancer might have a difference +1% on its falloff and -1% on its tracking attributes. \"zero sum\" items are generally reproduceable, that is you get a bpo.\"really good\" items are ones that give an aggregate attribute boost in the attributes but are very rarely reproduceable, that is you get a bpcthe innovation process can use t1/t2/t3 modules or previously \"innovated\"-items as a base. that is, \"innovated\"-items can be re-innovated upon.\"partial ideas\" can be used to improve the chances of success also. for example, a spy has stolen papers from an alliance but the data is incomplete without other understanding from the alliance scientists. or perhaps a whisper of some kind of new stealth technology appeared on the eve internet equivalent with a few vague specifics in it that gets scientists' minds whirring."
"continued.... 2/2this leads me to datacores and decryptors. an equivalent for innovation (not necessarily called datacores and decryptors) could feed into the process. there would be many (hundreds) of different kinds, that represent ideas and understandings. these could perhaps be the \"partial ideas\" that can be stolen/bought/sold. success cannot be relied on collecting zillions of these though.hybrid units could also be created by using two different modules as a base, combining or mixing the resultant attributes.every now and again, ccp will seed entirely new capabilities into the game which can be discovered by players. they'd do this by adding new ideas (datacores). this would create a more natural player-run science new-technologies ecosystem"
"i cannot support your idea because it would be game breaking.what if i had a blueprint to a webifier, t1. let's say that i took ideas from an energy nuet blueprint and a scrambler blueprint, along with ideas that reduce cpu and capacitor use, and an idea that increases range. would i then have the ultimate tackling device?what if i had a strip miner blueprint, and i added ideas that halved the cycle time and doubled the yeild, would i then be able to stick three of them on a hulk which i similarly modified and be able to satisfy mineral demand for the entire region?what if i had a slasher blueprint which i made a stiletto blueprint from. could i then modify the signature radius on the stiletto to 0, which would make the ship invulnerable?if anyone could add any attributes they wanted to any module, that would result in at least a couple modules entering the game which have such a huge unfair advantage that nobody else could compete. what would you think if the 0 sig rad stiletto used the superweb to point, drain your cap, and stop your ship? how about if the incredible hulk sucked dry three solar systems worth of belts in six hours and put them on the market for prices too low for you to compete?the idea is great, but you probably should have made a post in features and ideas so that we could knock the hard edges off your proposal so people could have an easier time swallowing it here. i would like some kind of modlue variation beyyond meta levels, but i dont think that this is the solution."
"i sure don't want to do that, the first thing goons will do is probe and steal from your wrecks. which on turn causes aggro and loss of your ship even if you didn't do anything. anyways, this will be a very bad thing for the capsuleers that just start out. any 1.0 space mission will be a death trap in no time making it nearly impossible to do anything without having some goon swarming around you like a fly to sh**..."
"eve is in part about risk versus reward.what is the risk in engaging a pve ship already in combat with a specific pvp ship? the only risk now, is that you might lose a bit of time probing for someone, the risk that person has is in part because of the fitting choices needed, (no drones, can't fight angels, vulnerable to neuting, shield mods often increase sig, lose a few mods) and in part the travel, where you can gank to your heart's delight.this counters 1 mod, the risk of adding that mod is not in relation to the reward gained by it.i also fly unprobable ships sometimes, but they are not t3, it is possible, though the fitting is very harsh then."
"it's good for goons indeed, pointless for people that do not gank others. so, i say no go. unless the only one able to salvage a body is the owner (living clone of the body). then it could be something interesting to have."
"could be nice some walking interactions when in space. not the way you say, but maybe someone."
"i support this product and service."
"reading through the list of candidates for csm6, i was surprised to see a large number of people who are, well, jerks. i'm not slandering their names, or telling you not to vote for them, i just want to make sure potential voters know who they're backing. so in order of importance, i present to you:manalapan: mastermind behind the dynasty bank scam. that's right, he lied to people and stole something like 500 billion from investors right into his own pocket. scamming is a part of eve, and i vehemently oppose any effort to control or make scamming illegal--but still, is this the kind of person you want to elect to a leadership position?arden elenduil: prominent member of ninjas. he doesn't even try to hide the fact that he griefs carebears in hi-sec for fun. once again, valid gameplay, but any player who griefs others players for the sole sake of sadistic pleasure is someone i'm hesitant to elect.prometheus exenthal: first let me say this guy is very skilled. i have nothing but respect for his abilities, imo he's one of the most talented solo pvp pilots in the game. his videos are also pretty badass. this said, he's kinda a douche. i've run into him a few times in game, if he kills you he gloats, if you kill him he calls you a bunch of noobs/blobbers/etc.any member of the goons: don't think i need to say much here, goons pretty much pride themselves for trying to break the game for everyone else, and are pretty much the most untrustworthy bunch in the game.before a flame war starts, let me re-iterate one more time. all of these people have had significant accomplishments in game, and are all talented in their own ways. i'm not trying to question that or take that away from them. i only want to bring to light certain personality characteristics most people may not know about. if you still feel like they are the best candidate to represent your needs, by all means vote for them.-aerilis (posting with alt because main account is inactive)"
"i had no idea who manalapan was but now that i do that's pretty chill, hi5 duder"
"i'm guessing it'll never be an issue, but if you ever do come into 0.0, when you don't die to an aoe doomsday, or find yourself paying rent to an alliance almost blatantly bankrolled and supported by corrupt gms and developers you can reflect upon this statement.k? bye."
"so what you're saying is that he plays eve?"
"strange, am surprised you didnt. i knew about it, was pretty big and i think made it on ic news as well as forums.anyway, one thing is to scam on a personal level, but scamming a lot of people who trusted a bank, kinda sad. i am trying to start a plex bank, once i have enough isk and maybe get chribba and other rich guys onboard, but getting people to trust in that since that scam, is tough :("
"you said 'gms and developers'. that's plural. care to drop some names?also, why are you letting a dead alliance still own you like this?"
"the only reply needed:"
"pro-tipp: avoiding the use of pubbies to refer to anyone not in sa/goons, at least in public will probably aid your cause no end. as a bonus it'll make you look a little less like scientology members."
"vote vile rat for csm. i will be a jerk for your interests."
"hey, if we were like scientology we'd be charging...to..join...uh, nm.seriously though, pick a a stance and stick with it. \"these guys have accomplished a lot in game, and they like to destroy other people's ships--perfectly valid part of the game and not that there's anything wrong with that but they're really terrible human beings because of it and should be shunned for an out of game thing because of it.\"is this hello kitty online or eve? do the people running have a good understanding of game mechanics or not? their chosen playstyle may be a way they blow off steam or their way of thinking outside the box. to castigate us for it and make the accusation that goon csm reps (of which there have already been several over the existence of the csm) would \"destroy the game\" is remarkably shortsighted and frankly demeaning to your own position."
"i've ranted a lot about mittans campaign trying to bring down trebor for no real reason that i can really see. it kind of pi55ed me off because of the hard work that trebor put into the csm last time around.that said, i don't really think mittens, vile or helen will ruin the game. at the very worst, they'll just mess up the coming csm and it'll be back to basics in csm7. in reality, they'll probably try to make sure that the goons' part of the game stays the way it is (the jump bridge drama) and at best they'll push for a supercap nerf. there isn't much else they could push through because even though various people have hinted at trying to extort or blackmail ccp devs into doing things their way, too much of that leads straight to rl legal trouble and permabans, which i'm pretty sure mittens and co will avoid if they can. also, given they way mittens shc campaign fell on its arse when exposed, after which he decided to try to play the openly \"ebil malishus\" card, i don't think he has the real life capability of doing that.the only tools that work with ccp are the professional approach, i.e. slogging through the details of features, processes and various items, and as a last resort, player rage like last summer. but even the latter would become blunted if used too often as players and ccp would become immune to it.tl;dr, the world will not end if mittens and co get into the csm as they'll end up having to work with the others or become part of the lolfreetrip crowd that no one really takes any notice of.as to the \"pubbies\" bit and paying for sa, it obviously gives members of sa a community feeling, but it'll never improve the goons' public appeal in eve. dropping the use of that term in public, at least, will only help you."
"and another touchy subject for the goons i see goons just need to see that their time has come and get out while they still can, more and more will vote for those that are not corrupted, fools or goon. people want results and not loud mouth talk with a gun up their rear ends threatening others.people want to play the game without being buggered all the time just so that goons can have some fun. goons are just heartless sobs that have nothing better to do it seems then to pester people that do want to play nicely.and even on the forums, again it's the goons that swarm around like there is no tomorrow. just again to make sure their ego's are present and people know they are around. if you think about it, it really sounds like the goons have some personal issues that they blame others for."
"eve is pvp--be it market, shooting, or political. trying to pretend otherwise is to be remarkably deluded.in short, deal with it."
"having read your post and looked at your stats on the goonfleet killboard i sure hope you're good at markets."
"oh no, my k/d ratio! :ohdear:actually, now that i look at it my k/d ratio is pretty damned good (when i actually play), so i'm not sure i get what you're trying to say here."
"i was on new eden radio this weekend. for those that missed it live, you can download the show at"
"lost in eve posted the debate, you can find it at"
"so, if things go the way the polls suggest then the nc / goon / tapi partnership have already got 6 of the csm seats secured. that means at least 2/3rds of the council will be run by a self-serving clique of players with a single political goal.the majority of the votes have already been cast and the tactical voting manipulated by mittens and his cronies will be hard to stop, but it's not too late to make a difference.please visit your user settings to re-enable images.let's stop these buggers stitching up the game for the rest of us, and making it even duller than it already is, shall we? vote windy for the win."
"general windypops literally said this"
"what polls?can we view this?"
"lol, posted by wt4csm."
"it's a shame people refuse to unite against the goons, all non-goons together and we will make a difference. but nothing is lost just yet, even if we only get the last 3 seats we sure will be a menace for them. they simply can not keep ignoring people that do not wish the goons around."
"hi white tree. can i ask why you have recently changed your forum settings so that it no longer shows that you're a member of tapi? why are you trying to conceal this during the csm elections?"
"yeah, what he saidmubarak out!windypops indypops!"
"i didn't change it at all. it always was that way. i actually couldn't figure out how to get it to show. it shows in some forums but not others. no sure why. :downs: it's not like i'm hiding it. am i?you know, what with my name being plastered everywhere. still doesn't mean he didn't say it.also don't pull me on directly calling out another csm candidate when g.w. is doing the exact same thing."
"my latest blog from my website. feel free to comment there.-----about 150 years ago, in france, a political philosopher called alexis de tocqueville muttered darkly that in every democracy, the people get the government that they deserve. well he presumably said it in french. but actually, that grumpy old cheese-eating surrender monkey was right. the governments we elect are a very accurate reflection of what we ourselves represent.ok, so the csm's not a government, but it is the elected representative body of the universe of eve players. as things stand, with only a few days to go, it looks certain that the nc/goon block will succeed with their mission to seize control of your csm. early polls and surveys suggest that they will certainly secure 6 out of the 9 seats, through a combination of block and tactical voting. that's 2/3rds of all seats. the reality is that they'll take more. and do you know what, it probably is the government we deserve. it seems likely that the csm will now become a simple parallel of what's happened politically within eve. we're always told that eve is a sandbox. true, but if someone takes a great big **** in a sandbox then all the sand sticks to it, and that's the way we're headed.if we allow the csm to become a mirror for the political stagnation of the game itself then here's what we can expect.1.pitiful lack of political diversity: they talk together constantly in game, plan operations together and share a single political and economic vision for our game. while 6 (or more?) of them will sit there smugly at the csm table they'll bring with them just one agenda. they'll carry a majority without independent candidates voices even being heard. motion passed, back slaps all round. let's go to the pub.2.dearth of genuine debate and disagreement: but it's not just that the agenda of the csm will become massively skewed towards one alliances interests. sure  mittens hopes that by bringing 9 people with the same view of the game to the table will put the csm in a stronger, more combative position to negotiate with ccp. but it will also mean the death of any meaningful debate, discussion and disagreement between csm members. we'll lose the richness, finesse and careful consideration that comes from having multiple voices heard at the table.3. huge increase in the potential for exploitation: what's particularly sinister and calculating about the nc / goon takeover is that the candidates put forward have been from alliance leadership. this has several consequences. firstly it means that we will be represented by people who are already spending huge amounts of their game time organising their own members, with less time to focus on the csm. more worrying, though, is what it means for the nda (non disclosure agreement) that members of the csm have to sign to ensure they don't gain in-game advantage from their privileged access to information. however the nc / goon alliance leaders from the csm can freely plan and plot to make sure their alliances are perfectly placed to benefit from coming game changes without even breaking the nda. 4. a big 'two fingers' message for the wider playerbase: a homogeneous csm made up almost entirely of carbon-copy 0.0 alliance leaders sends a very clear message to the eve universe. you don't matter. it's bad enough that the blob mentality has largely destroyed dynamic, fast paced pvp in eve. you've not got to blob the csm to get your voice heard. whilst 0.0 alliances may thing they're the be-all-and-end-all of eve the simple fact is that they're not. there's as much excitement, intrigue, innovation and colour taking place throughout low sec and empire. it's a huge world out there  with thousands and thousands of mercenaries, traders, industrialists going about their business every day. sadly, though, their voice will not be heard."
"****ing win."
"5. an inexperienced csm: planetary interaction. role playing. empire warfare. industry. new player experience. small corp management. contract warfare. mission running. fw. every single one of these aspects of eve life have passionate, enthusiastic, knowledgeable players. every singe one of these aspects of eve a complicated, nuanced, and highly specialised. by electing a csm comprised entirely of 0.0 warmongers we lose all of this experience and diversity. i don't care if you don't vote for me. there are candidates available that can stand up against the nc and goons more eloquently than i can. opponents will accuse me of being 'mad' about the nc / goonswarm campaign to take over the csm. do you know what? they're right. i am bloody mad about it. we do get the government we deserve, and my political activism means i'm probably partly to blame for the 'us and them' mentality that led to blob warfare. some of us may deserve that fate, but there a thousands of eve players that neither want that fate nor deserve it. make a difference in csm 6 - vote now."
"lol@useless posts, free bump"
"thanks for the website dierdra! this should help a lot of capsuleers to vote for those that come closest to their needs. although unfortunately a lot still will have some difficulties."
"sunday's new eden radio csm interviews"
"in this thread:johnsen ****er sperge.and thats about it."
"4 votes for trebor!"
"it would be great to have a summit explaining why solo and small scale pvp is a great part of eve and encouraging ccp to recognize that fact and keep that in mind when they discuss game mechanics."
"atm gas mining i think it fine. you can happily make huge amounts of isk off of it with very little effort, so i really don't think this idea would be particularly necessary. having a buff to the locus subsystem would be absolutely wonderful though. (would also be nice to change subsystems in a pos too, but that's a different matter) would you consider buffing the probing ability so that t3's would be better then cov ops for probing?-living in a wh-"
"if i had the chance to save the world or vote for elise, i'd vote for elise."
"elise is an awesome candidate and should have your support"
"go elise o/"
"meissa is not only a very clever and intelligent guy, he's also a cool to fly with.not to mention the effort he puts into the affairs of the csm. gl with your candidacy :)"
"that does make him a sexy man... i see your pov"
"there's simply so much fail there that i'm not sure where to begin, but ah well. let's start with the obvious, shall we? en24 doesn't support pl. en24 doesn't support anybody. they've actually got an editorial policy very similar to the tribune's in that as long as things are factually valid, they'll let lots of different folks submit their opinions and points of view. you can read riverini's thoughts on the matter, here.of course there's an ad that went up for certain candidates: those candidates bought ad space. that's how ad space works. they sell it to people."
"goons should not vote, don't listen to them either, they just want the game to be messed up for you and mess up so badly till the goons are the only ones left. problem with their way of thinking (if you can call it that...) is that when too many people leave, ccp will shut down the game and so also for the goons. so not so sure if the goons can be called 'intelligent life' so to say..."
"you sound mad...bro."
"as a hatter. he/she/it just posted in killer gandry's waaaaaaaah! thread that goons threatening your corp/alliance is grounds for legal action. i can't tell if it's a bit of false-flag trolling or if the claim really is that shooting your pos is \"blackmail\". but whichever way it is, i'm amused."
"as i already was saying, goons try anything. false flagging i did not, nor did i troll or did anything that is bad. i only said what the truth is, i can't help it that you jump to the ceilling as soon as someone actually dares to say something against you as goon"
"the mittani let finnagain zero into his campaign thread? this be amusing to see this thread go to **** fast as finnagain argues with everyone no matter what including himself.:popcorn:"
"if mittens can grief you right out of your mind to the point where you think that razor alliance is a goon corp, i think he deserves more votes."
"kumi isn't just a crazyposter, he's running for csm because (according to his platform) he has aspergers, and this allegedly gives him some sort of genius level iq which we should be respecting or somesuch, idki guess that makes him eve-o's version of cwc"
"eh, only half points then. driving someone out of their mind isn't as impressive when it's a very short trip. the goon campaign for csm seats this year does deserve some extra points though, since simply existing seems to drive some folks into paroxysms of nerdspew. for a while now i've thought that the nc was king of the making-you-lose-your-****-by-simply-existing game, but that may not be the case anymore. sad day."
"wow, nice friends you have there mittens... finnagain, i have been a reader of eve tribune over the years. i was really pleased to see you making a come back over recent weeks. however if this is the level of your journalism and political comment then i'm sticking with en24 from now on."
"this thread is not journalism or political commentary. it's a thread on eve-o, not an article on the tribune's site. i'm writing as an independent human being, and pointing out that i enjoy seeing people lose their everloving minds because the nc or goons simply exist."
"diving to new depths by making fun of people with disabilities, mittens?"
"i've never bothered with this crap before, but you're getting my vote. the blind fury you clearly inspire in all these important internet commentators is the best recommendation you could have."
"nope, here in goonswarm we have always mocked spergs. not a new depth at all.since you do little but incoherently rage out badposts, i will point out that in the latest dsm aspergers literally no longer exists, anyone claiming to be a 'self diagnosed aspergers' is a merely a socially awkward nerd looking for a medical excuse for being pathetic, which is something that deserves even more scorn"
"it's ok, i'll be nice."
"you guys got a thing about making fun of people based on things over which they have no control. what a bag of ****s. as usual, your reprehensible, thoughtless remarks are based on lies, distortion, or just being a lazy **** who doesn't bother to check his facts. for your information, dumbass, aspergers was not removed from dsm. it is now combined with other disorders in a broad category called autistic spectrum disorder. go look it up. there is probably a disorder in the dsm that applies to you."
"narcissistic personality disorder, naturally.claims of asperger's are often used to excuse and garner sympathy for a person's personality defects, (\"i'm not a socially maladjusted jerk, i have asperger's!\") i feel that this belittles a serious condition and that those who do so are thoroughly reprehensible. considering that a mere 0.2%-0.6% of the population are estimated to have asperger's - and those figures are likely higher than it should be, given the 'popularity' of the condition, ala attention deficit disorder - it is highly likely that the majority of \"i have asperger's\" claims are false. statistically, in the highly unlikely event every person on the planet with asperger's had access to the internet, they would only account for approximately 1.6% of the regular internet users.man, i love statistics."
"honestly, if any condition was going to give you an advantage on the csm it'd probably be crohn's disease."
"u got my voice! mistiks"
"thank you!and is it monday already?"
"hee! thanks... i think? and yeah, if i turn out to be a ****ty delegate despite mynxee's endorsement, i think i can guarantee that mynxee will fly to california and kick my ass. i was asked by evenews24 for a response to the rmt expose they did on iskbank last week. i blogged about this last week, but here's the sound bite version i gave en24:\"the anonymous nature of the receipt of this data makes the chain of evidence a little tricky for ccp, and doubtless a ton of the affected toons were just isk transfer mules, now on inactive accounts. still, i hope ccp digs into the transaction logs, follows the money to the affected toons, and reduces a lot of them to negative isk balances. that, to me, is a more fitting and harsher punishment than temporary or permanent bans. whether they take the time to do this (or even tells anyone theyve done it) will be interesting to see.\"seleene was smart enough to just point to his blog post. i should have done the same. in other news, i am one of two candidates that received the endorsement of the guys behind the evecommune podcast. thanks, guys! this podcast also features a fantastic interview with ccp xhagen, so i recommend everyone go out and have a listen to it."
"lol, i don't think we have to worry about that. but just in case, i'll pencil it in on my april 2012 calendar."
"i vote ripard, and so should you!regards,miss \"missy\" understandings."
"i voted for you. i think ccp should continue to work on refining or improving features they release, not just release a 1.0 version of something and then move on to the next marketing topic."
"please don't mock my dyslexia.what a weak response. \"i hope\" ... \"will be interesting\" ... damnit, i want mynxee back already. mynxee for head of ccp ia!you say that like it's a good thing. i haven't heard that much pointless snickering since i used to watch beavis & butthead. i don't mind podcasts by people who are clueless about eve (i love lost in eve) but when they're aggressively wrong and critical about things about which they know nothing ... i turned it off halfway through."
"there was another one before that in reaction to the 'jump bridge nerf' summit report where gs had a call-to-arms for major 0.0 alliances to take over the csm, iirc. we already know they got involved partly in order to maintain the status quo despite it being obvious to anyone living out there that force projection is one of the main causes of the stagnant nature of large parts of 0.0."
"after reading the entire threads of many other canidates, and never befor voting (having 4 chairs over the years)you have my vote trebor. just remember us small fry when you get there.galantriaceo pegasus mining korp"
"i'll reply to some of the pending questions later today (i have to head down into the anime mines this morning), but i just wanted to post a quick headsup:the csm just published a devblog to help explain what the csm is really all about, and what it has achieved. i think you'll find it interesting reading."
"bumping to say that we want the real life photo of treb and seleene.please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"yesterday, i was a guest on a marathon 4hour csm election program hosted by dj drizzcat of new eden radio. many candidates showed up, and each was asked the same set of questions -- the recording of the entire show is now online.the final question was interesting - \"if you could change one thing about eve or ccp, what would it be?\"my answer was pretty much what you'd expect from me: more resources devoted to improving and re-writing the eve ui, since that's something that is of immediately benefit to everyone.so far, pretty straightforward.last up was the mittani, who dropped in at the last moment. when asked what one thing he'd want, the mittani did not hesitate - a user-moddable ui!finally, something the mittani and i can agree on!for you see, back when i ran for csm 5, the two things i said eve needed were a renewed war on lag, and a user-moddable ui. i said so in great detail my csm 5 manifesto.so i guess the mittani's position is that:* i am an idiot, and all of my ideas are dangerous.* except for the one that the mittani thinks is the best thing that could happen to eve!it gets better. in my csm 5 campaign thread i caught a fair amount of flak for my ui proposal, and how impractical it was. however, i'd thought through some of the technical and meta-game issues, and was able to give good answers to some fairly hard questions.so if the mittani gets attacked for this \"dangerous and idiotic\" idea, he can save himself some time and get the answers from my thread of 10 months ago.but wait, there's more. the other thing he'd like to change is ccp's dysfunctional internal communications, and he gave a wonderful example of a case where a ccp dev discovered a way to make his part of the code much more efficient, but didn't even think to let other people at the company know about it, so they could use it in their own code.what he forgot to mention is that he got that example directly from mynxee (csm5 chair) in an msn conversation -- the same mynxee who was labeled by the goon csm alternate (helen highwater) as a \"dribbling r*****d\".so there you have it: the mittani gets his biggest ideas from dangerous idiots and dribbling r*****ds."
"excellent comeback there, treb. i think you'll have to wait a while until mittens can consult with his advisers on what course of action to take. will it be to grab the bull by the horns and admit that his apparent claim is mostly just a front to block any change that might hurt him and his vacuous followers or that he doesn't care anyway because his ponies are shinier than your ponies? or will he deny all with a chorus of goons echoing \"no u\"? enquiring minds want to know."
"my personal thoughts on that are that he took some items from previous csm's which might likely get more looked at with incarna on the rise.then just hope that during csm one of those points actually get's worked on by ccp and start chestbeating how he made it possible.typical lawyer trick."
"the ui thing was never the issue. csm ideas like \"lets make titan doomsdays pingpong\", \"the dominion sov changes sound like a great idea\", and \"remove jump bridges\" are why we've become unhappy with the csm. both show that people who have no idea how life in nullsec works are trying to make decisions about how nullsec should be.now this idiocy about how we want to use the csm to buff our alliance. the value of technetium and the power of supercaps are two severe imbalances in the game that favor our alliance while hurting the rest of nullsec. we want both of them fixed, which should tell you where our priorities lie. can anyone present a reasonable counterarguement to this? saying you don't trust us is one thing, but this is us flat out stating we want to give up two of our biggest advantages to bring more life and balance to nullsec. topics like fixing the ui and lag are things everyone can agree on, but when it comes to nullsec balance i don't think you have a sufficient understanding."
"consider the facts: nine of the remaining twelve csm5 members (vuk, korvin, mazz, sokratesz, teadaze, trebor, helen highwater, alpha12125, and elvenlord) are null sec players, most if not all in sov-holding alliances. seven of those people--including helen highwater--attended the december summit where the fabled \"destroy null sec\" discussion occurred. even discounting the \"dangerous idiot\" (as helen has so charmingly described trebor), null sec was more than adequately represented by informed players in the december meetings. did all those people--including your own representative--really fail to speak out against these bad ideas that you're so worried about? all this drama sounds like spin to me, especially having listened to the recordings from those sessions."
"i met the player of helen highwater once or twice at the uk live roleplaying event \"the gathering\" and suffice to say he really shouldn't be labelling anyone else \"a dribbling idiot.\"i mean, i love eccentric people as a rule and live-roleplayers are pretty amusing, but helen was in the category of players i don't much appreciate (exploiting the volunteer program to gain extra spells for his \"npc\" colour mage) that i always considered ruined large scale fest events with its essential tendency towards corruption and cronyism. no doubt if helen had been running for csm back before the huge bpo scandals he'd have expected some extra skillpoints for his main as a reward for time served and fair reward.i'm glad that ccp closed those loopholes and drew a line under earlier scandals but i do think its a little rich for a player like helen with a history of corrupt behavior in massively offline live-roleplay fest systems to run for election without fully disclosing his previous experiences of being a \"played npc\" for the lorien trust."
"my understanding is that my representative did speak out against it. i can't see vuk lau having supported it either. the devblog had a narrative that they wanted to remove jump bridges and so of course they quoted the candidates that spoke out for it. as for the rest of the nullsec players; if any of them did agree with the idea that jump bridges need to be removed, then i'm against them regardless of what part of space they're from. i was in nullsec before jump bridges were introduced and logistics were a nightmare in those days. also bear in mind that back then much higher levels of compression were possible and people had more incentives to mine in 0.0 (even if it was still boring as all hell). logistics are bad enough as is, we don't need to make a critical but unfun part of the game even worse.the idea that it will reduce empire size and force projection is just as silly. if you look at the pre-jump bridge maps, you'll see many multiple region alliances covering the map, many of whom were in coalitions. if any nullsec players support the removal of jump bridges as a way of fixing these problems with the game, then they don't understand the game."
"just a quick note that i've updated the third post in this thread so it contains an index to trebor's top 13 posts in the thread.as this thread is getting really huge, i thought it might be helpful.more replies tonight, as time permits..."
"by devblog, i assume you mean the minutes from the december summit? as an aside, drafting of the minutes was a task shared by ccp and some members of the csm (well, just trebor and myself, to be quite frank; i worked from a recording to complete the section on core). trebor drafted the section on the null sec sessions and shared it for csm and ccp comment and feedback over the course of a week. only one person who was at the summit asked for a change, which was minor and unrelated to the controversial topics. and this person was not helen highwater, who provided no input whatsoever (he did offer to do a style pass but failed to follow up on that).vuk and elvenlord were not pleased with the draft but since they weren't at the summit, they could hardly suggest content changes. however, i note that there is no evidence that they took any initiative to encourage null sec players who did attend to refute the draft and demand that its scope or accuracy be changed if there were questions about that."
"counterpoint: you're jade constantine."
"counter-counterpoint: takes one to know one."
"long exposure to jade constantine has inoculated me against him."
"while i don't think you can make a case that the latest changes to the game are mainly aimed at pvp/etc (heck, incursion was pve -- though not industrial -- and there's been lots of little ui tweaks that benefit eveyone, not to mention the contracts improvements), on a personal level, i agree with you. i like industrial stuff, and i even managed to have fun running a manufacturing/research pos, so i'd like to see that aspect of the game get more love.but as i've pointed out, what i personally want cannot be allowed to affect my decisions as a csm. so when i run into a potential conflict like this, i need to make extra sure i'm not fooling myself.thus, i need good metrics to make the case to ccp that putting effort into this area of the game will make them money -- either by attracting new players or retaining existing ones.if you look at the november crowdsourcing, you'll see several industry-related items did well, notably \"whatever happened to the industry expansion?\", at #20 with 13.18% support. and when related items were grouped, \"pos mechanics\" came in at #4 with 29.75%.which means there is a reasonable amount of support, so i can in good conscience advocate that improvements to industry should be considered.that said, the fact is that for some of the devs, improving the gritty infrastructure of the universe will not be high on their list of things to do, because it isn't :awesome:.but one thing i try to remind them is that the players don't exist to provide them with chances to be awesome. they exist to serve the players, who fund their paychecks. awesome isn't a reason for doing things, it's the emergent result of hard thinking, hard choices, and a ton of hard work."
"votes for seleene given!"
"after very careful consideration of all candidates,i think you seleene, are the best choice to represent the player base.2 x votes, good luck"
"as long as you also continuously harass ccp about the stupidity of the gun imbalance you will always have my votes."
"yes they attempted has you say, but that's all.and, in what it concerns me, i can't ever vote for someone representing a bunch of pubbies insulting and having racist comments on peoples threads.it's my opinion and i'm not expecting you to like it.seleene or rip are responsable and respectable adults and act/answer like.you're free to like \"lolilozboulz\" coments in pink ink it's your problem, but for the greater good of the whole comunity they bring absolutly nothing to the table and really expect they will never get a single seat. ho yes, they bring a lot of pubbie comments support, great."
"just bumping to say that i voted for seleene partly because he managed to sit next to team awesome in a discussion and keep a straight face. (although i only discovered this after having voted :d )"
"what was this doing at the bottom of the page?also, if you don't give a vote to seleene for his banner campaign alone, you're daft."
"i've read this thread, and appreciate your answer.i know little about 0.0 warfare, but the history of it interests me, and i like your approach in dealing with previous incarnations of eve, and perhaps improving them. in particular i look on with interest regarding your past experience there, and i feel that is likely to be highly effective.so my votes - you have them. good luck"
"i heard the same lol free bump d keep the good work up dude"
"signature fail."
"while i certainly appreciate you continuing to bump this thread, the idea that we had some sort of quid pro quo going on or that we weren't independent in our decision making is... odd. and all of it seems to be based on your getting upset at the fact that some folks paid for ad space on a website that sells ad space. ah well."
"your exclusion of the general is inexcusable. that was some awesome comic potential right there."
"i just find it sad that prom, whom most of the solo and small gang players approve of, gets no airtime in these big e-peen waving contests."
"you have statistics to back this claim up, yes? perhaps you could post them?"
"disappointed with finnagain for the first time ;p"
"wow, look at this supposedly 'neutral' finnagain charging round sucking up to mittens and launching desperate attacks against any anti-mitty candididates... one less eve tribune reader here. pretty pathetic, mate."
"sorry, the decisions weren't just up to me. you're more than welcome to get in touch with our staffers about an interview, however, if you' like to show why our editorial staff was wrong not to put your name forward as an endorsement.i've never claimed to be \"neutral\". that'd be ******ed. in fact, i've gone on record as pointing out that every person will have their own biases and value judgements, and accusations of \"bias\" are banal. i'm not banned from posting, as a poster. and obviously the tribune's act of endorsing candidates wasn't \"neutral\" since we took a stand on the issue. but the tribune is neutral in the sense that none of them compelled or coerced us, and our endorsements could very well vary significantly come next election cycle. yeah... that never happened. on either point. i personally support mittens' campaign but my votes didn't go to him. and making fun of the tardrage directed at mittens is hardly sucking up. i'm not sure what you even think i could possibly gain from obsequious behavior. as for claiming that i've launched \"desperate attacks\" (hah) against \"any anti-mitty candidates\", i'll assume that you're just making that up. because, well, you're just making that up. i have enjoyed posting in some of the funnier sperg threads, of course. i admit it, i have a strange fascination with palatr type threads and can't help myself. ah well."
"thank you for your endorsement :)"
"bumping to remind folks there is a candidate that with a focus on mining, industry, small corporations and solo pve pilots in eve.and thanks to all the folks that eve mailed me your support!issler"
"a vote for darius is a vote for liberty and justice"
"i am going to vote for you - mainly due to your representation of the rp element of the game but also because of an overall well balanced representation. however i think you are wrong to disregard the potential for atmosphere generated by a better, more detailed environment, particularly on rp gameplay! i for one second 'the moonshiner' - lets have more tangible and physical hazzard and beauty! reality is in the detail."
"thank you for all the support and votes! keep em coming!!!!"
"for the lack of questions, i will be posting some stuff...like this endorsement from eve tribunethere is also kugu's endorsementkinda surprises me when i saw eve tribune endorsement, not because of what he/she said (which was very much on point), but that i actually never heard of that site before. things like that makes me glad that i ran for csm this year as i have met more people from different circles, who not only just as passionate about this game as i am, but also similar views as to how should the game change to make it more fun :)"
"another podcast is uplink here"
"thanks for the warp disruptor field generators!from your \"very important issue\" on corporation taxes:taxing sales orders would screw people who play the market, since they'd suddenly find themselves selling at a profit yet making a loss. more importanly, sales happen in the future, so a player wouldn't know what the rate of tax would be when the item actually sold.secondly, why would you want to give corps a tool to pressure their members to rat instead of mission running? that seems to run contrary to the whole \"sandbox\" idea."
"..i've read the thread and like your game philosophy as well as your philosophy as a representative of the players. you have my four votes."
"for those of you weren't there, manalapan, along with several other csm candidates, were interviewed on new eden radio today. you can listen to it here:"
"ya that is a risk and would probably be a concern with the corporation more than a problem with the ability to tax sales.this would actually go along completely with the sandbox idea because then a corporation can tax whatever they want and not just mission and rat bounties. the idea is to give them ability to tax these things. it is not required to have these new taxes set above 0 but the option should be there.you can download a csm delegate interviews and q & a that was on new eden radio here"
"just completed the drawing and congratulations:3/14/11 winternight depression - won 50x 425mm railgun ii - chribba dice roll"
"i hereby announce my support for manalapan!"
"i cannot believe i missed your scam and didn't get you into my thieves of eve link for posterity. can you give me some links to where you admit to the specifics of what you did? below is what i have so far. thanks. manalapan proof services i provide: alliance creation <U+25CF> caldari standings <U+25CF> thieves of eve <U+25CF> my links <U+25CF> pos setupswhat makes me tick"
"i endorse this candidate!"
"i encourage everyone to read this thread as i am labelled as a mastermind. i am quite proud to have my intelligence complemented so much.thread"
"free stuff? sure i'll vote for you."
"here's the podcast of debate #4 hosted by lost in eve.net where i was one of the four guests"
"so you want my vote and everyone else to vote for you? how will you make my experience in eve a better one? my name explains what i do, and from what i have read and heard about you, you pick on players like me due to a lack of experience. this isn't trolling, simply me wondering how me voting for you will benefit me in the long year ahead. i've seen you in action in sivala. i've also talked to a few of the people who didn't know that \"if you move something in a can that doesn't belong to you, you get an aggression timer\". so you shouldn't be held accountable for your actions? at the least, convince me. right now, i don't believe anyone should vote for you. i don't live in 0.0, you don't either. why change something you aren't a part of? your 'alt' lives in 0.0/low sec, not your main. i have yet to see your campaign list, only one topic from it that has no relevance to me or my style of playing eve. please elaborate more so about your topics. also, blowing up your own corps industrial ship with courier packages labeled as \"30 day pilots license\" seems a bit out there if you ask me. why should you, a person who robs people in high sec by using game mechanics that are more so broken, be voted into csm 6?"
"this racest dbag shouldent be allowed to oversee a macro horde let alone real people! this guy is in love with poss if you want to shoot poss the rest of your 0.0 lives hes all for it! i couldent get him out of corp fast enough!barqs"
"that's because the concept keeps changing. back when incarna was announced (when it was called \"walking in stations\" and before it was called \"ambulation\"...or was it the other way around?) we didn't have to worry about a lot of stuff. for example the nvidia apex clothing and so on. back when incarna was announced 5 years ago, apex didn't exist. there was also no mention of a new character creator, if i remember correctly. etc., etc.what started out as \"you'll be able to walk around the place in a year or two\" turned into 5 years of waiting, at the end of which all you get is a character creator and 6 months later captain's quarters - a single room, where you can walk around (hopefully). if, 5 years ago, ccp said \"5 years from now you'll get a new char creator and a tiny room to walk around in\", do you really think people would have been supportive back then? i highly doubt it. back then people were shown what was essentially a pipe dream that we've yet to see materialize.personally i'm hoping ccp can \"flesh out\" incarna within this year. not just qc, but stations, etc. if they manage it, fine and dandy. but if it's going to take any longer, with other features obviously broken or neglected? i'm not sure the payoff will be worth it. if there is a payoff at all, there are no guarantees in this business."
"mazz, you're ignoring the part where ccp itself is divided on incarna. you know very well that it's only the so-called team awesome (noah ward and co) that is ignoring the csm. the rest of ccp seem to have had no problem with csm and most seem to have behaved very professionally.it is your opinion that cuddling up to noah and co will somehow change things, but it certainly isn't anyone else's. for those who are interested, this is what an interview with that part of ccp looks like.so no, i don't think it's supadum."
"for those of you who are unaware of asperger's mechanics, it is a high-functioning form of autism (ie, autism unaccompanied by mental ******ation). individuals with asperger's fall within the normal human ranges for intelligence. while it is certainly possible for an invidual with asperger's to have genius-level intellect, it is no more or less likely than it is in the general populace. therefore, it is highly inappropriate for kumi to attempt to link the two together in the manner quoted above. also, since it is fair to assume that an individual with asperger's who also happened to possess a genius-level intellect would know that the quoted statement is demonstrably false, i can only conclude that kumi is not a genius, is not afflicted with asperger's, or that both conditions are true."
"the most interesting thing about this thread is most likely the number of goons attracted to it and their, uh, fixation on asperger's syndrome."
"we also go after furries and scientologists with a ****ing fury"
"god forbid that a furry scientologist with asperger's ever run for csm."
"not sure where you read that i claim to be a genius, but even your explanation about autism is so far wrong by all that tried to explain it. i guess none even tried to find out about it on google anyways, the specialists that diagnosed me with aspergers also did a iq test, they only could set a minimum due to things i prefer not to tell, private. my minimum 9according to these specialists is 145, they suspect a lot higher.aspy's can not communicate as others can, hard time trying to explain things. as clearly is shown in this topic alone. but so far i see, i do a better job then any goon trying to bully me and so many others... anyways, back to what is the topic about. no need to pay attention to people who grief others"
"obsession is everything, mate."
"i think we may be missing the forest for the trees here if we concentrate on this candidate's asperger syndrome as oppose to what this person can do as a csm. i like her platform and thus voted for this person."
"i specifically quoted where you said, \"i have asperger syndrome and with that a high iq\". you didn't not say \"i have asperger's and, coincidentally, a high iq.\" you specifically linked them. also, bravo on the false modesty wherein you ostensibly claim not to have referred to yourself as a genius and then promptly claim that you have an iq that would put you in the top 2% of the population. it is only fair to note that the definition of 'genius' is open to wide interpretation and that my usage of the term here is somewhat imprecise.as for the rest of my statement, i should clarify that the common misconception that asperger's sufferers possess higher than average intelligence (usually held among those who claim to have asperger's) came from the theories of dr. hans asperger. however, not dr. asperger failed to provide any iq scores to support his claim. some psycholgists maintain that individuals with asperger's are of average or higher-than average intelligence. however, this is usually a false assumption, since individuals with an iq 70 (low-functioning autistics) are typically excluded from the statistics, as individuals with iqs below that level are excluded from the diagnosis. if one includes individuals of all intelligence levels who exhibit the symptoms of asperger's in their statistical analysis, the curve has a strong correlation to the average population.i do not say this to smear you or to make you look bad; although i will admit a certain bias against individuals who proclaim that they have a condition that excessively complicates social interaction while engaging in social dialogue. asperger's is estimated to afflict 0.2%-0.6% of the population and every person who falsely claims to suffer from it to excuse their own social awkwardness (a not-uncommon quality among online gamers) detracts from the seriousness of the condition.anyway, i guess my point is that i don't think that you have asperger's and i also don't think you're as intelligent as you claim. i will admit that i have a limited data set to support this belief, but i have seen encountered enough people who made similar claims to have a fair basis for comparison."
"well, the candidate shouldn't have listed being a self-diagnosed aspie as a qualification then.i mean, \"i'm morbidly obese so i like to sit around a lot and think about internet spaceships\" would be silly to list as a reason to vote for the person, no?"
"mittensit's pretty ****ty of you to try to make any medical conditions of the csm candidates an issue here. by all means attack them on policy, but it's pretty ****ing pathetic to be so blatantly offensive.you already have the vote sewn up. at least have the maturity and decency to give others a voice without belittling and mocking.windy"
"thank you for seeing the point of the topic and the vote! again you trying to troll, if you try that again, i will report you. i simply do not wish to have someone troll this topic.thank you!"
"i don't think you really know what it is to troll, though i suppose it's possible that you could be trolled by reasonable arguments stated in a neutral tone. i do, however, have a question - and feel free to 'report' me for asking it:why did you even mention asperger's in your csm platform? what possible benefit did you hope to gain from mentioning it? i would understand if you had said something along the lines of, \"i have asperger's and doing this is one way for me to push myself outside my normal social routines and grow as a person.\" i would have even respected your willingness to overcome adversity. but you didn't do that. you intentionally linked it to a claim of intelligence. in short, you worked to make it a selling point for your candidacy. i will grant that it shouldn't be a hindrance to a candidate's chances (aside from the inherent difficulties associated with the condition), but i can't imagine how it would be a benefit. so please, explain your reasoning."
"perhaps because he was providing the electorate with relevant and useful information that will help them to make a decision, and which puts his platform in a context. utterly pathetic that mittani and the other goons have decided to make this such an issue. how edgy and cool you all are! **** like this probably goes down ok with your own kind on your own forums, but why do you think it's relevant in an election campaign?"
"i don't think that it's relevant that a person with asperger's is running for csm (assuming that kumi actually has asperger's, which i must admit that i doubt). that he felt compelled to feature it prominently in his campaign thread, however, is very relevant.to say it another way, if he had said, \"plus i have cancer, so you know that i'm (insert some beneficial quality unrelated to a diagnosis of cancer),\" it would have be equally absurd. this is not about attacking someone with a disease. this is about questioning the judgement of someone who is, at best, trying to use their condition to get votes in a space election point and at worst, lying about having a condition to get votes."
"i just filled in a report against you, i refuse to get comment about my autism and how you think it is fake etc."
"i'd let you know how it turns out (spoiler alert) a forum moderator will make a mildly annoyed face and possible shake his or her head at the triviality of your claim), but ccp doesn't like it when you discuss forum moderation."
"you know, every time i think you goons couldn't possibly make yourselves look worse in public, you go ahead and prove me wrong. now it's victimising someone with a disability? what's next, rubbing your faces with excrement and claiming it's good for the skin?"
"as someone with asperger's i find it highly offensive that you label people with this affliction as disabled as many of us are very capable individuals who are productive, although often introverted, members of society."
"mittens is just a confused little kid.he is hinting at archieving people's posting regarding his campaign.this is a weltfremd geek trying to implement what he read in some book regarding the governing of fear.just point and laugh and don't vote for him :)"
"the tragically hilarious thing is that you can replace \"goon\" with \"pubbie\" in the op and it's basically the same thing."
"that statement is kinda tragically hilarious"
"moron enjoys oxymoron. news @ 11. :v:"
"there is no charm in that mate. you really really need to get rid of mittens :("
"amen to that! i personally would love to see them getting banned, they giving the entire game a bad name including all those that do know how to behave. but, the problem is that often goons get voted for since they will threaten everyone who dares to think of say anything against them. typical looser behavior i'd say, to afraid to hear the truth and there for they act like spoiled 5 year olds with brown in their pants. another problem is that due the current ccp rules goons are never punished, not even because they (eventually) hurt ccp's income by chasing away other players.it's so typical to see the rotten apples win and the others need to suffer from it. why not join forces to get goons out of eve so we all can fly a lot saver without having to worry about goon attacks? we all combined against the goons, and the goons will loose. but i guess the most are too afraid to even think about something like that. (hint: goons threatening you or your corp/alliance is pretty much blackmail, and blackmail is forbidden according to ccp and by any law...)"
"yes ladies and gentlemen, we really did just have someone say that violencing your spaceboats and threatening your internetpixels is grounds for legal action. you read it here first. better hire your lawyers now."
"you really should learn to read finny.i scooted through this whole thread and guess what. i don't see anyone calling for legal actions.but then again you were always and will always be nothing more than a little insignificant troll who reads stuff that isn't even there."
"now, far be it from me to doubt your ability to read and comprehend text, but you might want to look at the post directly above mine. it says:you'll note that things that are \"forbidden by law\" are in fact \"grounds for legal action.\"the rest of your silly insults can safely be ignored, but good try, i guess."
"second attempt and still not reading properly huh, but then again... goons never learn to read i guess and nothing i said was invalid nor against the rules, actually it is good that someone dares to stand up against the goons trying to make it a lot saver for all of us."
"as trolling goes, this is substandard. things that are against the law are grounds for legal action. there's not really much wiggle room there, and even if you try to edit it out your post is already archived on eve-search. for the record i now not only support the goons ruining gandry's game, but yours as well."
"for the record. finny openly admits he needs his goon friends to go for people because he himself lacks the skill, originality or plain balls to go for it.and to make another thing clear. i haven't received any threats or such from goons about my opinion nor a slap on the wrist from any lead.just as goons are entitled of their opinion i am entitled to mine.also would like to make clear to not feed the finny troll. his ego might get way too much boost which could lead to severe deluded thoughts of actually being capable of accomplishing something."
"this csm has been the best csm ever!+1 for mittani for inducing nerd rage all through hi-sec."
"-1 for you. i am not playing in high sec."
"and that is what needs to change, goons get not punishment just because they think they own everything. for that matter, why do you insist of trolling me? i just said something that is obvious and the truth. and you clearly say that you like to ruin the game for others, which is adding to my comments on this and other topics proofing i am right. so you can hardly blame me for daring to say what others think."
"he is a corp ceo of r.a.g.e [ctl-q], a nc member. previously his corp was in defi4nt. so he's correct, r.a.g.e. is a 0.0 based alliance."
"to increase the info a bit more.i was part of exceed which at that time was member of xetic alliance. xetic was a 0.0 entity.after xetic i was part of dreamscape. this corp was member of norad. norad was a 0.0 entity.my current corp was member of ffa. ffa operated in 0.0 in the early days that goons and ra started out in 0.0i also been in empire for quit some time doing missions, producing, trading and only a little bit of pvp.you won't find me much on killboards because i don't care for killmails and as such fly shout or logi a lot.like i said, i don't feel the need to hide."
"was anybody really confused up until now whether this was one big troll thread on gandry's part, or whether his nonsense about 'reading things that aren't there' was another lie designed to troll? no? didn't think so. funny that he dropped that troll as soon as the quote was provided, not that he actually missed the obvious final line of the post right before the one he was responding to... gandry just kinda sucks at trolling. but he does try so very hard, maybe we should go easy on him.of course, as his very first post also talks about his terror over the goons ruining the game, it's somewhat less than impressive to see him use his own fears in an attempt to annoy other people. \"ayieeee! the goons will ruin all our games! run, run!\"\"erm... okay. well, i hope they ruin yours then.\"\"ah-hah! i caught you, you're a secret goon! and you admit that you can't do anything on your own!\"is there a complete idiot's guide to trolling that gandry can purchase somewhere? this isn't even really entertaining. now, on to (if you can believe it) an even worse troll than gandry. no... \"goons get not punishment\" because threatening people in-game is part of eve's core mechanics, and despite your weird paranoia, you can't actually have legal action brought against you for ****ing someone up in a video game. no, really, you can't. i notice that you've also adopted gandry's trolling habit where if someone points out your bull****, they must be \"trolling you\". this is less than impressive. just to be clear, you're the one trolling and suggesting that legal action would be appropriate to deal with gameplay in a videogame. i'm the one who pointed out that was absurdly stupid. as for ruining your game, yes, i hope that the goons do ruin it, because you produce delicious tears. just like if gandry wasn't so obviously trolling, he'd remove himself from the goons' blue list and join another power bloc, rather than being a part of their blue list and still complaining about how they're going to \"ruin\" the game for everybody."
"ofcourse i suck at trolling. i leave that up to you. no need to try to compete with the master troll. fears? so when i express my own reasons as why not to vote for goons i express fear? odd. there i was just expressing my personal opinion and kablam. it's been catagorised into the section fear.try crasping thicker straws, the ones you are grasping at now are rather thin.i am fairly certain anyone with a basic grasp of the english langauge can read i said, \"they are not out to ruin the game, they are out to ruin everyone elses game\"there is a slight difference in that. but i didn't expect from you to read propperly. hmmm i was wondering if you weren't a secret goon, i never said you were one. once again basic english. a concept clearly way out of your league. you could lend me your copy, seems you have memorized it from cover to cover. ingame threatening with ingame actions are all legal ingame. and any real life threats if they were ever made would just end up in the petition list.i wouldn't mind spending a few days in digging up all of the posts where you call everyone who disagrees with you a troll, but i think i would overload ccp's database.the \"you are a troll\" reply is one which is in general mainly adopted by you in responce to other people who don't agree with you.now what would that say about you.heck, i didn't even have to dig. voila, your standard reply. and other people got from that part it was meant towards real life threats. must be very claustrophibic in that head of yours. see, and replies like that just makes me restate the question. aren't you actually just a goon alt hiding in razor? i didn't join rage to get on goons blue list. i am pretty sure goons get that. i returned to my old corp because i have friends there. a concept that might sound quit ali<U+FFFD>n to you, but heck. you might wanna try get some real friends in an internet game once."
"thanks op, that's one well made argument. one thing tho: u mad?"
"speaking of how you're an awful troll, got a retraction yet of your lie that i misread that bit above about videogaming being grounds for legal action? i assume that since you're only trolling you won't apologize, but i can dream. i assume that you'll lie more about reading comprehension and then not admit you're trolling, of course. as for your trolling here, claiming that goons are going to ruin everybody's game is, indeed, a claim that they'll ruin everybody's game. this may be a difficult concept for you to grasp, but when you post a public thread and say that \"they want to ruin your game\", that means that they want to ruin the game of any eve player who might read the thread. and since 100% of people with a paying account can read the thread... would you prefer, raving paranoia? fear seemed somewhat mild. the fact that your fear is your opinion is somewhat worthless. not that the \"but i'm entitled to an opinion!!!\" whine isn't amusing. somehow i doubt that you're not trolling and you really don't think that someone can be afraid of something if their opinion is that it's fearful.seeing as how you're lying to troll me, and that's never happened, even once, that'd be hard. since the actual fact is that i call people out for trolling when they're trolling, that'd be the relevant issue. but you're not exactly being honest, are you?speaking of you trolling by lying, got a retraction yet about how a claim that goons are breaking the law , & violencing people's spacepixels is against the law is, indeed, a claim that they're vulnerable to legal action?no? yes, again we see you lying in order to troll. the reason i pointed out that she's trolling is, guess what, not because she disagrees with me, but because she's trolling. oh, and speaking of you lying and trolling, interesting that you called me a troll for disggreeing with you, and ignored her accusation that i'm \"trolling\" her because i pointed out that her argument was a fail troll. funny, that. again you're lying and trolling, while serving as an object lesson for the dunning-kruger effect. what a surprise!it would help if you could comprehend basic english, but i guess i'll just have to point out your trolling, again. the claim was that, among other things, \"threatening\" \"your corp/alliance\" is \"blackmail\" and \"forbidden\" \"by any law\". see how much clear things become if you're not trolling, gandry?you should try it. you are so awful at trolling. now troll more about how this isn't really an accusation phrased as a question. maybe you could make loose change iii: the loosening? your trolling tactic, by the way, is known as jaqing off. just in case you want to catalog it. and yet you stay there, and do nothing to actually oppose goons. and you benefit from having a huge block of deklein blues on the nc's western flank... and then you troll about how much you hate goons. obviously not only can you not put your money where your mouth is, you're just trolling. not that it's a surprise, mind you."
"heck i am just gonna put your ramblings on block. i rather save my time for the intelligent species of the human population.for those who wanna know moredarius at fanfestat 00:20 you can hear how they think of the mittani and at 20:20 he clearly states how they precieve the game."
"acknowledged, you have no actual refutations to the factual and logical claims i've made, you won't retract your numerous errors, but you will put your fingers in your ears and say \"lalalalala, i can't heaaaaaaaaaar you!\" noted, tagged and entered into evidence."
"thread tl;dr: goonswarm federation candidates will never lock up the space autism vote."
"mittani tries his hardest to mimic his predecessors, molle and even jade constantine and does a really bad job, its a shame what has happened to goonswarm, this federation of (tcf / nc) rejects is proof alone how bad he managed a renter alliance."
"so i took that test thing to see who matched most closely with me..........god what a bunch of losers! does that make me a loser? well possible, but i reckon not actually. my highest match was 62% and basically from there down i only hit around the 50% mark. i was hoping to see some closer matches, but then actually i have a diverse range of opinions and dont neatly fit into the sterotypes of either being a hardcore pro industrialist, or a hardcore pro 0.0 alliance member etc. as such i wasn't attracted to all the leading questions around the hot issues.so then i went to look in detail.out of all of them? the mittani's was most well written. i voted for him as he sounded the most plausible candidate.could he be a total ****? yep, probably. i've read his stuff online sometimes and he seems like the sort of person that revels in internet fame, covets it in fact. from reading his stuff, i would say he's more intelligent that most online, but still less intelligent that he believes himself to be.but what about other candidates? well let's face it, we only have what they've said to go on, unless they were previously elected, and to be honest i haven't been all that impressed with what they've done.so because of that, i voted mittani. he sounded very convincing. like i say, he could be talking from his arse, but then so can any of the candidates.do you know who disappointed me most? general windypops. being a fellow uker, i scoured that list for candidates from the uk and found surprisingly few.when i found windypop's campaign, i thought finally there was something reasonably detailed that could be worth reading.but where is the reason i should vote for you windypops?? you've spun a very interesting story about the massive conspiracy at hand with nc and goons, and you seem to hate them a lot. and as a response to that; of *course* they would want as many of them on the csm as possible. who wouldnt? they're an alliance. it would be great for any alliance to have their views heard on a grander scale.but you seem to oppose it simply because that exists as a concept. how dare they try to have their views represented so strongly. everyone must immediately oppose it because someone is trying to win an election.i have absolutely zero ties to these guys or any major alliance by the way.but windypops, you made me sad. as a fellow uker, i wanted to see some reason for me to vote for *you*, not why i shouldnt vote for someone else. that is a weak campaign, and so many people fall down that trap in many other forms of elections (councils, unions etc).so there it is. my personal choices and why."
"mittani can't be talking out his arse you're stuck that far up it brown nosing he wouldn't be able to get a word out.what's the weather like up there anyway is the sun still shinning ?"
"good observational skills there, i think. mittens was the only candidate who offered something different from the norm, although, as you point out, it's somewhat lathered in layers of self-hype and a vastly overestimated sense of self worth. but he certainly is intelligent. that said, seleene's position as a previous ccp dev should be invaluable, and would have been worth your vote as well, not least because he actually is a game designer, not just someone who pretends to be."
"and uwe boll is a film director and producer, but that doesn't mean that he has the skills."
"person who thinks it's ok for one alliance to control all of the csm in \"not voting for person who doesn't think it's ok for one alliance to control all of the csm\" shocker.the only genuine shock is that someone actually bothered to look at my website."
"maybe you should read my post again. there's quite a bit of anti-mittani in there too.what i've done is made a neutral observation.what you've done is made a biased and uneducated comment based on what you would have preferred i said so that everthing fits neatly into your for or against camps."
"i needed you to give me reasons to vote for you, not reasons why i shouldn't vote for others.where are your values, what you will do for csm and players. what do you like and not like about eve?all i know from your information is that you don't like nc. lots of people don't like nc. but i can't vote purely based on some campaign to stop people being in power, i need to be voting for someone that i want to have some power, some people who present well and sound like they have good ideas.*edit - also, it's irrelevant whether an entire alliance owns csm or not. csm is about the improvement of eve online. it makes absolutely no difference what alliance the players are part of. the csm dont have the final say on anything. it's ccp's game, and they are not going to favour one person, corp or alliance over any other.i dont know exactly what you imagine these csm meetings to be like, but i imagine it's something like this:100% nc csm - first on the agenda is that all players part of it should pay us......one billlion isk! each! mwahahahaaaaaa.ccp - does the csm fully back this?nc csm - *in unison* we doccp - then so it shall be done!nc csm - second. we would like 50% extra shields and armour to our ships please.ccp - but of course.really, this isn't going to happen. they're just regular people behind the computer screens. people who want to make eve a better place. alliance doesnt come into it because ccp arent going to approve alliance-biased based requests."
"it's hardly neutral and anti-mittani since you've effectively said he's the best candidate and you've voted for him,with a little p.s. windy is crap at the end of it !"
"wij van wc eend..'"
"i think you need to read my latest blog, my friend."
"i'm pretty much obsessed with intelligence, which is why i have this years-long nootropics habitmost of the e-fame and posturing is just to enrage people who dislike me already; they're not going to change their minds about me, so i might as well make them as frustrated/angry as possiblethanks for the endorsement; i think the vote match questions were deeply flawed, as if you answer truthfully to the \"nullsec/lowsec/industry should be #1 priority coming before everything else\" question, you get ****ed. (the truth is that no single area of space should have priority over everything else, but this borks you in the algorithm if you 'strongly disagree' on all of them for that reason)"
"you said pretty much the same thing on shc, mittens, even though i gave you the benefit of the doubt there, before it collapsed around your ears. so who really knows? i suppose we'll find out when you get together with your good friends and buddies of csm6 for a cup of tea and a group hug."
"what owns about you is that not only did you completely lose your cool on ****heap, you've come here to bang your drums with hysterical posts - which is net +voteshine on, you angry badposting diamond."
"by now it is common knowledge that mittani has gotten all his flying monkeys to vote for him, if they put the effort of reading his ******edly huge contradicting threadnaughts they would have probably ignored the angry hypocrite and voted for a better csm.i own no alliance and i dont command 5k monkeys, i am not an emotionally unstable internet alliance leader, so i cant get swarm of bees to agree with me, but what i can do is compare the csm based on what they have openly said, in their own words.on the vote match this year, candidates were given the opportunity to leave comments, the overall priority of mittani was to change the ui, nerf pvp, buff larger coalitions (nc) and promote blobbing, stuff he feels really proud of promoting, not that it really matters he could have just said \"vote for me im sarah palin\" and goons would have.blobbingwhen csm were asked about 'blobbing', trebor commented immediately on lag and how fixing lag and leaving the mechanics the same will just encourage people to get more numbers and lag. mittani however decided to say \"i will rent you a constellation in deklein, if we fix blobbing\" i think he got confused with the question but thats ok he got confused with most of the questions (note the piracy question). vile rat did manage to say something that made sense which makes you wonder why mittani even bothered to run when his own alliance minion was making him look foolish and useless, again.factional warfarewhen csm candidates were asked about fw, trebor freely commented on how how fw was broken and it needed fixing, mittani however contradicts himself again, he copy pasta's something about 'backlogs' (which btw he did for 90% of his comments) and then says fw is fine and perfect, no one in their right mind would ever say fw is fine and perfect as it is. this reminds me of kalrand (aka kalmad), who said fw is not 'lucrative enough', now anyone who knows about fw will know how stupid his comment with but to no surprise you cant expect anything less from nc who have done little more than nap in eve.0.0 / lowsec prioritieswhen asked about lowsec changes, trebor sincerely mentions that it isnt a short term fix and lots need to be done in order to fix it, it is perfectly understandable why people would favour a balance in priorities. sadly once again mittani repeats his 'backlog' rambling like he did on most of the vote match, he mentions this 'backlog' on his 0.0 comment too which is pretty ironic since he started his campaign to focus on 0.0 (nc) alone, so how is it his priorities involve no changes and his ideas are nothing more than criticisms.-----we are all aware eve is broken, ccp know it, players know it csm candidates know it, but if you want a neutral voice free from 0.0 agendas and self-preservation, then vote for trebor daehdoow, history has shown he can make a difference that will benefit us all!if only he commanded 5k monkeys \"oh and a reminder to all the people who havent voted, ncs csm agenda, nc have ruined 0.0, dont make them ruin eve!\"more to come!"
"this is an essay titled: \"why kalle demos needs to stop posting\""
"clearly you havent read any of my essays then"
"although trebor is the best choice for csm chair your mudslinging thread doesnt help him. leave mudslinging to goons"
"you want to know about ncs policy on botting, except mostly harmless, widot, goonswarm federation, test, majesta empire and stella polaris the other alliances have a \"dont ask, dont tell\" policy when it comes to botting / rmt.even when a player loses a bot the leader will shrug it off.goonswarm federation have an open policy on botting and venal probably has more botters than all of the east, sadly due to 'afk cloaking', the bots arent very effective, mittani personally has said \"its not my job to stop botters, its ccps\".widot / mostly harmless / stella polaris bot near in branch, they have the worst management of any other nc alliance and tbh they are merely there as meatshields, so why not take advantage of botting heh, morsus mihi created stella polaris just so they can bot and bring in isk for them.test did have an anti botting policy however it was leaked during the fountain campaign that they encouraged all their members to not only bot but find and abuse exploits.majesta, well they mass recruited everything to save their dying alliance and now are filled with bots.the only reason nc are so emo over drf bots is because more people afk cloak in the north making it harder for nc to bot, while in the east it is much easier but that doesnt mean drf have more botters ;)ccp need to have a look at where that isk from moon goo is going, why are certain alliances giving isk / supercaps freely to random players ;)if anything nc want to be csm so they can protect their botting / rmt, why else do you think they are complaining the most about logistics and jump bridges.if you check nc candidates focuses on the vote match, its really quite funny, mittani's key interests are \"ui changes\" and half the questions he didnt even know what was asked hahaha, rest of nc were just as bad."
"nope, you're pretty clearly emoraging in the op here, and trying to say that those attempting to talk you down are is, well, kinda obvious in its absurdity. good try though. speaking of your emoraging conspiracy theories and your not-cited claims about dastardly dealings that, naturally, totally happened and stuff but you can't link to them... rather obviously, the percentage of names engaged in rmt versus the number of members in even a small alliance is infinitesimal. we're talking about stats that are less than one percent. painting that as some sort of grand conspiracy is, simply, paranoid. gandry, trolling?i'm shocked, shocked!oh, no, sorry, i'd be shocked if gandry was actually decent at trolling. i kinda expect the trollfail from him."
"seriously, you're delusional. have a look at my campaign and what i stand for (anti-botting, pro pvp). from my experience in the nc, flying in nc/dc fleets (from small gang to sov war), i've gathered the impression that the vast majority of nc members feel the same way.at best you're over-generalising and using terrible reasoning skills."
"you kidding right, everytime i link or prove something about nc, mods come in and erase what i say, you should know how it works, take any leak thread on caod as an example.all the proof gets deleted and even when it doesnt you just get nc emo babies trying to spin it, like \"well if drf can bot so can we\".besides i posted about your rmt scandal only last week and guess what happened about 20 mins later, ccp delete the thread, people read enough kugu to know what has been leaked anyway oh and like most people (even nc haha) i ignore what emoagain zero says, i think he should just create another alt and spam, that way i will bother to read his ****"
"obviously because they're working for the men in black, now because you're emoraging about conspiracy theories. obviously. quote even one single example of this actually happening, rather than you dreaming it up to emorage about. yeah, didn't think so.by ignore you mean \"constantly respond to and/or mention\", yes?"
"according to"
"lol this.in eve its not paranoia. they are out to get you."
"the amusing thing with this thread is that most goon scams are \"want to be a goon? give me isk. lol, i scammed u!\"taking isk from idiots is good for the game. keep up the good work."
"i asked myself why should anyone vote for a goon. so i watched this video and had a change of heart. well done lads. good luck in the election."
"spam, thread locked."
"today i - alongside other csm candidates - did a series of live radio interviews on new eden radio.we were each asked a series of questions in relation to our platforms and why we deserved to be your representatives in the 2011 csm elections.you can listen to this recording here:"
"old cyno effects where the coolest thing ever in eve to watch... listen to your player base ccp and bring this effect back"
"digital, implants or natural. i <3 tittehsi support this, well... the non-bra type of support. :)"
"i don't see how boobie physics will cause lag...thats just...dumb. thats like saying, moving the arms and legs while walking will cause lag."
"if you now replace \"0.0\" with \"low sec\", i could agree with you."
"great idea. if you can't loose sec status in 0.0 why should you gain it."
"i do agree people in hi-sec should have stronger incentives to go to lowsec - but low sec pirates should be challenged too... like having sentry guns damage multiplier be multiplied by the amount of people engaging in criminal activities hehe... and not being able to dock with gcc :penjoy being a pirate... shouldn't be as comfotable as it is"
"because no one does only one thing in eve. super cap pilots are a bit different, but even they need to get out of ships from time to time for implants. the characters who stay out of high sec are almost exclusively the low sec pirates who wear their -10s like badges of honor. everyone else needs to be able to get into high sec from time to time, requiring sec status. you know the null sec cyno systems in low sec. they are pretty obvious to anyone as they are highlighted on the map when you select \"recent cynos\" and you never attack. you know where we are now, don't act like the only reason you don't attack is because we're hiding 20 jumps away. we're in your space already. multiply that several times and you will have the situation you will be facing if this change goes through."
"the targets he's asking ccp bring him are the scum that already belong there in the first place (pirates that watch their sec status like anorexics watch their weight). this idea gets two thumbs up.i'm pleasantly surprised this idea is coming from a pirate ."
"veto are low sec pirates. not high sec war deccers, or suicide gankers. they definitely do not watch their sec status other than to say collectively \"we have -10 sec status\" so i think you're thinking of a different group of people. incidentally, neither would get dragged to low sec from this change. suicide gankers are train, gank, dispose characters more often than not. high sec war deccers don't lose sec status because they use war dec mechanics. the characters this targets are almost exclusively null seccers who kill stuff in low sec occasionally. this is generally in the form of pos bashes, but occasionally targets on the low sec side of null sec entry points."
"you misunderstood my post. i never implied veto watches its sec status. i know they don't and don't care for it. however, the pirates that do watch their sec status would be forced to lo sec to get it fixed, and thus, it would theoretically translate to more targets for veto and company. i think that's what the op is referring to. and that i'm more than ok with."
"i like this, and will add it to the op as an extension of the original idea. thanks!"
"i'll play the devil's advocate here and list a few probable reasons for this having not been implemented to date:it would detract from the usefulness of logistics ships.it would make ships without drone bays much less desirable and at a distinct disadvantage.gallente ships would have an immediate top-heavy unbalancing boost.even if you wouldn't have to manually target yourself, the drones would still have to target you which would probably require a lot more coding than the simplicity of the proposal suggests.none of these issues is insurmountable, with the possible exception of #2, but the proposal is not just a simple proposal.with that said though, it still makes sense that your own repair drones should be able to repair their own ship, sooo....supported (but in a complete drone revamp package and not just as a single feature)."
"because of the supercapital and sovereignty changes in dominion, it is now extremely difficult to field dreadnoughts. they are relatively expensive ships (even after insurance payout), and their siege module imposes some very heavy penalties that makes them difficult to keep alive long enough to do their job. they have essentially been replaced by ships with 10x the ehp, ewar immunity, and the ability to withdraw whenever they please.based on some the discussion here, i think i have some changes that would give them back their niche, without overpowering them against subcapitals.change the siege module:reduce the locked targets and scan resolution penalties. right now, a sieged dread takes four times as long to lock as unsieged, and can only maintain a primary and secondary target. this is unnecessarily restrictive. i suggest 3 locked targets and a 50% scan resolution penalty.kill the active tanking bonuses. active tanking is too strong in a small gang context, and too weak in a large fleet context. dreadnoughts should be effective in large cap fights, not skirmishes. the active tank bonus is counter to that goal.add a 60% non-stacking-penalized resist bonus to the siege module. this would give the dreadnoughts about 2.5x more hit points when in siege mode, and actually allow them to survive their cycle when under moderate supercapital pressure.retain the inability to receive remote-reps during siege. the resist bonus is meant to buy time, and no more. carriers should still struggle to coordinate their reps with siege cycles, and there should be an element of urgency when a dreadnought loses that resist bonus to get it back up in working order.with that change in place, a couple changes to the ship hulls themselves has to be made. specifically, they all possess an unnecessarily large capacitor buffer that used to support their active tanking role. they no longer need this, and it should be addressed.it is important that capacitor recharge time not be touched, as this affects things like the amount of time it takes a ship to recharge after engaging its jump drive. instead, capacitor buffer should be modified.based on my preliminary calculations, the following reductions in capacitor buffer should occur:cut the revelation's capacitor buffer to 1/3. lasers are still very cap intensive, but it should be able to sustain them for the 10 minute cycle.cut the moros's capacitor buffer to 1/4. blasters have similar capacitor characteristics to lasers. cut the naglfar and phoenix's capacitor buffer to 1/6. the reppers were the only significant capacitor draw on these ships. with it gone, the only real use they have for it is running their hardeners. for these ships, the only real purpose of the capacitor buffer is to make energy neutralization actually require some effort and not allow a frigate sized cap transfer to prep their jump drive. edit: left the explosion velocity and tracking penalties alone. i've heard some good arguments for leaving them as is and i think i was mislead by the previous thread on the ships & modules forum."
"i wanted to accomplish two things with this change. first, i felt a moderate dreadnought buff was necessary. you can see that in the sensor and tracking changes. they're expensive ships, and they should be able to do their job competently.secondly, i wanted dreadnoughts to do to supercarriers what supercarriers did to dreadnoughts: specifically, nerfing them without touching them. (see also: gallente and the nano nerf. gallente and the laser buff. gallente and the projectile buff. gallente.) supercarriers are rather poor at target switching. their poor scan resolution, combined with the fact that their dps is drone based, makes it difficult for them to change primaries when the situation changes. the siege cycle resist bonus creates a dramatic shift in combat which supercarriers can't respond to efficiently. my hope is that the carrier pilots can use the metagame information (when their allied dreadnoughts come out of siege) to leverage an advantage against the supercarriers."
"hmmm."
"all due respect, but they are still capital sized weapons. morever, i did restrict myself to halving the penalties. i would hope there would be enough difference between large and capital turrets that you could expect a battleship fleet to have a chance of surviving with the moderate change i've described. for god's sake, look at the effect of an archon's movement on the phoenix. when you consider that a microwarpdriving battleship has about 1/3 the signature and moves 10x as fast, i'm fairly certain we can achieve a happy middle ground.that said, if enough people disagree with that change, i'm willing to remove it from the proposal. i feel the resist bonus and active tanking removal is far more important, and i don't want that part ignored because i decided to tweak a few secondary effects."
"you say the issue is supercaps, then you look at dread damage to a normal cap, aeon is quite a big larger than an archon so has way lower damage reduction due to moving. imo dreads are fine, the issue is supercaps. and your first two points only help dreads against subcaps and possibly regular caps, not against supers. you are also seriously underestimating the tracking of capital turrets. fit a revelation, now pick random bs, put two webs on it, do not enable siege mod of revelation (so normal capital turret tracking) and see that at its normal engagement range it hits that bs for almost full damage when it is trying to maximise its transversal. and no that is not only eft knowledge (despite eft being correct), i have seen the hurt that titans can put to battleships with their turrets (well except leviathan, they cant do more than tickle a battleship)."
"alright then. i'll remove the tracking/explosion velocity buff. i suppose carriers have enough trouble staying up as it is, and the extra signature of supercapitals means they'll still at least be effective against them. should i leave the sensors, too?"
"if they are so powerful why do i keep seeing kill mails on battleclinic where a rifter takes them on in 1v1 and wins?"
"there are also kills with vigils killing battleships. those are not the norm."
"because it worked so well with supercaps"
"personally i don't think the dram is super overpowered (could use less drones and less than 100% projectile bonus dmg) but obviously the real problem deals with the unbalance of weapons acs vs lasers vs rails vs blasters (lasers only equal autocannons power at 15+ km, rail and blasters are supposed to be horrible..i have a caldari but i use missiles)i put two 150s on my punisher and i deal 60dmg every second while my lasers would maybe deal 20-30 every 3 seconds (using gamma/xray/multifreq)so a rifter or dram loaded up with 3-4 acs using t2 ammo could be quite dangerous while a newb amarrian trying out his lasers has no idea, gallente and his rails he already know are horrible, and the lone caldari who forgot the missiles might be in for a shockon the other part, i think we need more frig typesright now we havescout mining -> no upgrade (maybe a better 4 laser miner with more cargohold) surveyorfast attack -> interceptorcombat -> assaultfighter bomber -> stealth bomberastrometrics -> recon/mine layerecm attack -> ewar special ops2 new types would besupport -> sniper/missile frigate (serve as a baby drake/baby sniper, big and fat but very slow)tracker -> hunter frigate (this is type of frig or cruisre that bounty hunters would use, like combat frig, but also shares some astrometric bonuses... sry the magnate reminds me of boba fett for some reason)some poeple have asked that we could have a command frig as well with bonus ganglinkssome industrial frigs could be invented as well like tugboat or wrecker (repair frigate which is used to ganglink repair wounded ships/cruisers)another type of cruiser/frigate that could be reclassified (already exists with gallente/amarr arbitrator) could be a drone frig/cruiser with drone bonuses...drones are pretty powerful like acs as wellso there are many more frigs and ships to be made which could become of value if balanced properly but like i said i think acs are overpowered, lasers/rails/etc are weak and all weapons need rebalancingi was also thinking ccp could implement a new type of frig called heavy frigthis could also be done for cruiser/heavy cruiser as well since there are some cruisers that are smaller than destroyers/similiar to frigates which could be reclassified as light cruisers or heavy frigs while bigger cruisers (like omen) could be made for heavy cruiserheavy frigate and heavy cruiser ship command could be obtained by training your frig or light frig to iv or vheavy frigs would serve basically as mass attack boats (5-6 slots, double armor) similiar to drakes or hurricanesand light cruiser/heavy cruiser would be the diffrence between scout/recon and baby battleships/baby battlecruisers who could lend heavy cruiser support against larger fleetsso yes, dram needs nerfing, weapons need balance, and more ships are always in order in ship game where ship shoot ship and blow up ship for player to buy new shipsry for the spam wall of text (i've been thinking of posting a thread of my own but i don't know where to start)"
"i was thinking about the same thing today. it would be great feature for casual players who do not want to play simultaneously on 2 accounts."
"currently, people have to have a second account, then pay to transfer the character over to the account they want the character on once they are done training. the only reason ccp would do this is if they had a financial incentive to do it. that being that the increase in people training multiple characters would offset the decreased income from changing from the current system. i don't think it would."
"1.0"
"people flying caldari use launchers because railgun fits suck. there is some use for blaster-fit railgun boats, but they are underpowered compared to the minmatar/amarr cr fits, but at least they have similar range i guess. so, people use missiles instead, as they have the engagement range and good damage."
"as a future freighter pilot, i support."
"supported. agility>speed"
"just give fighter bombers the same restriction as the titan dd as you can not dd structuresa mom should be used to kill capital ships not structures for that we have the dread witch is unused atm as mom's are way better to kill structures"
"i have a ganglink alt, i trained it from nothing and have had it for 3 years this month. and it does far more than simple ganglink boosting, in fact that's a more recent thing i've trained him to do. yes, i boost in an unprobable tengu and legion and there isn't a damn thing you can do about it. is it a broken mechanic? yeah, it is. but not the off grid boosting part.the problem is they are unprobable. because they can't be found, they can't be killed and that simply shouldn't be possible imho. difficult to find is fine, requiring max skills and implants to find them is fine. but it should always be possible. boosting from off grid is not the broken part. so what's really needed are some adjustments to the probing system."
"ah, so what you guys are saying is that what this game needs is fewer roaming gangs and more tiresome idiots who are terrified at the prospect of leaving their home system and their pos'd up command ships? gotcha.i guess that's about what you have to expect from the kind of moron who brings \"a bait nidhoggur meant for tanking multple sc's\" to fight \"a couple hurricanes and a tempest\" and then dies in a horrible fire of his own making."
"although the op was terrible, idea is good. off-grid boosting in unprobable t3s has way too much reward for the risk.solution - link modules boost sig radius. now they are probable."
"your answer is wrong. they are not probable.learn eve.unscannable when the signature radius/sensor strength < 1.08.change supported because no risk with this fighting methods for loki pilot and give huge boost for gang pilots, like 100km web or disruptor range."
"l2read"
"how does making gang-boosters participate in the scuffle reduce the number of roams?you are basing your assessment on the faulty assumption that a booster must have 3-4 links making them dead on first sneeze. guess what, add one or two more boosters and distribute links among them .. more tank, more gank (read my prev. post), same boosting.nothing should be able to affect the outcome of a battle without even being there. only others capable of doing it is carriers with assigned fighters but they are destructible and cost the same as a cruiser .. each!imagine rr being able to reach any point in a system regardless of range, set up watch list and go to safe, would be horribly broken and it even requires the pilot to be there and not just a minimized alt client.second alternative: tactical subspace jammer. high-slot module that renders enemy off-grid boosters ineffective, once in los of charges (on-grid) communications can be re-established."
"not the point i was making. liang and rothgar were saying they want to keep offgrid boosting so they can park pos'd up multilink command ship alts in their home systems but remove unprobeability so that roamers coming to attack them can't obtain the same negligible-risk link support. off-grid boosting is a stupid mechanic, but i'd far rather keep it than return to a situation that encourages people to sit in one system with their command alt in a pos; by far the best solution would be to kill both at once and force linkships on to the grid. the issue there is that that heavily favours certain types of gangs and pvp styles - keeping a damnation alive and on-grid in a guardian-supported gang is pretty easy, but a claymore supporting a fast kiting gang is likely to have to warp in and out as it gets primaried, meaning that link support would come and go..."
"just one solution accepted, change command modules bonus just on same grid.disable from unscanable ship bonus or sit on pos bonus etc."
"i was going to support you, right until i got to the bit about suggesting that such types necessarily (or usually at the very least) buys chars with illegally purchased isk. then i stopped reading."
"thissolution supported, makes perfect sense."
"this just goes to show that you've never actually faced a triage carrier in combat. i meant what i said - the problem here is anyone being completely immune to probes.-liang"
"imho the \"problem\" is off-grid fleet boosting.an off-grid missioner running missions in an unprobeable t3 isn't going to do much to impact the pvp happening in the same system. same missioner running missions with level 5 all leadership skills and mindlinks while in fleet with the pvpers will impact significantly on pvp happening in the same system.alter fleet boosting so that boosts are only applied to ships on the same grid, now the problem is addressable. well, there's always intelligent application of grid-fu with on-grid but unprobeable t3s boosting the fleet from ten thousand kilometres away. at least that issue can be addressed using fast interceptors providing a warp-in."
"your argument breaks down here because unprobeable mission running utterly breaks risk vs reward. you are effectively discounting the market pvp that happens with the extra lp gained from running in \"dangerous\" areas. and yes, that's pvp.i say this as someone that has cs5 on both of my leadership alts, and actually kinda prefers command ships because they can jump into an enemy gang and immediately start providing bonuses.off grid gang boosting isn't a problem if i can scan them down and kill them. and if they'rea t a pos then it's a perfectly fine home field advantage - there should be advantages for preparing the battlefield.-liang"
"by repairing someone, you are not committing an act of aggression.unsupported, there's nothing stopping you from (a) firing/jamming their logis (b) bringing your own logis (c) not fighting on a station."
"while i'm all for nerfing neut rr (it's such a cheezy/cheap move), i can't support either of your proposals to fix the issue.as previously mentioned repping is not aggression, therefore should not get an aggression timer.kill rights are only awarded if you don't shoot back. if you're going to be eligible for kill rights, they won't be taking damage anyway so rr is a moot point.i would much rather see the scenario where if somebody gets involved in somebody else's fight, they become a legitimate target for as long as the character they rep is part of that fight.so if a can flipper is shot then repped, as long as the flipee's corp can shoot the flipper they can shoot the repper too. if a neut reps a wartarget, that neut is a part of that war until the reppee is no longer part of the war (the war ends, the repped character leaves the corp or their corp leaves the alliance)."
"a buffer tanked dps ship can stop firing for 60 seconds to deagress and dock/jump/whatever. it can do so while receiving reps. if you need to run, having your dps cease fire while logis keeps them up is an essential tactic.now assume that you got a 60 second timer every time you repped someone. like, say, another logistic trying to wait out his 60 second timer. now he has to rep you. and...you have to survive for 60 seconds without receiving reps......on a cruiser.you're an idiot."
"do you really think that the ability to jump into a certain death situation and come away unscathed is reasonable?that is what it is used for and what you complain that aggression would disallow.so what if you have to sacrifice a logistics to save an entire gang! once in a while. they are not exactly uber-expensive, they are in fact considerably cheaper than the most common t2 fitted bs.+ yes to logistics (and all other remote action) following aggression rules like everything else (yes, including concordokken).- no to the killright thing, don't know how the hell you cooked that one up .. neither here nor there."
"yes it would be nice if known neutral logistics could be shot for the entire war although it seems difficult to implement and with lots of weird consequences.i still believe the idea to implement \"agression timers\" (60 sec penalty on docking/jumping) is one of the most important changes needed.why should someone be able to agress others while being kept alive with a neutral logistic ship - without any realistic threat to this logistic ship?yes you can now shoot the logistic ship (when he decides to engage only), but that would:a/ take the focus away from the real target certainly allowing him to dock.b/ not give you a logistic kill anyway because it will just instantly dock.also logistic ships is not easy to jam and all the effort you make to get rid of a neutral logistic ship is taking much needed attention off the real enemy. it shold not be without a realistic consequence to engage yourself in someones battle and just being able to get shot is not enough if you can just dock.pinky"
"good luck getting the neutral reppers to leave station. they are quite happy there as they are perfectly safe. this is one of several game mechanics flaws that lead to a lot of dumb stuff happening in high sec.rr should get sec hits equal to if they had been shooting instead of the characters they repped until those characters have had a session change (and the corresponding criminal flags). then, rr would have aggression timer only when it is a criminal act, as having rr always give an aggression timer would seriously screw up a lot of game mechanics."
"any neutral actions to assist aggressing targets should transfer aggression. whether its remote sebos or repping."
"on balance, supported.neutral parties interfering in a concord-sanctioned war? any other time you upset concord what happens? you lose your ship.yes, i'd prefer to see so called 'neutral' repppers get concordokkened (because, if you were that keen to rep ships at war, why not just join the corp that's at war... ). if its that much of a blight, this pretty much takes care of it.but failing that there should be greater consequences than just being 'shootable'. a sec hit, delay before being able to dock or jump, anything to give actions some real consequences."
"supported, though id prefer neutral repping removed entirely.to those who say the act of neutral repping is not an act of aggression, i say baloney. only because the forums automatic censoring filters out stronger explicatives. so called neutral repping is an act and it is taking a side in a fight. the act has significant impact upon the outcome of a battle. of course its an act of aggression. it meets every criterion in the definition of an aggressive act within the context of a battle. it has the same effect as pulling the trigger on a gun or missile launcher.moreover, neutral repping actually acts as an inhibitor to pvp. how many times have each of us seen combat avoided for concern that there might be neutral reppers waiting. neutral repping is little more than a tool for griefers to use. its one of the cheesier mechanics in the game. that these people can duck into a station or jump through a gate without having to wait for a timer after taking action which has such influence on a battles outcome is silly.ive never seen a legitimate reason for having neutral repping and id like to. as things stand, it just doesnt make sense.-windjammer"
"yeah, sure. they're the same price before insurance. try flying a t2 ship some time -- losing them actually stings.that said, if you amend your proposal to merely inheriting the aggression timer, rather than refreshing it, i'll support the topic. local repair functions normally when you're gcc'd and lets you wait out to deagress. logistics should do the same.if a target has 20 seconds left on his gcc, you get his 20 second gcc when you rep him. not the full timer."
"the real problem here is pvp on stations, not neutral rr or gate aggression. i suggest looking at the mechanics of station games and fixing those, instead of looking specifically to nerf remote repair.-liang"
"the solution to neutral reppers is neutral bumpers. or ecm, target damping, neuting. you know, the usual. once they dock, they're not repping anyone are they?incidentally, the solution to stupid docking games is bumpage too. neutral reppers are just a variation on stupid docking games.adding neutral reppers to the wardec opens up wonderful new opportunities for people to pull lofty scams on naive pilots trying to be helpful.i'd say \"yes\" to 60 second 'aggression' timer (can't dock, can't jump). but the other ideas for \"punishing\" neutral reppers are quite beyond the pale.the worst bit is, if we get the 60 second aggression timer, the folks posting about \"neutral reppers\" will be complaining that logistics ships are op. then when logistics ships are nerfed, they'll be complaining that whatever ships/fittings their wts fly are op. then when we're all nerfed to flying rookie ships with civilian gatling guns, they'll be complaining that low ping bastards get too many advantages."
"i say \"no\" because logistics aren't currently overpowered. the problem here is station games, so fix that.-liang"
"if it goes on too long, players will adapt. the legit miners will leave or change to other playstyles that can't be griefed so easily, and the bots will just keep going.you can adapt by doing mission ops in l1 and l2 missions. you can get a surprising variety of minerals there, and you often have it bounded by an accel gate, giving you plenty of time to react to gankers. or you can use ships that can be tanked well enough to survive a dessy alpha, like t1 cruisers or bs's, and drive the cost of ganking up.ccp really doesn't care much about mining, so its best to take the iniative and act on our own to adapt in a way that frustrates the ganker and benefits us."
"the only person responsible for protecting your ship is you."
"take a t1 mining ship, insure it, tank it as well as you can (so dessies are unable to alpha it), park a salvager near your soon to be wreck, and profit. alternatively, start building mining ships."
"um, i'm not sure which game you are playing, but goons don't run csm - in fact i don't remember a goon on csm v. sure, they have candidates for csm vi.but hulkageddon is more than a year old, and completely within the scope of the game. i don't participate, or even really care about who does - it is no different than any other player run activity in eve. ban hulkageddon you should ban killboards and corporations, since they would enable it to continue off the record.actually, maybe that is a better way. then, instead of knowing there's a span of a week once or twice a year where organized industry ganking occurs, it would be anywhere, anytime. yep, totally ban hulkageddon. then watch the membership of hulkageddon orphanage become a fulltime hulkageddon group. much more fun for afk miners and haulers in hisec. yep."
"seems stupid. just because you can fly an f-17 doesn't mean you can fly a jf-17.remember, each race reached space seperately. they have their own technology that is unique to themselves. that is why each race has different skills."
"again and again, people say the exact reasons why they agree with op's idea, and then turn around and say they disagree. it's contradictory. the idea is, right now, skills like logi, hac, hic, etc, are all cross racial. each skill applies to all 4 races. op wanted to change it so that each cover only 1 race, but multiple ship types within that race (e.g. hac + hic + logi of 1 race, instead of 4 races of hacs). you post sound like you agree with op's idea."
"the rent is also too **** high.nerf rent"
"what have we to google? i'll get right on it, you just need to be more specific."
"maybe in teh world of eve the mechanics and systems of the different races and ships are different. your logis is flawed and eve isn't forced to use logic."
"where's malcanis with his law when you need it?malcanis' law: whenever a mechanics change is proposed on behalf of \"new players\", that change is always to the overwhelming advantage of richer, older players."
"text that creates lag... right... not sure what you understand under a few kb of text causing lag, i mean... it's a lot less then most data that needs to be transferred. so, think you need to rethink that one ;)"
"this is eve we're talking about. more ridiculous things have happened. i think i read that explanation too.perhaps they are not only downloading all the text, but at the same time pre-rendering it? so lots of color and font changes might make it even slower.of course the solution is reducing text, not fixing the engine..."
"sing jai, you're not alone. i've started programming an eve iphone app, inspired by the late capsuleer app. it can read mails all in the app interface, but to compose or reply ect. to evemails it relies on eve gate. unfortunately, eve gate will not log in on my phone, i even tried it on the iphone simulator and it would not log in. sounds like something ccp needs to fix or we will need an app to view it."
"so i am big on being immersed in the game, and i saw a simple thing that i would like to see brought up.instead of being able to right click on a pilot and \"start convseration\", how about we change the terms to \"hail\", or \"hail pilot\" so in turn instead of \"pilot x wishes to start a conversation with you\" it would be \"pilot x is hailing you\" but the options would be the same of course. also consider the development behind this idea should be very simple and easy to do. this terminology is commonly used in most sci-fi shows and movies, and i believe for rpers, and non rpers alike, it would be either a welcomed change, or an unoticed change. any thought, oh mighty csm? :d"
"i'd rather have prerecorded messages to the effect of 'surrender or die' which the autoconvoblocker cannot block."
"star trek online is that way -->pretty sure there is the potential of some kind of infringement law suit if ccp made that change."
"no potential for it at all. \"hail\" is a general term and thus not trademarked are copyrighted. i checked into it. :) \o/"
"this really isn't the most pressing fix the game needs is it? would you also like 'warp to' changed to 'hasten thee to yonder object'?"
"no that is stupid. it should be more like \"getting that mfker on the phone...one fckin' moment please\""
"\"geordi found out you were talking about him behind his back and has denied your communication request.\""
"well that's my point, it's not pressing or time consuming whatsoever. after all, the csm tackles such big issues, that wouldn't it also be nice to throw a few cosmetic touches in there as well?"
"isn't there an age requirement on this game? you have to be so many years old to subscribe and play?"
"please note that there are a myriad stupid adults, age limits are not foolproof."
"i support this product and or service. <3"
"i support this product and or service."
"itt: peoples votes being bought"
"i do not support this product and or service. your attempts to get votes by enticing players with plex is disgusting. i'd be very sad to see you voted into csm. your campaign agenda is comprised of 30 seconds worth of forum browsing for current issues. i wish ccp would intervene, it seems immoral to allow a candidate to openly offer bribes in order to sway people's votes."
"there, i fix'd it for you."
"i support this product and or service."
"i hereby add my support to this product and or service"
"see:"
"saraell tellon and i support this product and/or service."
"i support his product and or service."
"i fully approve and support this service and/or product.go serious, go!"
"i support this product and or service!! :)"
"i support his product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or servicei was beginning to think you had offered all that plex to get us to vote for you, then withdrew it like... a politician :p"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"i'm pretty sure you'll agree that there's a difference between a soldier defending the freedom of his country and a serial killer who kills for fun. yet your comment would suggest there's no difference between the two--they're both pvp. i only use rl examples because rl is less abstarct and more tangible than internet spaceships, and thus the folly of your reasoning more apparent. while griefers in eve may not deserve to be compared to criminals, you cannot deny there is a significant psychological difference between a player who pvps for \"gf\"'s and one who seeks only to make another human being miserable. think of it this way. when you sit down for a game of chess with a friend, your goal is not to make him as miserable as possible, it is simply a friendly competition, a match of wits. to pretend otherwise is a remarkably deluded attempt at excusing your own sociopathic tendancies that you only act upon in a virtual world where actions that are socially unaccpetable in the real world have no consequences."
"either you don't know much about competitive chess or you think nobody ever plays games with people who aren't their friends."
"fair enough, i'll admit i don't know much about competitive chess. but my point wasn't the extoll the virtues of chess players, it was to illustrate a fundamental psychological difference between griefers and ordinary pvpers. but to modify the analogy to suit your objections, picture if you will the most competitive, ruthless chess player. he talks smack, he makes enemies of all his opponents, nobody likes him. he may make his opponents miserable, but that's never his express goal. even so, i don't have an issue with the fact that there are so many griefers in eve. humans are pretty evil by nature, so it's no surprise that so many of us will turn on each other the moment we're put in an environment where we're not held socially accountable for our actions. what i do take issue with, however, is the amount of people who insist that there's nothing wrong with their actions, that really, i'm just acting like an ******* toward others and making them miserable because it's not real. i'm actually a really nice and decent person in real life."
"eve isn't chess. eve is an exceedingly complicated game of poker where nobody knows all the rules and where the dealer makes occasional attempts to rewrite the rules so that it's fair, even though it's never actually fair. some players get better cards and win. others are better at reading their opponent and win. still others lose because they don't know what they're doing, and it is to this last group that romo skywind belongs."
"what evidence do you have that i have \"lost\" or am in any way less than 100% satisfied with my eve experience? the only person on that list to have ever personally harmed me is prom, and he killed my ishkur once. :(oh that's right, you don't know the first thing about me. you just feel the need to insinuate that i have some mental deficiency, or have some personal vendetta against your precious leaders, or perhaps i'm confused about my sexual orientation, simply because i made a passing remark that goons aren't trustworthy.derp."
"at the risk of being dragged deeper down the rabbit hole of a bad metaphore, you can enjoy making your enemies miserable without it being the sole reason you play. i'm not a competitive chess player but i have friends who are and the psychological warfare involved can get pretty intense and is a big part of the game. you certainly wouldn't be a **** to your friends when you played against them but when you're playing to win its open season.if you approve of the action but not the motivation, does it even matter if the end result to yourself is the same?"
"well aoe doomsdays were quite annoying of course, but then again so now are uniform supercarrier blobs. i think its fair to say goons had very little to do with improving the play balance in 0.0. remember i met bane glorious face to face (who was the vaunted goon supercap thinker) and he could barely string two words together on the csm and preferred to do his edgy 19 year old impressions to the developers rather than present much input to ongoing debate. fairest thing to say about that guy was that he was a non-event.as for the developer corruption scandal. we all know the story. a gm cheated and got caught, should have been fired but wasn't. ccp cleared house and instituted some pretty firm inhouse rules that may well have led to a cure that was worse than the ailment. allow me to explain. sure, you had a gm cheating for bob, he spawned bpos that were not meant to be there. rather than just firing the guy and putting him on a boat to florida so he could seek work with the bush dynasty in electoral reform they slapped him on the hands and instituted what became a collective punishment for their current and future staff (and us).how's that? well, rules ensuring that eve developers cannot play a meaningful role in alliance politics, 0.0 wars, endgame content etc etc. can have no other long-term impact than to alienate and distance such play experience from the developers we are counting on fixing it.by making the betrayal of one hired guy (gm) and sections of the aurora (volunteer) team influence their approach to hyper-strict separation of work and play experience there has (in my view) been an impact, and that can be see in recent years with ccp seeming to lose touch with the concerns of the player base, and lose the thread of whats important in their game world. now sure. thats one of the things that csm is supposed to help fix. but goon candidates (in my experience) tend to be pretty long on forum noise and froth and very short on delivery. you guys are great at stoking up rage threads on the forums that lead to ccp knee-jerking and stopping all devs from playing the game in a meaningful way. and you are pretty good at inspiring rage-threads that stop doomsday weapons taking out your fleet of rifters (again) to your benefit. but now we have a pretty damned static and boring 0.0 thats haunted by supercarriers and riddled with jump-bridges for quick logistics and you happen to be in with the current aristocracy there. where are the rage threads now? there aren't any because you like things the way they are and your candidates are running to tell the developers than 0.0 is fine in your meaty hands.but lets not forget that any time any of us lament the fact the devs seems a bit \"clueless\" about this or that aspect of the 0.0 or alliance experience a big reason for that lack of knowledge was the hue and cry you guys pursued to punish that first cheating gm that pushed beyond appropriate punishment for the person in the wrong and had an impact on the overall collective knowledge of game developers in eve for the proceeding years.removed an inappropriate term from the text. - adida"
"arden for csm!he griefs carebears in hi-sec for fun!edit because this is now my sig..."
"while i'm sure you'd love to read deep philisophical meaning into different playstyles--and may even be correct periodically--your overly verbose premise neglects a key point:this is an internet spaceship game. no one dies or gets hurt beyond the layers of fat choking their arteries from all the hot pockets consumed while staring at a poorly-coded ui.everything in the game you get outside of missions you get by taking from another player. either you get a good deal on the market or they skin you with prices or you blow them up to take their mods or they blow you up.so if you are concerned about pvp actions in a game fundamentally based on pvp, what does that say about you?"
"i hardly think a member of goonswarm should be lecturing anyone about ad hominem attacks."
"then why give myself, a member of goonswarm, valid cause to criticize you for doing exactly that?"
"you don't have valid cause. as usual you are simply trolling."
"so you're denying you used a racial epithet and ad hominem attacks to disparage a former csm delegate?"
"ah, so its ok to use epithets to describe goons in a serious manner. out of curiosity, do you also rp as emily post in your internet chat brothel?"
"speaking of forum noise,"
"can you explain what you are talking about there?"
"can you clarify your position re: ad hom attacks and racially tinged insults? i'm curious what exactly you mean by calling him a . i'm sure we would all appreciate a more in depth explanation of your point.term removed - adida"
"whilst i'm sure the general readership of this forum would prefer you to address the specific points made in my earlier post that you are conveniently running away from behind a smokescreen of dishonest evasion and wriggling.term removed - adida"
"i fear you neglected to have made a point, aside from your bigoted and hateful compulsive desire to attack other posters. if you want to get involved in the debate, who's outcome could have real impact on gameplay for all involved, that's great. the more voices we have involved in this discussion from all gameplay styles the better, and the csm has room to accommodate all types of gameplay from the empire mission runner to the 0.0 empire builder. i represent one of those voices from one gameplay style but i have an interest in seeing all improve because i truly feel all elements tie into each other. i even welcome your voice to the discussion but i fear posting walls of text that basically say \"don't trust any individual from this alliance despite their platform, gameplay views, or campaign message\" which i feel doesn't add anything substantive to the discussion, hurts the debate many who are truly interested in this conversation feel is necessary in order to make the best decision. it's a voice certain enough, but a caustic voice that i don't feel represents the desire of the eve community to come together and find a way to fix this game that we all acknowledge needs a lot of work. if you looked past your personal prejudices about which alliance an individual was from you'd make comments discussing, criticizing, or supporting individual points csm delegates have made regarding gameplay changes we'd like to champion or deficiencies we'd want to attack. as a former csm delegate you bring a lot to the table in this discussion, i just wish you were using your role in a more constructive manner."
"whole lotta mad people itt"
"i think it is more likely that your own prejudice and insularity (arising as it does quite naturally from your role as spokesman for an extremely inward-looking gaming cult) does not allow you to see any point made by non-goon supporters. that is why you find it so easy to ignore the points i make here and sweep anything potentially embarrassing under the carpet in the hope that the discordant yelping and bleating of your fellows will hide the evidence behind miasmic smog.but the problem is there is scant room for discussion between you and i vile rat. we both know what this election is about as we both know what the role of goonswarm in eve online is about. having met my share of past goon candidates my expectations were fully confirmed and seeing what you and your running mate have said about the rest of eve in the context of these current elections there isnt much left to mystery.you will win a seat on the backs of the minor goon cultists. all we stake in this game of words now is the handful of votes that you might con from the witless and the unwary with the mask of apparent civility in the moments between genuine slips."
"i promise you a direct answer to whichever point you'd like addressed if you would be so kind as to state them clearly and concisely. i sincerely did not see a point raised aside from a blanket attack on a group based on your interaction with a small handful. i'll choose to look past your racial comments for the time being since you refuse to address them :)"
"ah jade, still eternally optimistic that people read past the first paragraph in your rambling blocks of bad posting. shine on, you crazy diamond."
"do you not see a contradiction between the positions you expressed in your campaign thread (speaking on problems with stasis in 0.0 and the essentially boring nature of the current powerbloc stagnation) and the organized goon/nc plan to fill the csm with seats opposed to any kind of progressive or constructive alteration to 0.0 sovereignty mechanics?do you accept that the earlier poster (in this thread) who was attempting to laud the achievements of goon representatives in achieving positive change in supercapital balance was over-exaggerating the role played by bane glorious in csm1? do you accept that the current situation with complete supercapital saturation in 0.0 warfare makes a mockery to earlier claims of resolving this issue in any form whatsoever?do you accept that the goon/k forum witchhunt against \"corrupt developers\" went too far and rather than seeking the appropriate and just punishment of one cheating developer ended up making ccp terrified to allow any of its developers to actually play the game in a substantive way and is a contributing factor these last years to the increasingly alienated and distant impression we get of developers from the core game of eve online?and lastly. are you prepared to tell me that you would support specific measures outlined by ccp that would limit, impact, restrict, or otherwise hurt goonswarm interests in their 0.0 holdings? (feel free to provide an example)would you for example, support the restriction or removal of jumpbridges? would you support a means of making passive moon income open to intediction by small pvp groups? would you support measures that stop \"huge fleets at single points\" from being the one and only measure of power in 0.0 territorial contests?"
"holy **** jade \"really bad at eve online\" is unaware of how to interdict moon mining income with small gangsyou attack the pos you moron"
"no, because there is no organized goon/nc plan to fill the csm with seats opposed to any kind of progressive or constructive alteration to 0.0 sovereignty mechanics. i'm not running as a 'goon' i'm running as a candidate for csm. i trust my platform will be judged on its merits and not some kind of blanket attack on an in game corporation/alliance i happen to be a member of. whatever your personal squabbles with a previous csm delegate were about i don't see how it is germane to any discussion regarding the future of the game and a persons qualifications to be worthy of votes. death to all supercaps. i've made my position clear on this subject. i reject your loaded question. it is invalid.absolutely yes. emphatically yes. we are rich. as an alliance goonwarm federation is stupidly rich. we are literally reimbursing all ships lost, both in fleet fights and out, just because we happen to have the one moon that is the chokepoint in manufacturing right now (technetium). ccp's vaunted economic representative did not do a good job predicting the telegraphed glut coming and has reacted with all the speed of a stunned snail to see the manufacturing process dynamically balanced after the mistake occured. we all fully acknowledge the problem and want it fixed so economic scarcity isn't completely eliminated by one bloc. i want our losses to hurt, i want our enemies losses to hurt and if they don't hurt then winning is damn near meaningless.i'd also be highly receptive to the concept of a sovereignty system that made sov more difficult the further from a 'center' of government it is. the concept of a large amount of smaller empires fighting over space is fun, the concept of what game mechanics encourage under current game design is decidedly not fun.platform positions held by somebody who wants to maintain the status quo? i don't think so but i'd be interested in hearing your thoughts on it.no, kinda, yes."
"in which pos warfare becomes small raiding gangs.nice."
"attacking miner pos isn't 'pos warfare' in the old sense of the term, and small gangs can easily incap small minersfor deathstar miners you can easily incap it quicky with a small gang, just not a small hac gang - just ask evoke or pl"
">>i reject your loaded question. it is invalid.lets break it down then:do you accept that the goon/k forum witchhunt against \"corrupt developers\" went too far and rather than seeking the appropriate and just punishment of one cheating developer ended up making ccp terrified to allow any of its developers to actually play the game in a substantive way ... ?... and is a contributing factor these last years to the increasingly alienated and distant impression we get of developers from the core game of eve online?let me be clear. i do think that the goon/k thinkers at the time saw a golden opportunity to leverage the misconduct of a developer into an ingame victory over thousands of rival players and were not content to allow an inhouse resolution of the issue and kept pressing and pressing until ccp felt obliged to remove significant content in 0.0 wars from the experience of its development team.i do believe this is one of the reasons why eve has floundered these past years because if you don't have developers actually playing in nullsec wars and operating the alliance management screens how do you expect them to gain the experience needed to improve things?"
"i'm sorry you reworded the question to be just as invalid and self serving as the original. if you ask a non loaded question i'd be happy to answer it."
"you should calm down and have a nice cup of tea.you are not the font of all knowledge in eve.there are much better players than you who are far more accomplished in aspects of the game you will never experience. accept this truth and your soul will rest easier."
"okay mr rat lets break it down even more.1. do you accept that the goon/k forum witchhunt against \"corrupt developers\" went too far?2. did this witchhunt go further than seeking the appropriate and just punishment of one cheating developer?3. did the the outcome have the collateral consequence of making ccp terrified to allow any of its developers to actually play the game in a substantive way ... ?4. do you admit that banning developers from highend content and involvement in alliance politics has been a contributing factor these last years to the increasingly alienated and distant impression we get of developers from the core game of eve online?and again.let me be clear. i do think that the goon/k thinkers at the time saw a golden opportunity to leverage the misconduct of a developer into an ingame victory over thousands of rival players and were not content to allow an inhouse resolution of the issue and kept pressing and pressing until ccp felt obliged to remove significant content in 0.0 wars from the experience of its development team.i do believe this is one of the reasons why eve has floundered these past years because if you don't have developers actually playing in nullsec wars and operating the alliance management screens how do you expect them to gain the experience needed to improve things?i hope breaking up the question a little more will help you to answer it honestly now vile rat."
"what does this have anything to do with the csm? make a caod thread if you want to discuss that. do you actually have a platform question or something even remotely csm to discuss or are you just posting here to troll?"
"see, this is what i meant, you're sounding like a crazy(er) person. they're a bunch of folks who post on the same forum on the 'net and then play video games as a group. that you're describing them as a cult is just disturbing. it's even more disturbing that you may actually believe it.discussion on terminology removed - adida"
"i'll get back to this thread in a minute, i have to go sacrifice a goat."
"that's exactly what a [person of your ethnicity] would say due to your [ethnic stereotype]. i knew it!"
"so jade i'm still waiting to hear your defense of your absurdly stupid commentwhat aspect of moon mining did you not understand"
"well mr rat. i look at my alliance management screen, my corp interface and i notice it hasn't been updated for 5 years. i'm still running my alliance on a terrible ui that reminds me of an unoptimized excel spreadsheet left as legacy \"documentation\" on some awful client site.and i wonder why it has been allowed to linger in the dust, unloved and untouched for so long? when the eve literature and marketing material speaks of the importance of these space corporations and alliances and the intrigues between them why is this core part of the game so utterly reminding of abandonware from the golden age of windows 3.1?so i ask the question (which you have many times now failed to answer despite promising me an \"honest\" response) do you think your player organization has some responsibility for scaring ccp into barring their developers from endgame content and the alliance game?are you prepared to admit to me that goon/k witchhunts against cheating devs went too far and triggered a ccp kneejerk that prevented them experiencing an ongoing and fertile relationship with aspects of the game itself?it isn't a wild out of the blue question vile rat.your organization likes to trumpet its victory over the dev corruption-rife band of brothers alliance to any internet news site that will listen. you have dined out on that accomplishment for years now. all i want from you is an admission (or denial) in your words that the witchunt against cheating devs may have gone too far and caused ccp to ban its developers from playing certain parts of the game with the consequence that we are still running our in-game organizations on a 5+ year old interface that has never been iterated, improved, optimized or given the slightest sight of a progressive workover.sometimes admitting fault is the first step to gaining an inkling of respect vile rat. or (as i suspect) are you too much indebted to the collective idols of your organization to risk giving voice to the opinion that a mistake was made?either way i am interested to hear your response."
"topic for honest debate: goons, threat... or menace? do you really not realize the fallacies your argument is built on, jade?"
"shush, i was talking to the organ-grinder not the monkeys."
"hint hint"
"also lawl at the person who roleplayed as a space prostitute trying to talk about how to get respect"
"this is once again a loaded question. let me show you an example of a non loaded question:\"do you think that game admins/gm's should be able to play all aspects of the game or should their gameplay be restricted?\"a. i feel that it's imperative that the people who design the game should be able to play in all aspects of that gameplay. to fix you must understand and you can't understand if you don't experience. i fully support gm's ability to play in endgame content as a player provided their accounts are monitored by ccp internal affairs folk to make sure that they aren't using their position to gain an unfair advantage as has happened in the past.loaded question. i answered the important part above, which is that i do feel it's important that gm's play the game. ----i deleted a bunch of non related stuff and meaningless rants. if you ask real questions that have relevancy to the csm election i'd be happy to answer them."
"its becoming evident that you wish your candidacy in the csm elections to be considered entirely separate from your involvement with goonswarm vile rat. i can understand your motivation for this because amongst the game as a whole, goons do have a less than savoury reputation (terrible forum posters, whine-threads, local spam, dressing up in bee costumes etc etc). but what i can't allow you to divorce yourself from is the responsibility for past actions that you yourself may or may not have encouraged or been partially responsible for.you are standing for election with a history of involvement with an organization that i allege did go too far with the witchhunts and did specifically lead us to the current situation with an eve development team that lacks critical knowledge and experience with aspects of the game. i say goonswarm is responsible in some measure for this and i don't believe you can stand in this election on a majority support of goon votes and claim to not be involved with that past responsibility.you are more politically adroit than your drooling accomplices in this thread i will grant. but your repeated evasion of my questons and attempt to sidestep responsibility doesn't really impress. why should anyone cast a vote to elect a person who cannot answer a straight question and calls in the clowns from corp chat to save him from embarrassment mid-debate?in the end lets conclude on the agreement that there are certainly many better candidates than you in this election cycle who unfortunately will not be elected because of the organized vote blocks of the nc/goon campaigns.you can take pleasure in the fact and add it with a little relish to your history of behaviour in eve online. i will smile and watch the capering antics of your little helpers on this thread and be assured that nothing much changes in the goonswarm."
"ah, ad hominem. you're also sounding more than a little odd if you're actually alleging that i'm taking marching orders from anybody, at all. anyways, let me point out some of your fallacies to you, yes? there are a few, so i'm not going in any particular order. 1. fallacy of begging the question: you have made an assumption about why things are the way they are in the game, provided no actual proof, and then demanded that someone else 'admit' that your conjecture is gospel truth.2. ****hoc ergo propter hoc and post hoc ergo propter hoc: you have used, as the foundation for your assumption, the sequence or co-incidence of certain events, but provided absolutely no proof of a causal relationship. this is similar to the \"when they removed school prayer from schools, society went to hell\" and \"the rise of rap music has mirrored the rise of inner city crime\" arguments. 3. fallacy of bifurcation. you have crafted a situation where, rather than multiple competing influences both internal and external to ccp, there is only one possibility and the only valid ways to interact with you on the topic are to \"admit\" that you are completely correct, or be a dishonest nogoodnik. 4. fallacy of ignoring conflicting evidence: ccp has made changes to the end-game alliance-level content. some of it, like dominion, had the express purpose of aiding smaller (e.g. non-goon) alliances. it not only failed spectacularly, but ushered in an age of megalag that dwarfed the state of play during apocrypha and is still wildly unpopular. this suggests a reason why ccp might be less than eager to engage in similar changes without over-thinking. likewise, ccp attempted to end the dysprosium bottleneck. we saw how well that worked. again, this suggests why ccp may be less than enthusiastic about making certain changes, or may take too much time. additionally, the fact that they are working on multiple other projects, including porting wod's engine to eve, points to a resource sink. to say nothing of the fact that reworking sov and/or fixing the ui are massive projects and ccp may believe it's a better business decision to alter other facets of the game. and so on. really, you're not coming off all that well in this thread. and i'm not just talking about your anti-goon rage."
"says a lot about a person that a non-directed remark about monkeys gets such a cringingly red-faced defensive rebuttle at random. carry on!"
"well gosh i would hope every candidate wants this. every candidate is running on their own strengths/weaknesses. you see if we're just going to throw around personal attacks i don't see how this debate will get any further. stop fighting fights from years ago and concentrate on coming together to fix this game please. it's clear that the immediate issues that we all face are more important than personal grudges and we should be devoting our time to focusing on how to move this game forward. i'm trying hard to extend an olive branch to you despite in game rivalry because this is going to be required of every csm delegate should we be honored with the peoples vote. you can't go to the csm as some guy from goonswarm, that guy from xdeathx, that one dude from the small empire indy corp, that would be counterproductive. we are all running on the idea that we can make this game a little bit better if we run and if we can't form a cohesive unit to convey your ideas to ccp then our collective voice is weakened.this is why i reject your attacks and will focus on issues which is what this election should be about. thank you! i appreciate your support.i feel i would do a good job advocating on the players behalf to get this game fixed. i've made my case and feel comfortable that i can do the job if elected. you feel differently based on your in game conflict with an alliance i'm a part of and you use this viewpoint to tarnish your outlook on anything i could say. this is sad but i understand it. there are many single issue voters out there and i won't be the ideal choice for all of them. vilerat for csmthanks everybody! be sure to vote early, vote often."
"yeah... poor trolling jade. i don't think anybody reading along is stupid buy that. or, if you prefer:\"geez, someone is an awful troll. oh, i didn't see you there jade, what a coincidence!\" i know that you're pretty much left only with fiction, fallacy, fear and failure here, but seriously? i pointed out, calmly and in one line, that i'm hardly following anybody's marching orders. that was in direct response to your (ahem) 'general comment'. then i pointed out that the substance of your argument with vile rat is utter garbage and should properly be ignored due to the numerous logical failings that it's built on. rather than being random, that was in direct response to your argument. it is telling that your only response is to troll with an ad hominem."
"was that after you imagined yourself slaying a mighty-dragon with your +5 sparklesword?"
"roleplaying a space hooker is totally less pathetic than roleplaying a dragon slayer right guys! guys?"
"pretty much agree with the op. must say i think large scamming ops like dynasty are quite impressive. griefing and scamming noobs with copy paste contracts, nope, not impressive. gloating over things like that: being a douche.being a sore loser= being a douche. so cept for the dynasty dude, yup, the rest of the candidates are douchebags, imho. there, guess i showed you, huh mittens?"
"you should probably explain that remark little goonie. i have nothing against dragon-slayers certainly, but i do think patting oneself down for imaginary forum war accomplishments is a bit sad. (apologies if the irony went over your head initially)"
"you're funny."
"q) when is ad hominem fallacy not a fallacy?a) when the \"man\" is an idiot."
"this makes it even funnier. keep going."
"i need some more motivation. at the moment you are boring me."
"sorry if this thread isn't what you're used to discussing, jade. let me help.\"i put on my robe and space-wizard hat.\"better?"
"ok jade, as an intelligent guy, surely you should be discrediting vile rat's campaign by attacking his policies and opinions rather than demeaning yourself by throwing around the csm equivalent of racial slurs."
"i'm wondering what moist crevice jade pulled that out from, in any case. it seems he's running from some truly odd playbook. i pointed out, and explained, several fallacies that undermine jade's argument. his response is a series of ad hominem fallacies, trying to change the subject, etc.. those reading along might, perhaps, think that jade knows he's got absolutely no argument and is beaten on both facts and logic, and can only resort to some third-rate trolling and personal insults. ya know, perhaps. speaking of how you're trolling, again, here is what i actually said:i think the reason you can't address the fallacies in your argument is pretty clear, as is the reason why you're responding with \"no, u r dum!\" but surprise me, actually address the substance of your logical failures rather than furiously trying to handwave them away and babbling about dungeons and dragons."
"goons deliver in all areas. a lot of eve may not like goons, however it is hard to beat them in planning and execution and player base inertia. consider your enemy he may be an excellent voice for the players. yes the 0.0 mechanics suck. we all know this. we behave this way because we must play the game this way to win.you speak of aristocracy, but i believe that the real aristocracy in this equation is ccp. a lot of very bitter vets are what make up the core of the cluster-thing. the csm is our only legitimate voice and we can make our \"house of reprsentatives\" stronger in the face of -> ccp aristocracy <- eve is a funny game. we play the creators as much as any other faction."
"oh my. my thread has turned into jade vs. vile rat. what to do about this...*shrugs*/popcorn."
"i dont really see how a scammer is incapable of leading :s, the real reasons you shouldnt vote for goons is because they want to destroy 0.0 and make it impossible to pvp anymore while punishing anything that isnt nc, who really cares if they are love to brown nose and scam.besides goons arent even good scammers, if anything people should be flaming them for being so bad at scamming.also"
"which is why the mittani has endorsed drf candidates, a pandemic legion candidate and seleene. this is similar to your lie in another thread that the drf killed \"50%\" of the nc's caps. you're so obviously just about trolling the goons that you can't even bother to put any effort into it and make it good trolling."
"report your thread or the posts, it may get locked then, as it's against the forum rules: \"# off-topic posting is not allowed. off-topic posts are not prohibited but should be posted within reason. excessive off-topic posts that derail a thread may result in the thread being locked. \".on topic: whatever a guy does in character (within eula boundaries) says nothing, or not a lot, about what he will do out of character. do you not trust a person in real life because he plays on the terrorist team in some first person shooter?"
"in truth that part is over. vile rat understands there is little to be gained from debating the issue i raised. the various bottom-feeders and sycophants posting routine meme nonsense are largely meaningless last word merchants and will sing themselves to sleep in good time."
"gee, you seem to have accidentally missed this twice now. you're not going to actually stop trolling, are you?"
"i have so little respect for you i can't even be bothered to quote you. think about that for a moment. it is quite the modern tragedy."
"assuming you're following your troll-script, your next response is to pretend that you weren't even talking to me. yet again, i've laid out a clear series of labeled and analyzed logical fallacies. they show why your argument fails. you have, instead, refused to answer to the failings in your argument and resorted to blatant trolling. like i said, it's very clear why you won't address the logical failings in your argument and why you resort to trolling instead, but i'll keep giving you chances to actually stop trolling and debate the ideas that you claim to want to discuss. so, again, in case you feel like not trolling:"
"you do realize that obsessively quoting yourself is a sure sign of e-madness right?"
"any time you'd like to actually discuss the issues rather than prove, again, that you're only interested in trolling:don't worry, those reading along can, i'm sure, figure out exactly why you're totally unable to answer some very clear and explicit criticisms of your argument, and why you can only respond with substandard trolling. hint: it's not because you can honestly defend your argument or you honestly made your argument in the first place."
"so indulge me.what would i have to gain from taking you seriously (ie not like a mitten's bloc frothing alt) exactly?"
"ah yes, resorting to more obvious ad hominem trolling and the truly insane claim that i'm an alt. again, just in case you want to stop trolling and actually address the argument which (you claim) you honestly made:don't worry. those reading along can see you refuse to answer very simple, well elaborated criticisms of your argument, and see you respond with ad hominems and trolling time and again. and again. and again. folks can generally realize exactly why it is that someone is afraid to defend their own argument and why they'll do their best to avoid honest discussion. any time now, if you'd like to stop trolling."
"finn, your over use of the word trolling is getting quite annoying, you have branded everyone that isnt in nc as a troll.interesting thread, always good to see jc putting others in their place, pretty inspiring tbh keep up the great work <3"
"is this some variation of local copy paste spam now?"
"this thread is terrible and i've read digi posts.damn."
"mlyp?"
"mlmp :("
"interesting interpretation."
"i can only assume the \"place\" (and position) is reverse cowgirl inside the space-pods."
"it seems like time for a bump, and if anyone knows of any corps or alliance based in wormhole space i haven't been in touch with, drop me a line."
"winning !+1 intorwebsi dont care that i live in 0.0, only a candidate who is this honest and open can be voted for imho.go windy !"
"no deception is being woven before you and no one is being dishonest and closed with you with regards to their intentions. an artificial champion of your salvation has been created and you have chosen to side with it against a phantom threat. general windypops' call to arms against the nc has been born out of a personal disagreement with goonswarm and test who have spent the last year laughing at him, kalle demos and snot shot on caod. their wild horror stories about the dreaded northern coalition are routinely fictitious as are their nostradamus-like predictions about events which never unfold. these sorts of acts of unabashed lunacy are well documented in the forums archives, and are readily available for viewing. and history repeats itself with a fair number of general windypops csm platforms being outright lies."
"we should have limits on the number of csms allowed from each alliance block, just like there are limits on the number of representatives from each geographic region for real countries.we need more csms like general windypops to help balance the csm council, or least slow down the takeover by a faction of eve that does not represent everyone."
"i agree, in fact i don't think we should vote at all. what ccp needs to do is just go around polling you and your friends to see who should be on the csm. who needs elected representatives when general windypops and lorddanger can give us selected ones. i am an admiral so i figure that makes me just about as good as a lord or a general so i should have a say in these things too. well anyway just my .02 isk !!"
"dear mr. silence;from the outside it looks like you have what it takes to be a csm. however, in your op you state you wish to improve the viability of low sec. do you have any (in game) experience in low sec ? if so, in what capacity?do you also realize that (imo) all the \"improvements\" you list is solely geared towards making low sec into hi sec, carebear paradise. do you foresee any \"improvements\" geared towards the natural inhabitants of low sec, aka pirates? correct me if i'm wrong, but it seems to me you are trying to make pirating even harder then it already is. is this by design?i know, more (carebear) traffic could be considered a boon to pirates, almost in a similar vain as the introduction of hic's has been an unexpected boon to pirates. \"low sec is broken\" is a mere point of view, do you subscribe to that pov ? if the answer is yes, then what are your qualifications to make that determination ?best regards,scheroba"
"good questions. low-sec experience - running anti-pirate combat gangs, hauling industry stuff between high-sec and low sec, running pos's in lowsec as base points to 0.0, mining ... lots of mining and some mission running.pirates in low-sec : mostly i am initially trying to attract more carebears into low sec, but i still want the danger there, but it is just going to be a bit harder for the low-sec pirate, but the riches would be more from more carebears.long term i would like to see a network of low-sec gates only useable by low security status 'pirates', a sort of pirate gate network. i would also like to see a ransom function so that a pirate can ransom the cargo and potentially either get more isk or get more of teh cargo than would generally drop from a killed ship. i do not condone any mechanism that then forces the pirate to 'live-up' to his end of the bargin, but would suggest a counter that records the number of 'ransoms' against a toon vs. the number of destroys so give the ransomee some idea of what sort of faustian bargin he is getting into :).i do not think that low-sec is \"broken\" i just think that currently there is too much risk for the level of reward. by reducing the carebear risk we increase teh reward factor of both sides and by looking at other 'compensations' for the pirates to even out the increased risk to them we should be able to strike a good balance that will be 'palatable' to both sides, neither will love it, but both should gain from the changes, which is my ultimate goal. pirates trade off new gates and better targets for an increased risk of operating in low-sec (i am not talking about a huge increase either, my npc spawn would be like 10/8/6/4% for .4/.3/.2/.1 sort of idea, they do not scramble and they do slighly more damage than gate guns, so you can tank them for a while, but not for ever, combined with gate or station guns the tank time shrinks, but it is not insta-pop like concord).does that answer your question?"
"it answers some of the questions. your low-sec experience seems biased toward carebear, antipirate, which is fine, each to their own. you want to buff carebears, nerf pirates, check. granted, more carebears means more targets, but why make it even harder on pirates and easier on the carebears? imo, you should walk the proverbial mile in the shoes of a pirate, before you become, in my mind, a credible voice.that being said, i (kinda) like the idea of -10 ss gates only, my only concern is how to make it balanced. i've actually had a (rl) discussion about the this subject with teadaze, which also highlighted the over-poweredness of these gates. the ransom thingie is something i'd very much like to see.i thank you for your time answering my questions. though i would like you to walk the previously mentioned mile in the shoes of pirate, before, imo, you make (somewhat blanket) statements like \"make life harder for the pirate\".enjoy the free bump.best regards;scheroba"
"granted most of my low-sec is more carebearish than pirate. while not being a pirate myself, i still agree that it is a valid choice of 'play-style'. i guess what i am trying to say is that in my opinion the major issue with low-sec is that for the level of reward offered, and the level of risk involved it is not a good investment. risk approximately the same as 0.0 for much less reward.i think the rewards offered in low-sec are about right, if we increase the rewards all that will do is attract the 0.0 alliances to setup shop in low-sec to harvest the rewards, then neither the pirates nor the high-sec carebears win.factional warfare is becomming more blob like, which inturn means less opportunities for pirates (technically they could blob up and join the escaltion circle, but for me (and some good friends that are pirates) pirates have always been about small quick raids over large blob warfare, and i would want to encourage that mentality to continue. but to do that you have to encourage more 'easy' targets into low-sec not more large groups.it is not an easy issue to 'solve' in one step. and truthfully i am not supposed to solve it, i can make suggestions to ccp, and if i get onto the csm i can give feedback on their suggested fixes, but i do not solve it. i have some ideas that i will suggest ccp investigates.but as i stated before i am not out to ruin the low-sec experience for pirates, and would not support any solution that did, i would just like a bit more balance, but in a way that will bring greater opportunity for the pirates (though they might have to work a bit harder to fully realise them).as for the gate network thing, i can also see ways to 'exploit' the system, but i am sure that there will be some other ways to counter most of the negative effects of this.again, these are ideas of mine, they are not set in stone, the only thing that is set in stone is i want ccp to look at low-sec and how they can increase use levels of the systems.thanks for listening."
"i pleid for a longer campaign period between the day that the list of candidates is being published until the day that voting will start and shorten the time that you are able to cast your votes.also an overall note:the whole period of (intense) campaigning is now a whole month.i say that's too long, we have a real life, family, kids."
"when you map out the trends of csm 5 and those visible of csm 6 sofar, and establish a few projections, there's a fair chance that the running up time next term will be up to 2 times that length. independant of participation within csm topic environments, and community environments.personally it would be wonderful to see some insight in referral tracking. independant media, blogosphere, jita park, comunity forums (not the general eve forums), social media, etc. it would also be interesting to see how heavy the in game viral activity is (evemail based) for keywords and sent by candidates + alts.same for votes per day per candidate, would be damn interesting, especially in light of politisation of the concept, but also block vote trends and matching events to timelines of trends.also:please visit your user settings to re-enable images.read the blog and vote!please visit your user settings to re-enable images.read the blog and vote!"
"yo, santorine checking in... vote for prom. i'm serious. unlike a lot of the other candidates who spend their time spying on each other, metagaming, and calling each other the n-word in local, prometheus is the real deal. he's a true soloist. he understands the game deeply. most importantly, he understands what things in eve need to change and what things should not be changed. he's the voice that small-gang and pvp-focused players need on the csm. don't delay. vote prom today. s.santorineblack legionmath department"
"good luck!"
"impressed bump for a hardworking independent with the experience of 4 csm terms. exactly what the doctor ordered amid all the partisan/block vote stuff."
"this time more than ever...thanks for the votes :-)"
"a bump for a friend, an alliance mate and an excellent player ! i've had the chance to have long talks with meissa about eve, and i've got to say i'm impressed by his excellent view of all the aspects of the game in their globality. i trust him to make the right choices for the game and the universe we all enjoy."
"+1 meissa"
"guys, guys, ass spergers is a very serious illness. why do you make fun of these people when they are clearly suffering?"
"well id vote for ya except im still waiting for goon members threats to come true. i waited 17 months in iraq for them to fly over and wup my but. i had to go home and they still can not find an airport. other than that if finn supports you that means you really are an idiot. but the fact your making old csm 5 members foam at the mouth is just to good to pass up. giving you my 6 votes."
"we could've gotten our guy in iraq to do this for you but he rented a chevy cobalt after going awol and then made the inside of it really dirty."
"you're. too. wouldn't want you to look like an idiot, eh?"
"haha like the chevy deal... no finn you can look like an idiot all by yourself. what got bored with disagreeing in the mirror? talking to your self is bad or at least thats what the va says hahaha."
"the word \"idiot\" is not a proper noun. you do not capitalize it. it'd just be nice if you could write on an eighth grade level if you're going to be tossing around insults about someone's intellect, is all. oh, and laughing at your own comments makes you look slightly unhinged."
"makes you look slightly unhinged.ah, if only mastery of the english language equated to votes."
"very good, you caught a typo. speaking of unhinged, is there any possibility for a sequel?"
"i'm not entirely sure what's going on here but i'll happily accept +6 votes!"
"ok, i'll admi to sperging a little earlier. i do generally stand by my statements, but i could have caged them better. my excuse, however, is that i really dont like you (in space.) it's nothing personal, just the way you can so easily spout off some of the campiest rhetoric i have seen since the last (insert extreme irl political group here) rally i watched where they slandered (insert irl political group here), and get away with it.it's bad dinner theater at best.so, anyways sorry for sperging but good lord your campaign is depressingly succesful for the primitive level of slick that's in it.question though. you said before you are highy arrogant, which is expected for any space royalty. however, do you feel that arrogance will be a hindrance to a collaborative group setting? followup question. what's the difference between ego and arrogance?second followup. now that goons are napfest nc candy pants troopers, how in gods name can you undock with any sense of pride? moreover, how could anyone respect a leader (if emeritus) of a group who napped nc and yet claims to be anything other than a rainbow bright auxilliary, especially when they claim that they are hardcore. i mean seriously, i'm 1/2 convinced your account got hacked by i'm down"
"goons are hardcore elite space pvpers and you're right our pride and honour have been tarnished since joining with the napfest nc blobpact. i have been talking to all the other hardcore elite pvpers in goonswarm and we are all fed up with space royalty themittani and his cowardly blob tactics that bring shame upon us all."
"actually, what's depressing is that there are people such as yourself who think they understand what they see in this campaign at the first level, and point their fingers saying 'aha, i see through you!' when they themselves are the dupes, not comprehending that there are layers beyond their ~vaunted insights~ i run one of the most effective coalitions in the game. not because i beat my chest and say 'arr rarr rarr i am a space mitten' but because i'm a chill guy and easy to get along with. unless you're one of my enemies, in which case i'm a sociopath. who gives a ****we've never cared about space honor or elite pvp, in fact we're terrible at eve online, a bad game - since we're mostly newbies in rifters. newbies in rifters who hate e-honor. 'elite pvp' snobs are the natural enemy of goonswarm and always have been; entities like bob or tri make us curl our lips into a sneer instinctively. those are the people who say that newbies have no place in 0.0; they say we should 'know our place'. their anger and rage as their old-guard game was upended by us was incredibly satisfying.dunno where you get the where is your space pride nc nc nc crap, perhaps you've been looking at a goonswarm in an alternate universe that did not revolve around buttes and dongues"
"errybody loves goonswarm buttes, dongues, and rifters. except those who stand in the way of the jihad."
"maybe you're right. it's just that your platform is composed solely of \"i will make it all better\" with the loose-change music playing in the background. i don't understand what you're even running on other than that. let me repost my original statement with regards to that:i realize that this is a somewhat unfair argument, but i hope you can appreciate that space leadership means **** in the real world.was worth a shot. maybe next time. but it has a lot to do with who can be a collaborative leader and who can be a dictator.we've never cared about space honor or elite pvp, in fact we're terrible at eve online, a bad game - since we're mostly newbies in rifters. newbies in rifters who hate e-honor. 'elite pvp' snobs are the natural enemy of goonswarm and always have been; entities like bob or tri make us curl our lips into a sneer instinctively. those are the people who say that newbies have no place in 0.0; they say we should 'know our place'. their anger and rage as their old-guard game was upended by us was incredibly satisfying.dunno where you get the where is your space pride nc nc nc crap, perhaps you've been looking at a goonswarm in an alternate universe that did not revolve around buttes and donguesto be fair this is more a troll than anything, but napping nc isn't a problem because it shows how you are bad at pvp, napping nc is a problem because it shows that you are part of the problem. the nc naptrain is a big part of what is wrong with null, and y'all just bought into it like everyone else who is either too weak or lacks the ambition to carve something out for yourselves.but, like i said, more of a troll.-------------------serious question: what do you think of the stakeholder status?"
"i've been passively mining in eve for 3 years now between work and school and am admittedly still a total noob to 95% of eve content, especially lowsec and nullsec...and though the mittani's platform and attitude alone would have me vote for him (even though i have no clue what's at stake)......i still fail to see why this huge game company would care whether the csm is united or not, whether anyone on this \"pet\" group is a \"bastard\" or is a \"lawyer irl\" or not....frankly, i don't see why any of this matters after pretty much everyone involved has already expressed that the csm has no real power.semper fi4th tanks 4th mardiv, miami, fl"
"bump :)"
"you are a pew pew pilot???sound like a angry carebear to me."
"sorry for the subtlety. but nobody knows where this data dump came from. i'm personally confident that it's on the level. but as a business, ccp has to proceed cautiously and investigate these names. if you had a list of 2000 people who bought isk and you were the type of person to try to blackmail the seller (which is what happened), wouldn't you be tempted to add a half-dozen or a dozen enemies to it right before you made it public?fair enough. not all blogs are for everyone.also fair enough. and it turns out that two out of the four people involved in the lost in eve debates chose me as a candidate that they either will or probably will support."
"got my vote"
"i'm an avid reader of your blog. very knowledgeable and informative. you have my vote."
"consider yourself endorsed."
"congratulations, you know that eve's ui is horrible. surely you are the first csm candidate to ever mention this to ccp. that must make you the al gore of eve ui improvements. of course, the ui is crap. of course, one way to improve the ui would be to give players the tools to come up those improvements on their own. is there anyone with any sense who has ever said otherwise? no one is saying that you don't support the most obvious ways to improve the eve online experience. we're saying that your unique ideas are so abominably bad that ccp's development team would have to be hopped up on a gallon of rotten shark liquor to give any of them credence. (hint: if none of your ideas are taken seriously, you are a waste of an international plane ticket.)a candidate is judged by the views which distinguish them from everyone else, not the consensus opinions virtually every pilot holds. your ideas - your actual, conceived-by-trebor, unique ideas - are godawful. no, you can't claim credit for 'fix the ui' as a unique idea. well, i guess you can try.you and mittens also agree that the sky is often blue, that water is wet and that trees are usually made of wood (he does, anyway; i asked). if you do make it onto the csm (heaven forbid) and meet in the flesh, there's probably no end to the things that the two of you will find you in common. do you have two arms, two legs and a head? hey, so does mittens! do you consume organic matter to stay alive? mittens does that, too!so yes, let's amend our official statement in re: your candidacy.* trebor daehdoow is an idiot whose ideas regarding the direction that eve online should take are dangerous and ludicrous.* he personally came up with the idea that eve's ui is bad (just kidding, mister vice president).also, you call it a \"smear campaign\" (because it's you). we call it educating the electorate."
"so basically you're just trying to say that since the idea isn't original it doesn't count.pray tell what :awesome: ideas can mr. mittens claim to be his own then? if it's gonna be ranting and raving and being an ass i got bad news for you."
"in the spirit of educating the electorate (and so that i don't appear to be making unfounded assertions), let's review some of trebor's terrible, terrible ideas:\"pinball\" style doomsdays, which would be the fourth change to doomsdays and which was shamelessly stolen from the empyrean age trailer). oh, and it would do nothing to mitigate titan proliferation.support for \"dominion-style\" sov changes that have produced the opposite of their intended effect: enlarging and entrenching nullsec power blocs instead of shrinking them and making it easier to invade bloated ones.cumulative local chat delays, making it nearly impossible to say more than a few things in local before the delay becomes unbearable. i guess this is supposed to fix local spam, which is a massive concern, as local spam is killing eve.some wacky scheme to encrypt packets travelling between the server and client. i don't even know what that's supposed to fix, but is sure could ruin a lot of things.reduce fleet sizes by making the client behave even worse than it already does in large fleet fights. or maybe it would behave better, at the cost of making it impossible to actually fight. who knows. it'll never happen, so who cares?don't ban bots: just let people in empire shoot them. fun fact: he fails to realize that the problem is detection, not enforcement. at least he'll get iskbank.com's vote.i could go on (seriously, just look for his posts on eve-search; he's a crazyposting machine), but do i really need to?"
"no, i'm saying that seeking validation for his campaign by saying \"oh, mittani and i agree on this one thing; ergo, i should be taken seriously\" is ridiculous. as for mittens ... i'd refer you to his campaign thread, but something tells me it would be like throwing a wicker basket into a well. you'd get wet, but you wouldn't retain much."
"i'm not voting for helen to begin with, and i'd like to hear his explanation as to why he didn't do more to stop this. as for vuk and elvenlord, lets ignore the fact they didn't speak out against it since, as you said, they weren't there. for the rest, it doesn't really matter to me where they came from as my point was that anyone who thinks removing jump bridges is a good idea is pretty clueless about how nullsec works and isn't getting my support."
"i entirely agree that the mittani says that he wants these issues addressed. but he has produced no evidence that he actually does want them addressed. actions speak louder than words, and since he has no track record on the csm, until he is actually elected, no one can know what he really intends.furthermore, it should be observed that, from a meta-game standpoint, a nerf that hurts you is fine, as long as it wounds your opponents more deeply. so the argument that \"i must be honest because i want to nerf this, and it would hurt my mates\" is disingenuous.the devil, as always, is in the details.i'll give you the most probable explanation. it is because he, like everyone else in the room, understood that what was going on was a very high-level discussion aimed at helping ccp define the parameter space of potential changes. the question wasn't \"should bridges be killed (in isolation)?\", but rather \"is killing bridges totally out of bounds (as part of a package of changes that makes sense)?\"in reality, jump bridges are unlikely to get anything more than a gentle nerf, as part of a package of changes. but i personally think it's important for the gd staff to consider outrageous ideas from time to time. sure, most of the time, those trips into the outer darkness will come to nothing, but occasionally they'll find a nugget of gold.finally, i would like to point out that i have consistently advocated that the devs subject their plans for big changes like a nullsec revamp to public tiger-teaming by player experts -- while they are still just on paper. no matter how knowledgable the 15 members of the csm are, on any particular issue, there are 150 players out there who know more. ccp should use that resource -- it's just good business -- instead of hiding behind their \"players don't do game design\" mantra. even if players don't do game design, \"no game design survives contact with the players\", so better for that to happen as early as possible.the csm, with its unique position straddling two worlds (connected to the players, and under nda to ccp), is in a perfect position to organize and moderate such discussions, and produce a position document that will be useful to the devs. sort of a summit report in reverse, if you will."
"you don't think empyrean age style dd would be cool? boring goons are boring.and he never claimed the change would mitigate titan proliferation, and the use of the words 'giggles', 'comedy value' and a note that it was a mischievous suggestion should indicate that you are looking too hard for dirt.your comment makes no sense in relation to his comment, and if anything his comment is closer to what dominion was _supposed_ to be, not what it became. as such we have no idea if the planned dominion changes would have enabled smaller independent alliances entry to 0.0.local spam is a gs weapon of choice, so of course you'll find the suggestion stupid.don't worry, you don't need to know that stuff yet still manage to live a perfectly happy life.preloading data, encryption and topics such as those aren't easy to understand for lay people. if you want an example of the use of preloaded data in the client, just check out that thing that comes up on the screen when you enter your password. that's preloaded data.also, you could read up on wikipedia about encryption, one-time pad encryption should give a nice introduction to why it wouldn't necessarily ruin everything. (of course they wouldn't use one-time pads since they need to be the same size for theoretically unbeatable encryption, and there would need to be additional measures in place to make it difficult to guess the content type by size and timing but those are implementation details)i believe it was t'amber (or someone) who said he also had wacky ideas like that until ccp gave the csm delegates a lecture of what the real problems with fleet lag were.nor would ireland's hunger crisis a few centuries be solved if the nobility started eating babies of poor families, which was the last time someone made a 'modest proposal'.trebor even said in the post it isn't 'the way to deal with lag', but rather a starting point for discussion.trebor was talking about punishment for botting, not detection of botting, a subtle but important distinction that is easy to miss when you're running a mud slinging campaign rather than trying to foster productive discussion."
"at what point in time have you come up with the belief that csm delegates are personally responsible for raising and passing every proposal mentioned since the inception of the council?we, the players, come up with the suggestions to be raised with ccp and while any member of the csm is also considered a player, their ideas are raised in the same fashion as you or i would do. to liken an idea to a candidate's potential is ridiculous at best. would you also argue that \"silly ideas\" have no place in the brainstorming process? would you disagree that all ideas, no matter how \"stupid\", contribute to other thoughts or \"aha\" moments for others?surely you, devilish ledoux, have become the personal authority of all human beings on what is considered \"acceptable thought\" and you, personally, are the sole author and editor-in-chief as to what constitutes \"proper ideas\". you may disagree until the sun collapses to a white dwarf about a particular idea or thought and that is your freely-entitled opinion but you cannot go about dismissing the ideas of others because you, the sole authority of thought, believe the content is \"foolish\".even mittens isn't that arrogant, and he's pretty high up there."
"the original aoe doomsday was cool, that didn't stop it being a terrible idea.if its a good idea you should be able to defend it on it's own merits rather than attacking it's detractors.congratulations, you successfully defended the 'how' from all the zero people who doubted it. now have a go at the 'why'.ideas which are presented as a fix for one thing which only hold merit because they also fix another issue the candidate happens to support (in this case 'blob' warfare) are dangerous. if you can't defend an idea for something as fundemental as fixing lag without bringing party politics into play then that idea is a bad idea."
"doesn't that rather discredit the rest of the meticulously-crafted froth you've posted on this thread devilish? that you are relying on a oneline kneejerk - what is that even? \"personal attack\", \"paintive moan\", \"naming fetish\" (not sure) to defend yourself from my allegation that one of your candidates comes from a culture of abusing volunteer status for character advancement and probably can't be trusted not to seek personal (or alliance) advantage through the csm medium is rather sad.yes devilish ledoux, i am jade constantine. a player of this game with a long record of never cheating, exploiting, breaking ndas, or otherwise bringing the game into disrepute. a player who managed previously to stand for open election and win outright against the goon block vote and had mostly positive interactions with all concerned in iceland despite advocating a shake up of 0.0 mechanics that was vigorously opposed by the goon-leadership (because it would make it more difficult for them to hold large areas of space).i am seeing similar echoes in this new election, and similar issues from your friends devilish. there is something broken in 0.0 we all know this. somehow the fun has gone for a lot of people. its become too mechanical, too stactic, too boring. but its simple human nature that those who are benefiting most from the boredom and stasis will want to maintain the status-quo and hence the nc/goon electorial strategy to fill the csm with reactionary dupes on a brief to assure ccp than nothing should change (again).now you can certainly respond with the plaintive cry \"but its jade constantine\" (again). but if you do then don't feel wounded to the quick that other responders here will read your words as \"just another mitani alt\" - after all, live by the meme die by the meme."
"the current single-target deathray is also cool, but that doesn't stop it from being a better idea than previous aoe version.so, have we established now that you can't judge an idea based on calling it 'cool' or 'ping-pong'? also, the post was made in response to the devblog detailing the dd change, so you can't make the argument that it would be the 'fourth change' as the third change wasn't even on tranquility.that's just stupid, but it's the kind of stupid you get when alas you go digging for dirt and ignoring context.no, i shouldn't.why? cause we're dealing with completely different and incompatible views of what spam is, and that leads inevitably to what i wrote above.i can argue why the solution he posted would be worth considering, what corner cases we would need to take care off, what effect it might have... however all that would be like ****ing in the wind when it comes to convincing your side, as we have different goals. if you feel this is wrong, and you really _do_ want a system that heavily (and fairly) suppresses local chat during large fleet engagements, i'll be willing to oblige you. (or trebor might)ahh, so it would not 'ruin a lot of things' as previously claimed?good, seems the point got across then.on the why side; i admit this suggestion isn't really applicable to e.g. warping to a heavily populated grid... yet. not because it wouldn't cut down on the load time by a significant amount of seconds for many people, but rather because it isn't the right optimization at this moment, imho.what they should, and likely have, considered is to put a grid caching server between the player and the sol node, which would transfer the grid (and system) state to the client. this would offload the work needed to populate the client's grid away from the sol node, which causes the majority of the lag in large fleet engagements due to being limited to a single thread.after that is done, encrypted packets would be easy to add to deal with network lag. (the 'why' in your question)you cannot have any serious discussion regarding fixing lag in general without also including the issue of too many pilots gathering on a single grid. that is a fundamental aspect of this issue, one you cannot ignore.it's kinda like trying to solve the budget shortfall by only dealing with discretionary spending, and something that isn't party politics. it's reality."
"i never made that claim. i merely pointed out the irony that the mittani made a big deal out of a moddable ui, just as i did last year. and if you bother to read the manifesto and thread, you will note i carefully addressed most of the big concerns about addon exploitability.i understand that you don't like some of my ideas, and have no problems with that. but at least i have ideas, and i have the courage to put them out there where people can criticize them, and then modify or even abandon them after due reflection.oh, and as for that laundry list of my alleged crimes against mentality, andrea griffin and rakshasa taisab have done an excellent job of ripping it to shreds.moving to claims that i'm an idiot, anyone bothering to check my wikipedia page will find that i have a 30-year track record of being the exact opposite. if the page seems vandalized, wait a few minutes; the long-suffering wikipedia staff will fix it. and i'd like to thank the goons, for by trying to get it deleted, they've not only ensured it'll stay around for a long time, but have also gotten some people involved in improving and expanding it.so while i will take any coherently and politely expressed objections you might have to any of my current positions very seriously indeed, you will forgive me if my response (and that of those who know me) to claims that i am an idiot is one of mild amusement."
"this is a very cool picture.please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"you seem to have confused me for devilish ledoux, i in no way support leaving something broken just because it has changed enough already. but a chained doomsday is terrible for the same reason an aoe doomsday is terrible, in fact the whole concept behind titans is terrible but thats not really something i see ccp changing at this point.if you honestly believe that any idea hated by someone you dislike needs no other merit than that then sorry, you're fundamentally broken as a human being. if you're willing to change your mind on that issue then i'll ask how you feel people using local during a fleet fight is detrimental to your gameplay to the extent that it needs changing. right now all i'm hearing is 'but i don't like it make it stop' and minimizing your chat window is a solution to that problem without impacting anyone elses gameplay.again, i am not devilish ledoux.i'm slightly out of date on my dev blogs but its stupid to suggest technical implementation solutions to problems you don't even know exist. if your grid caching server solves lag on the server side, why do you need client side caching and all the security and concurrency headaches it brings? i've never seen eve come even close to maxing my internet connection.this is a technical fix for a human problem, you're advocating making the game broken by design for large fights rather than encouraging people to form small fights. the danger comes from the hidden agenda of breaking up 'blobs' (which i only ever hear from people not involved in them) clouding the issue of lag. if you're willing to accept such a broken 'fix' for lag because it also furthers your anti-blob message then that is a \"bad thing\"."
"i did notice you're not that other goon, however you cannot argue _for_ his position and then cop out later with the 'i didn't say that, he did' card.however i am willing to concede that devilish ledoux made a stupid argument there and agree not to hold it against you.but to say chained and aoe dd is terrible for the same reasons ignores what really makes aoe terrible; damage will be done to all ships on grid. it scales to infinity, while chained and single-target are finite. and to point out that titans are terrible in general is kinda off-topic, as criticism that goes beyond the merits of the dd suggestion relative to aoe and single-target dd in demanding titan-concept reevaluation misses the distinction of incremental and systematic improvements.one of the major reasons for political strife is that the opposing sides do not realize the other side holds fundamentally different view on the world, and thus imagine those against their views are idiots who can't make even the simplest of reasoning.my point was that by assuming trebor's suggestion was idiocy, you and that other guy are making such a fallacy. this does not preclude a discussion on the actual issue causing the disagreement, but it does mean calling the proposal for idiocy is in itself idiocy.i didn't say grid caching solves server side lag, i said the sol node being single-threaded causes the lag...if trebor had asked in corp chat about this before posting, i would have told him why his solution probably isn't the right one and that the above suggestion would likely be better. the 'how' does not solve the 'why', and trebor has acknowledged that after having heard more details from ccp.what i'm arguing here however is that the 'how' and the 'why' weren't as idiotic and unsafe as was claimed, and it is the details of the issues not allowing for it not the suggestions themselves being unworkable.the above misrepresents what i wrote to such a degree that it isn't possible to make a reply that would put the discussion back on track, except to say; take a deep breath, relax, then imagine yourself as being me writing these past few posts as you read them."
"pardon me for interrupting this wonderful discussion, but i just wanted to mention that team bff has published a nice little devblog about some potholes that they have filled."
"theres a reason i just quoted your post initially rather than his as well. a lot of suggestions come from both ccp and the general playerbase which are cool ideas but would totally ruin the game, the original titan doomsday is one of those. as i see it the csm partially exists to tell both partys when their \"cool\" idea is bad.if the idea of a ship that does fatal (or almost fatal) damage to any (or multiple) ships on grid is broken, as i strongly believe it is, then no incremental improvements are going to fix that. for what its worth i really liked the initial announcement of titans when they were alliance level mobile logistics bases but you're right, this is far too off topic for this thread.try me. i've been in goonfleet since before it was a corp, i was a director for 3 years. i've joined a fofo chain perhaps twice, i've had conversations with friends both allied and hostile in local before, during and after fleet engagements more times than that. i'd be interested to hear why the latter should be taken away from people because of the former.my intention was to clarify my post rather than misrepresent yours. if you got the wrong impression i'm sorry, i've went back and read my original comment and it wasn't very clear.ok, but at this point this is your idea, not trebor's. the only real link it has to the original proposal is that it attempts to fix lag. are you running for csm? can i vote for you? sure the discussion might have started from trebor's post but thats not really grounds for a csm position, anyone can throw ideas at the wall in the speakers corner."
"championed the removal of learning skills?responsible for the player polling system?spork awards?how can you go wrong with that track record? :dyou got my vote, for whatever it may be worth.good luck in the polls! :)"
"i completely agree with you on that latter point, but i do not believe that this is the case here.any discussion of long-term fixes to lag have to address some fundamental design constraints that are inherent in the eve architecture.the most obvious of these are:* the total amount of cpu horsepower available to process combat activities in a single system is limited (to the resources of a single core, at present).* no matter how good a job team gridlock does of making individual combat actions more efficient, there will always be a maximum number of actions that can be processed (and thus pilots supported) before the node starts lagging.* clever fixes, such as running individual grids on their own cores, are both difficult and only delay the problem.* the current game mechanics provide a positive incentive to blob -- more ships is almost always better. thus, \"fleet sizes expand to fit the lag available\".therefore, it follows that one possible long-term solution to lag is changes to the game-mechanics that provide positive incentives for combat commanders to divide their forces into smaller groups with independent objectives. in other words, so that 2 fleets of 250 -- hopefully doing things on different nodes -- are more useful than one fleet of 500. two basic ways to do this are (a) adjust the fleet-size/fleet-power curve so that after a certain point, adding extra ships doesn't help you much, and/or (b) tweaking sov-warfare so that it requires the simultaneous achievement of multiple objectives.i merely described one possible way to do (a), as an illustration of the design challenge, and to stimulate discussion. i made no claims that it was the only way, or the best way.i encourage you to challenge the assumptions i have made above, and my conclusions. but please don't conflate being \"anti-blob\" with being \"anti-big-battle\"; it is entirely possible to be anti-blob while at the same time being pro-big-battle.from a player perspective, the real problem with a lot of big nullsec battles is that they aren't so much 500v500 fights as 1v1; the two fleet commanders square off, and most of the other players target primaries, press f1, and wait to get alpha'd. yes, this is a bit of an oversimplification, but i think you get my point.if you agree with that assessment, then re-read my manifesto from last year, and note how the \"god's eye view\" limitations i proposed would greatly increase the ability of individual players to take bold actions that might the outcome of a battle. i believe this to be a desirable goal.whatever your opinion of the idea itself, i do not believe you can reasonably argue that it was not thoughtfully and honestly presented.ps: amusingly enough, one of the changes that team gridlock has implemented -- serializing updates -- makes it more difficult to implement fog-of-war visibility limitations."
"the high-level goal of breaking up large fights isn't the point of any of this, because people's concerns about your candidacy isn't your ability to set high-level goals.csm members must to serve as a firewall against bad ideas getting into the game in addition to high-level goal setting. that means that csm members need to be able to look at a proposed idea with a critical eye, think about all of its implications and side effects, and then react accordingly. if csm members can't do that, we end up game-breaking things like the supercap imbalance, the tech imbalance, the mind-numbing sov grind, worthless faction warfare, and lots of other things.your inability to vet even your own ideas much less other people's is the problem. trying to distract people from that by derailing this into a conversation about high-level goals doesn't change that."
"the trouble with any artificial limit on the number of players in a fight is it inflates the value of skillpoints by a huge amount. if i can only put 100 people on a grid before they start to disappear then why should i bring the guy in the rifter at all when i could just take another maelstrom pilot, why bring the t1 maelstrom pilot when i could bring a t2 pilot? its arguable that this is currently the case with supercaps but i don't see any candidate arguing to keep that. and what if i bring the rifter pilots anyway but they end up on grid with the tengus and get slaughtered. what about ships that rely on range and transversal to survive such as ecm and logistics (which incidentally operate outside the 1v1 of fleet commanders most of the time)?bringing fewer players than the artificial limit doesn't really work either. if the limit is 100 and i bring 50 and my enemy drops 100 on me i'm still outnumbered its just now my fleet is split down arbitrary and constantly changing borders.most mmo players are fairly passive, goonfleet made a big deal of the directors taking eve seriously so the members don't have to and this extends to fleet commanding. people don't like responsibility and very few people handle having it suddenly thrust on them. its why dps classes are far more popular than tanks or healers in classic mmos like wow. expecting them to start leading a fleet when they get split by artificial grid restrictions is asking too much 99% of the time.by slapping \"fog of war\" on large fleet battles you're punishing people for bringing large numbers. instead you should be providing motivation for them to be more than one place at once. basic carrot vs. stick stuff"
"bump for a good candidate."
"yea.. vote for draco!!"
"draco draco draco draco"
"glad we could. we think you'd make a great member of the csm."
"finnagainwe have all seen you falling all over yourself for mittani on these forums. but who are these other \"staffers\" you mention?"
"thank you for the free bump, please keep up the support."
"just got the most amazing offer of a large pirate alliance voting block for only 600 million isk! wow! i want you guys to know you should go ahead and vote for me and i am sure i will get your isks after i win....... ;-)seriously, nice try, i love eve for just this very thing!of course in the mean time, carebears send a message with your vote!issler dainzethe voice of reason csm candidate"
"after reading/skimming through your manifesto, it dawns on me your intentions is to eradicate piracy from the game. or turn low sec into some sort of hi-sec light version.you speak of \"having pirates work for their kills/prey\", which makes me wonder if you even grasp what piracy entails. from your manifesto (for lack of a better description): yet you want ccp to do the hard work for you by getting low sec concord implemented. in other words, remove the risk from low sec. \"perma camps\" (in low sec) are easily avoided or bypassed. better still, why don't you get those teeth and claws into action and, i don't know, bust that perma camp ?anyways, enjoy the free bump.best regards;scheroba"
"i most definitely do not want to eliminate piracy, it is essential to the game, what i do want is to make low sec s place that provides more rewards to the types of players that often are the very targets pirates seek and to get the combat to move from gate camps to roving gangs in the system.the risk/reward balance is very broken in low sec.issler dainzethe voice of reason csm candidate"
"+2 issler"
"i think he is the most interesting candidate for this job...i vote him...and i hope that something finaly will change...expecially the dying mining, the part of the game that i love more than others, and its oppressed..."
"when i first started we'd all mine crokite and it was good money. mining itself has always been boring but you get a couple friends on ts all heavily drunk and mining can become kinda fun in a way. i'm not going to say mining is a great option for most but it is a problem that one of the main pve experiences has been ruined by mission loot refuse and drone region mineral supply. there has to be a point in the end even if you hate mining (then support mining overhaul because you love hunting miners). if you can safely refine your way to a healthy mineral economy then mining has no point. behold, my first mining ship:"
"did you read my comments on evenews24? check my reply at bottom as well as my initial response for my official campaign view. thanks for the votes guys, i need all i can get. did you see helicity said i was getting her vote hmmmm ? that and the recent press from around the web should help out immensely. darius iii: just because my official campaign video for csm features a monkey raping a goat-it doesn't mean i dont take my eve seriously.the revelation and scope of the leak in addition to the way it has been covered may well prove a pivotal milestone in changing ccps approach to cheating, botting and rmt. the scope and intensity of the leak and what the data suggest is shocking. this is a major embarassment to both ccp and of course iskbank.com and will provide intense backlash from honest players. *article continues below.article"
"wrong venue or not, i want one too"
"aura for android is excellent and with the new api might even see eve mail support in the future"
"thank you for your vote, mr snow ! about the rp benefits of a more realist universe, it's not so much that i disregard them, but i know for a fact that most of these things will not be accepted by ccp for the moment. also, i have a strong feeling that before adding such changes, much simpler yet critical changes could go great good.for example, as far as microtransactions go, one things that was recently discussed was the possibility of switching bloodline / race for a plex. this is an idea i fully support, for a lot of the roleplayers i know picked up the wrong race / bloodline when creating their character, due to a newcomer's view on the background, and couldn't trash their character when they understood their mistake, as the sp loss would be too much to bear. i myself biomassed my first iteration of gehen, made before understanding that he had to be amarr.in that same vein, but requiring more work, would be the implementation of the missing bloodlines. i'm afraid ccp might scream at the \"wait so we must do new 3d characters templates ?\" part, thus.i very much agree that devil is in the details, but i precisely think that some smaller and easier to fix systems could use some detail work before taking on something as big as the physics engine."
"hmm, you did quite good for me in the vote match thing, better than the other guy i might vote for. and the other guy is kinda quiet on his \"important to him\" roleplay subject.if you get elected, i will fill you in on my gripes in relation to rp."
"i was asked today about my pvp experience and what my stats was... pretty average as shown in the following link:butch leupold killboardkeep on voting! :) we are almost there!"
"i think the most important issue determining whether you will be elected this campaign is: \"how many technetium moons do you own?\""
"if that is your sole determining factor, then you will not be voting for me. hope you find a candidate that best meets your requirements."
"38 stark rayner won 100m isk chribba dice"
"smallfry compared to the 500 or so billion he scammed, i can't believe people are actually voting for someone that glorifys ripping others off.. sheesh"
"why does everyone have such an issue with scammers, surely it's the people that get scammed that are the idiots?"
"sweet - cheers!scamming's an important part of eve, i wouldn't want a csm member who didn't understand that."
"this draw thing is a really good idea! thumbs up!"
"seconded, just like in the real world!"
"thirded, whats the point of bringing someone to the csm who doesn't seem to understand what many people find so great about the game!"
"from that thread:i lol'd."
"even funnier in light of..."
"a vote for me is a vote for improved balancing and a vote for sanity! white tree for csm!"
"if i weren't at the pub right now i'd be voting for you."
"all i can say is lawl @ barqs and old atlas crew."
"yeah, aka kicked for being too gay for them, bunch of homophobes."
"hey dont have a go at me, i want you to be in the csm :p"
"in real life, countries limit the number of representatives elected by geographic region.can the majority of the csm can be taken over by the nc/goon block?simply by putting up a huge number of candidates on the voting match page from the same alliance block, with each nc/goon candidate voicing different positions for each issue, the odds of a typical eve player \"finding\" a goon match is too high. will these nc/goons actually stick true to their issue positions, or will they bow to the real nc/goon leaders and comply with the wishes of their alliance after they win election"
"in real life, if more people live in one area, they deserve a larger representation.now, what the nc does have going for them is that most nullsec players have 5+ accounts they are voting with, where as the awesome mission gameplayers might have one, maybe two.if you don't like it, subscribe for more accounts."
"heh, this leads to one-party system ...who wants nc/goon to establish a one-party communist csm?"
"this can easily be exploited, you can just do what most of them do (notice two shots who foolishly did this too late hahaha) leave the powerblock, create a corp of their own with something like \"vote 4 me\".i should have really ran for csm this year, looked like alot of fun :d i probably wouldnt have got in (unless voting for self-counted).oh well we will still have this special momentremember guys, a vote for nc is a vote for buffing supercaps, buffing number warfare and nerfing pvp."
"goonswarm is china!white tree is kim-jong!we will all burn under one flag!please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"ask my guys getting paid 150% reimbursement for their pvp losses just how bad space communism is."
"actually nc is north koreakim jong lau = kim jong il = vuk lau, hmm?goonswarm is ermm, name a country that has done absolutely nothing on its own and to save itself from dying a third time took in alot of tcf refugees, i cant think of any myself tbh.mittani is sarah palinthe rest are just numbers or bots"
"an i am switzerland, famed for my neutral impartiality."
"tinfoil in japan then..."
"there's a difference between being surrounded by ******s and giving birth to them."
"that banner owns owns owns"
"bloc."
"guys guys my disability defines me i'm special because of my disabilityoh god stop focusing on my disability unless you're being nicewe've got avalloc in our alliance. he can't walk, is deaf, and has palsy. we poke fun at him constantly and he's fine with it. he can't walk, and he has more of a spine than you."
"alright turn down the flames and arguments over that which is not important. what is important is the candidates stance on a number of issues, insights and qualifications. don't vote out of sympathy or hate, vote for what you feel is going to make eve a better game for people, all people, to play."
"you're referring to the goons in general here, i presume? i'm glad to hear it as it's certainly a step up in the world."
"so what's good for the goons is good for everyone else, right?"
"with supporters like bomberlocks, who needs detractors?"
"actually he shows he does have a brain and hearth that he uses..."
"removed responses not related to the discussion of candidacy."
"awareness that longwinded speeches annoy people -> awareness of feelings of others and the effects of their actions and behaviors -> social and emotional reciprocityselfdiagnosed 'sperger detected.but more relevantly; that you claim to be involved in second life and a modder has absolutely no bearing on csm. csm has an extremely bad track record for pitching ideas to ccp, and not for lack of trying, but rather because ccp doesn't want to hear it. from ccp's perspective, csm is a sounding board, a committee to review the things ccp puts before them and give it the smell test. further, your concerns about empire piracy and wanting for new ships indicates that you have at best a flimsy grasp of the problems with currently affect the stability of the environment and the health of the game community.it is more important that a candidate have experience with the breadth of the game, and the willingness to say no to ccp, then that they have any prior knowledge of game modification at all.csm has more in common with jury duty then video game modding."
"bump"
"my only hang up with the game is the time it takes to learn skills and the only problem i have with it is the 15+ day time it takes. 7 to 9 maybe but it kills the game and it seems to put you at a stand still. so my question on this is where do all of you stand on that topic or do you not mind the 15+ days it takes for one skill. please honest answers i would just like to know.....i know ur not going to be able to change the game completely. and thank you"
"call me when you have to train gallente titan to 5."
"there you go it takes forever.....for some of these skills which slows game play. some people don't like sitting around for a month for 2 skills or less in some peoples cases."
"the solution is to earn enough isk to purchase a character with the skills already trained. otherwise select a skill and sit back and wait like everyone else."
"for most t1 items or ships you can fly or use them within 2-3 weeks. t2 is considered \"specialised\" and can take anywhere from a few days to a few weeks to use. most subcap ships can be stepped into in under a month.capital ships are a grind unto themselves, requiring 4 months to just sit in. my point? you can certainly play and do most anything you want with a few weeks of training basic skills. most skillsets work across hulls (shieldtanking, armortanking, capacitor). you don't even have to log in to train skills, just subscribed. sure, if you want to fly a flashy capital or high-skill ship it can take weeks or months...but it's roughly the same time for everyone. you have it easier as a newb now than ever before--people who started before 2011 had to train learning skils to speed up training. now you get the benefit of those skills automatically.you don't grind skills in eve, but you have to plan for what you want to do. nature of the game, and ccp isn't going to change it."
"we already got ccp to remove the learning skill (you can thank the previous csms).i don't think mastering skills kills the game at all however, that extra oomph you get out of getting the skills to 5 means something, if one could train skills from 4 to 5 in a week tops, mastery wouldn't mean much.i understand what you mean, and i've gone through the 60+ days of learning fleet command 5, but at the end of the day, the relative scarcity of pilots with some of those long skills at 5 is what makes them speshel."
"i play eve for like 2800 days so 45 days ain't that much in that perspective"
"i don't see a problem with longer skills. it is always a case of diminishing returns, since you get the same bonus from going from level 3 to level 4 as you do from 4 to 5. it is a important part of making it possible for new players to compete with older ones, and i would be against changing it."
"link'twas not so long ago we sailed to meet the foeand thought our fighting days were donewe thought 'twas over then but now we're in againto win the war that wasn't wonthis time, we will all make certainthat this time is the last timethis time, we will not say \"curtain\"till we ring it down in their own home townfor this time, we are out to finishthe job we started thenclean it up for all time this timeso we won't have to do it again"
"you make me feel positively dirty.i am far better looking than mittani."
"wowjust wow"
"not really, nope. i'd post a pic of you against a pic of me, but you'd probably try to petition me over it. thankfully i can link a public gis of your character name, rather than a direct pic of 'jade constantine' and folks can make up their own minds. across every vector by which humans regularly judge one another, i am your superior. vov"
"he's saying that goons are the vampires from 30 days of night. i think."
"lookit dat huskie.oh, and the picture he didn't link."
"your dog is better looking than you are."
"breaking news: ugly internet spaceship nerd calls out other, less ugly nerd for being more ugly than himself."
"(i'm gay)"
"is mittani being a drow elf in that picture?"
"and a role playing bond is formed :)"
"well nc can only do so much naping, they begged drf for a nap but sadly that resulted in drf invading them and killing 50% of all nc supercaps in a week.nc wont live forever, good news is the other sandbox that ccp are creating make it harder to nap everything"
"and obvious, blatantly unhinged lying like this is why kalle's trolling is quite as awful as it is."
"once again spam bot finnagain zero has called someone a troll despite there being proof, reports and threads confirming what i have said.you know you should maybe check your kb once in a while, i know nc typically remove losses but even you cant be stupid enough todo damage control by saying \"it never happened\"."
"you are awful at trolling. you are also, very obviously, lying in order to troll. you are really claiming, with a straight face, that the entire nc possessed no more than 20 titans and 8 supercarriers. in the entire nc. i'm not sure who you think you're going to be able to troll with this nonsense, but, dayum. it's also be nice to see your cite for the nc trying to \"nap\" the drf but then them invading, considering that prior to the drf invasion the nc invaded them. i think it's safe to say that it's as true as your claim that half the nc supercapital fleet was annihilated. or your lie about supercap losses being removed. tell you what, i know you're lying and trolling, and you know you're lying and trolling, but let's pretend we don't know that: \"gee, kalle, you see like a trustworthy person. why don't you provide the names of five pilots, the date of their supecap losses and who they lost them to so that i can check evekill and/or enemy killboards against nc boards to verify that what you're saying is true.\""
"razor just naped aaa/stain/atlasone lau to control them all, why argue with me on the forums when theres enough evidence to confirm everything i have written.like a dog your aim is to bark at anyone your master feels threatened by, shame you are hardly liked within your own coalition"
"for the people you lot have been smearing and mobbing, possibly, for you i don't think so."
"posting in a mittani alt thread"
"no, you're not."
"confirming that we are posting in a mittani alt thread. nice try though. boy, this guy will do whatever it takes to sieze control of csm."
"op does sound like mittani, /sigh some people take this game too seriously"
"yeah the op's textual style does seem ~exactly~ like mine if you compare our post historymind blown!"
"well its certainly vapid enough..."
"look at all these trailing prepositions.just look at them."
"cause we're damned good at it."
"is trebor the spergmeister who thinks we should vote for him because he's a spergcaptain?"
"nope, but you try hard"
"i may be wrong, but i think trebor was in csm 5 and had already the opportunity to fix those ...unfortunately, nothing was done for the balance of the game, all csm 5 did care about was \"famville\" pi and faction items icons ... i'm sorry but the real problems of the games shouldn't be used as a pretext to be elected every year.the fact is that csm 5 didn't do anything for game balance ...let's have a close look at some work of csm 5 for the game balancing :everyone that plays eve online knows one of the plague of the game is botting and mining ridiculous gameplay / income, what did actually csm 5 and trebor do about this ?please have a look by yourself :"
"\"botting is sooooo not kawaii. it reminds me of my favorite anime (insert title here) where (title character experiences humiliating but humbling event and over the course of a predictable storyline overcomes adversity, solves all the problems, and ultimately becomes the boyfriend of a large-breasted submissive girl and then they have squeaky-noised asian-style sex). and that's what i think about botting. but in all seriousness let me tell you how we did it in the days of pascal....\"the truth is kalle wants trebor in because every vote for him means that many more days and hours mittani has to spend exposed to him. it's his endgame. he's trying to get him to commit suicide."
"julian assange strikes again if you notice my earlier spam, you will see i actually commented on trebors good work well before mittani's jealousy became open transparent.most my votes went to prom / peterpowers but i have enough alts left for treborballz!!!!!!!!!!! tried so hard to not post on this char, now people will know i never had a 180 ban, guess that means i wasnt bismaru, musical fist, derek chu, tigers spirit, unlucky two after all :("
"general windypops got my vote .. this guy had the most intelligent, thought-out responses to numerous hot issues on the \"vote match page\". some of the other candidates responses were .. well .. do they really play this game?"
"the lost in eve guys posted this to the my eve forum, but it seems more appropriate here. they have done 4 debates:feed:"
"shame that they didn't even put the effort in to at least try and contact all candidates. haven't heard anything about this until now."
"thanks two stepyes, this is logical here. i just followed the rules for the podcast posts which is why it was in my eve. your post will be received well by those interested though so thanks.by the way, i'd like to highlight for those that wonder why the #&@$ we didn't want certain candidates on the show. that statement insinuates that they weren't welcome when that's incorrect.we opened up 16 slots for anyone that was a candidate to have applied to join in the debates. these people chose not to apply. we would have had them gladly, however, if they did. on the other hand, this opened up a chance to hear other people which is always healthy.for those that joined in, thank you for doing so. you did a good job! good luck with the reminder of the elections!"
"ummm, there was an open public post here (on eveo forums) and on shc about it with specific instructions on how to get involved. i'm sorry you didn't see it either. would have been nice to hear you. we may well change things up for next year but there were challenges with the short election period this time around. i wish you good luck for the remainder of the elections in any case!"
"bring back my beloved pre-nerf falcon! please please please!"
"i voted for the guy that promised to hook me up with heidi klum."
"coke machines in the cafeteria"
"one more from me. :)"
"monthbump."
"this would be awesome but only so long as trails were left behind. i know i sometimes pay attention to where the person is warping to, and chase the target down. if its instawarp, that would be impossible. but if they leave a trail behind (i know, that's a whole 'nother subject) then we can still easily tell where they warped to, and chase 'em down."
"i eat microtransactions for breakfast."
"cosmetic only. i'd rather say no, but if it has to go its for cosmetic only (and booze)./m"
"supported. i was getting tired of picking character names (i ended up doing a bit of recycling a few years back as a newb, trying to find a combo of school and backgrounds i liked), and ended up picking this one at random. would love to change it (even though i am asatruar)"
"name change will only cause confusion and more griefing in the long run. so wouldnt be smart to do. however, if ccp builds in a way to keep track of that. and i mean on the way like second life has now for example, then you can track everyone no matter what name change they did. then it should not be a problem.----sl way: original name keeps visible if wanted (settings) but admins can see who is who always. you can however change once a week for free your name.----now, of course it doesn't need to be free. can change with isk or real money, but besides that it is a very stable way to keep track of anyone who changed a name and if needed punish the right person. while still have everyone the choice wither to change their name or not, and how often."
"name changes should work like neural remaps or something."
"this is a great idea, so it will never be done.however, it could make ccp some money for better cars, so it will be done."
"a fine idea, but i think it should be in-game currency, not real money; maybe 200m isk. if it's large enough, then it will inflate demand for plex's anyway, which should remain the only way to inject isk into the system. name changes should take a long time (couple weeks), require that you be in an npc corporation, and require background checks (50m isk) to uncover."
"supported because i'm tired of being shot first :("
"excellent idea."
"1. well, might have a point there. i however do not see why it should be a direct problem, since a lot of ship builds will have to change as well along with that. taking power away to support the drones, it simply is not really interesting. specially if you have the team set just right.2. again a point, but again not directly the case. a lot of players love to toy around with frigs, and besides that you still have new players that do simply not have the isk to pay better ships.3. that boost can be leveled, it shouldn't be that much of a problem.4. not directly, you can actually write 1 basic code for it, and redirect in case you need additional coding for different drones. \"cross linking\" may seem difficult and hard to do, but actually it is not that much of a problem. many files actually do that same thing.still good you thinking along of course, always helps!"
"this would make things so much better in game. no more need for neut reps or other trickery.supported"
"/signed !"
"supported, about imballance, in pvp siturations... if the drones are making i too hard to kill your target... kill the drones..."
"dreadnaughts are fine. the main reason they're not used more often is because of supercarriers dps from fighterbombers. fix the problem instead of messing up a shipclass that's been mostly fine for a long time."
"dreads should have a little more tank, so they can tank a dd without having a gimp fit. i agree with op on this. the siege active tank bonus was made before the dd change. dd is now more of a fear for dreads than being picked apart by a fleet, so the siege bonus should increase the buffer, not the active rep.dreads should do a little more dps. they should all be able to do at least half the dps of a scarrier considering all the negatives of using a siege module. so, either decrease the scarrier dps or increase the dread dps. either way seems reasonable to me."
"except dreads were designed before the rest of the capitals were even finalized in concept. they haven't had any significant changes since."
"i'd be more inclined to nerf fighter bombers. maybe 300 or 350 dps per bomber instead of 400?not really my area of expertise, i'm afraid."
"restore variation to frig pvp pls"
"i agree. dunno how to make that thumbs up, but if i did i would.mind you, it's not like dramiels can't be killed by my armor drake, but i've been told thats not for everyone."
"i think you need to re-edit all that so it makes coherent sense.on a frigate level all the weapons are fairly well balanced, each having there strengths and weaknesses. i support the op's proposal, although i have a dram and use it occasionally i would prefer a balanced frigate playing field."
"the only reason i would disagree with this proposal is because i like seeing bad players lose drams. there's something satisfying about someone buying a dramiel because they think it will make them a great pvper, only to lose it to something moronic (like a helios)."
"supercaps are outside the realm of established ship design pattern. they wouldn't even fit on that little graph i made on performance/cost ratios.basically, any ship that cannot be solo'ed is outside normal balancing.dramiel can be soloed, altho it's difficult in a frigate, but it can be solo'ed in cruisers fairly easy. therefore normal cost balancing is valid.supercarrier cannot be soloed, even by another supercarrier, even by a titan. those ships, in my opinion, are plain bad.but look at machariel, it's one of the best battleships. does machariel completely dominate battleship scene? do people use machariels for everything from fleet battles to solo roams? not really. because it costs at least 900 mila mach is a normal ship that can be soloed - even by a cruiser, therefore the standard performance/cost model is valid.now imagine if machariel was sold for 150 million (due to massive supply boost). do you think that would change the battleship scene? with 150 mil mach's, how often do you think you'd see them? they'd be everywhere, they'd completely dominate all pvp where big ships are needed. even in fleet battles with insta popping, with 50 losses per fight, people would still bring machariels and alliance leaders would replace them for free to fleet op members. because costs play such huge role."
"it will be a lot better to train multiple characters on 1 account indeed, it has nothing really to do with ccp getting payed or not. we have to pay a lot to stay on, actually too much even. but that besides the point, we still should be able to learn skills on multiple characters. i sure would love to change that!"
"as an option, heck i would do it for a couple of months"
"not being able to have the option to train more than 1 char/account is silly. even if it's an extra $5/char, that's a bunch of revenue ccp can get from people who can't invest in multiple accounts.i support this on the ground of a nominal additional fee or, if that isn't seen as a good option, reduced training speed for the extra accounts."
"i was going to say no, but you are absolutely correct about this argument, so i'll support this if we can pay for it with plex."
"supported if we can pay with plex.-liang"
"good idea.i'd shove a second plex into my account per month if it meant i could train one of the other slots concurrently. on the other hand, i'm lazy enough that i'd probably never sign up a second account and go through the rigamarole of char transfer just to get a lightly-trained alt. so, more money for ccp from me if they implement this, anyhow vov"
"i'd definitely make use of it. i've been looking for an excuse to make some specialized alts, but didn't want to deal with creating new accounts, and transferring to consolidate characters. it would squeeze an extra easy $200 from me minimum.the question is if it would not just be profitable for ccp (i think it would), but if it would be a good idea for gameplay. would it put too much power in the hands of those with the most $? would it become too easy to do more without needing to worry about cooperation?"
"i like the idea of a toggle.don't like the idea of a \"request noobship\" on demand button. some wiseacre within days would have a bot program whipped up to slam that button 24-7 as fast as the server would take requests and print endless trit"
"supported.i would honestly prefer newbships to be removed - make shuttles the on-demand ship when docking in a pod and give new players a better ship when they start, like say the interceptor hull's t1 version.using shuttles would remove the spam 4 trit problem as well as the extra modules that come with the ships. just put the crappiest t1 guns in the new player ships with a couple rounds of ammo.also, would like insurance mails to go away"
"i am aware of that, no worries there. still makes the railguns pointless to use. it shouldn't be too hard to make them just a tiny bit more powerful. else a cormerant and a rohk are nothing more then pointless ships (well okay for mining or salvaging i guess)"
"what's the problem with active mines; when you're out of system? we got guy's with doomsday weapons that can kill any ship. we've ot groups of people; that take on single players that don't stand a chance. what's wrong with mines that don't kill friendlies? it's an electronic device; perfectly capable of detecting appropriate targets.what's wrong with mines being deployable by a covert op's vessel? nothing.mines are a great idea. call them an equalizer."
"read the thread and all your questions would have been answered.1. active mines in nullsec have a chance of hitting someone while the person who deployed them is in highsec causing a concordokken.2. i can see your point in that a friendly maybe can't set off the mine but the damage should be universal. you can't have a magical explosion that only hurts the bad guys. but the reasoning i stated to make mines detonate from friendlies is so they aren't just spammed on gates...they would have to be used in a more tactical role. again gate spamming mines was one of the big reasons they were removed.3. nothing wrong with mines being deployed by a cov ops...as long as it is not while they are cloaked. someone brought it up as a reason to make the destroyers class more useful...and it makes sense. cov ops already have bombs...why give them mines too? why not make another class of ship more useful instead? either way...mines should not be deployable by any ship...one class only, again to reduce the spammage on gates. make it a class of ships that is small and easy to kill. again...destroyers are perfect for this role.and please...if you approve of mines...thumb up."
"it would be a good idea, but unfortunately goons will love to use them in high sec to grief new players as usually. so, i think there needs to be a new concept of them. adding for each race 1 mine ship that can serve as sweeper or layer. besides that it needs to be made so they can not be used to close to belts, structures etc. perhaps even detectable so you have at least the indication mines are around. (warning sign like ww2 submarines have for example)"
"i have 2 cs5 pilot, but i say it, the problem is the off grid gang boosting.need to change this rules. not need anymore, offgrid bonus, change this rules to risky, because unscannable or cmdship at pos is riskfree game playing.if you want bonus go there to battlespot.you can survive if you keep distance from battle, but the enemy will see you on the grid."
"the alternative to unprobeable mission running ships is no mission runners to shoot. mission runners are still vulnerable at gates and stations, you just have to be smarter about catching the guys with the ships specially designed to escape you.in the good old days, missions space was actually \"dead\" and signatures were dampened by a factor of 10 or so. these days mission runners are just as probeable as anything else in the system. something has to give.off grid gang boosting means you can have the one command ship with three boosters, rather than having to make decisions about which boosters you have fitted to a ship that also has to face enemy fire.off-pos boosting means that any time you want to kill them you have to have a spy available to bump them out of the pos. bubble bobble games are worse than docking games since there's no 30s countdown until they can bob back into the bubble again.i'm not sure what point you were trying to communicate, but the message i'm receiving is that you want to have the upper hand by having an ace hidden up your sleeve, rather than playing with the hand you're dealt and just playing better.the home field advantage of having a pos in system is that you have a pos in system. you can get the enemy to fight you there (giving you the benefit of pos offensive systems), or you can have a safe spot to withdraw to when you need to recover capacitor and rep your shields/armour back up again."
"bull****. i've been running missions in low sec and hostile 0.0 in t1 battleships, faction battleships, and marauders for years now. you do not need to be unprobeable to run missions in low sec or 0.0... all that really happens there is breaking risk vs reward. stop being such a pansy.you can do this anyway. pretty sure i have vulture with 3 gang links, ~200k ehp, and ~1000 dps tank.pos boosting is simply a home field advantage. i have no problem with home field advantages. and no, parsec doesn't have any poses anchored, and quite possibly never will.on t3 vs command ships:- command ships are superior in many ways to t3s, especially if you are the aggressor. being able to provide gang bonuses immediately upon entering system is very nice indeed.- t3s are simply better at providing bonuses, especially if you can get in system before your enemies.from the perspective of having gang bonuses used against me:- i have no problem with off grid gang boosting, as long as i can scan the person out and kill them.- home field advantages (pos boosting by either t3 or command ship) are perfectly fine. i have no problem with them, even if i don't take advantage of them.- unprobeable t3s provide a home field advantage without it actually being your home field. it is effectively riskless, and that's where i draw the line. nerfing the unprobeable part would make t3s dramatically less useful as gang boosters, which would decrease the amount of leadership in use and indirectly boost fleet commands.-liang"
"i agree with liang 100%. if they are affecting the battle, they should be findable, and killable.a super-coordinated gang can get around this, but thats ok - their coordination should have large advantages."
"the only ships that should be unprobable are cloaked ships."
"exactly, since they cannot do anything."
"i don't care for unprobable mission runners, or unprobable afk people who aren't bothering anyone.but i believe that unprobable afk fleet boosting is a valid and serious issue. it effects real pvp, it participates in pvp passively, therefore it should be put at risk.either remove fleet boost from offgrid members or provide some game mechanic to find and shut down the fleet booster.the simplest solution would be to force each gang link fitted to add +100 sig radius"
"you are aware that this is a huge nerf to on grid gang boosters? maybe if the core problem is being unprobeable... they should fix being unprobeable. -lianged: twiddled gang and grid"
"uh no, the simplest solution would be to make a ship's sensor strength have nothing to do with the calculations used in probing it down."
"neutral repping is just ****ing ******ed. i can't believe it still exists in game."
"neutral repping/orcas are a major problem for any kind of hisec pvp - i support aggression transfer or not permitting transfer/ship swapping to happen for people who are aggressed."
"repping my enemy should have same consequences as shooting me.repairing someone with aggression should get logistics agressed as well"
"won't gaining a 60s aggression timer redress the word parts of station games?other options include that taking any action in a skirmish could lock you out of stations or gates until all actions in that skirmish have stopped for 60 seconds.thus if you start shooting someone, a skirmish timer starts. if they shoot back, they join you in the skirmish timer. any time a module is activated on a target involved in a skirmish, the ship activating the module joins the skirmish timer and resets it to 60 seconds.so you undock, your war target starts shooting you, you shoot back, your neutral rep joins the fun - all three of you are now locked out of the station, star gates, ship maintenance arrays/bays, fitting services, corporate hangars and the like until everyone has stopped activating modules on each other for 60 seconds. you and your 'neutral' rep might win the fight, but the timer doesn't start counting down until your logistics ship deactivates its remote reps."
"whatever fix there is you need to make sure nobody can exploit it. otherwise you can get someone else neutral rr ship preventing you from docking pretty much forever."
"yes, but the entire game doesn't revolve around station games. there's no need for an additional nerf to logistics - such as removing their ability to engineer a safe withdrawl or slowing down any gangs using them because of cap chaining. logistics are fine. t1 rr cruisers are fine. station games are not. so fix station games without affecting other day to day uses of logis.is your goal here to make deagressing simply impossible? because that seems really stupid.-liang"
"if your target never leaves station, don't wardec them if you're not willing to fight in a manner of their choosing. it seems ridiculously moronic for people to expect their wardec targets to change how they fly just because someone wardecs them.also, learn how to rr-bs fleet. if you can't keep an rr chain going long enough for all ships to safely de-aggress and dock then you're doing something wrong."
"you start getting bufu'd by the opposition and start to de-aggress and dock.. but wait, your targets have alts with t1 frigs running small rrs on you to keep you locked out of the station, and since those alts are only red to your targets and not to you, you can't even blow them up.dumb idea is dumb and easily exploitable.how do you negate neutral rr? griffin, kitsune, blackbird, rook, falcon, scorpion, widow, tengu. take your pick."
"i'd personally use tempests/artycanes and pick up a bunch of free killmails.-liang"
"a dragoons complaining about neutral rr? that's rich.supporting anyway, even though the op is a tool."
"logistics are fine as they are.station gaming however, is pretty stupid. repairing someone with an aggression timer should give an aggression timer."
"i love you so much, when incarna hits have my podlings."
"ccp will not and should not limit actions around hulkageddon. now, i do have an opinion on wether or not suicide ships get insurance payouts but thats a different story. suicide ganking should be allowed as it is today.overall hulkageddon is a great thing and here is why. first off, it stimulates player reaction. its gets people worked up, either as predators or as prey. it stimulates the market. go out there and buy/sell indy ships and modules, exploit hulkageddon to get rich.. i cant tell you how many stories i have heard of people doing this. use the opportunity to manufacture the gank ships.. dessies, or tier 1 bss. hell, even start to buy up and resell high sec mins as the high sec miners will not be producing as much minerals. the opportunities really are vast.the thing you have to remember is that hulkageddon as an event is self controlling. if they do it more than once or twice a year, the industrialists will get smart and find ways to evade it. as it is now there are enough industrialists that are lax enough that there are still enough available targets to make this event work. to your point, you dont want a 3 month long hulkageddon that likely wont happen as they will run out of targets in just a week or 2 as people start to figure out whats going on.basiclaly, i think ccp should stay as they are and allow the eve community to adapt as they see fit. again i still dont agree with insurance payouts for suicide ships, but thats a whole other conversation."
"there is one thing that ccp did, that if they actually cared about miners and indies wouldn't have done: delaying concord.not sure how many people noticed, but concord was delayed by an extra 10 seconds beyond their usual response time for hulkaggedon 4.i am not opposed to ganking, however, it's getting too easy for people to do, but since ccp loves their pirates nothing will change until carebears stop subbing, which shows how poorly ccp listens to their customer base. if they cared, they, would you know, actually do something about half the stuff that happens in game that shouldn't."
"tears about tears? someone needs a hug...anyhoo, hulkageddon is here to stay. your post wasnt a \"slight dislike\", it was a proposal to start applying arbitrary rules to a game we all love so much. and if for some reason you get enough support that it comes to fruition it would make eve suck.. boom."
"i did not intent to even react to this, but oh well...how else you want to explain why they never get punished and how else you want to explain bogus rules and the lack of those that are needed? big companies send out several people to run for csm making it less fun for others and more fun for them. the less rules for them to have around, the more they are allowed to do. griefing is basically made legal thanks to this and no one seems to notice.i did not say ban killboards, i only want to see things like hulkageddon having some rules. like \"do not get in 0.8 to 1.0 space for killing\". it doesn't cripple the entire economy and for the capsuleers themselfs it might be good to have areas they are actually save so they can work on their plex or at least gain isk for other reasons. i think further then just banning something like you say.i however do not mind people attacking afk miners and bots, go right ahead, either work for your isk or scram! for bots, i love to see that getting banned and if the owner makes a new one, just ban the main account as well, end of problem!"
"if ccp cared, they'd do more to police mining bots."
"most of the skill training required to be good at flying; is more related to non-spaceship command related skills. that is: engineering, navigation, gunnery, industry, ...and whatever else. training for minmatar cruiser, is a matter of days; heck, i picked up orca, transports, and freighters; all within the last month and a half, on one toon. on another, i dropped training guns for a bit; and i'm picking up minmatar cruiser v. i only have 12-1/2 days left on that; for which i'll net a new race of hac's, t3's, and various other craft. that toon has only 15 million sp; and is tech ii armor and shield tank, and tech ii heavy missiles, and small and medium projectiles. even got sentry drones at tech ii, in there. point is, it does not take too long. a week for each frigate, a month for each cruiser; and some 45 days for each battleship, more or less. given the amount, and variation of skills you can train in eve; that's hardly too much time to waste, for the sake of access to a new range of ships.take a look at the ships. each follows a different design philosophy; so to, it's engineered along a different path. it's not a volkswagon jetta; that you can get in, and just drive. it's a complex, space-faring machine; in which you, are the entirety of the crew. ask how long it takes nasa; to train their pilots. ..or the airforce, how long it takes to train for an f-35. we're not talking bicycles, and pick-up trucks."
"very simple: allow us to donate plex cards for the relief efforts in japan!"
"the remote sensor dampener ii is a meta 5 module and should theoretically be better than a meta 4 module right?well its not.compare the remote sensor dampener ii (rsdii) to the phased muon sensor dampener (pmsd):rsdiiactivation cost: 28.8 gjscan res bonus: -20.4%acc fall off: 72kmopt range: 36kmact time/dur: 10smax target range bonus: -20.4%meta 5fitting : cpu 42tf; pwr 1mwpmsdactivation cost: 19.2 gjscan res bonus: -20.4%acc fall off: 72kmopt range: 36kmact time/dur: 10smax target range bonus: -20.4%meta 4fitting: cpu 28tf ; pwr 1mwthe only two factors that are different between these modules is 1) activation cost and 2)fitting cpu tfthe pmsd has better numbers in both accounts. the meta 4 item is actually better than the meta 5 item. why?now look at the market:rsdii price for dodixie is 999,986.70 iskpmsd price for dodixie is 4,999,993.97 iskthe pmsd cost more because it is in demand more. the reason is that not only can you use it with less skill invested, but it is much easier to fit on a ship because of the lower cpu tf. essentially, the rsdii is impotent.this begs the question why does a device use more cpu and gj when it does not boost its performance. this device is extremely less efficient than it \"lesser\" counterpart.i propose that at a minimum the rsdii should get equivalent levels of activation cost, and fitting cpu. the other option is to increase the scan res bonus and the max target range bonus a small percentage to account for the extra gj and tf it uses. but somehow i think this will be counted as a \"buff\" to sensor dampeners. (this is actually needed a little, but thats a different topic) it doesnt have to be anything big, something like 21% instead of 20.4% could make the difference.thank you"
"unfortunately, there are several other modules in the same position where the tech 2 variant is subpar compared to the meta 4 in various ways. supporting the improvement of the tech 2 here, though."
"all the meta 4 ew modules have the same base stats as the t2, but with lower fittings and cap use. the same applies to meta 4 weapons; the only reason to use t2 is because the specialisation skills give a bonus; but that bonus comes from the skill, not the item.(and t2 ammo ofc)meta 4 armour plate give the same ehp as t2, but for a lower mass penalty and less fitting.higher meta doesn't automatically mean \"more powerful\". look at the domination shield hardeners, for example. they're, what? meta 8? but they give the same resist bonus as the meta 1 named varient."
"there are even some modules there the t2 is worse than best named and more expensive."
"i have to agree. offline towers are just litter. adding a game mechanic, that allows them to be salvaged; just add's another element to the sandbox, that is eve. having them just disintegrate after awhile, is an alternative; but not one that add's any real dimensions to the game. for all i'm concerned; they could be wrecked, and unusable as salvage. simply toss them in the refinery; and get what you can out of it; with the only requirement, being a level, or two in the scrap metal reprocessing skill. why not add a structural salvaging skill too; one that requires anchoring to 5. it could improve the value of your salvage.it's not game breaking; but short-sightedness is."
"i think the colors and fonts (when possible) needs to be stashed on the user pc by downloading the latest patch. this way it should solve that problem for most part. although, you are right about the engine, it shouldn't get fixed, it is not broken. for reducing text, well, perhaps it might be a better thing to change the bio entirely.perhaps we all should be allowed to make a wiki page instead with our profile, then we can indeed decrease the bio in size. of course change a little so there is a direct link to that person's profile. this all together should stop people using the full sign length with all kinds of colors all together. sure will be a lot less laggy for sure."
"i just hope world of darkness is not designed at all like eve on the technical level."
"i'm not going to dig out the relevant patch notes for you, but if you go back far enough you'll find the patch containing the bio length nerf. i agree that this is something that one would not immediately expect to be a major source of lag, but that was the explanation given at the time, possibly in the thread accompanying the patch notes."
"well, i was bored:"
"meh. i used to care about this, but then i created a evelopedia page for my char and placed a link to it in my bio."
"personally, i'd like a match.com type bio. i want to know the gender and romantic interests of the people i'm shooting."
"ccp have already stated on numerous occasions that they are reusing a large part of the core eve code for other games, presumably including wod."
"all this does is make it easier for gankers, to enjoy all the benefits; making lowsec pirates, the party to receive the greatest benefit from this. pointless."
"i don't think you know what you're talking about. your post makes very little sense.the op's post, on the other hand, makes a lot of sense. i was about to mention the podding yourself thing, but op seems to have caught that as well. it would make sense that being podded would restart the jc counter, in any event."
"looks caldari made to me.but seriously, this is your biggest issue with it?"
"that and the 30km activation range."
"get rid of customs officesas if people didn't have enough celestials to warp to."
"i log on an alt, which, as it is in my corp, has about fifty corp and alliance evemails and a few dozen of random notifications about poses crying for food. i don't really care about either, as i have gone through all of them on my main already.i open my inbox. in the eve mail tab, i right-click the \"all mails\" label, and select \"mark all as read (all)\". in the notifications tab, i right-click the \"unread\" label, nothing happens.suggestion: implement the \"mark all as read\" functionality to notifications in the same way it currently works for evemails."
"htc hd2 open eve gate super easy op is win 6.5+(us t-mobile version) browser is stock opera"
"well, basically impossible since the smart phones are to weak still. but i know for sure there might be some other things that can be done. flying around in your ship will likely be a no go for now, so don't aspect wonders. you most likely will be able to look in your wallet, corp wallet, look at your orders, contracts, such things. sending mails may well be possible and working on your skills is likely.but besides that i fear not much more can be done without destroying the game itself. but there can deffo be something done in this."
"i do support an app or a mobile friendly version of eve gate, whichever is most efficient.@kumi, mobile eve is def not realistic, but i dont think anyone here is suggesting that..."
"saraell tellon and i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"sloany1979 and i support this product and or service"
"sloany1979 and i support this product and or service"
"please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"tanith yarndemon and i support this product and or service"
"tanith yarndemon and i support this product and or service"
"tanith yarndemon and i support this product and or service."
"tanith yarndemon and i support this product and or service"
"tanith yarndemon and i support this product and or service"
"misslycka and i support this product and or service."
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"take off the cool-aid shades daddy-o ..."
"this trolling tactic is not really so smart, but it is predictable. lying in order to troll, and then hopping up on the cross and complain about being accused of trolling, is blah. you are, naturally, lying that i've called every (or even most, for that matter) non-nc people as trolls. you're using that lie to troll. that is why, naturally, i've pointed out that you're a troll. not because you're not in the nc. you mean that he's an obvious troll making absurd broad-brush accusations about people based merely on the alliances they're in while trolling about an argument that he's advanced dishonestly only to troll people, that he has no intention, at all, of backing up... since it's only a troll? i can understand your opinion, but i don' think \"being trolled by jade\" is really anybody's place. oh, and speaking of how jade is trolling and will not (because he can not) present an argument honestly, yet again as he's repeatedly been ignoring:everybody reading along knows full well why jade can not answer such reasonable and clear criticisms of his argument, and has to respond with ad hominem trolling."
"whatever is going on seems to have seriously dislodged your cool anyways."
"it seems like csm discussions do bring the worst in some people.dissapointing, as always."
"that they do, they always do."
"you know jade has lost when his post isn't even scrolling the page."
"jade, speaking of how you're trolling because you're trying to annoy goons and anybody who gets in the way of your weird obsession with them: it's okay, pretty much anybody whose neurons are on speaking terms knows exactly why you won't answer such simple, straight forward challenges of your \"argument\", and what it means that your argument was neither made nor is being defended honestly. politics doesn't \"bring the worst out in people\", only, it seems, in folks who can't support their opinions honestly and would rather troll. so yet again, you feel like stopping trolling?"
"i hardly think sidestepping the nonsensical doublespeak of your tenuous grasp of junior rhetoric counts as anything other than a completely understandable reaction to a somewhat frantic street-corner frother trying desperately to make eye contact at this point."
"z"
"0.0"
"sorry i don't enjoy getting blobbed?gloaters gonna gloat, blobbers gonna blob seriously though; for every person who may agree with that generalization, there are many times more who will stand for the exact opposite.i've always been someone to converse, discuss, and shoot the **** with. i'm often helpful and typically quite friendly.i'm routinely messaged by players (be them fans/enemies/voters) with whom we randomly discuss whatever and part with a wave.as for the gloating? in my experience, egging people often results in their performance being hampered and piloting mistakes are taking advantage of.meta-gaming tip, free of charge.as for the rage? yep, i get ****ed when a challenging fight gets **** on because someone felt 20-1 were fair odds"
"you broke my z0r chain to rage that people don't fight one vee one pee vee pee e-hounoure dualz?seriously?"
"more ad hominem trolling rather than responding to clear and concise logical criticisms? how surprising! so do you honestly not understand what logical fallacies are, or are you trolling some more? (do i ever need to ask?) naturally, if you weren't trolling, it would be trivially easy to show how i was wrong. ya know, just like i did for your fallacy-riven trolling argument? again, the reason why you can't respond is clear, i'll just point out again that you're trolling now and you were trolling when you advanced your arugment since you never had any intent in defending it. the logical and factual challenges to your trolling, by the way, are: it's okay jade. anybody reading along, who has a functional brain at least, knows why you're unable to answer the very simple challenges put to you.p.s. the person who is more like a \"street corner frother\", do you think that's a) the person making a logical argument and asking someone to respond to it, b) or the person continually freaking out with ad hominem trolling? which is more like a street-corner raving preacher, someone who says a) evolution is a fact because of... or b) your cool is seriously dislodged! you're frothing! you think you're slaying dragons!!! you're like an organ grinder's monkey! it's not an ad hominem fallacy if i use it on you!! it's quite the modern tragedy! (hint: it's b)"
"why do you refuse to entertain anti-goon and anti-nc ideals. you are obviously an alt of one of those corporations."
"when i feel i have lost an argument, my words get longer to make myself look like an intellectual superior.edit: i know you are, but what am i?edit: edit."
"jade can totally show that the cogent, specific, explicit and well reasoned claims of fallacious logic in his argument are false, and he totally will do that and hey look over there!!!"
"you have more exploits to share? no wait, no you keep them to yourselves for months my bad."
"i have addressed the exploit issue several time in this thread and on my blog. ccp allowed me to run for csm, which they would not have done if they had found me guilty of exploiting. if you have some serious questions about my platform or the issues i would like ccp to concentrate on, please feel free to ask."
"bump... you owe me a vote, jonathon"
"i'm not actually part of this at any rate, i'd like to think that those who really care who to vote for actually do some reading themselves than have some numbers thrown at them"
"i would like to thank dierdra for the service she offered to the community as a whole. as far as i can see, no one else provided this service; no one else was willing to commit the effort to creating such a site; and no one felt that the 'improvements' they feel are necessary to make the site useful warranted the effort to make those changes. this site is the best site of its type for this election.as a voter, use this site or not, i don't care - just vote.as a candidate - i cannot imagine running a campaign and not availing myself of all opportunities to get my positions out there.thanks again dierdra, i hope that such a service will be around for the next csmkind regards,knug lidi"
"you may have heard in p<U+FFFD>tur's last interview that a csm term of one year may actually be too long (too intense/ burn out) but that he will see how the new csm will do first.that would make it even more intense (too much) for the active csm members.a bad 'fair' chance"
"i want to see 50k votes."
"while campaigning time and csm term are not too long in my mind, i agree that we should get more time between the publication of the candidate's list and actual voting start.this would give more time to develop campaign messages and answer to questions before the first votes are cast. also, it'd be interesting to see less biased eve-related media."
"i find it odd, in this game of internet spaceships, in this age of digital voting, that real world municipal governments can be elected from millions of folks (and at higher participation rates) in a single day and yet the csm needs to have a much longer voting period.i suspect that many in eve have more involvement with what the csm does, than what their municipal politicians do for them.shorten the vote period. either you are interested or you are not. 0.5% of the electorate per day is not a useful extension.c'mon people, vote already !"
"prom4csm, good luck m8 b)"
"got 1 of my 2 votes. i am a huge supporter of csm members who know how to fly."
"i was invited to speak with the fine people at newedenradio.com who held town-hall style interviews with a bunch of candidates. go check them out!"
"ccp isn't actually that big."
"it's a buzzword as part of the scrum process, not 'stakeholder' in a political sense. i distrust management/development fads, just like i distrust corporate slogans like 'excellence'. whether a 'stakeholder' in scrum actually matters or not is entirely dependent upon the circumstances and whim of the devs.it has power in the sense that most of the eve population who hears of the csm qua stakeholder will think that means in the political sense, rather than in the software development system sense."
"thanks for letting me know that these votes are useless. i knew i didn't care before, now i know i'll never vote for video game politics."
"i have to give you props for responding to my serious questions. a lot of people would read halfway through the posts and say to themselves 'sperge' and not reply to the important questions in there. so, assuming the csm has stakeholder status in the scrum sense, do you think that ccp doesn't actually put items brought by the csm on their production queue or do you think they just reprioritize csm ideas to the bottom every time they come up or what?the reason i ask this is because part of your platform seems to be focused on a percieved lack of results. this lack of results, seemingly, would be caused by one of the above. if they are true scrum stakeholders we would at some point start seeing the ideas csm brought to the table come to the game. my view is that ccp has a large list, and csm ideas take a while to get to the top. i feel it is unrealistic to expect csm ideas to see a fast turnaround regardless of who is in charge of csm simply because the system is what it is.i guess i just think it's difficult to argue about the inneffectiveness of the csm when they have stakeholder status."
"the thing is, why have the csm at all at that point?if ccp was just looking for stuff to fix/add to queue they already had several forums to glance at to get feedback. granted, much of it is noise but paying people to come to iceland, devoting energy and effort to setting up the elections and system is a bit much for a \"fix request aggregator.\"if, on the other hand, the csm is intended to get a feel for things that should be prority fixes--things that the community feels the sting of acutely--then it should ideally have its accepted issues bumped up in priority. if they are languishing at the bottom, ccp is subverting the entire point of the council (deliberately or inadvertantly) and this needs to be adjusted or the csm should be dissolved as a concept.of course, tempering this is that not everything that the csm advances is of equal importance and there are dev projects that can't be bumped down. if the problem has been that the csm reps have had poor messaging and haven't emphasized the full impact of the advanced ideas (or impact of not fixing/implementing the ideas) then this is entirely the fault of the previous councils/chairs."
"i particularly eyerolled at your lack of understanding of how leadership works in voluntary human organizations, or in nullsec in specific, but rather than ranting back i figured i'd just cut to the new question. incidentally, if you assume that leadership 'in a game' only exists in the game itself, there's a lot of entrepreneurs and other rl-successful folk at the top of the nullsec hierarchies you should meet. running an alliance means managing more people than most 'small businesses' ever do, and finding ways to motivate them to action without wage/salary. if you think that merely because eve is a game that motivation would be easy, you haven't spent much time in nullsec, which is mostly a series of hurdles covered in broken glass which you have to jump over while not wearing a cup. good leaders can construct an engaging narrative in hopes of obscuring the broken, boring gameplay. if the motivation was intrinsic (ie: 'whee, fun game, i love this ****!!!') to eve, the average nc fleet would have between 2000-15k humans, rather than a few hundred. personally, i have a very keen interest in seeing the game become more fun, because after years and years and years of essentially cajoling and manipulating thousands of people into playing this lag-filled piece of crap, most of the nullsec leadership are tired of it, and could use a little help from the game client itself. power is a fluid thing and not strictly top-down or bottom-up; the best descriptions of how power works in practice come from foucault, in my experience. without getting into heavy post-structuralist la-la land, let's just say that the 'stakeholder' title - both in what it means in scrum, and how it's perceived by the playerbase, presents opportunities to mold the flow of things if used correctly, but it does not contain intrinsic power, and that title can be ignored at ccp's whim. there are times when csm5 captured power and influenced the game, perhaps for the first time in the history of the csm. there are times where they then lost this power by overreaching and alienating their ccp interlocutors. i don't think there's a unified single 'way' in which the csm works, because fundamentally the csm is a nexus of views attempting to alter the views and priorities of their ccp interlocutors, either through raw persuasion, pseudo-legislative procedure, or more 'intense' tactics through the media. anyway, it's a subtle thing, and i don't think that folks will 'get' that; the usual way people think of power is that it is something that is 'taken' and then 'used', at least in the narrative sense. so they assume that the csm just needs to 'get' more power, and that once it 'has' the power it can then be used willy-nilly to ram through proposals."
"actually \"stakeholder\" in a scrum(agile) development process are the parties for which the project will ultimately be destined for. the stakeholders in an agile development process are the customers that the product is being developed for. i guess you could call the csm a customer, but, the customer is actually ccp managment. the ccp management are the ones using the codebase to provide a service to their customers. the csm members are not managers of the development process. i don't know how long the sprints that ccp are using are for, however i am sure they(the csm) are not used in every sprint review. calling them stakeholders could be a technically a valid label, unfortunately, i think the csm is only a minor or tertiary stakeholder in the sense of how the development process of the agile methodology works. i highly doubt they are used in every sprint review process. i think a more accurate label for the csm is that they are more of a focus group of the target audience for eve. they give feedback to ccp management/scrum leaders. they get to see what is coming down the pipe and it is ultimately up to ccp to listen to their target audience in the issues they bring up.everything i have read and researched here in regards to tracking the backlog of features/requests/bugs really is drastically outside the responsibility of the csm to do. the csm is there to bring up issues that are currently applicable to the situation. managing the observations and requests for ccp really just makes them do somewhat menial project management tasks for the development team in addition to being a sounding board for ideas and complaints. low(no) paid market researchers/associate project managers. just free trip to sulfurville being the payment.but meh... its all the same... internet spaceships are srs business."
"the reason is have a problem with space leadership skills isn't that it requires no skills, i wholeheartedly agree that it does, but that it requires the wrong skills. for the same reason i wouldn't want a pro football coach leading a group of scientists i wouldn't want a space leader to be a...whatever the hell a csm leader is.the personalities of those being led and the end goals of the group define the leadership needed. the internet is renowned for being a place where peoples personalities are different from reality. people 'sperge' and troll and do all sorts of things they would never do irl. this requires a very different type of leadership than a group of people sitting through an 8 hour meeting.the differences of leadership styles necessitated by the populations personality are very important. just think of the different leadership styles you might find in pl or goons vs an it or aaa. a leader in one group would be deposed within a week in the other. or the captain of the black pearl vs the captain of the hms rimjobi've worked in a lot of different settings (hippie co-ops and oil companies), and i've seen leaders whose styles would have worked in one place flounder horribly in another. all that said, your ability to engage with me when i switched from sperging internet type to more serious poster does imply cross-functional leadership skills.------now, as for the stakeholder stuff, the impression i am getting is that your plan for enforcing or strengthening the csm effects will anchor around a 'subtle hand' approach. am i right in that. if so thank god. while the previous csm may have been effective the blanket impression i had involved a lot of really butt-hurt hand-raisers who had no idea of the difference between 'right' and 'right enough' and were totally incapable of picking their battles. when i mentioned the hippie-coop before this was exactly the kind of thing they would do. everyone had to have an opinion on everything and no percieved slight was too small to loose your **** over.this resulted in 5 hour meetings that should have taken 20 minutes and results far weaker than they should have been.while i agree that ccp should have better communication with the csm, crying about it in podcasts and forums is the wrong way to fix it.kind of reminds me of an old boss i had. if it wasn't his idea then it wouldn't happen. so it became a job of convincing him that it was his idea. which is difficult and highly unrewarding in many ways. but it works.ok. if that's what you mean then my attitude may take a 180. from your op i was readin it as another \"we will stamp our feet and get what we want\" candidacy."
"even if the csm remains at the place it's in, having mittens on the csm will make it a lot more fun, so there's nothing to lose by voting for him.i support mittani and i hope he gets the chair."
"le bump"
"i voted for him and he has a great blog. check it out."
"great interview on lost in eve ripard - smart, specific and informed. you want ccp to implement the game i want to play - and by insisting that ccp make good on all that iteration development they been promising us. it don't get any fairer than that!good luck, you have my vote"
"appears that people who read the candidates blogs and listen to their interviews support rippard. most his votes come from those who have actually looked into the csms beyond there short write up.tbh the best candidate running and worthy of every vote he gets. he is proving he is the man for the job rather than depending on some forum of alliance group to vote him in based upon his name or reputation.go rip!"
"he got my vote, not just because he is a corp mate! good luck ripard."
"so your suggestion to solve lag is to make the servers perform even more calculations?exactly how is it that the \"only see the closest n ships\" would solve lag? why? where? client-side or server-side? how will this make combat more tactical?you keep going on about ideas like this, flesh it out some more, let's see how good your technical understanding of how things work really is."
"to put it to the extreme; if the dd insta-killed sub-sc ships of a limited number and then self-destructs the titan after 10 minutes, would the dd still be broken (in terms of being overpowered)?it's difficult to claim that to be the case, so you can't categorically say fatal damage to multiple ships on grid to be broken. or what if it cost 5 trillion isk to fuel the dd...while i've always been in alliances with strict local chat rules, i wonder why (if i wasn't) you want to keep a system that makes it impossible to have reasonable conversations with allies and hostiles in local?this is a discussion regarding the merits of the proposal at the time it was made by trebor, e.g. was it braindead or not.what i gave was an analysis of the idea and pointed to the reasons why it was, if one has limited information, not braindead as the previous goon claimed. the last year the csm has managed to make ccp release more information on the real causes of lag so hopefully future proposals will be closer to what is really needed.and no, you can't vote for me cause i'm too lazy to do the kind of hard work trebor puts into being a csm delegate. but if you want to vote for me, i strongly recommend sending your vote to trebor instead."
"i hope you're laughing with me <3"
"i think the term \"artificial limit\" has some connotations, such as \"hardness\", that are a bit misleading. i prefer to think of the solution as involving an flexible \"organic\" fleet-size cap, and i (obviously) agree that it should be carrot-based.your objections to the fog-of-war concept are interesting, but i think you may be underestimating one element of the idea, which is that it increases the value of maneuver on the battlefield. for example, a tight blob of ships will mostly see blues, whereas multiple small squads will mostly see reds -- in effect, a pack of hyenas vs. a lion. while this would introduce big changes in fleet doctrine, i am not convinced it will significantly boost the value of skillpoints. and i would argue that it could boost the survivability of logistics (which i like to fly, for exactly the reason you note), because logistics attached to smaller squads would only be targetable by part of the opposing blob.but in any case, the proposal was a deliberately simplified example designed to illustrate the larger concept of organic blob reduction, and since i don't push my personal ideas on ccp as part of my csm duties, as long as the issue gets addressed in some way, i'm happy. and you will note that i will push ccp hard to have any idea they come up with tiger-teamed by player experts (such as yourself, no doubt) to help expose any flaws before they hit sisi.i found your observation about player passivity of value. while this is definitely not my play-style, i agree that a change that forces leadership roles on too many people in a large fleet would have negative consequences. on the other hand, something that encourages people to step up -- yet another carrot -- is worthy of consideration.finally, regarding providing motivation for people to be in more than one place at a time, this is option (b) in my previous post, and we agree on it. if technical fixes by team gridlock are short-term lag fixes, this would be the medium-term fix, and organic fleet size limits would be the long-term approach.you may, by the way, want to get in touch with meissa anunthiel about the multiple-objectives approach, as he is much in favor of it.ps: if you are going to fanfest, look me up. i find these discussions flow even better f2f."
"you had my vote at \"gemstone\".:)best of luck!"
"i'm still interested in hearing just how this is going to fix or even improve lag, as you claim on your csm page.as to gameplay-wise, your explanation of how you foresee this to work does not win me over in any way. in fact, it makes me think of when we're looking at a ****ed up grid, where 95% of the fleet suddenly disappears into a different grid, leaving a few stragglers (without logis) to get ****ed up the ass by the other fleet. it's jarring, it's illogical, and just ... no. not unless there's some magical way you're thinking of making this work which i haven't read yet.additionally, if you really think that fleet fights only has to be about \"dirtbag is primary, dirtbag is primary\", then you haven't flown with some of the better fcs in the game. nor have you been in multi-fleet assaults on systems."
"no wall of text? i am disappointed."
"is this where i promise to rant about railguns or amarr getting explosive crystals? :) j/k yes, there's a ton of balance issues that should be getting continual care and iteration. i'd very much like to see this kind of thing attended to much more often than every few years. personally, i'd love to have a reason to fly the megathron in a fleet again. i appreciate your appreciation of this. do you have a mohawk in rl? will i see it at fanfest in a couple weeks?team awesome is more than one person. it's kind of like the borg, just with less clear purpose. do not tempt, virt! are you nuts?! folks, i'm doing some unexpected traveling so my internet is sketchy right now. if i have missed any comments or questions, i will do my best to get to them as i can or this weekend. thank you very much to everyone who continues to get the word out for both my campaign and the csm in general. 50k votes would be fantastic!"
"don't you know that one picture is worth a thousand words? now add the 24 in the poster, that's 1024 -- 2^10. and curiously, 2 is the average number of sentences in a virt-post that are actually written in english, and 10 is the average number of characters in a virt-word.i find the poster to be numerologically significant. i am sure there are other such messages cleverly encoded in virt's other campaign posters for virtologists to discover."
"when have i ever done a wall of text >.<as for numerology, there is merely similarity in inspiration of design. 42"
"*mad cackle* @ \"virtologists\"hi seleene. just listened yesterday (finally) to your eve uni guest appearance. really enjoyed it!"
"1.0"
"+1 bump for what i hope will be a voice for the players."
"i was planning of giving both my votes to trebor, but i have to agree that balanced voting is better so it's 1 for him and 1 for you."
"me and my 10 spy accounts have voted with you.power to the spies"
"no powerblocks, just solid support for the little corp, the solo player, the miners, traders and industrialists of eve.let me help make low sec what it used to be!vote issler dainze for csm!"
"+2 votes!i don't think there is enough incentive to explore lowsec. the rewards offered don't seem like enough to justify potentially losing my stuff."
"i agree with your views, so you have my vote."
"what's your position on microtransactions ?edit : ah, the hell with it, you got my vote./me facepalms for voting for a goon."
"i wonder if i'm not shooting my own foot in there, but votematch! isn't extremely reliable imho. i had to answer those questions and create a profile because not doing so would only means less visibility as a candidate, but i share the largely-expressed opinion that questions are poorly worded, which resulted in a rather large bias.this led me to further explain almost every answer. i strongly recommend all players using votematch! to take the time to read their candidates' comments on those questions.one thing is sure thus, if rp is your main concern for csm, or at least something you want the csm to consider, i further invite you to offer me your vote. i'm positive i am the candidate taking this aspect of the game the most seriously. the representation of roleplayers at the csm will be limited, at best, if i'm not elected."
"i was just directed towards myrhial arkenath's blog, a fellow roleplayer who offered me one of the two votes she had, and explains why.thank you for your vote, myrhial, and the very good analysis of my campaign and what i offer. i pretty much agree to what is said there, and her other vote goes to a candidate that i would have considered voting for too if i wasn't running myself...but i won't tell you who, you've got to read that by yourself !on a side note, it seems that i'm generally more convincing to the people i had a chance to speak with in real-time, and can debate quite well - which seems to be a good thing for a potential csm representative. although a lot of the votes have been casted already, if you are curious about my campaign, i'm still available for a chat now and then. no matter if you're just one guy who want to make sure of something, or a big alliance diplomat who would like to organize an audio interview on his own vent/mumble server. so far i had much pleasure answering to those interviews.so, feel free to drop a question here, or send me an evemail to see how we can talk about things !"
"well, i did read your comments on votematch, and even the issues we didn't agree on/i had no opinion about made me feel better about you than the actual percentage that was given.i wonder, were you one of the people on the new eden radio interview? if so, do you remember how far into the interview you came up?"
"sadly, no. i was contacted by dj drizzcat about the interview by ner, but there was a limited number of seats available (sounds quite logical, if you want to give every guest enough time) and by the time i knew if i'd be available at that hour, my answer came in too late.i'd be happy to participate to another one thus, by ner or any other media. either through text, or audio, keeping in mind that my poor mic gives crappy results with anything else than mumble, apparently."
"heya guys!!!i will be away for work (military) for the rest of the voting period. thanks for all the support, and keep voting! good luck to all the candidates!butch!"
"krutoj can we get an extra bonus for supers that have a full set of deadspace hardeners. for example if you have all four core x-type hardeners you get a bonus amount of resist if you get what i mean. would be then a incentive to buy the same type for supercapitals"
"the main reason that people have for voting for me, is because i'm part of a group of players that truly make eve what it is today. we actively try to make it hostile place it was, is and alway will be, even in highsec. the faster you realise this, the better.however, seeing that we mostly live in highsec, means that we have to think completely out of the box most of the time to even get any kills. we can't just undock, form up a gang and go roaming around like in low or nullsec. ninjas are some of the most creative minds out there.however, doing this requires an extensive knowledge of almost all game mechanics so that we can be effective.voting for me means that i can apply that knowledge to the betterment of eve online, not just in our niche, but everywhere."
"i'm interested in this as well."
"eve tribune interview is up here."
"seriously i wasnt thiking to vote. as we see in the past, probably they all will run for big alliance's interests, how they can destroy abandoned outposts, how they change jump bridges, soveignties etc.if there is any candiate who is one of us,who will protect rights of highsec players, not big aliances, who will try to make eve more newbie friendly not the arena of some old hardcore's ego.then im ready to vote and call my friends for vote.."
"i'm not a representative of big alliances,i'm unbiased when it comes to living region (check the quotes in my candidacy thread).that doesn't mean i want to nerf 0.0 to oblivion or want to quadruple the revenue of level 3-4 missions, my objective is to achieve balance and help create a universe that has potential for everyone willing, be they part of a large or small group of players. one that has engaging gameplay and fun no matter where they live."
"i am very neutral in my comments, although naturally i hate rmt & botting so i tend to criticise mittani & nc i will comment on the following csmmittani - wants to save jump bridges, remove pvp from 0.0 and prevent number warfare from getting nerfed, 100% focused on preserving ncs nap train, sadly expect him to already be in as well his flying monkeys have already probably spam voted him, oblivious to what he actually wants todo.vile rat - i cant really criticise vile rat too much tbh, unlike mittani vile rat actually has alot of decent ideas that somewhat seems a little neutral but chances are his csm ambition is much like mittanisother nc minions - inconsistent brown nosers, not even worth the time to debate, i suppose it is suicidal going after the leader in the animal kingdom, but this isnt rl so heh why notseleene - ok ideas, but can you really ignore the fact that he was on the team that made motherships from **** and unused to overused and overpowered.krutoj - decent guy, but hardly made an effort in the campaigning, besides with so much bad press on drf botting / rmt i dont think it was smart to comment on how \"he was going to fix botting\" especially when it is encouraged and ignored in the east.prom - one of the few csm that actually has a clue about pvp, the only one to mention the command ship issues and actually has the best ship change ideas, an ideal choice if you want pvp changes that make sense.trebor - a wide range of neutral ideas, was in csm5 and did a great job, probably one of the few csm that want to make eve better for everyone, imo you should vote for him if you want ideas free from big alliance agendasthere are some other good csm candidates, but it depends on what you want changing or focused on, for example if you work heavily with third party apps or dev tools then you will probably want to vote for peterpowers or if you want 0.0 to have more action, less naping and more risk (since 0.0 is safer than hi-sec atm) then i guess elise would be a good choice.tldr: dont vote for anyone in nc, they already have announced they want to ruin 0.0 more so than they have already. if you want a neutral csm then vote for trebor, he has proven to be useful, helpful and actually wants to help ccp make eve better."
"while i'm part of a big alliance, my allegience is first and foremost to the game. no single part of eve exists in isolation, whether empire, nullsec, whs, industry, pvp, whatever. eve has it's appeals to a wide variety of people and play styles, which is one of its great strengths.so i'm not for protecting anybody's \"rights\" as such, i am for protecting the integrity of the gameplay experience for everybody."
"pffffssshhhtt - i just spat out my drink all over my screen and stopped reading right there!!!"
"not in an alliance but i am nullsec.so, best of both"
"there are a number of good non 0.0 candidates.i suggest you look at the vote match site and see which candidate best matches your eve directions and then have a chat with them.or you can just vote for me!!"
"while i appreciate kalle's kind words, i would be remiss if i did not point out that they also apply to quite a few candidates, such as meissa anunthiel, seleene, ripard teg, jonathon silence, and roc weiler. i recommend you check out their campaign platforms and threads (and mine, of course) before making your final decision."
"this flag is waved by folks who just seem to want to look for problems with my campaign overall and eve in general. if you want a bit more background on this, i've covered that in this blog post: a few words on supercap rage. i don't deny things are ****ed atm, but the real issue is that these kind of balance changes should be receiving much more attention than just looking at them every few years.as for the rest, i'm in a 0.0 alliance at the moment but our alliance ticker is [fail] and i heard that we just let bobby atlas join one of the corps... (>3 bobby)on a more serious note, as trebor said, there are quite a few \"null-sec\" candidates who have a lot more on their mind than just preserving the status quo. if you would like to know why i am running for csm or what i did when i worked at ccp you can click the links. feel free to explore my blog or my campaign thread as well and you'll quickly see that i don't favor any one particular style of gameplay over any other.in particular you mentioned being able to destroy abandoned outposts. you should probably read my blog post about that: linkagethe focus of eve's iteration should be on ensuring that all elements of the game continue to evolve as equally as possible because it's all connected on some level."
"i think most of the good candidates are going to view all playstyles equal, no matter the region.of course, not all candidates are good...hisec mission runner and 0.0 anomaly farmer are two different kinds of people, just like hisec suicide ganker and 0.0 fleet warfare expert are... but we need all of them.i believe eve is a game where there is enjoyment for everyone, and will try to make it as balanced as i can if elected.if you need extra \"proof\", i am not part of any alliance atm, and don't plan to enter any sov holding alliance in the near future."
"i have posted on many occasions that while im part of a large 0.0 alliance, i am not a 0.0 only advocate. im using my 0.0 experience to understand all livable areas better and help bring an understanding of all areas of game play.additionally there are a few nc based candidates that are not simply nc monkeys running to control seats.. please don't generalize us al into that bucket."
"rippard has spent a lot of time in empire(use to run lvl 4's w/ him)he knows the empire side of the game very well and is running on behalf of a large alliance block. he has also been tasked by the old csm's not running witht he faction warfare revitalization and other empire issues."
"mei have a blog detailing missioning and hisec activities.i care about the new player experience due to my years as a teacher.i currently am not in an alliance and the one i was in was so hisec carebearish we would sometimes try to save the better rocks.on the other handi have flown with the bastards, sat in gate camps as part of ouch, and written about the past two sessions of csm 4 and 5.i do know the other side(s) of the coin.but i have no ties to null sec alliances . . . . no agenda to grind save that which the electorate will give me.memike azariahm"
"i am one that is here for all capsuleers, not specifically having my own corp and alliance in mind. would be nice to have a little reward coming to my corp, but it isn't my goal. my goal is to improve eve online for everyone in general, may it be newby, high sec roamer, low sec pilots, pirates or.. well yes pains me to say, but even goons in a way. i want to focus on eve itself instead of personal agenda's like most have. improving the game will be good for everyone in the long run.yes, i am mostly for high sec here. and yes i want to add additional tutorials to explain several aspects of pvp, what goons do, scamming issues, etc. so that new pilots also know about this and less of such problems will occur. the goons made eve so bad that hardly anyone trusts the other, not even own corp members (unless rl friends i guess)."
"i think i am the candidate you are looking for.i'm an empire player. never really been to 0.0 (except to get podkilled in a megablob campgate once)i am not part of an alliance, i'm ceo of my own 10 members corp, and i play with my friends in other empire corps/small alliances (<100 players).i want to represent empire players, i feel like 5 years old 0.0 players can't understand empire players any more, and that's why i'm running.in game i am an anti-pirate low-sec pvper, teaching pvp to young players everyday, and helping my industrial friends to fight against pirates and hi-sec griefers.it doesn't mean i only know that kind of game though, i play with industrials, miners, missionners, explorers every single day, and pirates are my fooood, so i want them to be happy in lowsec too .i'm also interested in 0.0, but not the napfest/powerbloc 0.0 we have right now. i think my external views on 0.0 might help the csm somehow, because i'm not used to 0.0 as it is now, and i have no personal advantages to protect, i will only try to improve 0.0 as a whole, especially for smaller entities and small gangs.feel free to contact me ingame (convo or evemail)my original thread :"
"as you'll see from my website, and how stroppy nc/goon/test posters get around me, my primary focus is to prevent the game becoming a 0.0 alliance love in - join the cause, brother."
"i think i am exactly the candidate you are looking for. i have consistently supported getting ccp to pay more attention to the eve experience of players not in big alliances or not focused on hard core 0.0 play. i hope you'll take a moment and look at my campaign web page. i think you might find i'm someone you could feel good about voting for.issler dainze csm platformissler dainzethe voice of reason csm candidate"
"this guysays he wants to oppose the major alliances, makes some pretty solid arguements about what he sees happening, but does little to mention what he wants with the job - thats one side, however, \"the rebel rebelling against the rebelious\" is pretty much my cup of tea - im just wondering tho, does he check out? i mean, goons have had a long career of scamming and ****ing over, basicly any1 they could, so. is the guy who he says he is? any1 know?xps. and ye - paranoia, but.. u know.. it'd be like em to do it"
"i don't mean to troll, but in my opinion you should probably vote for a candidate based upon what he promotes, not who he opposes.that doesn't necessarily means me (although would be the right choice ofc), but at least not someone with a campaign which seems to revolves mostly around \"omg the nc wants all the csm seats !!!11one!\"..."
"a vote for windypops is a vote for paranoia and fearmongering. eve players are better than this."
"white tree - really enjoying all the attention you're giving me. i'm flattered that, given the thousands of players who have been told to vote for you from you alliance, you see me as such a threat. i'm a vote for 'paranoia and fearmongering' you say? i thought it was mitanni whose thread's titles \"they're lying to you!!!!!!!!!!!!\".as to the op, thanks for your interest. i do see the biggest single threat facing this game as the near total monopoly that one group of allied players are trying to establish. however over the last weeks i've also been outlining my key priorities as:- stamping out bots- championing the 'smaller' alliances- re-invigorating empire warfare - a focus on rebuilding eve as a shared community - community tools, events programme, gm debates, and so forth.i've discussed these elsewhere, but starting tomorrow i'll focus on each one in detail in a blog on my site. feel free to contact me directly if you would like to discuss."
"oh, and if you're interested, here's a photo of me in irlplease visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"i can confirm that i have known of him for a considerable time. prior to that my knowledge of him was limited to me reading some of his forum posts that are now seen as revolutionary, groundbreaking and are viewed with awe, by many.i can vouch for his high moral fibre, his personal avatar and his in-game picture.i felt, like you, that this was one of the few candidates that made sense - vote now, vote hard and vote for windy !don't let the fools and trolls distract you, only windy is winning !"
"an irritation is not a threat."
"thank god! i've been meaning to go to my doctor for weeks now about 'that itch'"
"i appreciate the votes even if i do not agree with the last bit of your post. but, assuming you are right and we all are monsters acting only in our own best interests it behooves you to find someone whose interests are most likely to match your own. avoid voting for someone with a very . . .set . . .agenda and purpose as they are most likely to diverge from the common path once they get what they want or are balked.not that i am pointing the finger at any single opponentm"
"i voted for mike because he seems one of the few capable of approaching problems in a reasonable way that actually works to solve it. he has innovative solutions that enhance the game rather than crudely removing certain aspects. he is realistic and not out to just fix one or two hot-button issues, but wants to work to improve all the little things as well.also, he doesn't try to win votes by spamming a funny pictures gallery, like some other people might.... >_>in short: i am a heron. vote mike azariah for csm or i will come into your kitchen tonight and mess up your pots and pans."
"please visit your user settings to re-enable images.a little propaganda."
"i suggest another point of view for this problem. small gang warfare is done by small independent entities. while we know that everybody loves going around with their 5 friends, when **** hits the fan you will want to call all your friends, thus putting an end to small gang warfare. unless you have no friends. the problem is that weak independent entities can't survive the contact with bigger forces. but why? survivability of the logistical backbone of a group of pilots is bound with their performance in fleet/capital battles. the game needs logistical structures other than poses and outposts, that can assure survivability to their owner through hard work and smart playing, avoiding direct confrontation with a more powerful force. this will guarantee survival to small entities and small gang warfare, everywhere. smugglers and guerrillas do exist in real world, but they rely on structures and tactics that have almost no correspondence in eve."
"interesting. copy/pasted in my \"csm_ideas.txt\" :)"
"i agree that ccp has neglected small gang and solo pvp. i won't answer the questions directly but i believe if we can get ccp to revamp low sec that low sec could be the place to bring back real small gang or solo pvp.issler dainze"
"does ccp fly the ships in engagements, do they call for ship types?honestly, no. it is us...the playerbase that has neglected small gang pvpnow this may be a result of our changing priorities within the game. we ourselves atribute our demands according to what we deem necessary to acheive. we ourselves have played long, hard and grown more economically viable and skillfull at the same time. with our increase in wealth and skill, we are able to fly bigger, better stronger, as a result, we do.alliances and fcs could work out small gang pvp if they so chose. ultimately very few do. the powerblocs need muscle to retain, build and grow, as a result, it becomes subject to the fish syndrome - you know, big fish eat little fish etc.i truely bleieve we need to stop asking ccp to change the game purely because of our own shortcomings. if you want small gang - make samll gangs."
"i would like to take this opportunity that we are all players involved in a game. who a candidate usually shoots at matters far less than who they are, how well they know the game, and what rl experience they can bring to the csm table.all i ask is that players look past the us vs them political frenzy and look at who the candidates are and which one will best represent all players.of course my totally unbiased opinion is that the best candidate is me!"
"lolwindypops!"
"can lone thinker eat 35 hotdogs in 1 hour?"
"if that is not a euphemism, then no."
"if i understand this thread correctly it was, \"whaaaaa, i don't have as many friends as mittens and vuk.\" then a bunch of people comparing others to political entities that have no similarities to the actual players. vuk's nothing like a north korean dictator, mittens like a nut job pseudo-religious conservative bobblehead? nah.as far as a leader, i've always envisioned mittens as the goalie mask dude in roadwarrior, or tina turner in thunderdome. in charge because they can't really find anyone with as much sense or vision, so the mob obeys...to a point. as far as i've witnessed, no one controls the goons, the mob is just steered. as long as the mob finds the targets entertaining, they play along.for vuk, he's more along the lines of scarface or a hands on mobster. bribes are made, people are paid, but he gets his own hands dirty, too. he makes good on pacts and deals, and to my knowledge, he's never backstabbed a friend. as for the kim jong il harem....what happens in 4s stays in 4s."
"how would this be workable? what's to stop each designated csm candidate setting up non-affiliated alts that can't be linked to an account in a cluster****/nc corporation? after all, i've been instructed to vote for a specific individual (vile rat best rat) - it makes absolutely no difference to me as to which corporation that character is in..."
"sucks to be you"
"the best way to have a fair impartial csm is to make it a lottery instead of voting."
"even though i have my likes and dislikes towards certain candidacies i have to strongly disagree with the op.you can't compare the csm to a nations government. this alone due to the fact whereas a government is elected not only to represent but also to lead and decide the course of action the csm is merely a tool to help ccp to get player issues served more clearly and act as a soundboard.next to that excluding people or powerblocks from the csm elections purely because they come from such blocks is the same as opening votings only to those whom you might like or dislike.if you feel strongly for a certain candidate you help his of her campaign. if you feel strongly adverse to a candidate you present your concerns and let people decide.ccp opens the csm seats for anyone who qualifies and puts in an application for it. but comparing an internet game with real life is just plain ******ed. because in real life if i would get slammed hard for certain actions or inactions i do ingame.and also how politics run where you are from might differ from where i am from. here it's that people have to have a certain bottom limit of people who support you, if you reach that then you can also run your candidacy.next to that even if the majority of the csm would be taken by the nc and it's brosefs, do you really think ccp will do gameimplementations to benefit that group without it benefitting the rest of eve aswel?you could give the csm and ccp a bit more credit than that."
"fyp."
"actually it was a tip of a friend not to make it too long, so changed my original post in something a lot less long (wasn't posted until then either).the work as modder and in other games makes me more a 'think along in their term' kinda person, meaning i know more about the work that they do. in other words, making sure that at least someone things further then a regular gamer. i see potential where others only see something failing. i see something more in something less. a quick idea i can work out very rapidly.piracy itself is not the biggest problem, i am more concerned about goons like you. a pirate has at least some concern and pride towards his/her fellow capsuleers, a goon does not. a pirate does not attack in high sec without good reason, a goon does. a pirate does not prey on new (or weaker) players, a goon does.wanting new ships is not the only thing, read again. and it it not what i want, it is what the capsuleers want. many want to see more ships appear, specifically t3 ships for most. however i want to try to get more ships in general. besides ships i want to see that new fitting objects will become available, like t3 stuff. which could increase the fun of playing for everyone, event for you goons.i am sure you didn't notice, it's very hard to miss *uhum*, i say no to goons already and clearly i have the guts to do so. so why wouldn't i be ablet o say no to ccp when needed? kinda not a smart remark don't ya think? think you should go back to your ship and stop trying, you are obviously not into reading nor to see the advantages. not that it is different with any goon, havn't seen a single one that actually did know a thing or two that showed any intelligence edit:yes, as you can see, i am well capable of showing my teeth and using them."
"what are your thoughts on aspergers being merged with the autism spectrum in dsm5?this is relevant because it reflects on your ability to interpret 'expert' decisions and defer to authority."
"you don't... \"get\" goonswarm, do you?some of our enemies do, but you do not.-brisco smiley, random bob alt circa 2007 -dy morphin of bca, a day after we evicted them"
"is there anyone that does have something useful to say? related to the topic? (and no, that does not include talking about my autism. it's not point of the topic )"
"you brought it up.nobody discussed roosevelt's polio induced paralysis but that was because he didn't wear it like a ****ing badge to get elected."
"i didn't wear a badge to get insulted either, and still you goons do it.. see the irony?"
"no, i don't.privatizing the gain, socializing the loss.you're all more then willing to accept any praise or pity but no criticism or contempt. you do not have the stomach or patience to be heckled, something which every member of goonswarm, the dc, the nc, and to be entirely honest a good portion of nullsec accept as part of the game. to put it plainly, on most online social communities with a /b culture you would be heckled to ragequit for claiming to be an aspy because claiming to be an aspy is the last hope of a desperately anti-social person attempting to rationalize why they can't get any friends without having scrutinize their own actions and interactions."
"does bringing up topics and then telling people not to talk about them work for you as a communications strategy?being on the csm involves a lot of communication (with important internet spaceship people no less) so this is a more important question than you might think."
"talking about something is something different then burning someone to the ground for it but i guess no goon thoughed about that. so you guys are actually trolling and actually on the edge of discrimination."
"i couldnt care less about your medical condition, you got my vote because your views seem to match my own.everyone knows the ui is a joke so i think all members of the csm need to push for changes in that particular area...i really want to see some changes made to the war dec system. it is currently unfair to the people who did not instigate the war, especially when the aggressors are all alts and only log on once their neutrals have your location. you should try living in wh space for a while so you can identify some issues and think of what additions could be made.ps. perhaps you should remove the bit about your medical status as every idiot in eve seems to be concentration on nothing but that..."
"just as a follow up to my comments regarding high sec war decs...*the cost of a war should increase each week for the aggressor. *anyone who wishes to drop from the aggressing corp should have to wait 24 hour regardless if they have roles or not*if a neutral remote repairer assists corp. a while they are engaged in a fight with corp. b, corp b should have kill rights on that person for 48 hour."
"thank you for your vote and concern, however i refuse those same 'idiots' to winthe ui can indeed improve, it's currently not what it should be although it is not my main spear point for now. but yes, when i get chosen, i will look into this and start up a topic specifically about this and what you as user have for ideas. it might be the best way to come to a nice solution.the wardec system is high in my list to be changed, currently the aggressor has to much advantage indeed. but let's get in the csm first"
"one thing i forgot :i'm french.why is it relevant ? even if i like english, it means i have litteraly lots of friends in real life who don't want to play eve because they feel their english is not good enough. and that's really, really sad, they could be great players in this game.right now, german and russian clients exist, but ccp is reluctant to introduce new langages because eve is not made to be translated, textboxes sometimes have a fixed sized, and so on. eve client would need a big revamp to be easily translated.if i'm elected in csm, i'll make sure this particular topic is not forgoten by ccp, and i think it should be part of a bigger ui modification : kill two birds with one stone !"
"peter is a good guy and i would deffinitely think he can do some good for the csm.got my vote :) /loki"
"praise be to the flying spaghetti monster! let all the naysayers and false prophets be touched by his noodly appendages!!!"
"lol this fool is a griefer and can barely string a sentence together never mind be a competent member of the csm. any vote for him is a vote wasted."
"while every voice must be heard, and i respect your opinions as a fellow csm candidate, i have a feeling from your platform that your 8 months of playing in eve were not sufficient for you to get the general idea of what eve is about. (perhaps spent too much of those months in hisec ?)most of your choices are advocating for \"increased safety\" in eve, which would pretty much kill the game. eve is a cold, harsh place, and we must keep that dark atmosphere in place for it to be interesting. every player and character has his place, no matter if they're killing asteroids or other ships. while the hisec pirate may seem an unfriendly fellow to the unexperienced player, he is, too, a gentle fluffy creature with a fragile ecosystem.if you are the kind of people who are good at carrying other's opinions, and have strong commitment to make eve a better place, i'd recommend that you start by joining other groups of players, and explore different playstyles before running again for csm. for now, please, drop. don't break the game."
"yup, it is long and there are longer skills to come but that is what comes with the commitment to the game. it is a time grind as opposed to a kill x number of rats. i would not change it and i am especially against anything in rmt that will alter the timeline or allow you to buy your way to the top, aside from the approved character transfer.m"
"every mmo has its means of progression, eve has a two-pronged approach - skills and resources. skills are gained over time, resources (isk/ships/etc) are (mostly) gained by player prowess. personally i like this system because you don't need to have played for a long time to be able to get access to plenty of resources, so long as you engage your brain. also you shouldn't be able to lose things that cost more than you would be likely to replace (t2/capitals) until you have been able to reach a point where you can (relatively) easily replace them.personally i'm training jdc5 right now and it's taking a long time (~31 days total), but i've trained a pile of shorter skills previously so i can do plenty of things well while i'm waiting for that next step."
"the amount of time it takes to train skills doesn't concern me too much.the reason being is because you can be very effective with low skillpoints.for example; when i had a lowly 10mil in skillpoints, i was successfully solo pvping in frigates.and by successful i mean i was handily killing some battlecruisers, cruisers, all interceptors, and eating 00 hulks with relative ease.all in a t1 frigate.those skillpoints only matter in terms of where you are putting them.if you start a new character and you're putting all your points into corporation management first, you're not going to be great for pvp right out of the gate.the same goes for any profession.you don't need the best of the best, to be successful.honestly, the only delay i see with the skill tree, is getting into t2 variant ships. that's permissible because as stated before, they're supposed to be specialized.the best thing i can suggest is take a look at the certificate system that ccp implemented.it will help you decide whats worth training, and in addition, most ships have recommended certificates.on top of that, download evemon and try making a skill plan to follow.eve is a long term game. it makes sense to have long term skills"
"wish i could change that indeed, even a few days less could be handy. but yeah, ccp will likely not change that since it's basically how they get their income. the longer we have to wait for skills, the more they get payed (may it be in time cards or plex). it sure is a problem for many, it takes way to long to get skills sometimes, i work on a hulk for a month so far and i still have about 14 to 16 days left! just takes to long!"
"having managed a bunch of pilots, doing carrier 5, all cruisers to 5 on many toons, and many bs 5 on many toons.. to many to list.. the reality is the length is good.. it creates a high level of entry on high level ships. i do not feel there is any issue.. as frustrating as it can be it makes sense.look at it this way.. just in terms of a single new pilot.. it will take you a few months to get into a hac.. as such it will take you that few months before you can learn how to fly, use, afford that hac... same with a carrier.. i cant tell you how many 2 week old noobs are after a thanatos or a nyx.. having no clue whats it takes to actually buy use or move one. if you could use one in 3 months instead of 6.. well, the pvper in me is all for the awesome noob tears.. but overall.. for the player its not a good experience.basically i do not thing shortening the training time is in anyone best interest."
"one of the main reasons for the skillqueues being so long, is that eve online is a rather complex mmo as is. if you were to just give everyone the ability to jump in whatever ship they wanted, they'd fail horribly and die in a fire.the slow buildup of skills pretty much forces people to fly around and get used to eve before they can jump into the really expensive toys. it might seem to be a bit boring, but it enables people to gain the necessary experience (most of the time) needed to actually fly well.also personally i consider every high level ship i can fly to be a badge of honour, a testament to the time i've spent playing the game and of the effort i've put into it.so basically, the removal of learning skills was an excellent choice, but the skills themselves shouldn't really be adjusted."
"eve is a game that rewards long term commitment. i wouldn't have it any other way."
"i'll pretty much give you the same answer as the other candidates here.while training some skills can take weeks, or months, it of course seems tedious, but that's an important part of the game. contrary to wow, you can't reach level 70, and that's just fine that way. i would certainly not change that if i could, having rare skills at a high level is what makes your character different from the others. it's all about being a specialist, and teaming with other who have compatible skillsets."
"to be fair, mittens does have a damned cute puppy."
"omfg please tell me you didnt just do that, wow you take insecurity to a whole new level, seriously wtf jc harmlessly replies to a comment i make and you get all anal and spam rl pics?next up we have the swimsuit debate saying that, no matter what happens my boat will always be better than yours (assuming you got yours), hohohoho"
"lol, to be fair he looks better there (despite having a **** welcoming / semi ****** pose) than the one he linked of himself with his *****."
"deal wiz it."
"this isn't what spam means"
"since we are asking the hard questions, vile rat how does it feel to be the mittani's *****?"
"it seems i made some one show his true feelings it's obvious you trying to feel better by making others feel worse, trust me, sooner or later you will get banned for it. enjoy your day"
"well, look at that, you didn't actually quote any of my text. go figure. i will sell you verbs for 50 million isk each. i'll put that on my to-do list somewhere beneath helping that charming nigerian fellow get back his massive inheritance that the authorities have cruelly denied him."
"yeah why vote for a goon when there is white tree. an excellent choice."
"no. you dont. you speak without being concerned with thought.-windjammer"
"ooooh, burn!"
"lightweight. that's all it takes to burn you?"
"perhaps, but doesnt it seem suspicious to you that someone with the moral compass of mits needs to have a cute puppy?-windjammer"
"imma scared"
"my moral compass works brilliantly, i just happen to be a sadist. nothing wrong with that!"
"i agree, though ive given some thought as to the welfare of the cute puppy.-windjammer"
"what a surprise, not one single name of a single super pilot who had their loss removed, because you were lying in order to troll. another lie. aaa, not blue. atlasdot, not blue. not even going to bother checking all the alliances in stainwagon. funny, then, that you can't cite any of it, at all. i wonder... maybe it's because you're making it up?"
"finn, maybe you should log in game"
"more trolling. and go figure, not one single cite. you can start with five nc supercap pilots who had their losses deleted, as you lied. of course you won't cite that, since you were trolling. your troll-line at this point is \"it's not the provable fact that i was lying in order to troll, it's the mere fact that i'm disagreeing that has you unfairly label me as a troll!\"and as i've already checked (you are ****ing awful at trolling) i can confirm that you were lying and both atlasdot and aaa are not blue. this is because you're trolling. why you are given to lying so obviously in order to troll is beyond me. a better troll would be something like \"rzr doesn't have a nap with aaa and stainwagon, but they have a secret nip and will leave their space alone in perpetuity.\" at least that's a lie that's hard to disprove. but any razor pilot can log in, check our standings, and see that you're lying. why you're lying is anybody's guess, from thinking that the nc has no more than 20 titans and 8 motherships to the rest... it's really not rational."
"a lot will try yeah, and i fear a lot trow in bots to do mass votes for those that are on their side. which makes this all unfortuantely a race we can not win, cheating is not allowed but neither enforced"
"bots? you know there's only one vote allowed per subbed/non-trial account, right? so you can't autovote or rig anything.you want to be on the csm to help guide gameplay changes, but you don't even know how the voting process works. that's...scary."
"you can please ignore everyone.i think this is just a case of having excellent candidates and nothing to do with your seizing of power in north korea mr. jong lau."
"you clearly don't know much about hacking, cracking or however they wanna call it these days. enough people are smart enough to do bad things, but good things... well no... they clearly never heared of it"
"thanks for presuming a lack of dastardly knowledge on my part. ah, so your master theory is not some sort of automated vote scheme, but a hijacking hacker thing.allow me to take that a step further: if someone gained your account information, they could not only cause you to vote the way they wanted (if you haven't already voted, anyway) but could drain every one of your characters dry of assets, maybe do some rmt, and biomass the characters afterwards. but lets assume the nefarious hackers behind this aren't too ambitious and just want the free trip to iceland to smell the sulpher and get locked in a room with other mmo nerds all day.it seems likely that, at some point, this hijacking will be discovered--be it through log audits, unusual ip access to accounts (if you live in germany and a single us ip accesses your account once, that's kind of a red flag. fyi), or some other irregularity--if you're going to do this, you're not going to do this for just a few dozen votes but a few hundred. and then the beneficiary of the hacked votes will willingly go to iceland to spend a day locked in a room with ccp sreegs, who will probably have some choice words to relate about account security. which may not go smoothly, since i can vouch that the man is a rage-fueled beast prone to terrible outbursts. you should hear what he does to cats.or, you're trying to gin up some \"1337 hacker\" bogeyman in a paranoid delusion to justify your rabid martyr complex.or maybe i know more about tech stuff than i let on. click here to have your account hijacked to vote for goons!c'mon, you want to click it."
"you are absolutely correct in choosing white tree as your elected representative. at least you have a"
"cool idea - definitely like the graphics update idea, also really like the idea of no-acceleration warp speed.i agree warp speeds would need to be lowered to compensate average ship travel speed, and session timers may need to be lowered for the now super-fast warping inties.changes to the align mechanic...i'm not so sure about, i don't dislike the idea, but there are some valid concerns and it needs further thought.why not make being aligned at speed help your warp drive spin up faster (diverting built up power from your engines to the warp core - visually slowing you down to a stop)i imagine it like there being an extra 10% of the speed bar that's red and normally empty, the bar fills up from the right, and when it meets the speed level (which fills from the left) your bar goes full-red and you immediately hit your maximum warp speed with a flashy warp effect.this extra bar segment would take <1s to fill for all but the slowest ships and it would remove instawarp from aligned ships but allow for the rapid disengage that people worry about nerfing here."
"not sure i like this idea, some good some bad to it.but i think people who picked ******ed names should have to live with them - it wasn't all that funny when you picked it, and...well now it's a weight around your neck."
"i will let this thread say it all:"
"i support this, naturally."
"give dronez a chance ccp!"
"agreed, but also give drones implants to control meatbags"
"i love my little drones and like any other weapon system, they need proper affection when they're starting as a young hobgoblin i and growing up with their dreams of one day being an ogre ii. implants connecting you with them show you care."
"i agree, drones are after all my prefered weapon system despite the fact that we don't get implants, low slot damage enhancers, or damage rigs (aside from sentry).i think it only makes sense to balence them as the other weapons are with the same sort of mods and implants for them."
"and that would be spot on, innocent people aren't going to have their sec status go down in the first place."
"very much supported!"
"amateur game designer hour!"
"the only changes i believe should be made is that the siege timer needs to be halved and the range while in siege needs to be doubled or tripled.the timer should of been changed years ago, it's stupid to keep it at 10 minutes.the range is due to the following.most dreads have the issue that they are a) in combat too long and b) cant hit their targets while doing the damage they need to be doing.the current gun arrangements for a dread are about the following:- close range / close range ammo - up to 5000 dps but only 20-30 km range- close range / long range ammo - up to 2500 dps but only 50-80 km range- long range / close range ammo - up to 2000 dps but only 70-150 km range- long range / long range ammo - up to 1000 dps but only 200-240 km range1000dps is pitiful for the range you need which is why dreads are not used.battleships can do half this damage at the same range yet dont cost as much, dont require the same skills and can be moved about easily around the battlefield.the other issue is that the secondary targets of dread which are super and capital ships can easily move outside the dreads closer ranges within it's siege cycle.the slowest super caps move at 60m/s base which is without any skills (and very unlikely)but even at this speed the target can move 36km away in the 10 minutes of your cycle and the more likely speed of 75-90m/s (ignoring people who have mwd and speed implants/mods on their super caps) will end up 45-54km away from you which pretty much nullifies most close range guns from all common logic.then their is the small issue that 99% of the time you do not warp in on the target at 0 and most groups of capital ships bump (sods law dictates that you bump away from the target).so you end up with a ship that is useless with half it's guns and are forced to use long range ammo which means it's likely better that you just use battleships."
"it's too fast and shouldn't have a drone bay at all."
"if you take away its drone bay and speed it becomes a firetail"
"dramiel is the only frig i have in station right now, and it's been that way for a while.supportedgj podcat on an excellent breakdown of why."
"always thought it odd that you can't train up an alt on the same account at the same time.add some limitations to avoid massive biomassing after events like the 'geddon. something like an increasing timer depending on total sec status loss (over a set amount of time, say 14 days). don't have the numbers but it's an amount that should be felt, up to a point where bioing your alt would take 2-3 months (rp/lore: since you're an outlaw you can't biomass through the direct official channels - working around the scrutiny of the biomassing apparatus requires time; and the lower your sec rating is, the longer it will take the evade that scrutiny).every 3 months this \"timer\" woud be flushed for all characters."
"wouldn't it make more sense (business wise) to ask for character transfers to be payable with plex instead?"
"what happen's when you're in highsec, and that happens?"
"both of your issues have already been resolved in the thread. please read if you want to know how."
"it is a nerf, but how is it a huge nerf? those aren't fighting ships. they'd still be at safe spots. only difference now is that the pilot would be paying attention and aligned for warp out. in combat, it's either scrambled and dead, or not scrambled and warping to safe spot."
"buy interceptor.warp between celestial objects till your within 10-20,000km mwd towards target using directional scanner.it's not that hard ...."
"i have a network of safes along my usual roaming routes that cannot be reached by warping between celestials. such spots are not at all hard to obtain."
"you seem to have missed part of my post. it would in fact be a massive nerf to on grid gang boosters.-liang"
"comments:- no, i'm not lying. you are being dense and my position hasn't changed even a little bit.- you can gang boost from a safe spot even if you aren't unprobeable. its more risky, but that's ok- command ships are flat better than t3s if you are jumping into the enemy.- t3s are flat better than command ships if you have time to get in position before the fight.- gang boosting t3s were not designed to be on the field of battle, and are pretty damn useless if that's where you force them to be.home field advantage is many things. this is simply one of them.-liang"
"if there is a requirement for having booster on-grid, then i agree that +100 sig would be unnecessary nerf. however, since nobody forces you to stay on grid now, to provide the boosts, the extra sig is just a small nuisance."
"i've gone through a pretty large amount of effort to point out the times when you really want your gang boosting to happen on grid, and specifically be done by command ships. a +100 sig radius would be a huge nerf to that kind of gameplay - which you argue isn't even overpowered. furthermore, it also isn't a requirement to gang boost from off grid. face it: the problem real problem is a ship being unprobeable. so fix that instead of needlessly nerfing command ships. -liang"
"you need to learn too eve how to working.unscannable when the signature radius/sensor strength < 1.08.check it and you will see a miracle on your scanner....exactly you wont see 100% scanner results never."
"you seem to have missed something in his post. ;-)-liang"
"well that would be the end for outlaw logistics in lowsec as they never ever will be able to jump as they will refresh each others agression timer indefinitely with the chain. and if they drop the chain the sentries will make sure nothing but dust will jump across after 60 seconds."
"is that supposed to be a bad thing?"
"spoken like a true idiot!the idea is to prevent exploitation of a faulty game mechanic. you just stated that you, should have the ability to agress someone; then use a logi to rep you, so you can stop shooting them and deagress, if you get in trouble. so you now have a 1-2k dps tanks, and you can sit pretty; while a neutral keeps you alive, in the fight. the other guy might as wll just give up, and go home. there is supposed to be risk in pvp; not every possible advantage, for the guy who wants to do it.i had a fight the other day, (all my pvp seems to go this way); where i took on 10 guys outside a station. just me, in a hurricane; vs. 4 combat ships, and logi's, and a probe scanning my fit. i new what i was getting into when i flipped the can; but that's some lousy pvp, with 10 against 1.i admit, i still had fun; but, that's probably because i didn't give a crap. almost nobody, ever has the balls to take me one on one; unless they know they have a guaranteed win, in a better ship. say, command ship vs. frigate; or maybe a hac, vs. a cruiser. eve isn't just about pvp; but it's a good part of it. there's a number of people, as usual; who'd like that to be all it has to offer.but then they'd be broke, or the best; and everybody would quit. you'd have a thousand people left on the server; playing wargames all over empire and null.the more you choose pvp; the less game, there is going to be. less people, less content, less interest.make them accountable. if you pvp; you're a target."
"then you've clearly missed the point. logistics has counters. if you let them go about their business and rep people unhindered, then yes, you deserve to get your ship blown up.try ewar. try neuting. try just about anything other than shooting the things. they've got a 70m signature radius, t2 resists, and are built to do nothing but repair damage. is it really that surprising that shooting them isn't the best idea?and if they dock up? congratulations. you can shoot your target again, unhindered by those evil neutral-reppers!oh, and incidentally? it's not neutral reps you're complaining about now. i can do exactly what you described with a wardec'd logistic ship too."
"sure there are counters as with most things, but i fear you are the one missing the point.example:you have a nice wardec against an equally deranged foe and good times are assured.once fighting starts, all nice and even like, a bunch of neutrals start flashing as they repair the enemy.- you can divert fire to dock/jump them = you lose dps race.- you can choose to ignore them = you lose dps race.- you can bring 'da blob' = you'll never get a fight.it is lose-lose for the side not abusing it.mechanics as they are actually encourage the use of neutral rr in high and low-sec. i am quite frankly surprised that there are not a multitude of groups offering neutral rr services for wardec'ees .. completely non-committal and 100% safe.don't even get me started on undock carriers, those are even worse but thankfully rare in civilized space.ex. dockable rr pretty much obsoletes the entire 'disable station services' side of null attrition warfare."
"i personally favour a nuclear option to curtail neutral remote repping. have any character who remote reps/sensor boosts/cap transfers another character inherit their aggression, and suffer the full consequences of it. that would firstly include the standard jump/aggro timer, but also impose additional penalties.take the following example: you have ships a, b, and c; c being a neutral remote repper.a and b are at war, have canflipped, or are otherwise engaged. remote repper c then reps b. as b is engaged with a, the remote repper should suffer the consequences of attacking a and anybody else who b has attacked in the last 60 seconds as if they themselves had attacked them. as such, unless c could legitimately attack a (i.e. a is red to him), c should suffer the consequences of an unprovoked attack, mainly getting concorded in highsec, or going gcc in lowsec.this would effectively limit remote-repping to non-neutrals in highsec, while making their use in lowsec less attractive. while people would still be free to remote-rep, it would be neccessary to have your remote-reppers in-corp, or wardec the enemy with them separately. this would force people to effectively play with their hand of cards visible, and allow their oponents to properly scout the available logistics. to to reduce abuse and mistakes, a 'do you really want to do that?' type popup could be shown if a player is about to rep a dangerous target, as well as interrupting the rep cycle if your target aggresses on another oponent/station.essentially, the in-game rationale for this would be that concord should take a rather dim view of neutral parties interrupting a sanctioned war, and should respond appropriately."
"i guess its not enough that using a logistics in low sec means you're going to be taking sentry fire 100% of the time you're undocked, and if you're in the fw taking a faction standings hit to your own faction every time you rep someone. maybe we can just have concord spawn and blow you up every time you activate a remote repair module? or maybe we can just give logistics ships jump drives because that's the only way you'll ever get a pair of guardians through a gate? no, he didn't miss the point. you are. see, the problems that you're pointing out are all strictly related to stations - not gates. all the action that happens on gates is pretty well balanced and has a multitude of well known and well used counters. so... fix the problem. stations. not neutral, or hostile, or whatever rr.-liang"
"and how would you propose such a solution would look; no actions possible within docking range perhaps?the null blobs would be very cross if you took away a reason to flaunt their leet camping skills doesn't matter if you take stations out of the equation though, they just serve to make the problem of neutral activity stand out.- they can come at range and still be relatively safe (depending on engagement type). all that does is add damps as 'counter' which again impacts fight outcome.- neutral rr on high<->low gates allows complete immunity, concord protects the neutral.- you have to shoot the rr to make them jump, thus losing dps race and you need more dudes to intercept on other side which only works if unscouted as excessive numbers tend to discourage fights.it remains lose-lose no matter where you run into neutrals assisting one side. only way to insulate one from it is to use it oneself which is why it must go."
"i'm game for any number of solutions which nerf station games instead of needlessly nerfing logistics.this is you complaining that someone is fighting you. someone call the waaaahmbulance.i'm pretty sure they still have player+corp aggression for assisting during the war dec. i don't believe this is controlled by system. even if it isn't, that's a really terrible reason to nerf an otherwise balanced and working ship class.practically speaking, this is a non issue because you need people either already on the other side or ready to jump through (read: not aggressed) to catch anyone who deagresses.-liang"
"i approve (of it being nerfed, in what way i'm not sure yet)."
"neutral only flashes to whomever is directly affected by his actions, so if and only if you have shot at the target being repped at the time he is repped .. perhaps you should read up on the topic before commenting further? if you only ever ride with a blob where you can have people everywhere and have a good chunk not pulling their weight just in case they have to jump, sure it is a non-issue .. have a nice day moron. enjoy circle-jerking yourself from here on out."
"so what you're saying is that if you're shooting someone on a high sec gate and and he brings in a bunch of neutral rr and reps himself up, that they become flagged to you even if they jump into the next system?wow. that sounds exactly like what i said would happen. and something that isn't broken. i fly in \"extremely\" small gangs - from 1-6 people. my opponents fly in \"small\" gangs of 10-150. yes, we totally blob. that is exactly what you are complaining about.moron.-liang"
"what this thread needs is a counter proposal:if a logistic ship reps someone with a timer of any sort, they inherit the timer in question. they do not get a fresh timer, they instead receive whatever time is left on the party in question.example: arty tempest blasts someone on a gate, thinking he can survive the 30 seconds to redock after it blows up. he can't, and calls for reps with 10 seconds left. both the tempest and the logistic can jump 10 seconds later.if any other logistics ships are currently aiding that logistics, they will probably inherit the timer too. they won't be able to jump until 10 seconds have passed, but at least the whole gang won't be stuck on the gate indefinitely because the guardians need to keep their cap up.there. now logis can't rep and immediately dock up after you shoot them -- they just have to survive for 30 seconds. however, unlike in your proposal, we can actually cease our \"offensive actions\" -- that is, repping people that are still actively firing on you, without committing suicide (cutting our mutual capacitor chain)."
"i support fixing of neutral remote repair. this is the primary focus of my campaign as it is a matter of balancing high sec.support manalapan here"
"exactly. the system works as it is in the context of eve, which is the only relevance needed. also real-world pilot training and type certification is more complex than op thinks it is. not supported"
"stopped reading here. but i'm guessing you want ccp to change everything for you because you are impatient."
"no other game allows 10 minute lag if you're lucky, a couple of hours worst case. limit the people that can enter a system to something you can handle, like 300-400."
"a major problem i have with the test server is its alignment with the main server. for the people who arn't hard core sisi users, you always find your sp somewhere between 100-1,000,000 sp behind. its a pain in the a** and very annoying. when that happens to me, the test server is unattractive and i wont touch it until the next mirror, which i always seem to miss because i have a life.proposial #1: all characters get 2mil sp when test server is mirroredproposial #2: all characters get 10% (5%? 2%?) allowacated skillpoints when mirrored. or;proposial #3: all skills to 5 or at least a level higher.#2 example. if i have 20mil sp on main server, i get 2mil sp allowacated sp when the test server mirrors. the reason this is reasonable is because only high sp characters will get the benifit sticking people to their normal character and not dozens of under 1mil sp toons.vote for one,my vote is for #2 because its reasonable."
"no support or critisism?"
"not if you wait only <20min"
"i would prefer a red small (inner?) border (1px) around the square dots which are waypoints!!please no flashing or blinking stuff!!!"
"the color blind amongst us thank you for your suggestion. -liang"
"seriously. do even five seconds of research before you propose something that has been on this board literally half-a-dozen times before, and has already been done.and for that matter, it's a stupid idea. japan is an industrialized nation that was prepared for the event in question. haiti was not."
"wrong, malcanis - there are many modules where t2 is better than m4. m4 being superior is the exception rather than the rule.i do not support this change though, it's a little odd, but it's not an issue.m4 always has lower fitting req's, but t2 often has better effectiveness."
"it doesn't here, which is sort of the problem. the t2 module has all of the drawbacks and 0 benefits."
"wrong, it shouldn'tif you look hard enough you'd probably find a dev post saying that"
"i didn't say m4 is always better than t2, just that all the m4 ew modules are."
"ok so it seems everyone wants the old cyno effect....and i think its a great idea....this also i think make preformance better; this is how:looked hectic and i think thats why the changed it. but what if you only had oneof these and the ships would come out of it. im no programmer or game designer so this is just an idea....the cyno becomes the \"tunnel\" (old effect) and all the ships come from that 1 \"tunnel\". this also decreases cpu usage and makes it look kinda epic in my opinion....flame awaythe old effect:please visit your user settings to re-enable images.edit: stupidity took over"
"i've noticed that the best areas (hisec ice belt systems) always are fully occupied. the rest of space is very very very really extremly ginourmous, and there's enough space for anyone who wants a pos to put one up.considering that you get mail telling you the pos is running low, i feel that salvage should be permissible the instant the thing goes offline."
"myself and others have ineffective bookmarks 200-400km on gird around some gates. they can be warped to as long as you are off grid, but if you are on said gates at zero meters myself and others have found it impossible to warp to to them. even if the bookmarks are well beyond 150 kilometers from whatever position you may be at you cannot warp to them. this happens with newly created bookmarks also.tactical bookmarks on gate grids are an essential part of pvp in this game. fixing this and other bugs related to basic game play should be the focus of the csm. before the addition of any new mechanics/features please remember there are a whole host of issues that should be resolved first. thanks kahanu"
"this really needs fixing. combat is not the moment to find out you cannot warp to a otherwise correct bookmark."
"fantastic ideas. as a pvp enthusiast, i endorse this product :)fix tacticals! amen!"
"i've encountered this myself, amongst other things that just seem to be caused by sloppy coding.supported."
"why in assembly hall though?sounds like it is more appropriate in \"issues..\" and a bug-report. you have bug reported it, right?"
"that's fine as long as they change the important parts to something more robust and less serial."
"i approve."
"toggle: mute station sounds toggle: mute station sounds toggle: mute station sounds toggle: mute station sounds toggle: mute station sounds toggle: mute station sounds toggle: mute station sounds toggle: mute station sounds toggle: mute station sounds toggle: mute station sounds toggle: mute station sounds toggle: mute station sounds toggle: mute station sounds toggle: mute station sounds toggle: mute station sounds toggle: mute station sounds toggle: mute station sounds toggle: mute station sounds toggle: mute station sounds toggle: mute station sounds toggle: mute station sounds toggle: mute station sounds toggle: mute station sounds toggle: mute station sounds toggle: mute station sounds toggle: mute station sounds toggle: mute station sounds toggle: mute station sounds"
"i support this product and or service"
"tanith yarndemon and i endorse this product and or service"
"tanith yarndemon and i endorse this product and or service"
"i support this product and or servicegoodluck!~"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"my name is guardsman30 and this is my favorite candidate in the citadel.i support this product and/or service."
"i support this product and or service"
"this thread is getting deeply cringeworthy..."
"nypheas azurai and i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service."
"he's literally the glenn beck of eve-o.hey let me answer your question with another question that's got nothing to do with the subject. nobama lol"
"op: csm doesn't \"lead\" ****. you're not voting for a ****ing government. case closed."
"there is a saying \"when you throw a rock into a pack of dogs, the one that got hit is the one that yelps\". i see lots of yelping lol. good job jade :) good points too."
"jade alt spotted."
"i <3 jade"
"you know i genuinely thought the human race had evolved beyond the point at which it was possible to be trolled by jade constantine, but i guess that dude who runs eve tribune proved me wrong. incredible work jade - you've still got it, babe."
"i have just finished reading this:"
"indulge us, what is that goal?"
"yeah, honestly i hate dishonest/unethical practices. like i don't know, spamming csm forum with barely disguised 'vote for me' threads. how many is it now?"
"you really are a ****ing moron :("
"\"vote for me! god knows i post enough so i've got at least some recognition. in regards to my *plans* though, i think glaring meanly at mittens & co. the entire time and calling every idea they have stupid merely to be an obstructionist just about covers it. oh the free trip to iceland would be p cool as well k thx bye vote4me plz i drive a turbo diesel estate sportscar.\""
"sorry, i have a short attention span. tbh i would have but you asked just a little too late - maybe next year.whilst i appreciate your political viewpoint is an entitlement you hold dear, i find your debate somewhat lacking. thank god windyplop has at least out-sentenced you.indeed, nothing at all like overinflating posts to 12, 15 or even 19 pages for that very reason huh?"
"i would except i have already cast all of mine ..."
"highest match was 50% lowest was 35% but when i actually read what the lowest matched said vs the highest match it was a more accurate reflection of what the csm can and would likely do. anyways it was nice to have a place to find peoples platforms all condensed together. vote cast and thank you all for your commitment to the game and its improvement."
"thanks for creating this useful site.after reading some of the comments on the issues made by the candidates i kept thinking the following - - is that person serious about that issues or are they joking? - will the devs be listening to that persons and think they really represent the average player?i may be pointing out the obvious but some manifestos seem to be the work of trolls or some type of meta gamer. it is nice that ccp do this type of focus group market research but i don't see anyone who i want to vote for but a few who i hope don't get elected."
"hi there,just letting you know that i found this site most valuable for my making my decision.nice work."
"eve is not like real life, where time passes equally for everyone. some people play all day every day, while others play a few hours a week (say, on weekends).thus a longer voting period is needed to give everyone an equal chance to vote. reducing the voting period would favor organized in-game groups that can quickly get out their vote in a disciplined manner.the current 2-week voting period is convenient for those players who just want to set aside an hour or two to do the research, make their choices, and vote.really, what we have here is a 3+ week campaign with voting open during the last 2 weeks. i don't think that is excessive (and it was cut down from 4+ weeks (2+2) in the previous election)."
"campaigning is a 7 days a week job and i do have a life.treb, you probably like the campaigning stuff in extension of your passion of being csm.i personally like to spend less time in campaigning as i really dislike it.campaigning is about politics while the csm itself is actually a taskforce.politics is about lawmaking, we don't make the laws, ccp does!if ccp can make voting possible through eve-gate then there's no more need for a 2 week period, 10 days will do (where 2 weekends includes)"
"a reduction to 10 days as you suggest is certainly worth considering. but i wonder if perhaps it might favor incumbents, by giving new candidates less time in which to interact with the voters and become defined in their minds.one thing that might be done in the aftermath of the election would be to survey all of the candidates about their experiences and get their opinions on how the campaign process might be improved. i would certainly support this.finally, i understand your concerns about the time it takes to campaign, but keep in mind -- you are running for a volunteer job that, if you are elected, is going to soak up at least 1-2 hours a day of your time, probably more. the campaign is just a taste of what is ahead for the \"lucky\" winners!"
"shortening the voting period when the turnout is barely 10-15% is a horrible ideea.that \"0.5% each day\" is actually around 2000 people or 10%-ish extra vote casts which is likely enough to get one person into the csm.if you're so busy in real life you can't wait for 1 more week and likely another 10000 extra votes maybe you shouldn't have signed up for the csm in the first place."
"people have reported than some names have been removed for the choice... and it seems it's true for at least one, what does that means ?"
"1.you are jumping into conclusions too fast as voting started ~ march 11th.lets see how many votes there will be casted after sunday the 20th (day 10)2.csm requires around 16hrs a week while campaigning will cost you every minute of the day possible."
"an election with 50k+ votes involved is a serious commitment, you shouldn't try to run 'yourself' anymore than a local elected official does. you need volunteers, staffers and a war room, ideally. it's the serious footslogging in the last week where your gotv efforts and organization pull you ahead of the pack who are trying to run solo and burning to a crisp."
"i plead for a different way of elections for next year:i like to see a new setup:4 csm candidates get into csm by players votes3 csm candidates will get into csm by 'jury' (ccp), based on any criteria that the jury may have.2 csm members of the current running csm can get pushed forward by the other councillors (internal vote) for continuation purposes. (rule: the csm members that made use of this option cannot make use of this option twice in a row)* more guarantee on quality of csm* less chance on 'csm blocks'* improved continuation* not everyone with the best skills and plans are capable running campaign as it should or lack campaigning skills.pick by jury will be fair for this group of candidates."
"excellent reply there mittens. i wish you'd come across like this from the beginning instead of the whole anti-trebor drama. i would seriously have considered giving you one of my votes if your campaign had been more along these lines."
"now that`s what i call shoveling the bull****. a kind of anti ccp/csm rant that will appeal to the very suckers the man speaks of."
"yeah, i have to agree to a bit. iff he does think that the csm requires the 'subtle hand' approach used when you are not in a position of power, but have an ear.true the negative approach used ensured a number of the votes he got, but he easily could have gotten them without it. and the cost of such approach is that it alienates people he will need to work with (assuming with high probability that trebor is coming back.) the first rule of thumb for the kind of 'subtle hand' manuevering that he is describing is that you can not under any circumstances put people you are manipulating into the defensive. its kind of like the star wars thing, \"the tighter you close your fist the more star systems will yada yada i'm not wearing a bra\"it could be that when all is said and done he will be able to smooth things over with said people when he gets face to face, but if the statements made here about trebor or the others being high function autistic types or standard 'do well onlines but can't function face to face' folks then there's pretty much no chance of that.ignoring the other csm members and just looking at ccp, you've effectively already put them on the defensive (in as much as they even care) which also goes against the 'subtle hand' approach. to do this right you have to start smooth from day one, which isn't done with a thread titled \"they're all lying to you\".edit: the key is moral high ground, as it implies that you aren't trying to manipulate, but that you have everyone's best interests at heart and just want to help.of course i could have completely misunderstood what he meant in his reply.edit2: i should add that the concept of alienating and moral high ground only matter with regards to the people you have to work with, alienating voters doesn't matter in the slightest"
"you're a sad delusional little geek."
"one does not run a political campaign on post-structuralism, if one actually has any desire to win."
"god do i hate broad pedantic philosophies that require a 3 volume series to define, and use the intangibility of their position as a defense mechanism.here's some advice, get past the freshman philosophy they taught you in law school and knuckle down into some tangible reading like popper or some kitcher, the latter being particularly relevant to the csm, the former just being a badass and relevant to everything.ok, sperge done with.i generally agree with the stance against binary opposition that post-structuralism holds dear, and i also appreciate how that doesn't make for a good campaign. however, you could have chosen some straw man you wouldn't have had to deal with face to face instead of someone you'll now have to subdue.that's part of what makes the csm so strange. its not a democratic/republic group where you can make coalitions and get stuff passed. its almost more of a consensus operation. from where i stand you have already hamstrung yourself a bit by fomenting dissent in the soon-to-be ranks.or am i misreading this?"
"why do i suddenly feel like i'm in the middle of a reading for good will hunting 2?"
"sorry for the lack of a lengthy reply yesterday, but basically: 1. half of elections involve riling up your own base to give a **** enough to actually vote; they are not intellectual exercises where the 'best candidate wins'. the best campaigner wins, which is one of the major flaws of representative democracy. you think that my people pointing out trebor's ridiculous views is a net detriment. i disagree. 2. you are misreading the situation because i have privileged information - well, not really. i have read the many public statements that the other csms have made about trebor's personality. many worse things have publicly been said about him as a person; i've only expressed vague distaste for his (dumb, uninformed) ideas themselves and the ruinous impact they could have on the game. his consensus ideas are unobjectionable, like most consensus views. despite the relative brutality of mazz and helen's comments, he is quite obviously not the sort of person to hold a grudge, and so the fact that my people are 'using' his own posts to critique his platform is hardly the kind of set up for a grudgefest that you and similar commentators seem to think it will be. in fact, if you think about it sensibly for a moment or two, he should send me flowers and chocolates, because i have rather explicitly guaranteed that he gets a seat on the csm, rather than being lost amid the shuffle of the bloc candidates. my motives are pure, like the driven snow. tldr: if it seems like my actions are nonsensical, it's because you're missing pieces."
"i actually want to vote for you and get you the chair position. the crash and burn that is likely to ensue as a result of the attitude you present would be priceless. personal opinion aside, in the spirit of fairness and democracy, i wish you luck."
"vote for me for spite, vote for me for love, at the end of the day all that matters is your vote. for me. heh."
"bump!"
"nuff said."
"no time tonight for detailed replies, but in the interest of bump management...ah, another alumni of the council of light, eh?"
"what i'm seeing here (currently and historically) are a variety of very good ideas blended in with a variety of very bad ideas.the bad ideas seem to be most focused around null sec warfare and the like. generally superficial things that won't get off the drawing room floor.the good ideas, on the other hand, are much broader and consequential and have hit the game or have a decent chance of doing so.weighting those two i would say that you're a solid candidate. still though, all my votes are going to prom. just saying.edit; also gemstone wtf that brings me back. damn."
"nice to see such a huge response and voter turnout treb; keep up the hard work.+5 for you!"
"i'm very sorry to chase you for that, but i was wondering if any response has been given? thank you."
"as i pointed out in the discussion with yeep, the point was not whether a particular (and deliberately simplified) example -- made in my manifesto for the previous csm election -- was the fix for lag. what was important was the larger issue being illustrated.it should be obvious to everyone that if the number of players on a node is kept well below the capacity of the node, then lag will tend to go away. the problem with eve is that the game-mechanics do not reward that behavior; they do quite the opposite.i am quite happy that you have found enjoyment in large fleet fights; others have been less fortunate. but i am sure that we can agree that the search for game-mechanics that would address the limitations of the eve architecture and make large battles more fun is a worthy one, deserving of broad support.when i ran for csm last year, i had no expectation of actually getting elected. i ran because i was concerned about several key aspects of the game that would, if not addressed, eventually cause me to quit playing eve -- the first game in over a decade i thought was worth a damn. so my campaign platform was really a way of starting a discussion that i felt was important.if you've read my first \"confessions of a noob starship politician\" blog post, you'll know that i was absolutely shocked that i got elected, and that, in what is now a delicious irony, it occurred to me that the goons had voted me in to grief me. however, this time around, having learned through hard work what the csm (and ccp) can and cannot do, i am running because i believe i will be even more effective in csm 6 than i was in csm 5.i know that you don't share that opinion, but hopefully this discussion has given other readers of the thread some insights that will help them make an informed decision in the voting booth."
"count me in."
"this thread is the largest thread since ankhsametampekeh!"
"confirming that if windypoops had not employed me as his campaign manager i would have voted for you."
"vote and bump for a well experienced and respected candidate."
"3 votes and a friendly bump for my csm candidate of choice."
"+2 votes for seleene.the number one concern that i have for eve is that ccp does not iterate on past/out dated content. this means more than simply adding a few more missions. it means actually altering and improving the game play of these mechanics. the"
"+2 votesthe stand out candidate for me in what has been a somewhat poor campaign by many of the leading contenders.i guess we will see in due course, if they were votes well placed."
"confirming i'm not trolling.also obligatory daily bump"
"just joined issler's corp. it's been great so far, issler knows exactly what the little guys need in this game.+1 for issler"
"i support issler's bid. i have known issler since i first started playing 5 months ago and i can say that she truly does care about players in eve, from the newest noob to the oldtimers. i agree with many of her beliefs and i believe that you should be able to play eve the way you want to. also, having a veteran of csm returning is a good idea too. with her previous experience she can accomplish more and help represent the interests of all players of eve."
"huge thanks to folks that have contacted me directly to offer their support.miners, industrialist, folks that want low sec fixed, solo and pve pilots i promise to drive your views into the csm process if elected!issler dainzethe voice of reason csm candidate"
"microtransactions? well we have little to go on regarding ccp's platform re: microtransactions aside from blogs like this one:ccp zulu's blog about microtransactinosi have a couple problems with this.first we have the statement \"its important to clarify that virtual goods sales isnt an arbitrary - or particularly greedy - decision.\" which is backed up by a bunch of words that seem to indicate that their reasoning that it isn't greedy is that \"everybody else is doing it\" which i don't accept as a reasonable response. eve has more subscribers than at any point in its history and that income has served ccp well towards being resourced to bring a good product to the table. is that income suddenly inadequate? to deny minor changes to the game that enhance your ability to personalize your experience to any but those who want to spend extra rl cash i feel is short changing your customer base and opening the door to subtly introducing a wide range of for fee options that make the game less immersive to those of us who 'only' pay for a monthly subscription. microtransactions are considered a reasonable income flow for games who's core content is otherwise free but in this instance it seems like a blatant bout of greed that could open up a rather slippery slope towards a game where you pay to play but if you really wanna play you gotta pay even more.so no, not a fan of microtransactions in eve. just release the damn content for everybody and stop trying to nickle and dime your userbase. you aren't an airline, stop charging for peanuts."
"i'm voting for you because of your focus on the story of eve. i run a lot of missions. i think that ccp should use the incarna character models to enhance the missions with some cool cut-scenes similar to what you see in mass effect 2 and dragon age 2. how much more fun would it be to rescue the damsel if when you drop her off at the station you get see her run weeping into the arms of your agent? or in vengeance, wouldn't it be cool if while warping to the final room to confront rachen mysuna you could watch her striding to the command deck of her pirate battleship and give the order to power up the weapons systems. the story of eve is not just the social interactions, we should have compelling single player stories too!"
"bonjour a toi,peut tu expliquer un minimum en fran<U+FFFD>ais ?du moin, pour ce qui de ta candidature.car si tu est fran<U+FFFD>ais, <U+FFFD>a serait bien de mettre en avant, bien que je comprand qu'il est est plus d'anglais sur e.v.e.j'espere aux moin que tu porterait la voix fran<U+FFFD>aise aux mieux !merci d'avance."
"salutations !si tu le souhaites, j'ai cr<U+FFFD><U+FFFD> un thread pour ceux qui pr<U+FFFD>f<U+FFFD>rent r<U+FFFD>agir en fran<U+FFFD>ais sur jol :"
"with the stacking penalties it would make no difference, in fact, you might as well just have a warfare link passive defense just as well, but it would have more point as it's passed down the fleet. also making supers overpowered and harder to kill is a dual edged sword with one side being their strength and the other loggofski. aeon as it is, already hard to kill unless you neutralize it."
"link fail. and yes, that is exactly why i lol'd.also, mostly useless bump. manalapan for csm!"
"i also wouldn't want a csm member who, at the first sign of hardship simply gives up and runs for the hills taking all your stuff along with him.seriously, you can claim scamming is an 'important part of eve' - i don't think anyone is disputing that, but supporting someone that glorifys ripping people off and claims that it was all because he was too arse lazy to actually do anything about it when things went west ?traits i really don't think are leadership material. i guess you have a different opinion, but i prefer to support leaders that wont quit and look after themselves at the first sign of trouble but will rather support their constituents."
"fyi: you are not looking to csm members for leadership... they are there to mediate with the players and pass on solid idears and the opinions of the greater eve comunity.to not trust a person because of there actions inside a game is , to say the least, childish and an ill concived opinion of someones charictor.i personaly enjoy killing noobs in eve, this dus not mean that i petrolbomb school busses in real life, that would just be wrong.as far as legitimacy and this candidates ability to deliver the wants of the greater eve comunity. i can see no better person to be voted in to the top 9.he listens to peoples idears and where warrenting modifyes his veue on various subjects, he is always fast to admit his mistakes (his failed bank) and \"if\" he can rectify it he duz.so please refrain from posting personal derogitory opinions about a persons rl charictor purly based on there in game alterego/avatar.manalapan for csm2011reguards dd"
"i am aware that i have missed a couple drawings. my brother is in town so that was a small distraction. i have gone ahead and done the draw for today but not selected any prizes yet.winners:21 iron straw51 naughtygrim48 trinneth44 el daniels40 huntin4cloud9i will do prizes later tonight as well as another drawing.i appreciate everyone's added support. it is important that you tell your friends to vote for csm so we can make sure everyone gets a say in the future of eve. point them to manalapan for balancing eve and tell them to post here to get into the daily drawings."
"basically, they have a very short jumprange, very high fuel consumption for said range (and i know that there are ways around this by using a supply truck, but still).furthermore, their stats are just completely nerfed. no tii resists (acceptable, seeing that no other cloakies have that aside from tiii's), but more importantly their lock range.the black ops skill bonus is also very situational. what use is a 5% per level agility bonus on a battleship?furthermore, they can't use a covops cloak, something that, to me at least, is rather weird seeing that they belong to the family of covops cloak capable ships.i hope that answers your question vp."
"i bolded the important part. while i can respect arden and other csm candidates to avoid the trolling by goons (good strategy really), i do admit that black has a great point.if arden wishes to play his version in this sandbox, then that is cool. but who can really respect someone to be in a leadership position when all you do is bully the ignorant and less skilled? csm is very important position and i just have a tough time imagining arden being skilled enough to take on a important position. what you do ingame transcends real life in many ways. it's not just your character who enjoys spoiling the fun for other players but it's you- the person. how can we respect the person?what separates you from guys like ripard, selene, or serious internet politican? i like their positions."
"i definitely an not a puppet of 0.0 alliances. if you look at my campaign i am focused on things to fix high sec."
"i think many of you guys are just missing the point. as a csm member you have to represent the eve community.. you are not going to get to make changes for your cause, you are going to work with ccp to provide feedback on issues and ideas based on your understanding of game play and the overall community.a candidate that doesn't understand 0.0 cant possible understand the implication of his/her recommendation on overall game play, and in reverse and 0.0 only candidate cant represent empire players. a candidate that is advocating for 1 specific thing or another is not going to serve the best interest of the community overall. you may advocate to fix guns that suck for missioning, but do you understand how that will affect pvp, you may recommend a change for high sec mining, do you have any idea what that will do for wh or 0.0 mining. you may want to add jump drives to orcas, or hulks with 4 lasers, or make megathron uber l33t with rails, but can you understand the affects those changes will have on every other area where that 1 change could be used.myself and a few others actually actively play in both empire and 0.0, in both pvp and industrial/pve roles. you should really think about a candidate that will represent and understand as much as possible."
"agreed, i think that omment you just made applies to a lot of candidates, 0.0 and non-0.0 alike.the vast majority of a term is spent discussing things that are not one's pet issues. as such it is extremely important to have people who have the required knowledge and interest in all areas of the game not to be dead weight in 80% of the conversations, as has happened regularly..."
"i disagree : \"jack of all trades, master of none\"i would rather have :a csm with specialized players who can champion for some specific cause relevant to their own playstyle, and convince -or not- other non-specialized csm members solely on the quality of their speech and their ideas.rather thana csm full of 0.0 citizens, most of them in powerblocs, most of them thinking 0.0 is the only endgame, some of them also playing in empire sometimes (for trade and production only ?), with no one really playing with empire dwellers on a daily basis.with this kind of csm, 0.0 decisions would be taken only to please powerblocs lobbies. and empire matters just won't be discussed because it is not their interest. or worse, they will be discussed, to nerf lvl4 and other things to bring more people to 0.0.what kind of csm do you want ?vote for me"
"wow, lots of people trying to steal my message, huh?"
"do you honestly think you are the only one who thought of that spontaneously ?"
"first off i have nothing against any single game play style.. but .. as a high sec player only.. do you really think you can fairly represent, low sec, 0.0, or wh life? sure you may represent high sec very well, but you are uneducated or inexperienced and there for useless on other matters. look for a candidate that understands as many areas as possible.yes, my main char spends life in 0.0 and low sec and i use this char almsot every night, during the day i work very closely with friends that live in high sec and worm holes. that ice mine, ore mine, manufacture, research/invent, and mission run. let me repeat this.. i work with them daily.. i am not a 0.0 ***** that hears about high sec.. i deal with both on a regular basisspecialization and special interested are great and they have their place.. but there are only a couple open csm seats.. do you really want that seat taken by a special interest person that doesn't represent the community as a whole? yes in some case that's you, high sec candidates.. and others is those 0.0 powerbloc candidates that are only running to represent 0.0 interests... i'm just saying i'm not either of those special interest people."
"um, draco, are you honestly suggesting that the csm will have no 0.0 specialists in it??! the whole thing has been one massive stitch up between your nc alliance, test and goons. there will be a minimum of 6 of you on the csm."
"where in the world did i say that.. please do not imply or infer intent.. if you actually pay attention you will see that im advocating against special interest groups.. 0.0 or any other.. again, please read first..\"and others is those 0.0 powerbloc candidates that are only running to represent 0.0 interests\"im not saying they aren't here, im saying im not one of them and voters should not vote for special interest candidates. im saying it shouldn't not that it wont"
"so how do you feel about the attempt your alliance and others have made to make the csm a 0.0 only club? will you be speaking out against them if you're elected to the csm?"
"empire* player only, in fact. i spend most of my active play time in low sec.i know my own limitations (i fear many other candidates don't : they have the \"been there done that, thus i know everything\" syndrome), and i know i can not represent 0.0 players well, because i don't know how 0.0 really work, since i've never lived there.but what i can promise is i will listen to them anyway, wether they are from powerblocs, small alliances...and, more importantly, my votes as a csm member on subjects i don't know will be driven by logic -and i can assure you i am a logical and thoughtful person- and the wish to make the game better as a whole, given what players wants according to forums and discussions.i believe this is a lot better than decisions taken by players who have many assets that might be impacted, for instance.voters will decide. but i feel like empire voters might want someone who have no link to 0.0. who could balance the csm more than a real empire player, when lots of seats will be taken by powerblocs and other 0.0 players ?besides, these players already know 0.0, no need to have a jack of all trades, choose an empire champion instead !"
"my alliance has only 1 candidate running... me.. however, i strongly oppose any formal attempt to have nc or any other solely 0.0 players fill csm seats if they are only representing their own 0.0 interests. the one thing to remember is that 0.0 makes up a very large number of very serious players.. so its only natural to expect them to have a high representation in the list of candidates.. and in turn since nc is a very large 0.0 group that by default means there will be a large number of them, its not a direct reference of conspiracy, and with the exception of goons pretty much no nc alliance has more than 1 player running.but yes back to your original question. i do formally oppose a csm made up of special interest 0.0 (or any other) members. which may be why i'm not a canidate that is formally endorsed by nc (or maybe they just don't like me)"
"so given that you yourself acknowledge that 0.0 megaalliance players like you and your mates will already be overwhelmingly represented already why do we need more of you? why are you trying to claim that it's 'imbalanced' in some way to have one or maybe 2 empire specialists out of 9 seats on the csm?"
"alsyth, your comments are base on philosophy, and i do not feel this is a good place for a philosophical debate. while i do not directly oppose what you have said, i do feel there is some flaw to that logic.the one piece that i think is relevant is that while you may be logical and open, without understand how its actually works, you wont understand the way the conniving, devious, and power hungry players will exploit, exacerbate or twist the results of a decision that was made based on special interest decision.i'm not trying to say you wont make good decisions.. i'm sure you will, but you may not be able to understand the consequences of those decisions..this is not a personal attack, i would love to have high sec representation in the csm, i would just personally prefer it be someone that knows more than only high sec."
"if those empire specialists understand 0.0, wh, low sec, and can understand the consequences their decisions will have in respect to all those other areas, i do not oppose there role in csm.to say again, what i oppose is any person that wants to sit on csm to represent their interest without knowledge or regard for the rest of the eve community."
"so who exactly is doing that. apart from your own cluster of alliances who have organised block voting to ensure that they, and their pals are all voted in?"
"alsyth stated he does not have the knowledge to understand the rest of the community, and i know there are 0.0 candidates that are only running because of the jb crap. im sure there are others but im interested more in my campaign and honestly i couldn't tell you everyone's ultimate intent nor do i care. whats important is that the players voting understand the results and vote for what they want. if voters want all high sec special interest people with no understanding of anything else or all 0.0 special interests that just want to protect their jb networks.. then so be it. (or any various combination)and as always i want to state again.. im not part of a conspiracy, i am not endorsed by nc, i was actually told not to run by certain nc leaders. im running because 'i' want to represent the eve community and i will do my best. while i understand you think (or know) that others are trying to consume csm, don't assume everyone is. just dont do it.if you have issues with others doing that, address it with them not me, i cant control what they do."
"are you serious? why would your leaders tell you not to run?"
"i do not feel airing nc dirty laundry is relevant to my campaign.. im only stating the fact that i was not officially endorsed by the nc as a whole."
"splitting the pre-agreed block vote didn't go down well, i take it? nice friends you have there."
"wow, seriously ? i think you didn't understand me: i'm running for csm6 mainly because i don't want 0.0 powerblocs players to use their seats in the csm to misguide ccp into decision that will help their powerbloc interest. i want to be the voice that screams the truth when they try to do that. and don't think anyone will be able to fool me, i might not live in 0.0, but it doesn't mean i'm clueless about its game mechanics.again, i know a lot about low-sec too.you might be able to represent hi-sec players preoccupations, true.but you represent powerblocs too, and empire player don't want a powerbloc csm, your empire experience won't change the fact that you have personal interest to gain/lose from 0.0 decisions.i didn't say that.i know my limitations, and i can't speak for the 0.0 community now, that's all. i can perfectly understand any 0.0 player who comes and speak with me, share their concern, etc. i just don't live with them on a daily basis, and won't pretend to know their playstyle.i have no doubt i will make 0.0 \"out of powerbloc\" voices heard in csm if i'm elected, along with some other csm members (meissa ? ).empire is not my only interest in eve, but it needs to be represented in csm, and non-powerbloc community needs it too. i can represent both, being impartial because i have no personal priviledges to defend.again, you might be able to represent empire, but you still are a powerbloc member with a 0.0 sov and jumbridges to defend. you just can't represent out-of-powerblocs players."
"did you opt out? i've tried to find your name on the list but it's not there neither that of your character nor your real name. admittedly it's late here (no really it's so late its already early again) so maybe i just don't get it. the list seems have less than 57 entries too."
"he blew me up once, i clearly still harbour resentment... he's the work of the devil.what does it matter anyway?it's a free trip to iceland and little more.have fun :d"
"i already used up all my currently subbed accounts' votes; however, there's a thread on md advising that kalrand no longer shows up in the running for csm.can anybody confirm this, and if so, can ccp please explain?thanks.(if kalrand -has- been removed, i would like to recast my votes for a candidate that is still eligible - after all, some of the csm candidates' platforms are so far out of rational that i will vote for people i don't like in hopes of keeping those i think want to ruin the game out of the csm)."
"i trust i can rely on your vote."
"kalrand does not shows on the candidate page for me..."
"i don't know about karland being removed (if, when or why), so if you intended to vote for him, i suggest you wait a bit and see if it's a glitch.if it's not, may i suggest you look at my candidacy, i'm known to be sensible, rational, even tempered and fairly intelligent. there's several recommendations from previous csm members with whom i've worked you might want to look at too.cheers"
"actually, i'd probably vote for tyrannus.his opinion on removing insurance for suicide ganking is a little , but at least he doesn't want to nerf t2 bpos (i don't own any, but i still think you have to be a pretty special kid to think that t2 bpos have a negative impact on the game). his other opinions also match up fairly well to my own."
"confirming he's no longer listed and i don't got my votes back yet. petition inbound also confirming that no-one yet posting in this thread will get my alternate vote unless they deposit large sums of isk. assuming votes are returned."
"as i believe was stated elsewhere, ccp can track which accounts voted, and which candidates received votes, but there is no data stored or tracked about who voted for which candidate. therefore, i doubt you'll get your votes back because there is in fact no way to verify who you voted for, only that you voted."
"in that case i want my votes back too."
"mynxee, surely you know more than you're saying. what did that dillhole do to get kicked off the candidates list?"
"1) want to nerf jumpbridges, severely or completely, and2) open up moon-mining in wormholes !yeah, baby, make it happen !"
"1) yes, sort of... i'm all in favor of decreasing the ability of large groups of moving fast and far, in my opinion they have to pick one or the other. but that change has to be accompanied by others, because otherwise the lives of 0.0 dwellers will become a nightmare, especially in those regions that are not close to empire.2) no, sorry... there's already much wealth to be gained in wormholes, there's no need to add more, and definitely not a (mostly) passive source."
"1) yesbut... why not give the big 0.0 alliances the ability to build genuine stargates ? (for a huge cost, very long construction, etc.)better than jumbridges in my opinion, as it would allow opponents to use them. it would help reducing capfleet projections a little, but won't make 0.0 a huge pain for conventional fleets and logistics (like getting rid of jumpbridges would).think of your alliance logo on a stargate for eternity, with some ability to custumize its look ?and when 0.0 is extended (hope it will happen someday ;) ), players could have to build all the stargates, etc.just an idea, though. think of it ccp !2) nojust like meissa said."
"yes and yes.we have had a shortage of moons for far too long. what i'd add to keep it interesting is that moons in whs \"mine out\" and similar minerals on other moons spawn so moon mining becomes more dynamic.issler dainze"
"1.) nerf slightly? maybe.. do you actually live in 0.0 and use jbs?2.) not opposed to it, but also dont directly support it unless it was done in a way that doesn't send the reaction market into a downward spiral. the options of dynamic materials and depletion rates \"might\" be a workable solution."
"hello there !to answer these ideas :1 - there is no point debating this. jump bridges will be removed / nerfed drastically. it has been decided already, and no csm member will change that.2 - w-space has already plenty of resources. moon mining in them would be logical, and thus, something to look into, yet i'm afraid it'd unbalance the game too much. if something like this is to be done, it has to be thoroughly studied before taking any decision."
"you get my vote mike. if anyone hasn't listened to the lostineve.net csm debate podcasts, i urge you to do so. solid display in a debate, and good logic and attitude. i won't pretend i agree with you 100%, but one of the pick of the crop. good luck mike."
"trying to put words in my mouth about what my opinion isthat isnt my opinion, thats your imagination talking."
"i have generally been critical of the overly agressive tone that csm5 took and don't believe that it (the tone) accomplished as much as some people believe. however, i don't think this letter has that same problem. a better way of caging it might have been as a farewell deathbed request kind of thing, but in general not bad.as for the whole incarna thing, i dunno, i just don't see what the big deal is. ok, if it's forced that's a problem, but i seriously doub it will be. think about trading for instance. the current skill mechanics don't even require you to be in a station to trade. same goes for research. the idea of having to switch to a different interface to quick fit is ridiculous and would cause so many problems. now, maybe for some things like....i dunno.:..i actually can't think of a current mechanic that wouldn't be hurt by forcing it to be done through a different interface.so, while i agree that they shouldn't force it, i don't see for a second how they could without completely breaking the game. and i'm not talking about the whiny pi/fw/jump bridges/ whatever are broken/breaking the game wahhhh. i mean it would irrevocably destroy the game.anyways, if all they want is to use it as a method of stress testing it they just need to add the ability to punch and/or teabag someone and then 90% of the player base will spend their docked time doing that.as for complaints about it being a tool for another game and/or a waste of dev time etc, that's just shortsighted. wod may end up being one of the best things to happen to eve. if it is succesful then ccp, a relatively small private development firm, is looking at arguably doubling it's revenue stream. if you don't think that's a positive for eve you are mistaken. savings on shared overhead alone will free up so many resources. dev team for forums? only need one. human resources? only need one. rotten shark cook? only need one.this is a good thing. more money means more options for things like upgrading the servers.oh but we haven't been getting good updates recently!!seriously? yeah, you have. wormholes, awesome. incursions, pretty neat. tyrannis. ok, tyrannis had problems, but it also involved arguably the largest number of changes to the economy and industry of eve in any expansion, ever. the fact that the markets didn't completely explode is a testament to the quality. i still have no clue how they did that, the math behind it is absolutely phd level staggering. i have problems controlling 3 variable systems and getting what i want. edit: and the end results to the economy were exceptionally good. removing the mineral floor created by insurance fraud was awesome. and each time the eve market is pushed towards 0 npc market orders i get a little lump in my throat as i raise a glass to some amazing designers.but everyone has this short sighted \"what have you done for me lately\" attitude where they only see what affects them and if they don't like it they will jump on the whaaambulance and threaten to quit. there is no design change too small to incur the 'time to quit' attitude. it's the same thing gamers always do, just look at l4d2. the amazing thing is that gamers often have so little self awareness that they cry wolf every week or two and don't realize that people stopped listening years ago. which sucks when there really is a wolf.some companies bend over backwards for this nonsense. one of them is blizzard. ironically, their incessant pandering only results in the terrible mess of a product they now have. i for one am glad that ccp holds itself to higher standards."
"ccp has been neglecting a lot of playstyles. i wouldn't say small gang pvp is any worse than most in this department.i would point you to wormholes as an example of where we actually see small gang pvp. we rarely have fleets of more than 15 people, and we get all sorts of fights, and a lot of fun. i think w-space is a great example of where ccp got small gang pvp right, and hopefully it can show them a way to spread this playstyle to more folks. it sounds to me like what you are really asking for is for ccp to do more for faction warfare, which certainly needs attention as well. i haven't done any fw at all, so i am not really in a position to say what exactly needs to be done, but there have been a bunch of great suggestions all over the forums."
"start a corp, war dec a corp, pick your targets carefully.bingo, solo pvp.although if you pick the wrong corp they might bring backup... then it's not solo anymore.it's like it's a sandbox and you can't force people to play in any specific ways"
"eve online help for japan red crossi fully support this."
"and then replace the lottery two years later but let everyone who got on with it keep their seats permanently."
"please, elaborate.the aggressor must wait 24 hours before they can attack. that's like japan sending a letter saying \"it's on, *****.\" on december 6th."
"this should apply to anyone who starts a conflict.if you're looking for trouble (by shooting a neutral or by stealing), your insurance is void."
"that is a terrible idea, this is a pvp game remember. why should pvp players get there insurance voided?i will only support the complete removal or no removal. as any change to insurance will have little to no effect on suicide ganking, as they will just use cheaper ships.the only way to actually stop suicide ganking is to stop the idiots who think that flying around with billions of isk in their untanked hauler. like this guy idiots"
"i'd assume he's referring only to highsec, which triggers concord, not lowsec. and of course concord voiding insurance will have a big effect. suicide ganking means 11k volley bs gankboats, as the number of thrashers required to gank a carebear bs is unrealistic to coordinate. concord voiding insurance would raise threshold of the mission runner's value from ~50mil to ~500mil before gank, assuming lucky drop rate. of course, it wouldn't save this guy:"
"this still hasn't been done? seriously, just do it already.supported."
"fix the font.also fix the color of the symbols on the overview. 50-50 chance that i pick out the correct next destination gate. pale yellow is not a win. light green maybe?"
"i love this, it made me feel warm and fuzzy on the inside."
"sounds good"
"that is true. however, my point still remains that low sec will become more infested with null sec power blocks and that will lead to a rise in hot drops and large fleet warfare in low sec. i don't think that would be a good thing."
"hey, targets are targets. let them role with it. it might turn out to be a lot of fun."
"just fyi, you're in r.a.g.e.ain't no one scared of you, bub."
"i'm kind of on the fence with this one. i think something needs to be done, but i don't think the proposal is the best idea.f.o.f. go for the closest target. this is how you select what you want to hit: orbit it closely.the problem comes when you can't do that and end up being orbited yourself. nothing dies because everything is getting hit.perhaps just having f.o.f. lock to a single target while the launcher is active?"
"should have been implemented long ago.as for balance, when you use rep drones even though you might increase your tank considerably you loose most dps so i'd say this feature is self-balancing. it's also nice way to buy some precious time when you are in a nasty situation hoping to last long enough for the help to arrive."
"i for one don't support this because already overpowered ships will just get even more overpowered then they all ready are. plus it will reduce the need for tank modules on ships. all in all it will just make the game broken."
"i could be wrong but i think it's the same as choosing between a heat sink and an armor rep: you'll have to choose between better dps and better tank. you won't be able to have both any more than you can fit two modules in the same slot. imho. things might be a little more complicated but they might as well be far simpler. either way, i admit: this would bring a rather big change to most of the ships; but i think it's a bit extreme to say \"it will make the game broken\". it just adds to the flexibility which can't be all that bad (more like a breath of fresh air)."
"first off i support this. i can see were some ships with many drones would get a boost, but drone boats mostly get a bonus to damage, mining amount, and hp. i do agree that its most likely balance problem would be with the logi ships which do get a drone rep bonus. the dps you give up for reps is not equal, as is you would always be better with local/logi reps than your own drones. on to the need for \"player 2\". one of the things i think rep drones on self(rds)would be awesome for is the hero tank till back up arrives and in that sense your still using and relining on \"player 2\". i also don't think most hard core pve peeps will use the rds as the key to pve is efficiency and the added time becouse of dps loss would be what make the extra tank needed in the first place. i was also was confused one i found i couldn't rds. as it stands now with current mechanics you can't hand off ecm drones to another player(i don't know if you can with logi drones) which to me also dose not make sense. as drones are now they will need an over haul to work with rds, i also agree that rep drones and only rep drones should do this(self webbing/self newting so you can nos is right out). my thoughts"
"used to solo with my crow all the time... now i just die to drams."
"i basically said autocannons are overpowered and i gave a few examples of new frigate types that could supplement the boring frigate selection (punisher/purifier, rifter/hound, whatever the caldari/gallente use before they change to drakes and dominixs???)- drone frigate, command frigate, sniper/missile frigate, bounty hunter tracker/hunting frigate"
"well.. either you're looking for an easy character bazarre isk maker; or, you're honestly interested in doing this for training an alt. either way, your willingness to pay for it; sort of makes it a moot point, which reason you have. i'd probably do both, as it'd be withing the eula; and a reasonable use of empty character slots.i'm not sure i'd want to pay full, second account price; for the sake of training an extra character, on the same account. paying an additional cost, for the ability to do that training; is still something i would consider, and gladly. but i think it fair to say, i would prefer a reduced cost for the second character on the account; and a further reduction in cost, for the third character on the account. admittedly, i almost never use more than one account; at any given time, no matter what i'm doing. primary exception, would be transferring isk, from one account to another; or doing some king of administration, or corp management like duties.i know people who run 6 accounts, at a time; and fairly regularly overall, at that. running missions, or op's, or pvp'ing; with more than one account, is a bit more alt+tab, than i like. if i had 3 monitors; might be different. certainly easier. 14.95 for 1 character (standard account)28.95 for 2 characters (upgraded account)39.95 for 3 characters (:lol: account)i can't imagine paying more than $40 a month, for one account.supported with reservation's"
"it's a great ideathis way you pay for training only, without having to pay for 2 transfers every time you want to train a few more skills on an alt."
"there should be a charge per character in the corp. the charge should increase the older the character is so noob corps aren't unfairly penalized but increase enough so that a dead corp cannot sit holding its name for eternity simply by putting a couple million isk in the corp account.referencing this thread, suggested by boliano."
"flat charge per month."
"supported this would help alot!"
"how would this improve the game? inactive corps are like inactive characters, leave them alone. they also serve the vital function of screening and camouflaging noob corps from decs."
"i do not agree.while i understand the problem you try to address, the implications of this idea make it a really bad approach (imo). unless you are trying to achieve something else as well.why should i pay for my corporation just because some idiot was to lazy to close his?creating an (in)activity timer for corporations sounds to me like a much more focused solution to your problem and i would support that. or: a symbolic flat charge (1m) that has to be payed in person by the ceo to reserve the name for 6 months (prof of activity). every ceo should be allowed to hold a max of 2 proofs of activity at any given time.but charging corps based on numbers and age is a total overkill for such an issue."
"hes got a point. noobs have it hard enough with us griefers in the game, and low member count \"inactive\" corps are useful for small groups of indies avoiding the normal wardeck corps.if a corp is truely inactive, use a true login timer or something non isk related to get the job done. dont punish low member count corps with unnecessary taxes just because you assume their dead. also, if corp wallet is full of isk even a moderate fee would take forever to get through to the point its disbanded.."
"the issue is important but i cant agree with op solution. 5m/month or so flat fee (about half the cost of a corp war decing someone for a month) to keep the doors open. if your corp isnt worth 150k/day to keep open it's not that important to you; open up room for someone who will do something with the name."
"ever think that the bots belong to ccp and are being used to control the economy? one way to improve plex purchase rate is to make an economy that you can't win in, or make it very difficult to do so."
"the 23/7 thing to me should be easy... if someone is playing 23/7 for more than 1 day they are either1) bottingor 2) account sharingboth should result in a ban right? why not just start there and see what happens ccp?"
"why not just let us drag bookmarks from our people & places menu into the chat window? make it a link we can click on to add to our own bookmarks from there.edit: supporting"
"this should be available in various forms (module/bay/skill/etc...) to all drone boats."
"anyone who is serious about making eve more balanced will tend to agree that the drake is over powered. after comparing it to other bc in the game i have come up with a simple way to balance it with the rest of the tech one bc. my idea is to simply drop (or remove) one of it's many (to many) mid slots, and drop is cpu by 5%. the reduction of the mid slots will limit the shield/tackle mods that can be put on the ship and dropping the cpu along with this, insures the cpu to mid slot ratio remains the same as it currently is.ok let the flame rage begin."
"thats a terrible idea and most people i have talked to say that battlecruisers at least on a tier 2 level are one of the most balanced sets of ships in the game.the drake to do a proper tech 2 heavy missile fit with a web and point requires an implant so i dont see how lowering cpu will help. taking away a mid slot is also a fairly stupid idea.the drake is not overpowered, it still dies regularly in a small gang or solo situation."
"the drake is the best bc, but that doesn't mean you should all but remove it from the game outright.-liang"
"its the only caldari ship that is worth pvping in. and is the only real ship u can solo in for the caldari."
"the drake is not overpowered, the only reason there are so many used is because it is good at pve and good enough at pvp. every noob and their dog have trained to fly drakes. if an fc asked for any uniform fleet of ships, they would be unlikely to get them because not everyone has trained every ship. drakes, however, are common ratting ships, so many people have them trained.if you want to see fewer drakes, make other pvp ships more effective at pve."
"the drake itself is fine, it just scales insanely well compared to alternatives.main reason for the huge difference is in engagement ranges. while other bc's can get respectable ranges they have to forego anything resembling tank in the process.solution: reduce heavy missile range by 25%.- does not impact pve to any large extent.- allows for current ranges at a cost (rigs) thus reducing tank.- does not impact caracal line unduly due to inherent locking range limits and massive range bonuses.- brings drake fleet performance in-line with the alternatives."
"this is a _____ whine. (fill in blank) nerf you, buff me. (you are drake)oh noes, caldari has mids and cpu, boohoo"
"also get rid of falcons, more than 1 person in fleet etc etc."
"nobody mentioned nerfing logi's, or remote repair modules.as for aggression, as it stands: the last time i actively recall watching someone remote repping a target in highsec; it was outside the station in a system 2 jumps from dodixie. the target, i and another were fighting; was being repped by a exequor, some 70km off. the only reason he was flashing to me; was because he had me targeted. little blinky yellow targeting icon; which is why i noticed him. it was after that, i noticed the graphical effect of his cap rep; and realized he was assisting the target, and boosting his capacitor. in no way, was i or my friend; able to actively target or eliminate this individual. he was a neutral, in highsec. aside from bumping him, with 3-4 small mwd cruisers; to get him out of range, he was completely immune to any direct action. unless someone had it in them to suicide gank him; he was, effectively, untouchable.ewar can't be used on a neutral in highsec; concord will fry you for trying. any nos, neut., ecm, or the like; is considered a direct aggressive action. just like shooting him with your guns. this, is the problem. lowsec is a different story, of course; but only marginally so, at best. you'll still take a security hit; at the very least, for any direct action. in null, he's primary; because it doesn't matter. he's also an easy kill, generally; provided the circumstance permits, and he's in range.i don't think the rr should be nerfed; i think the neutral should be made accountable. he/she, has too much immunity. that doesn't mean they should have extended aggression timers; or even be party to kill rights, as the op suggested. they should, immediately; gain an aggression timer, as normal. they have entered battle, and committed themselves; and should, be treated as any other in that regard. then, it becomes a decision with consequences; not an action, for which they cannot be held accountable.that's pvp. risk and reward = risk and loss."
"+1 fix and change ccp this neutral repping methods."
"supported"
"giving aggression timers for remote repair is a nerf, because it dramatically reduces (eliminates) the ability of logistics ships to deagress. furthermore, logistics ships are completely balanced in today's environment with today's aggression mechanics.the problem being complained about is station games of all varieties. so fix station games.-liang"
"oh dear... i know it's hard for crustaceans like yourself to actually grow a backbone, but please do try..."
"i don't really have a problem with how dumb drones are (although smarter drones would be nice) but i do hate how limited our control is.therefore, i would at least like to be able to decide which group of drones i want to launch using shortcuts. very useful when you have 30 drones in bay and can only use 5. it would be nice if we could assign a full set of shortcuts for each group of drones for all commands but the \"launch group x\" shortcut would be a great step in the right direction."
"dronez need lovin'on all levels and this is one of them."
"i like how now the client fixed window mode recognizes multiple monitors and will stretch for it. however, even with the slider to the right and the \"move interface\" box checked, there are still some important things that are inside the split between the two monitors.for example:login screencharacter creation screensome boxes default to appearing in the middle (some cannot be moved)please fix"
"ok i know this looks like a wall of text, that the devs won't read it and that i will get flamed. nonetheless, i think this is quite the way i would like eve to be.english is not my first language but i think it is fairly understandable. :dsov-warswhat is wrong:- right now the 2 only really important things in 0.0 sov-warfare are numbers and super caps.- this is not fun anymore. the tactic is reduced to bringing the bigger fleet before your enemy can do the same, so you load the grid first and your opponent dies in lag. uemon and 020 are good examples for that.- super caps have no real enemy (besides more super caps) that would counter them plus they are more flexible than a battleship and can travel faster. the enemy has troubles to see where they actually went or where they came from.- the trend goes towards huuuuge power blocks with few big conflicts with even bigger blobs. - smaller alliances have no choice but to join one of the power blocks or to become their pets <U+F0E0> no own politics, less smaller fights....- black ops are too expensive and almost useless"
"how to fix this:- remove all jbs and jump drives from all ships and leave covert cynos as they are and remove the normal cyno.- all ships that can't use covert cynos will have to travel through gates, and all capital ships will become quite vulnerable when they travel alone or when theyr support fleet is destroyed.- make sov warfare more \"capture the flag\"- style like, without long timers which allow you to gather a huge fleet at the right time and lag you enemy out or to exploit your time-zone advantage. - introduce new constellation infrastructure mods/facilities to 0.0 that can be captured and give you enormous advantages o gate jammer against capso local delay for the enemyo warp speed enhancer (maybe only for caps and super caps)o industrial stuff that decreases the minerals you need to build stuff and so on and sov fees- all this mods will project the respective effect to all systems in the constellation with an infrastructure hub.- their locations will be spread across the constellation.- they can be captured. to do so you need to destroy an enemy module anchored next to it first (with a lot of hitpoints), which deactivates the respective effect (e.g. gate jamming). then you need to anchor your own module and to activate it in order to make them work for you. however, there should be a timer of 12h. this time is needed to activate your module. if the enemy manages to destroy and replace it before he 12h have passed, the timer is reverted. that is, if you manage to protect your module for 2h, their module will need 2h to become active. this is needed in order to prevent the exploit of time zones. - the gate jammer will allow you to block your gates for enemy capitals and supercaps based on standings. sub-capitals can still roam through enemy territory. - covert ops ships need to become cheaper (at least the black ops) and get some new special abilities. o the first would be a local jammer which delays the local for let's say 5 minutes and removes the enemy jamming effect. you need to decloak for that and you can be scanned out and killedo the second would be the ability to unlock gates for a limited number of capitals in your fleet(1-3). again, you need to stay at the gate in enemy territory for that and you can be killed easily.- additionally there should be a sov structure that can be anchored at the gate and removes the gate jamming effect completely as long as it stays alive. - the sov fee's should increase exponentially - you can put 1000 players on your blues list for free, the rest costs extra."
"expected effect:- the attacker would have the advantage of surprise and preparation while having the disadvantage of not having supplies(new ships and stuff) in place and the threat that his fleet will be trapped in the enemy system (pretty much like in the real world).- clearly, the attacker will try to capture the buildings that limit his ability to deploy his forces and allows the enemy to deploy his fleets faster (warp speed enhacer). - the bigger the territory of an alliance the more difficult it would it be for them to get pilots from all regions in one fleet.(no jbs <U+F0E0> force projection)- notice, the alliances will have spread their forces in order to protect the \"flags\" (that is, the new sov structures) plus important systems, because there are no timers and covert ops fleets can still hot drop these structures. - additionally they will also have to protect their supply lines. (e.g. freighter convoys from and to high sec)- skill and strategy become very important. you could for example try to capture the warp speed enhancer and the gate with your cover fleets first, so that the defender will have huge problems to gather his fleet in time. at the same time your own systems will be vulnerable against similar attacks, because you can't simply jump your fleet back within minutes.- it will also be important to have the right players who will be willing to stop carebearing in order to form a counter-fleet.- uncoordinated fail alliances will not be able to hold their space against a well coordinated fleet even if they have 3x the numbers, because they will not be able to form a fleet in time. - hot dropping of carebears/freighters/supply convoys will still be possible. o with covert cynoso by using the delayed local ability of covert ops.- it becomes very expensive to hold huge territories (due to new fee system) or to have long blue lists."
"economy:what is wrong?- i always had problems to understand why concord pays bounties in 0.0 sec. there is not a single concord ship in 0.0 space.- ratting in 0.0 space is quite safe as long as you are not brain afk. it is actually more dangerous to rat in a multibillion ship in highsec than in 0.0 sec where you know who your enemy is.- the logistics are more dangerous in high-sec (suicide ganks) than in 0.0 (jf, jb). the only industry 0.0 space has is the supercap-industry.how to fix this:- remove bounties from 0.0 rats. make the 0.0 economy more like w-space.- let rats drop special faction-specific loot instead and make it 0.0 exclusive. that is, the 0.0 sanshas would be the only rats that drop armor plates, angels aluminium bars and so on.- every rat would also drop an insignia depending on its size and hitpoint/dps. this insignias can then either be sold for a fixed price (like sleeper stuff) to npcs in highsec or exchanged for loyality points in certain shops.- faction and officer spawns stay as they are and have a chance to drop faction/officer/dead space loot.- remove pirate faction shops- create some conquerable outposts in 0.0 that allow you to produce a limited amount of pirate faction ships per day (1-2 outposts for bs, 1-2 for frigs and so on) + faction ammunition.- let this ships require certain resources which are only available in certain 0.0 regions far away from these outposts.- redistribute the resources the way that every region has 1 unique commodity resource and one speciality resource that is only available in this region. - redistribute asteroids, veldspar should be available everywhere, all other ores should be only available in certain regions respectively. and contain unique resources (e.g. morphite only in arkonor, isogene only in bistot).- redistribute moon goo pretty much the same way. so that pretty much every region has its \"technitium\" because it is unique to this region.- add a new sov structure that further decreases the production costs of t2 stuff and ship hulls from bs on.expected effect:- the t2 production will move from high sec to 0.0 and high sec will be the major market that will be supplied from 0.0 sec.- logistics will become very important and vulnerable, since 0.0 alliances will critically depend on imports and exports- pirates will get more targets in low sec (exports/imports from 0.0 sec)- carebears/producers will have a much stronger incentive to move to 0.0 because of production bonuses + higher income from ratting due to exclusive availability of scarce ressources and lower income from high sec missions due to removal of precious salvage.- trade embargos will become a mighty weapon and high sec pvp alliances will get more fun by camping 0.0/high gates. - every region will have its own unique resources which means that whoever controls this regions will have the ability to use this resources as a weapon by not selling them and preventing everybody from building certain ships/modules. - example: you hold the outpost that can build machariels somewhere in the south, your enemy however holds the few only moons that have the unique resource you need to build them. you can either cooperate with them, sell the ships and split the money. or they could sell you the resources for very high prices and your alliance would fly this ships exclusively, giving you advantages in pvp while being very expensive. alternatively you could try to somehow conquer these moons or, they try to conquer your facilities. or they refuse to sell you the resources and no one flies machariels. even if you own both, the resources and the facilities, you face the choice to sell 1 or 2 of machariels every day on a auction for very high prices. or to sell the most of them for lower prices. or fly them exclusively but disclaim the income you could generate from them. - you see this would add a lot of drama, opportunities, strategies and conflicts to the game."
"dreads:what is wrong?- after dominion they became kind of obsolete- there is nothing they can do better compared to super caps- rumours even say that they have problems to track super carriers while in siege.how to fix this:- give every dread a special bonus while in siege (only while in siege)o revelation: tracking bonus so that it can track bs.o phoenix: make it fire bombs like sb and give it bonus on reloading speed while in siege. this will be the perfect weapon to counter blobs and make blobbing more difficult.o moros: increase its dmg bonus so that it becomes a supercap and structure killer.o naglfar: can also deploy bombs like phoenix but without bonus. it should get a bonus on rate of fire for artillery and special flak ammunition which is extremly effective against fighters and fighterbombers.expected effect:- phoenix will become a very effective counter against bs blobs but stay an easy pray for ahacs and bcs. - a combination of moros and naglfar will be extremly effective against super carriers- revelation will be very effective against bs and drake fleets as long as they don't come too close. - they will all stay very vulnerable against titans.- in combination with the new sov system, they would be great for bridgeheads as kind of mobile sentries.flame on!"
"forgot to support.."
"ups :d"
"good point. stations first. as for the text thing i'll try to keep it short."
"i have to admit, i stopped reading shortly after the case was made that the eve skill system for training to fly internet spaceships is wrong because it isn't exactly like real life training for airplanes."
"no to number 1 and 3. yes to number 2.first, #1...moving caps let alone super caps is a tedious process that would be further complicated by having to have a cap there to cyno. and don't quote me on this, but if anyone knows speak up: i have been told a massive ship like a titan would be a guaranteed bump if lit from a carrier. i would suggest a battleship be used in place of a carrier if this change were to be supported. also, having a carrier stuck for 10 minutes is a very very bad idea, as they pale so much in comparsion to supercapsfor number #3, i don't see how a wind-up time for utilizing the jump too would solve anything, other than make caps more hair-loss inducing than they already are. carriers and dreads are by far some of the slowest ships in the game, my archon takes 30+ seconds atleast to align or move in a direction. having a 2 minute charge to jump when needed too would kill current hotdropping mechanics but also make them even more vulnerable to tackle than they already are. the only way i could see #3 working is if carriers and dreads drives were to be like titans/moms in that only dictors could tackle them.#2: i like this idea, it would make hotdropping capital blobs onto hapless victims slightly more strategic, as multiple cynos would be needed to get an entire fleet through, scaling up with the size of vessels use. so one cyno could get a full blops fleet through, but several cynos would be needed for moms. also, there are significant balance concerns to think about when toying with this idea: such as homefield adv vs loading grid, and cyno cycle time. if the mass limit is broken, should said cyno ship be free or still stuck for remainder of cycle? or should it be freed only to light another cyno 2 seconds later? is there technical limitations on such a mechanic? i think these are all questions that need to be asked, but i would agree #2 needs some work and more thought but i would enjoy seeing something like that."
"yes...completely break the game entirely so that large scale pvp and sov battles are impossible."
"worst suggestion ever, please stop posting"
"he does have a point tbh. as un-eve as it is, there are very real limits as to what the servers and that computer you're using right now can handle. the game should be designed to work within those limits and currently it doesn't really do that. the cause of lag is blobbing up. blobbing up is encouraged because there is no down side to blobbing (there are no significant aoe weapons or los issues). blobbing leads to lag, ccp improves code to reduce lag thus allowing people to blob even more. it's a vicious cycle and tbh i think it needs to end.hard restrictions like the one he proposed aren't a very good option. as said, they fly in the face of the whole point of eve. what should be done instead is to make forming epic blobs less appealing. namely a bunch of aoe weapons and ideally adding los to weapons."
"aoe weapons and los will only add up to lag.give people reason to split their focus."
"no it won't because ppl will be dead and podded.bring back the aoe torps!"
"how about bringing mines back, just twick it so you cant place more then __ (insert reasonable number) within a certain distance. maybe that will make blobs die in flames?"
"awesome, every time i want to save a station or a pos, i'll just bring 300-400 friends and succeed every time by locking the hostiles out. this will promote ~goodfites~"
"i would be very interested in this. i never seem to be able to make it out to mass testing, so my character is always behind sp on the test server. i would really like to be able to try out a tengu on the test server, but i am forced to wait for a couple more mirrors before i can do that.i support any of the options, but, i think there should be a flat amount for anyone under a certain amount, and a percentage after that (placing the split around where the %ge results in 2m sp would be ideal). why this way? so that newer players can instatrain just as many skills as the older players. older players likely already have frigs and maybe cruiser/battleships 5 trained, so 2m sp is of no real benefit to them, but lower sp characters can instatrain into a battlecruiser while they are still flying in frigs/cruisersedit - thumbs up :)"
"not supported (and i play sisi more than tq).mirrors that are applied were generally taken 3-4 days earlier, so it's not that much sp you miss out on if you have a skill queue that'll last that long. alternatively, just plug in some +5s and train while you play on tq, you'll catch up eventually.if you're too impatient for that, do the mass tests."
"as i sometimes miss new mirrors and that means i can get like 1 week or more behind, i think it's a nice idea...5% sp is somehow enough in my opinion, although there might be something like a minimum and/or maximum amount rewarded, to balance if needed."
"but with a switch to turn this on or off when wanted.i was thinking about putting that in but it would seem like a dumb idea. but now i think i should have put it in there."
"this ^ terrible idea. cheap 1 hit kills just because you rolled a '20' are dumb, and there's already a coded critical hit mechanic for 300%(?) damage called a wrecking shot. this ^ bad idea, there should be a mechanic for capturing/boarding/proper piracy, but this is not it.for the first lucky shot i should have put when your shields are down and your armor is decreasing at a high rate. i've should have been more detailed.the second one, your idea sounds better then mine i have to admit. i should post that in another topic.but i respect your opinion in the end."
"please delete me"
"k"
"perhaps not red or green especially since those are color blind unfriendly/both sec status designations. how about a brighter blue or white? something that stands out from the square and space equally?i am not really in favor of blinking due to the fact that most people have blink on in their overview for wts/fw enemies, and i see that confusing a large number of peopleanother option - changing the shape of the waypoint system marker to say a circle or triangle or some kind of animation (not blink/flash) like a radar sweep to make it noticeable at a glance?"
"you do realise that thousands of people have died right? that millions are homeless. that no amount of preparation could stop this from being a devastating event, even with industrialisation (ffs!).yes, plex for japan is already underway, and i'm so glad that ccp are making these decisions and not you."
"imagine a star system between lowsec and 0.0 in which bubbles aren't allowed, but there are no sentry guns and no loss of sec status. personally, i'd probably spend a lot of time engaging anything and everything in cheap, gank cruisers and t2 frigs. i realize this would be a pretty large change to implement, both in ability narrative, so look at it more as an idea for future expansions.essentially, i'm proposing to remove the sentry guns from 0.1 systems and nullify the sec hit/global criminal countdown for engaging neutrals. of course this may involve moving the map around for optimal \"fun\" and fairness to the status quo. however it would enable frig-lovers and skirmishers to engage anything and everything without needing a specialized (or suicidal) scout to check for bubbles. moreover, if these systems are strategically placed, they could become a point of \"interaction\" for small pirate groups, large pirate groups, and larger alliances.suggestion/constructive criticism welcome!"
"i support this product and or service."
"i support this product and or service."
"vote this guy if you don't like gay goons with ball tickler beards."
"erm.."
"i support this product and or service"
"i dont get why vile rat and jade are arguing so much. why dont you just shut up jade and let the man talk about how he thinks he could improve eve online instead of you ruining his thread?are you just mad that you aren't on the csm this time around? no one needs your giant massive posts."
"eve actually needs a bank. and we actually need a way to transfer money clear across the eve universe to another player. that broken trust sets us all back a few years in being able to use any bank that anyone sets up. and that said, krutoj, that xdeathx squadron legion of xxdeathxx looks kinda suspect to be talking about starting a bank. i don't mean any dis-respect, i'm just saying. . .maybe a little thought should be given to what others may see in a name, even. but if you're serious, i can use a bank, . . . that can be trusted. but the point is why would we send a message forward like thievery is ok, when it hurts us so bad when it is blatantly done in game like that. thanks for the info, he won't get my vote. vote for issler dainze, she's a good person. for real."
"gah.. fix the pos/corp security nightmare already !!+1 votei'm not too sure about having \"random\" large volume wormholes opening up into our w-space system though. people that want to mess around with dreads and carriers can choose to live in c5/c6. those that don't live in c4 and below. personally suits me just fine ;)regardsya"
"thanks for your support. i like that there are limits on where you can move capitals, i wouldn't want them to change that. i would just like to see some wormholes that last longer than 16/24 hours and some that have higher total mass allowed than 3 billion kg. keep the same maximum ship mass, but just some more variety."
"a lot of talk here about trust and reputation, as if they were being elected into becoming a director of game design. they are being elected as representatives of the players. a voice of our wishes and concerns. all the talk here about one alliance seeking to gain an advantage in the game is crap typical political mud-slinging.two step expressed ideas on many topics, epically botting, match my own and thus he has my x3 votes.good luck to you two stepp.s. yeah i know about the exploit thingy. its an issue done and over now. it serves as a great example of those willing to break rules and those not, consequences for getting caught and the need for an even playing field all around. the status-quo isnt healthy for the game. he clearly brings a knowledgeable perspective to the table and his stated stance is one i strongly agree with."
"how does this distinguish you from some of the other candidates, who have been saying the same thing for ages, and who weren't involved in activities that ccp felt warranted their attention?"
"thanks for your support.firstly, the quote you chose really needs its context. i was talking about ccp committing to make small tweaks of the new content they do release. i (and many other folks running) also would like to see ccp go back to previously released content, some released 5+ years ago, and fix that as well. i don't see the two things as the same issue, what i was talking about is more of a scheduling issue for the was ccp does things.secondly, as i have been saying over and over and over and over again, ccp allowed me to run for csm. this means they don't consider me personally guilty of a serious eula violation. i don't see how the stuff that happened 6 months ago will change in any way the amount of influence i would have in csm discussions either with other csm reps or with ccp. what was done is done, mistakes were made, let it go."
"so you're saying you're a premature elector?"
"just a roleplaying-response to make people realize the traffic problem in jita:ships have been crashing into eachother constantly, especially near stargates and in asteroid belts, as well as around stations, and this has been a problem to hundreds if not thousands of people, and various signals have been disrupting people's minds from transferring to their clones, or causing them to be sent to another person's clone, or even another person's living body. because of this concord has started a program to reduce traffic in jita. please donate to support it. thank you for reading this report. - concord militia patrol"
"jita became the market hub because the superhighway gates to yulai were removed.there will always be one central hub. it can be jita, it can be somewhere else. but the market demands it."
"^^ thistrade hubs will exist, its part of the market dynamic.. cripple jita and the hub (and problems) will just move"
"first of all: great job, thanks.second: there's one question i would have added: \"should old players be allowed in npc corps?\""
"this is an appeal to sentiment, it does not logically follow that your proposal will have any impact on the \"quality\" of a body of people, which is arbitrary scalar which varies based on perspective.unlike your previous point which was merely fallacious and naive, this time you're simply dead wrong and exhibit a sad, almost hilarious ineptitude at hard math.if the blocs control the majority of the seats to begin with, then the csm will pick members of the bloc to continue into the next csm. then, the bloc electorate only needs to outnumber the rest of eve with four election seats instead of nine. the smaller the number of seats up for grabs gets, the stronger the bloc advantage becomes. the nc has tens of thousands of accounts, all or most of whom are highly invested in the outcome of the election. the drf has the same.this one barely even merits remark, you say something will be improved but fail to exhibit why that is important or what impact it will have on the body's ability to perform its function.far from accomplishing your unstated goal of unseating the blocs for all time, if your plan was put into effect, you would be handing us six seats, with ccp picking the last three. good job.the blocs cannot completely muscle out empire in a nine seat election. but in a four seat election, the advantages of organized campaigns and organized vote allocation is too much for the random empire pubbie to compete with."
"with respect to changes in the voting procedure, it might be interesting to consider some sort of alternate-vote system that lets people vote for more than one candidate (there are many such systems). this would permit people to support candidates whom they liked, but would not otherwise vote for because they think they can't get elected.however, before such a system is implemented, it should be extensively debated to ensure that it would be difficult to game by large voting blocs. and it should be noted that whatever its flaws, the current system does have the virtue of simplicity."
"mmmmmm no, no debate is necessary i can shoot that one down too.what you empire pubbies don't seem to get is that there are more motivated voters in blocs then there are outside. if you multiply everyone's votes, you multiply the number of votes for blocs. i was forced to choose between one or two of the three (vile, mittens, or tree). if i had multiple votes to play with beyond just buying more accounts, i wouldn't have to choose. as i pointed out, and as the results will show, there are simply more voters on the bloc side. multiply our ballots, and the effect of coordinated campaigning becomes even more powerful. reduce the number of seats, and the same thing happens.get it through your thick and remarkably shiny forehead: the current system is the *most* fair system to assure we don't sweep you completely."
"the 'problem' of the low percentage of voters is also caused by the almost hidden nature of the elections. if you don't pay attention to the news or forums chances are you are unaware of there being such a thing as elections at all. at minimum, there should be large posters across ur screen when loggin in during election time. and the csm page on the eve-o website? imagine yourself a noob, curious about the csm and visit the csm section of this page right now. i doubt you will be a lot wiser after visiting... the most recent meeting minutes are from almost a year ago, if there wasn't an election going on right now any uninformed visitor to the csm section of this website would think it was dead if you wan't the masses to be interested, all this has to change."
"your notes have been taken.@ treb, my vote model seems the right thing to do.this isn't about choosing a government, this is about getting a task force together.even in many tv shows you have a hybrid way to pick people1. tele-voting and 2. jury.where the people televote for any reason on candidates (charisma, talent, looks. popularity) while a (professional) jury picks out candidates based on a professional point of view.if you don't like the idea that ccp handpick's 3 candidates then an alternative way can be that they will cast a number of votes on 3 candidates based on a percentage of the total votes.also don't forget that the alternate csm's will still be the ones based on vote counts."
"dirk, there have been csm \"vote\" posters on the login screen and on the eve o website since the polls opened. as well, ccp sent out a \"csm\" newsletter with links to all the information you're suggesting. csm5 and ccp discussed ideas for this stuff well in advance of the csm6 elections and ccp deserves a lot of credit for the increased exposure they've given the csm6 elections. also, you're wrong about the minutes from june being the last ones--or the last publication offered by the csm. there is a sticky post in jita park which has a link to a wiki page that lists all of the \"public\" communications and activities that csm5 has done, including minutes, official blogs, working meetings, and other stuff. csm minutes and blogs get the same kind of exposure on eve o that dev blogs do. if people aren't paying attention, it's not like you can reach through the interwebs to smack them in the forehead with a brick to make them do so."
"one poster is not going to grab attention. if i don't look at it the first time for whatever reason (sometimes ppl are in a hurry for instance) it's gone. during election time, you need to make a lot of noise, just like in rl. it's virtually impossible to not know there is an election going where i live, in eve, it's very possible. let me give you an example: 3 or 4 days ago a m8 asked when the polls closed. i thought that would be easy to find, much to my dismay i ended up heaving to search the news archives. things link that should be permanently in sight. when i go the the csm tag on the left on this very page, i expect information like that to be available immediatly. and this is just one example. as for the meeting minutes: i know they are being published and where to look more or less but even then i had trbl finding the most recent minutes plenty of times. and on the csm menu on this site (the one at the left of your screen again) the most recent minutes are from the ccp-csm meeting somewhere in 2010."
"oh please, please, please, let this eventually come to pass."
"no kidding.dirk: i agree, the poll closing date/time should be prominently featured on the ads if it is not. but the last few times i logged in, there was an ad on the login screen so i think it is persistent unless bumped by something with more immediate relevance.and fwiw, i agree with you the csm pages on the eve o site are not at all useful with regard to content or organization--particularly outside elections. however, csm5 addressed this with ccp both at the june summit and elsewhere to no avail. if nothing else the main link should point to a csm portal page on the evelopedia. such a page has been discussed with yarr; no infoz on any progress of late."
"i believe trebor might be talking about an alternate vote system or preferential voting system - which is something different than simply multiplying the votes per person.an alternate vote system might work as this:(its also known as the single transferable vote)- you select a first priority candidate and a second priority candidate- in effect (simplified): if your first priority candidate gets enough votes to get elected, then thats great. if not, your single vote is transferred to your second priority candidate, who might then have a chance of getting elected.in fact an alternate vote system makes very good sense in an election such as this, were there are no registered \"parties\" or \"lists\" to vote for. it is in its essence a system to minimize the \"loss\" of votes.such a system will greatly benefit the players outside the organised blocks, since it becomes much safer to vote for a less popular candidate, without risking to loose your vote."
"fyitrebor was responding to my suggestion for a different vote system.he forgot however to quote the source (me)"
"my dear pirokobo, if you can possibly distract yourself from your obsessed contemplation of my remarkably shiny yet formidably attractive forehead (i buff it daily with zog's original sex wax), you may wish to educate yourself on voting systems before making such statements.while it is mathematically provable that there is no voting system that is immune to pathological results, there are election systems that generate results that more closely represent the actual will of the electorate than single vote systems. these typically do not provide voters with extra votes, but transfer their votes from preferred but losing candidates to second or third choices. the overall effect is to encourage people to vote more honestly, because they prevent \"wasted\" votes.such systems also handle the issue of candidates who are forced to drop of out the election, as kalrand did this time.while i appreciate your obvious concern for the voting rights of the great unwashed masses of high-sec, the situation in eve is not really that much different from that in the real world, where you have highly organized political parties (the alliances) and a significant number of independent voters.@suveitar: yes, that class of voting systems was what i was referring to.@extreme: i do not believe your suggestion will achieve what you think it will, and would oppose it on grounds of equity."
"i feel that most of the alternative voting schemes would actually make large blocks more powerful and more likely to get elected. for example, it seems likely to me that someone like mittani will get more votes than strictly needed to get elected, and in most systems his extra votes would move down to their 2nd place choice, which would likely be another member of his 0.0 coalition. as it is now, large entities need to be careful not to give one of their candidate too many votes and the others too few, and alternative voting systems would remove that.my personal reforms would be the following:1) require some number of \"signatures\" to make the ballot. this should reduce the number of non-serious candidates. something like one or two hundred signatures would work well.2) i would lengthen the time before voting starts but after the valid candidates are announced. there are some great people out there like lost in eve that did some wonderful debates, and they didn't have a chance to get those done *before* voting had started.3) shorten the length of time after voting closes when the winners are announced. it seems crazy that it takes week after voting for ccp to run a sql query. real life elections are counted quite a bit faster.basically, fewer but higher quality candidates would give folks a much better chance of being able to look at everyone."
"and fyi i was quoting trebor instead of you, because his suggestion is far superior to the one you made imho :)no offense intended, but your system is badly conceived."
"just tried it, and on log on there is only a news item on the right. but those tend to get buried quickly and from my experience most ppl don't read the news anyway. well i guess csm6 has their work cut out for them. put the pressure on ccp to finally give the csm the exposure it deserves.but ccp does not seem to be very talented at website design in general...."
"at least you quote'd :)at least it's good thing that there is public discussion about this topic now"
"bah, just tried logging in and now the ad is no longer there. should be persistent regardless of whatever else is displayed, maybe even in a special location in one corner or something. but yeah...it's only the last few days of the election, right? sigh."
"you got both of my votes. best of luck!"
"according to eve-tribune i am everyone's favorite dark horse"
"working hard to keep our glorious game fun! u have my vote!"
"no prob, i am actually really enjoying this conversation, plus i have the luxury of a voter and get to ask without answering.first, yeah....you're right and i hate that so damned much. i consistently delude myself in a hope that one day rep democracy could actually work in any other way than that. at least you're willing to admit it. most politicians refuse to ever acknowledge this because in the end it amounts to insulting large parts of their electorates. still have to stand by disliking you (in space) for this reason, but you seem like a capable candidate and someone i would have a beer with. reminds me of a good pal i play settlers with. he hates that i can win by using cheesy manipulative tactics to enlist the 3rd player to ensure my victory instead of winning through proper play. looking back over a lot of the posts i do see that you aren't directly attacking attacking him that much. you however seem to be ignoring the fact that this is the internet and therefore i have an inalienable right to jump to conclusions using only research that supports my hypothesis. don't take that away from me.anyways, trebors a weird dude. the ideas he brings out that are about semi-superficial game mechanics are absolutely terrible. i say semi superficial not to say that they wouldn't have massive negative effects, but because they were small direct game mechanic changes. however, the ideas he has that deal with more meta aspects of the game/csm, like the prioritization crowd sourcing or low hanging fruit are quality (have no idea how well its implemented)controlling someone like that would be damned tricky though, because you would have to be constantly telling them that they are too dumb to tie their own shoes while at the same time trying to keep them motivated for thinking about more abstract problems. i'm pretty sure this is exactly how engineers deal with scientists.----------i was thinking about the necessity of consensus building some more and had another thought on it. just a whim of a thought really and may not be relevant.lets say (for the sake of argument) that you do sit down and there is *butthurts* coming from one side of the csm aisle. at first i thought that this may be a problem, however the more i think about it the more i wonder if its not an advantage. if you think of ccp as your boss (due to the power dynamic), then having a fellow csm member that can't hide their butthurts actually improves your standing in ccps eyes. this is tricky, because you have to really manipulate the **** out of someone to make them act like a useless prick without looking like a prick yourself.but you can do it, bringing back the previous example of a boss i used to have that i had to 'subtle hand' convince, i was also simultaneously doing the above to someone i wanted out of my group. does make you feel a bit dirty though.edit: in a way its like building a straw man into your group so that you can look better in contrast.-------------ps. still not getting my vote, but that's really only because you're assured a seat and i think prometheus absolutely needs a seat at that table. and you thought i would join the market-bloc and vote for kalrand. pfff as if"
"wow's ui modding scene has a long history of adding features which become essential to compete, either in pvp or pve. while blizzard does integrate the best ones into the game there is always a fairly large time delay. how do you feel about this disparity between haves and have nots existing in a game where the consequences of pvp can last years instead of minutes?"
"i seem to recall that csm5 briefly discussed ui modding at the june summit and that ccp's response was a solid \"no.\" i don't see it mentioned in the minutes, but likely their response was due to the way in which the ui is/was coded. at that time, refactoring of that code was only just getting started. as more and more of the ui code is refactored, ui modding may eventually become viable."
"i also brought up moddable ui during the october summit but outside of the meetings with some random devs and they said with the state that the ui code was in it would take quite considerable time until this would be possible. apparently its a common occurance for programmers to leave ccp without documenting anything they'd coded. :cough: billboards :cough: agents weeeewe can only dream."
"thank you everyone for your support! these two comments in particular mean a lot to me. only a few days voting to go! tell your friends, tell your family, activate an old account for your pets and get them to vote for me."
"i have my own opinion and let me share it with you:for it's professional and game experience i would ask seleene to point the important folders, set out and list each and every relevant point and ask he's own conclusions. for it's professional and game experience i would send rip right to the front face to face with ccp. he's communication abilities are, with no possible doubt in my opinion, a major strength for the next csm."
"agreed, ripard does have the ability to express himself well.he always come across we informed and usually provides a great deal of insite. i really enjoy his blog."
"i didn't say that you said it would be the fix for lag, but a fix for lag. i'm pointing to that idea because, it will not fix lag in any way. if anything, i expect it'd probably make it worse.first of all, which node players are on isn't defined by which local they show up in, but which solar system they're in. limited visibility won't help here, in fact i suspect it'd make it worse by either involving more calculations server-side (bad for lag), or client-side calculations (ohai the clientside has way more information than the official client is showing, i'm sure nobody'll ever exploit that), both of which are a bad idea.secondly, we currently have grids that are (i believe) defined by the servers during downtime. how the server puts you in a grid or another, i don't rightly know (seleene would probably be the closest guy to answer that, since he's worked there), but i would assume it uses coordinates to determine this. and your idea makes me think back to the times i've lost a ship because the majority of the fleet went off-grid, and i was left there with no or few logistics, and a large and angry enemy fleet. that wasn't fun, and i've yet to see anyone sell this kind of idea to me.thirdly, if you're going to look at a singular way to fix lag, then what you would look at would be ways to structure the way eve handles players/solar systems, so it would spread the load over multiple cpus or even nodes. anything else is basically just putting on a bandaid.i was never a part of 0.0 when poses claimed sov, but after having been part of the delve defence (until we ran out of money :v:), having been part of the peaceful handover of deklein from tcf to goons and been part of the war to take over cloud ring/outer ring/fountain, i'll emphatically say that the old sov system sounded better, by far. i also keep seeing tons of old vets say the exact same thing.it's extremely static and non-granular, it's hard to **** up the timing (unless you're sons of tangra :v:), it's almost impossible to do a quick and easy handover to a friendly ally, and it's basically just way too easy to defend. at worst, you can be under attack in up to 6 different systems and still keep all of them by piling all your fleet (basically supercarriers and titans) into one system a day and just keep circling. and worse than that, it is still holding sov over 54 systems and 27 outposts, and they've effectively been dead for a full month now.add to that the fact that a full day's worth of manufacturing capacity can make 6 minutes worth of ammo for a full maelstrom fleet or 2 days worth of ratting ammo (missiles, mainly) pr day, and 0.0 starts to look more and more like a place to rat and mine abch ore, and 0.0 end up looking like a place to claim for epeen and officer spawn, not to actually live in. that should ideally also change to incentivize more people to move from empire and into 0.0. i certainly wouldn't mind if empire manufacturing etc got nerfed. not killed, just nerfed a bit to give people an incentive to look for 0.0 space."
"i see your proposals regarding limiting fleet numbers as a dangerous precedent to turn eve from a sandbox into kindergarten playground. - 'this is a wonderful universe, come play in the sandbox'- cool, let me bring my 3 shovels- 'sorry, only one shovel allowed'the thing, probably the one thing about eve that has remained fairly consistent is that 'anything goes'. you do not find that anywhere else. if we are now going to seriously consider paths which fit the player experience around artificial constraints based on technological limits, rather than finding ways of lifting the technical liits to improve the player experience, then i see eve turning very quickly from a 'sandbox mmo' into just 'another mmo'. heres hoping i don't log in one day to see agents in incarna with a big ! above their heads....."
"unreasonably hounding your representatives is one of the pleasures of democracy; you should not apologize for it. the current status is that i asked two questions, got a single reply, and i and several other csms have asked for a clarification. as of yet, there has not been one.given that fanfest is on the horizon (and i think there will be a ui session there), i would cut the devs a bit of slack until after everyone recovers from their party at the top of the world hangovers."
"5 more votes for you from myself and some corp mates. thanks for all the hard work you, mynxee and a few others did during this csm."
"zim, while this thread isn't the best place for a technical discussion (wonderful though they are), i will take the time for a brief reply; if you have further questions, please contact me directly or look me up at fanfest if you are going.that said, i believe you are misunderstanding both the proposal i was making and certain facts about how eve works. regarding your concerns:1) you are concerned that it would mean ships would jump between grids; this is not the case -- or at least, it would not happen more often than it currently does, due to grid-fu. the server would simply be giving the clients partial information about the grid a player is currently on.note: for practical information on grids, i highly recommend the excellent goonswarm grid-fu manual. it explains why bizarre \"falling off the grid\" events occur.also keep in mind that my proposal was made well before team gridlock introduced serialized data updates (see the drakes of destiny devblogs, part 1 and part 2). this optimization makes server-based fog-of-war (at least, the version i described) much more difficult to implement.2) you are concerned about the cost of determining each player's view of the grid. this is a valid concern, but too narrowly focused. assume that a node can handle 2000 players, and introducing fog-of-war (or any other method for organically limiting fleet sizes) reduces its capacity to 1800 players. if however the changes result in large fleet combats rarely exceeding, say, 1200 players, then it's still a win.3) your concerns about client-based fog-of-war are valid, though there are probably some ways to minimize the utility of client hacks. however, i never proposed doing this, except as a quick method to check (on sisi) if the idea generated interesting and challenging fleet fights.4) the use of stackless python to implement eve make it impossible at present to distribute a node process over multiple threads or multiple servers. systems are currently statically allocated to nodes during downtime, and grids are dynamically allocated as required.with respect to the second part of your post, sov mechanics, i believe we are in broad agreement, and that our opinions are in the mainstream. i would personally like to see an increase in nullsec manufacturing infrastructure, to help wean nullsec off the jita teat, and i would like to see the issue of supercap force-projection (\"halfway across the universe, and back home for tea\") addressed in a way that doesn't nerf \"grocery logistics\" as a side-effect. however, i don't think improving nullsec manufacturing necessarily requires a nerf to highsec.and as i've said before, i really think big changes (like sov) should be subjected to player tiger-teaming before implementation (because everything is so inter-related, and unintended consequences abound), and my personal opinions as a player are not relevant to my role as a csm; when ccp asks for the csm's opinion about their cunning plans, it's all about asking hard questions about their ideas, not pushing our own."
"+2 votes. let's make it count."
"+1 like to see you in the mix."
"voted. as an industrialist i support your case."
"a vote for anything to do with honda is a vote for the recovery of japan!"
"carmine, you're something special....hey issler,i'm reading your thread and see your key agendas. how will you help industrialists and miners?david fightmaster"
"+1 vote for isslerwe all need at least one carebear voice on the csm that understands eve is a sandbox.there should always be many different ways to play eve. you have to support them all. even if you spend time shooting people in the face in 0.0, you hav"
"as a player that perfers smaller corps, pve, and industry i strongly support issler dainze for csm."
"i pretty much voted for her, lol. she has my support.+1 vote"
"issler has always been there for the us. she will get my vote."
"running out of time to vote! vote for vile rat!"
"elect darius iii for csm - we owe it to our children"
"vote d3 for keeping eve ~serious~ and not serious!"
"so, i just received an interesting question by evemail. i'll post and answer it here so everyone can react if they want to.first of all, thank you for your vote :)i definitely have hope to grab a seat at the csm. while being one of the underdogs of this election, i believe from the various reactions i get, both here, ingame, and on other forums, that i could very well end up with enough votes to become either a csm representative or alternate.hell, at some point, i even had plans about what i'd do if i got chair. they are still valid, but i guess we can safely agree that this is a most unlikely event, and the top 3 or 4 seats are pretty much secured already.about my plans if i get elected, well, first, it's to do my job as a csm member. based on the various protocols that already exist, what ccp wants us to do first, and the experience of previous csms, i'll get a reasonably packed schedule, just like any other csm member.this implies attending meetings, participating in the writing of reports, hanging out in some channels and forums to be sure to hear the voices of players...ccp will provide us with a list of elements they would like our feedback on, and i will also debate with other members what are the points we could bring to them.all these are the basic duties of any csm member, and i'm sure all the serious candidates are already planning to do just the same.at this point, i'd like to stress something. if i'm not elected as a csm representative but got enough votes to become an alternate, i will do just the same. attend all meetings i'm invited to, participate, listen to the players and offer them feedback. being an alternate will mean that i won't have a say in a lot of things, but i won't let the people who voted for me down. as an alternate, i'd still plan to help the csm, through informal means if needed, and i will certainly not step down from such a position. additionally, we often saw csm representatives resign to express a disagreement, or because they realized that the csm was not what they expected it to be. in the case i was deemed (as an alternate) a suitable replacement, i'd happily accept this promotion.while we speak about player feedback, and communication : if elected, i also intend to represent the csm at various events. i have already worked with ccp to showcase eve in festivals or conventions in the past, and i will continue to do that. if i'm elected a csm member, i will continue to go there to convince potential new players that eve is damn cool, but also plan some time to speak and debate with the eve players showing up.finally, on the matter of the issues i will raise : one has to understand the way the csm works, and how it cannot be used as a lobbyist group meant to pressure changes on ccp. that will just not work. however, we can produce reports and material, and submit them to ccp, with no guarantee at all about the amount of attention that will be brought to it. i can see from the platforms of other candidates that many of the important subjects are covered already. i will, of course, offer my participation and carry the players' voices about all these important matters.additionally, some more specific changes, perhaps critical to a much smaller audience issues have so far not been raised. i also have plans, ideas which are a bit long for that post / forum, that i intend to push forward because no other csm candidate will do it. most of those are concerning roleplay, and issues where realism and atmosphere are way off, such as bloodlines, pirate faction standings... i do not center my campaign on those, thus. i'd, ultimately, be elected to serve the players."
"attention spans are short, you must learn to make your point with less words."
"in csm 5, the only real difference between a main and alternate delegate was that only main delegates can raise a proposal at a csm meeting.with regard to meetings (whether online or in iceland), the rule was simple: the top 9 available people did the job.alternates were encouraged to participate in the internal discussions on an equal basis, though i think it took a while before they realized this. mynxee was a strong proponent of this, as was i.it just makes good sense: 15 heads are better than 9, and if an alternate has to step in and get on the plane to iceland, it is better that they be fully up to speed.hopefully csm6 will continue this policy, and make it even more clear to the alternates that they are not only encouraged to participate, they are expected to participate.ps: you owe me a vote for the bump, gehen"
"i support manalapan!aff, posted on wrong character.real character is elizabeth azora."
"csm5 is ending with a bang, given this and the open letter re: incarna drama. discuss~"
"i wondered what little dramalama ding dong your little block of friends would have planned for this period in the election. guess we now know :/ how kind of your good buddy to 'resign' just as he's about to stop being a member of the csm and give you the scoop.nice stunt mittens. all theatrics though."
"wise words from a person in this game that i respect dearly. you have nothing to apologize for. you gave your time and spirit to this game and tried to change the minds of a game company that is losing focus on what really matters. there is only so much one man can do, and we thank you for your efforts."
"respect vuk for your dedication, and see you around mate. ps. sophia lau best lau"
"indeed, good of him to fall on his sword to give the nc / goons campaign a boost."
"stop whining, windypops."
"all we had to do was make that logged out ragnarok not disappear for eight hours and let ccp gms do the rest~all too easy~"
"more bitter: lemon, or windy? hard to tell... will someone volunteer to bite windy and find out?"
"maybe it's just me but i only talked to gm's 2x in 2 years. how often are you petitioning that this is a big deal?they handled both my errors so they where corrected for my next play session. they didn't give me any free isk though.i also don't see how mittans is a better option for this. more theatrics over minior preseieved slights as big news?meh."
"at this rate you will be posting in :limegreen: in no time."
"i wouldn't put this in the category of drama, nor the incarna open letter i would certainly put it in a category of there being several challenges here, but that is something different.this is a matter on its own, even if it is part of the general sensitivity of the topic of cs. the 0.0 issue (aside of the unfortunate troll topic of bridges outside of context in the minutes leading to the whole shouting and fear mongering of \"omg my bridges\") is an important one, but less so in the light of the troll situation and much more so in light of ccp greyscale's mentions of aiming for macro scale events ... that is going to need careful exchange and translation of viewpoints, and metrics.the incarna open letter, i'm sorry, considering ccp's company values and the tasking by ccp's ceo hilmar i fail to see any drama, on the contrary, it falls perfectly within the scope of constructive pressure management following weeks of collaboration (as we saw on shc, blogs and other places) and before that the tediousness of communication between ccp, ccp, and csm on the road of incarna. we will see what follows, in the mean time it is - in spite of immediate appearances - to see ccp take a road of caution in the introduction of incarna (yes, beta for, etc etc).but yes, this is eve, politics is fun that being said, it is a shame to see vuk go. i hope the presentation is still made, would be a shame."
"perhaps if mittani hadn't spent quite so much time in this campaign boasting about his ability to connive and construct drama i might take this latest 'scoop' a little more seriously. as it is, i think it's a pretty shallow, transparent little stunt. soon to be ex-csm member storms off a few days before he'd no longer be on the csm anyway?you'd have to be pretty simple minded not to see through this choreographed announcement for what it is.next week's will be better though, i'm sure. and we've got a whole year of these little faux 'exposes' from mittens to look forward to."
"well, aside from windy's new conspiracy theory, this is a somewhat interesting bit, but: gm/dev incompetence is a big, big deal. that we're dealing with a corporation that was surprised to learn that there was significant module lag in fleet fights is a bad thing. that the most expensive ships in the game, which require alliance-wide support for their production and use, can be destroyed not through pilot error but by blatantly broken game mechanics where ships stay in system for hours after their pilots log off? that's simply unacceptable. we deserve a game whose basic features work."
"who's vuk lau?"
"is this about the idiotic \"it's not your fault that you lost your (insert supercapital); it's the game's fault; we're still not going to reimburse you\" reimbursement policy? because that's a seriously dumbass policy and it is literally the dumbest way to treat long-time players who work their asses off (or in my case, scam a lot of dudes) to get a supercapital, only to see it wiped out - not because they did anything wrong - but because they desynched after jumping into a system (which can easily happen, even if the system isn't lagged.) it's also the laziest possible way to \"deal\" with the problem.so if this is what you're mad about, vuk, i'm right behind you. if it's something else, then i'm probably still right behind you on it."
"he's one of mittani's friends who has 'suddenly' decided that it's wrong that people lose supercaps when logged off at exactly the same time that some of his friends... erm... lost supercaps when logged off. when mittens and co did it to it / bob they thought it was fair game. suddenly, apparently, it's unacceptable (just before an election)."
"i would be seriously concerned with any goonie \"right behind me\" at any time, about anything..."
"and rightfully so."
"it's okay. i only engage in homorapism on the weekends. oh, wait. it's friday. carry on, then."
"honest question, isn't being manipulative a good thing, when you get down to it? even more so, aren't your little posts here even more obviously manipulative? you are attempting to prey of peoples fear of mind control to implant the suggestions you feel to be right, and you aren't even being subtle about it. at least mittens there put there effort into his propaganda to give an impression other than idiot who is bitter because he finally realized that he sucks at the spin game."
"you have got to be kidding me, mittens. goons and the nc used that means of killing caps countless times against their enemies when you were at war with us.and only now, when your friends are involved and you use csm privelege to try to force decisions on petitions, you and vuk suddenly decide it's 'intolerable'? vuk storms off giving you the exclusive drama bomb?? if this is the kind of neutrality and balance we can expect when you guys have most of the seats on the csm then it's a pretty clear indication of how you lot intend to blackmail and manipulate the csm to your personal advantage.guess you let your mask slip, huh, mittani?[edited for spelling]"
"btw i resigned before i lost the titan, and before i even imagined i would lost it. also if i wanted to manipulate with my resignation i would do it to promote killer2."
"was it too hard to hire an auditor to watch employee conduct in the game and prevent scandals like spawning t2 bpos? ccp took the cheap, short term solution by banning its employees from playing the game."
"dude he never wore a mask. sure he's tried to play \"lolpolitics\", but he's always been clear on just advocating his own interests and people would be stupid to trust him look at it this way. his enemies got killed by time and grind itself, so now he's got to make his own aurora 2.0 seriously, what do you expect. even in scrum some pigs and chickens are less equal than most."
"plenty of fights in the game are won by being the first to convince gms a technique is an exploit. maybe you should quit whining and start petitioning more."
"what were we going to do? not kill hostile ships because they might be desynched and/or lagged out? what kind of dumbass ehonour crap is that? i lost a supercarrier to an it fleet because of this, but i sure as hell didn't blame the it fleet for shooting me up. seriously, you take the kills that are presented to you. even if ccp had a sane and sensible reimbursement policy, and you knew that the titan you are about to kill will just get reimbursed, shoot the damned thing anyway. a kill is a kill is a kill. anyone who tries to scream \"hypocrite\" over this is a numskull.edit: actually, you make a good point, even if only by accident. now that we all know that ccp will refuse to reimburse losses caused by this, players have every incentive to exploit eve's buggy cyno and supercarrier bumping mechanics to destroy their enemies without them even having a chance to fight back. it's just another example to support the theory that ccp is completely unable of thinking through the consequences of their decisions."
"wow mittani, bit of an own goal this thread huh?"
"for the record, i was with vuk on that one. and 90% of the conversation about this issue was him and me.so i don't agree with the \"no support from the csm\" bit.there has been an increase in overall gm quality since that meeting in csm 3, in no small part due to that discussion.and while we've all had our share of :facepalm: since, anecdote is not the singular of data (which despite continuous request, we have yet to receive from ccp *wink* *wink* *nudge* *nudge*)...that being said, i regret vuk's decision. in the 3 terms i was lucky to work with him, he's been a great asset the vast majority of the time (ie, when he could keep his temper his check, something understandably difficult this last term :p)this last bit of csm has been extremely tiresome and frustrating for many delegates, and tempers flared.vuk indeed kept pushing for improvements in 0.0, lag fixes, gm improvements and was even a proponent of positive changes in areas that concerned his gameplay less directly. it's safe to say he didn't fail his voters..."
"this thread has nothing to do with my csm run (which is pretty much already won, regardless of the chair fight)you can whine about me and 'conspiracies' all you want though, i'll just enjoy your impotent rage"
"fun to see the mittani backpeddling. pathetic to see the goon / nc guy ragequitting because he couldn't use his csm position to get his ship back.this is precisely why we need fewer 0.0 alliance reps on the csm. the fact that vuk lau even admits to corruptly trying to influence the outcome of a petition is seriously scary."
"spotted gm alt. c/p generic troll without even reading the op."
"nah, not gm alt, just generic troll."
"i don't even see how vuk resigning is supposed to help my candidacy, this is like arguing with jesus freaks about if i'm going to hell or not"
"mittens, watcha gonna do if ccp decides to play the deaf card?"
"hurf blurf grandstanding on tentonhammer while yapping to buddies.just like a regular capsuleer with a blog really.or, he could try to get to work with the rest of csm and the good parts of ccp constructively, consistantly, transparantly. like meissa, mynxee, trebor, dierdra, teadaze, etc in csm 5."
"i'm just going to post this link to show what i would do after i heard this news because i'm lacking a real one"
"heh heh...calls to mind for some reason the time when pcgamer's usual eve reporter passed to another person the responsibility for a csm5 interview that didn't reflect so well on ccp because he \"didn't want to ruin chances of getting scoops from ccp about new features and stuff\". the interview was never published, regardless."
"i feel kind of bad now, mittens. sorry for ruining your big drama. more time to work on next week's though, eh?remember people they're lying to you. mittens said so. and he knows a lot about manipulation. he's saving us from those evil lies."
"i plead for a different way of elections for next year:i like to see a new setup:4 csm candidates get into csm by players votes3 csm candidates will get into csm by 'jury' (ccp), based on any criteria that the jury may have.2 csm members of the current running csm can get pushed forward by the other councillors (internal vote) for continuation purposes. (rule: the csm members that made use of this option cannot make use of this option twice in a row)* more guarantee on quality of csm* less chance on 'csm blocks'* improved continuation* not everyone with the best skills and plans are capable running campaign as it should or lack campaigning skills.pick by jury will be fair for this group of candidates."
"so in other words, take away the majority of the chairs from the electorate because the electorate outnumbers you.there shall be no house of lords here."
"it makes perfect sense for the council that ccp created in response to proven ccp corruption have members on it appointed by ccp."
"while it is true that i have a rather specific playstyle, that doesn't mean that everything i would do in csm is based on that. rather the contrary in fact. the main reason you'd have to vote for me, is that i'm used to thinking outside of the box, knowing all the game mechanics, etc...i can use this knowledge to help improve the game for everyone."
"there's still time to vote - go vote now!"
"got my vote imigo. good luck out there. and lets take down those macros!"
"heres the rules to this discussion, please follow them, if you dont, you will defeat the purpose of this debate. 1.) please provide all feedback and examples without referencing nc or drf. any reference to either group or how they use said mechanic will be ignored.2.) if you are providing feedback for something you understand in concept but not in practice, thats ok, just please just note it. for example. if you think titan bridges are unbalanced, but have never used or depended on one, just note that. input is important but so is source.3.) please stick to facts. this is about game mechanics, not metagaming, conspiracy theories or tears because powerblocs are powerblocs and those that arent.. arent..4.) seriously, lets not get into powerbloc debate, i would like to start that debate, but i want to do so in another thread. just try and hold back.. kthxwhy rules?look i totally understand that people have problems with large powerbloc groups like nc and drf. but if your problem is with the mechanics you should be able to hold a valid debate while excluding 1 or 2 users of said mechanic. meaning is your problem with the mechanic or is it really with the powerbloc.bridges: lets talk about how titan and jump bridges are, ways to bring them into balance.should we talk about just nerfing? in case you think they should stay just lets look at how many ships can use them at one time, fuel requirements, or mechanics in which they are used?should we talk about getting rid of them all together? now seriously.. please dont comment here if you have never relied on bridges without stating so. personally im not opposed to a rebalance of bridges, however i do oppose removal.force projection: i guess my issue with bridges and force projection is that an alliance or group that can project 200+ pilots will do so regardless of bridges. for those that have moved large groups of people. most of the time large fleets like this only use a few key bridges (if any at all) which almost always requires fuelers ready due to the number of ships. i really think if you remove bridges large alliances will still project their forces when its really needed, they will just have to start earlier when moving. for titan bridges, most (probably all) even partially stable 0.0 alliances have a titan or 20. so its relatively equally in terms of their use as a portal. but im interested in ideas on potentially rebalancing these as well.small scale pvp: as a pilot who has frequently been in small scale pvp <30 man fleets in both friendly and in enemy space.. i personally do not see how jump bridges prohibit small scale pvp. my fleet can still go in to enemy space and have many gfs.. you say its cause the defender can blob you fast? they will still blob you without jump bridges it will just be slower.. the point is for pvp fighting, not pvp running. if your 10 man cruiser fleet comes up against a 50 man bs fleet.. your fc commands to flee, you would do so regardless of how they got to you. additionally it actually takes away a camping point for pvp to occur, and it takes away strategic assets that are a common instigator for small and largescale pvp.in closing:i will really try hard to weed through the trolls and tears to have a valid debate, and im quite open minded to new views and ideas, so no attacks.please understand that while i am in nc, i am not opposed to rebalancing bridges, and i do strongly endorse more small scale pvp. (note that i promote gfs much more than i promote the ability to get good ganks easier.. there is a huge difference). im not trying to endorse abilities for rmt, botting and that other crap.. its dumb and ccp should rule with a much stronger fist on such fronts."
"and i know you are thinking it so i will just say it and get it out of the way.. for any of you tards that think nc or drf has it made because we have huge jump bridge networks.. think about this.. nc has over 400 bridges (im guessing cause im too lazy to count) thats 400 towers to manage, fuel and protect,, 400 actual bridges to keep fueled, 200 systems where ihubs and sov bills have to be maintained. its not about the isk its about the work that goes into it. the work in coordinating, setting up, documenting, and managing this type of network is frakin insane. if you think any part of managing this many bridges/poss is easy or fun or makes for a fun game? bite me :)oh yea.. magical fairies are great, but i prefer the frolicking ones.. just saying.."
"there for you did say that.. i'm only saying you cant speak for all major areas.. i'm also not saying its what people do or don't want (votes will decide that).. i'm just saying i don't personally think that's what makes the best candidate.. i'm entitled to that...you say:empire is not my only interest in eve, but it needs to be represented in csm, and non-powerbloc community needs it too. i can represent \"both\"you then say: again, you might be able to represent empire, but you still are a powerbloc member with a 0.0 sov and jumbridges to defend. you just can't represent out-of-powerblocs players.so you have your own interest but you say you can represent both.. why cant i??so its not your only interest? who says 0.0 is my only interest..you too make too many assumptions in attempt to attack/discredit.. don't.."
"fact is, this thread title is \"any candidate who is not advocate of big alliances ??\", and you are from a big 0.0 powerbloc alliance.i've never said 0.0 is your only interest, stay calm. all csm are interested in eve as a whole, they will have to participate on every subject.but the reason why you can't represent anti-powerbloc people is because you are from a powerbloc. when 0.0 discussions will happen in csm, how could you fight for something that will rip your renter space apart, destroy jumbridges and your ability to haul your stuff, make small fleets able to harass your mega-alliance farming systems... you will, just like every other powerbloc csm member, try to defend your personal priviledges.me as a player ? i have absolutely no priviledges. i do pvp, only against blinky pirates (which sucks because i have a lot less targets than pirates, etc.) and to help my carebear friends during wars, my playstyle is broken because of the killright system, agression mechanics, docking timers, rich 0.0 players t3/guardian blobs who decide to own lowsec, neutral remote during wardecs..."
"you say you're anti-powerblock, what does that even mean? you oppose groups of people being more powerful than individuals? just groups of people more powerful than your specific group? do you feel that one person should be unable to undo the work of thousands, or perhaps there should be strict rules about gathering in groups of more than 10.so your gameplay area of choice is crappy (although i'd contest that you can't find pirates to shoot, there are plenty of chokes which almost always have camps on. perhaps you mean pirates you can kill without bringing friends) and you're miserable because of that. how about instead of trying to make other people miserable too you focus on improving the stuff you actually participate in.and living in empire has plenty of advantages. not privileges though, that would imply you couldn't choose to gain them. there are plenty of ways you could gain all the wonderful advantages you think come from living in 0.0 space, you just choose not to."
"i'm fairly new to teh game, but it seems to me that people affiliated with goons are trolling non-goons candidates? why? is it really necessary?"
"absolutely."
"i don't think of it trolling so much as pointing out the incredibly stupid things that people will say to get votes.i'd do it to the goon candidates as well, but i didn't reading their platforms."
"well, i lost."
"\"because it's there\""
"why? that's part of being a goon i suppose, think a collection of jackasses and smartasses (and those not necessarily always smart either :p). plus there's always the possibility the candidates making a fools of themselves in response, which would be comedy.personally i prefer staying out of other candidates' campaign threads except i have something good to tell about them, but that's me.getting elected (and getting others not elected) is a game just like in real life and by those standards, goons are fairly moderate... my one question is whether the candidates can behave appropriately after that and historically even goons have. not sure this time around however, we'll see..."
"its a more significant to me that when confronted with anything other than gushing praise and endorsements, a number of candidates have resorted to stop trolling me you trolling trolls aaaaaa rather than giving straight answers.that these potential csms feel unable or unwilling to deal with difficult questions and unfavourable commentary says a great deal about both their motivations and suitability for the post."
"they are goons! it's what they do. plus its funny to see if they make somebody stumble and mess up."
"i liked when they were trolling thus, it was easy to fend off and bumped my thread for free. :p"
"last year within my first year in eve, i saw that ccp was sponsoring this thing called the csm, which i knew nothing about, i'd never seen such a thing by a company for its players before. i took the time to go look at each of the more than 80 some odd candidates, and wrote down names and ideas presented by each, and came up with 10 that had interesting ideas and bios. i narrowed my list to 5, but. i saw as i was narrowing the list that i was judging them all by 1 that my mind had selected as the standard that all should be judged by, based on what i was reading about each, and that one was issler dainze. i read extensively of her corporation and its history, and its members and i was captivated by it all. i voted for issler not only for the csm, but i asked to join her corporation, and a sight unseen noob like me was accepted without reservation by her. i have been a working member of issler's corp since then. she has always been one of the most fair minded, well grounded, unassuming people i have met, and that judgement is not only against what little i know about eve characters, but real people in my real life. i am dedicated to this corp because i find her style of leadership and management, inspiring in the way that what she offers you for what she needs out of you to make her corp work, is fair and just. that is inspiration from within engendered by her personality. i feel she should have been on the csm last year, and still feel she should be on the csm this year even more. the csm, the eve community, ccp, we all can benefit from the level headed, dedicated, and real life contributions of someone like issler dainze as part of this important body. no one would go wrong supporting issler dainze, i trust her and you should too.please vote. and please vote for issler dainze. and you know what guys. . . she's a real girl."
"i am pretty certain this was an overview bug, either that or you must already have been in structure - typically windy finds it hard to blow anyone up - i witnessed this first hand today.that aside, i feel sure that he will act in your best interests when he is elected."
"erm, no... *shuffles* no, he's right. i killed him in the face. that was probably one of my happiest times in eve - solo wardeccing corporations and violencing their spaceboats. happy days."
"jez put a little effort into your altposting"
"no do-overs! nope, i don't. ccp hasn't mentioned anything so far. since members of csm5 are running for re-election, i doubt they would out of concern it might offer some kind of insider knowledge advantage. *shrugs* who knows. i suggest you email kalrand and ask him directly what the situation is.update: i've posted a request to ccp xhagen and ccp diagoras to have a look at this thread and address your questions."
"i think its rather unsettling that somebody like kalrand shows up for csm election, people vote for him and then disappear without any explanation from ccp or kalrand himself.i've put in 3 votes for him"
"rumor on the internet says:"
"they artificially deflate the cost of certain ships and modules. sounds negative to me."
"in an interview ccp stated that they cannot link vote cast to player who cast it. they did this in the intent of anonymity but it has the added effect of making 'do-overs' impossible and having any means of 'fixing the dead vote' of the 4 hr accounts. now i know this disappoints many of you for whom i would have been the second choice and all those votes and your base belong to me buuuuuut . . . live with it. you voted for someone and they are gone, next time vaote for someone else.thano you for participating in the process.m"
"kalrand requested to have his candidacy withdrawn after the election started and thus we removed him from the candidacy list. any votes for him will have to stay with him, as (it has been explained above) we cannot link votes to voters. the voting system was specifically designed to leave no record of what user voted (only that the user has voted), even though it leads to being unable to fulfill requests like this one."
"note that kalrand made a post regarding this here."
"this is an incomplete version of events: specifically, he asked to be withdrawn after what i consider a valid complaint about ccp's conduct during the election process, and that complaint being given a dismissive response. however, i will let him make that case."
"lol, not having a go at you demi. iirc it was a convo you and i were having that offended that alpha guy and made him run to barqs and complain like a little puss. hind sight i should totally have trolled that dude for what it was worth rather than apolgizing seeing how it would all have ended the same way. i love it how barqs got all personally offended too. that was even more troll worthy. :p lol"
"i believe that what needs to be nerfed is the speed at which 0.0 entities can move combat ships form one side of the galaxy to another. i wouldn't want to see 0.0 logistics made harder by the change though.i don't want to see moon mining in w-space, even though it would be *very* profitable for me. i would like to see comets throughout space that have moon minerals in them, as a way of relieving some of the moon goo scarcity.if you live in a wormhole, you should seriously take a look at my blog"
"i'm probably the only guy on eve without an alt for the moment, so i only get one vote. tbh it was a toss up between trebor and mike, and the fact that trebor will likely get more than enough votes has me deciding on mike."
"supported."
"supported.implants for drone bonuses, please!oh, absolutely! it's the neglected drones that turn into rogue drones, and that results in horrors like this:"
"this isn't the only love drones could use, but it's one of the more obvious things that is lacking and could be easily added to the game with little to no negative side effects.rogue drones might be considered as one source of certain drone implant sets, since currently rd exploration sites/complexes aren't so good versus the sites of every other faction because they lack the normal faction drops other factions can give.whatever the actual way of getting such implants is going to be, the idea in itself is certainly a good one. supported."
"supported."
"supported."
"returning from two weeks of dormancy and 6 pages...bump.go go new csm - get out and vote folks! they may only get half (or less) of what we ask, but you'll get nothing if you don't vote!(and support my thread while you're at it...)"
"thanks for your support! (future readers - if you support this topic please remember to check the \"support this topic\" box. )"
"supported... i like having things neat."
"this idea has some merit...lowsec population would definitely spike if it was the only place to gain security status (or it and hisec). nullsec shouldn't give sec status since it is...well...0 security. i wouldn't screw with bounties though...the lower you go the higher the pay is fine.pirates would certainly see more prey (which is always good imo) there and it'd probably boost pvp in lowsec as well. i don't mind incursions increasing sec status since in low/null there can be competition for them. more incursions in low (with higher sec gains) would increase traffic too.+1, research a little more but it has merit. the main thing to remember is this only slows down gankers (real pirates have better things to do...) but doesn't seriously deter it. it does however place a time value on whether or not to gank."
"thanks!"
"so how about the option to check lco's, buildings, etc as blue then?a simple check-mark in the overview settings should suffice."
"there is others possibilies to make this inetreting for both ccp and us.currently i would like to train 2 char on same account, and no one on other.but i can't.i would need to transfer one char... but i don't have free slots, and it cost 2 months of sub as plex x2 (as you'll need it back after), so not interestingor create another account, but same you need to transfer things, and as stated you need to have it active when you don't need training, or like before pay for transfer often.more complex change you could even think about a way to be able to log 2 char of any account at the same time if you have 2 accounts(but here not sure ccp would like this money wise, as it would reduct a lot curent transfers :p)something more easy to use for customer would be so good...but well we must admit it could be pretty compicated to code or make fair.but what is proposed here is a 1st foot on this direction."
"try to remember that while a second account provides more benefits (both online for example) than two characters on one account, a second account has an initial startup fee to 'buy' the game.i'm all for allowing an option to 'double' or even 'triple' charge a single account to train the alternates on it. you can only have one online at a time so flight-wise (combat, transit, mining...) it makes no impact.ccp might not want though since they enjoy the extra cash from accounts as well as the other fact...if you can train three simultaneously on one account, you'll quit the game earlier. why? because the fact you have to buy another account keeps many players from training alternates simulataneously. the end result is that people will spend more time in eve because they'll pause their 1st character to train a second or third. so, from a business perspective, you can unerstand why ccp has the system as it is.+1, would be nice feature that benefits players, but it could impact eve membership as well as our infamous hard-@$$ game."
"i will have to disagree with this. i like the idea in concept but i feel this is step in the wrong direction with micro-transactions. there shouldn't be a way for some to benefit more by paying more money/account. my biggest concern is this will slippery slope into micro-transactions."
"as a goonswarm member, i fully support periodic bills with harsh consequences.maybe you should make the penalty harsher though; i'm worried that losing all your offices, corp hangers, sov and poses is too lenient."
"in most countries you yearly pay flat corporate registration fees, why this shouldn't be the case in eve is puzzling. it even will provide the game with a good isk sink.supporting a flat rate bill for corporations to keep their name in the 5m to 20m range."
"the problem you're trying to solve is insignificant to the point of being a non-issue and your solution to it is annoying and bothersome to everyone with a corp. the bother maybe minor, but why the hell should i have to suffer even that because you couldn't bother thinking up an original name or add a dot to the end of it. this is a totally disproportionate solution to the issue, that punishes the many for the failings of the few. by creating needless fees and busywork no one wants to deal with, it also seems to contradict ccp's policy to encourage people to go out and form their own corps and remove any obstacles to that.**** poor solution to an insignificant issue. not supported."
"^this."
"they really should.as things stand, intaki males have been entirely stripped of their visual identity, and sebiestor males have been offered no hope that ccp will ever bother to give them what would bring back a very significant portion of theirs (including their hair, come to think of it)."
"have you checked the test server? they are testing tattoos at the moment for the character creator.this is all content you are asking about, this can be easily added when walking in stations is fully implemented, the implementation now was mearly to allow the character creator to exist."
"a few months ago i would agree but i am starting to like rocking the dreads :)"
"look, ccp did this just for you"
"lork niffle and draco llasa have missed the point.yes, lork, i have checked the test server. no, lork, what i'm asking about is not there.waiting for the release of incarna seems like an inordinate amount of time to wait for things that should have been implemented first. furthermore, some of the old sebiestor male tattoos would be so simple to re-create that if ccp still hasn't done so by the time incarna arrives i will take it upon myself to dig through the client files, figure out the tattoo texture format(s), and hand ccp the results for free with no strings attached (other than resentment)."
"supported."
"/signed"
"sounds good to me"
"drakes are not overpowerd dam, it's the current playstyle that makes him shine and nothing else.the single point i can agree is the absurd distance you can shoot stuff with heavy's, it's not related to the drake, some flight time reduction could be enough but don't touch dmg output he's fine.don't touch the drake, caldari pilots deserve this ship even if i think he's the pain in the ass whenever i've got one on my hud, this doesn't mean he can not be countered."
"heavy missiles are the issue. not the drake.the problem with heavy missiles is that they deal very good dps at extreme range without the need to sacrifice mid/low slots for that range.reduce guided\ heavy missile range by 30-40%. (flight time not velocity)introduce mid\low slot modules that increase missile range and explosion velocity (scripts)this will mean that missile boats when fitted for range will have to use up their tanking/gank slots to give them the engagement range they want"
"that seems like almost a reasonable suggestion, but i keep feeling like most people starting these post do not actually fly drakes and thus do not know how lacking they are at some basic abilities most other ships have. all they are is tank and low damage, the only good thing is that when you have 30 friends suddenly the low damage does not mean as much as before."
"if you want to use the \"low damage\" argument then you need to compare the appropriate weapon system, which means ham's on the drake not heavies .. and the ham drake is probably the one bc you do not want barrelling down on you in a fight .. just sayin' :)long range it gets 400dps using the now standard navy ammo projected out beyond 80km .. closest you get with other bcs (damage+range) is the arty cane but it has precious little tank if it tries and it still does less dps with only 30% more alpha or so .. harbinger has even less left than the cane after fitting guns to hit that range.gallente are just *******sed up in general so no need to mention them at all.heavy ranges involved are pretty much where the thing breaks the \"system\". cutting it down some brings far more counters into play without completely ruining the drake and other missile lobbers."
"yes dont nerf the drake... nerf the missles...imo missles should have a long range booster mod just like guns do (te and tc)so the idea is reduce the range of missles by a lot...then introduce a mod that increases the range and lets say reduce the exlosion radius too (hamms and torps could use a boost)now if you want to hit to 70km+ you either need a mid slot or low slot to get to that range which will make it much harder to get good ehp and dps... (pick one or the other just like every other ship)also as a drake/gila/snake pilot i would like to see passive regen tank nerfed too! its boring only having named and tech ii shield regen mods... reduce the effectiveness or add stacking penilties and add faction/ded/officer gear... that way i can chuck on one estamel's shiled flux coil and still get the same tank but now i can put on some damage mods..."
"pretty much this^people don't know how missiles work. guns have tracking, while missiles have explosion radius and explosion velocity. this is why you can volley frig for big damage far off with guns, but never with missiles. the one factor (tracking) for guns are alleviated with tracking comp/enhancer mods, the 2 factors for missiles cannot be alleviated, except with 2 different types of rigs."
"unusual idea...but consider this:if warfare links were grid only...-orca's and rorquals have to be where their miners are at. this makes them more vulnerable to attack, costs more time (slow ships are slow), and consequently costs more isk.-ships with warfare links would need to be on grid: t3's would be seen more in fleet fights for their bonuses (which outstrip command ships for whatever reason...) as well as command ships. this doesn't add a whole lot of isk risked (relative to an entire fleet) but it does add more strategy - see below.-with the warfare link ships on grid (which normally only happens at towers, gang fights, gand when a fleet jumps) strategy would be shifted some as a new (and potentially dangerous) element is present (and now removable): the warfare links.i personally like this idea, but miners suffer the most here. pvp wise i think it would be a change for the better. +1"
"so instead of boosting t3 alts there will be a bloody swarm of falcon alts again? no thanks."
"basically you have modular drones...they dont have fittings but they do get one rig slot its pretty much the same as you have with other tech iii stuff...you put together sub sections on a base hull ( there would be 3 drone hull sizes) small med and large...i would like to see one of the sub sections for propulsion would be a warp drive for the drones(but as a draw back it would slow the drone speed significantly)why do you think (other then the trolls) would it add value to the game? would you invest in tech iii drones?"
"i like this idea!"
"."
"supported in principle.i might invest in tech 3 drones, depending upon how they were implemented. that said, there are other drone improvements that i'd probably want to see sooner, such as drone-related implants, indicators for when your drones have been locked or shot, the ability to see the hitpoint bars on your drones while they're in your drone bay, and so on."
"1.0"
"i really like the look of these commands. better/more advanced drone ai and commands would be a nice touch to the game. since none of these commands actually modify damage or stats, no balancing is really needed. op ideas benefit carriers moreso than subcaps, but they'd be nice for gang-work too.+1i still wish we could have more than 5 active drones on battleships...would be nice to have a squad of lights that could swat pesky frigates while a squad of mediums or heavies help you with your primary target...the e-war + dmg capabilities would be neat too, pve or pvp. of course all ships, not just gallente, would need drone bay/bw increases for balancing. (can almost hear a dev screaming in agony as he envisions this...)"
"agree!"
"supported."
"i support though i just have a client on each monitor rather than one spanning the two. less gpu intensive that way."
"your right, i stopped reading as soon as you tried to take the jump drive away from caps. make them use gates and they will have to be able to dock.*unsupport*"
"you unsupport things you haven't read? interesting....."
"how does jbs factor in fixing supercaps? gate jammer? local delay? warp speed enhancer?i'm just going to stop there, but this isn't \"fix capitals online\", this is \"**** with tons of random things\". and i suspect it'd break a lot more than it would fix."
"well, the idea behind it is rather simple.it is cta the sc need to move to staging system, a spy tells that to an enemy alliance. the enemy alliance where a certain sc is and where the staging system is, so they know the way he has to take. they can easily set up a gatecamp with delayed local. sc's scou jumps in, sees nobody in local (since it is delayed for him) and thinks it is clear. sc follows and warps to outgoin. a hic decloaks, everybody else too (or comes through the gate) and sc is dead."
"the only reason why i stopped where i stopped, was because i didn't feel the urge to list more or less each and every modification you had in there.you're mixing jbs (which supercaps don't use), sov changes, removal of jumpdrives, industrial changes, gate jammers, blues list limits, warp enhancers, sov fees rising exponentially, local jammers, outposts that can create faction ships, removing rat bounties in 0.0, etc etc etc etc etc etc etc. honestly, i'm not going to read more of that list.it's all over the place, it's tons of changes that you have no idea how will affect everything else, most of which has ****-all to do with capitals. hell, you even think that 0.0 is safer than hisec, paying particular attention to ratting, logistics and pointing to jbs.how many times have you autopiloted a freighter in empire? when was the last time you moved a freighter in 0.0? how often have you been ratting in 0.0 without glaring at the intel channel, vs afk-ratting in hisec? how much extra work do you have to do in 0.0 just to avoid getting ****ed, vs in empire? and how exactly is this going to have any effect on capitals?in short, your long list of suggestions (most of which have ****-all to do with capitals) is most likely exactly the kind of suggestion ccp should look at and just shoot down in flames.and just to tackle your scenario of the sc going to a cta staging system: scs don't travel alone, and scouts would most likely be in place more than 5 minutes before anything happens. probably even hours, if the alliance(s) in question isn't a bunch of complete scrubs. that's how it's done now, let alone with \"delayed local\"."
"wow.. unsupported.. i had to stop reading after the first post (yes i eventually finished) have you ever lived in 0.0 and been part of sov, large fleet or cap warfare?i'm with lord zim here.. i could write 5 posts explaining all the mistakes and misconceptions.. i just cant be bothered.. got get ready for some some real 0.0 combat. next time.. try smaller scale ideas.. and keep it to stuff you have actually done and really understand. i dont dispute alot of your root issues, but your solutions for them would make things so much worse in so many ways.lawl.. sry still laughing about sieged dreads using bombs.. you know sieged dreads can't move to align for a bomb launch right?"
"hmmm.. i had to stop reading after the first two paragraphs...unsupported... these changes would negativly effect eve on a large scale base. i am to assume you are not a cap pilot and have been blobbed a few too many times...my advise to you is to learn how to live in 0.0 and pull your skirt down."
"it would be fun but i think it would not add substantially to the game play. the view would very very rarely be used as would just lack the quick access of information the current view provides. i do not think it adds enough to the game play to support.it would be fun but really ships are not flown like this in rp sense of capsuleers either so something to consider."
"currently one opens saved fits by hitting browse, selecting a relevant entry and hitting 'fit'.if one wants to mix things up and change just a little one has to either make sure the \"offending\" modules are not present in hangar or fit manually ..add tick-boxes in the fittings shown in \"browse\" so that individual modules can be deselected prior to fitting."
"its that much of a hassle to remove the \"offending\" module and put in the one you want afterwards?"
"not really, just a wasteful amount of extra clicking, ui optimization is the future.also the rather large expense if the item is a rig which can cost quite a lot."
"maybe that's because drones are based on the original gallente design and were acquired by the other races by various means (donated to minmatar, stolen by caldari who shared with amarr) then reverse-engineered to fit with their different technologies.that's why you have to specialize for a races drones later on.ships on the other hand were developed in parallel, so no two races technologies are the same."
"supported."
"i support this product and or service."
"i support this product and or service."
"noxiotious and i support this product and or service."
"i guess my last post didnt go through because.. i support this product or service."
"i support this product and or service"
"ref'tal and i support this product or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"catalytic morphisis and i support this product and/or service."
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"there's also a saying \"when you accuse people of something that isn't true, they'll often point out your errors.\" funny how that works, yes?"
"two steps was in goonswarm federation until about 2 weeks ago (check his employment history), to give the impression he is neutral and wasnt favouring nc he decided to leave which tbh he should have done mid-way or did what white tree did and hide his alliance ticker.two shots  someone who doesnt even have the balls to admit his nc loyaltybad comment, please ignore haha, got 'two step' mistaken for 'two shots'"
"do you know just how many people have at some stage been in a large alliance/coalition? how many people haven't been in a big alliance/coalition!?!i'm not sure what has driven you to vehemently hate anything vaguely associated with the north of eve, but it's unhealthy and seems to be driving away any ability to reason you may once have had."
"would you believe it, i actually got 'two shots' and 'two step' mixed up, if they are alts my post makes sense but i doubt that very muchconfusion at my part, sorry for the negative comments, quite embarrassing since i try to be sincere as possible disregard any negative comments i said in this thread.ps. looks like imigo made the same error too hahaonce again, sorry for the **** up xd"
"nope, no error made on my part because i wasn't saying anything about the candidate - i was commenting on your poor reasoning (which was directed at two step, mistakenly or otherwise) and comprehension, further evidenced by you not realising this.if you're going to go around throwing poop all over people's campaigns, at least do so with realy poop instead of making some up."
"i could just link all your comment right about now and call you out on all your bull**** but i think most people are aware of what you are like.besides its not like i got called out on the error, i was the one who corrected myself, im all for criticising people for their hypocrisy but if i screw up i will state that, doesnt really make sense you calling me out after i correct myself though lol?"
"please do. although i invite you to start a new thread or post in my campaign thread (especially if you've found a post i should be called out on) so that we can leave two step's campaign thread alone.i'm yet to see you back anything up so i'd really like to see this."
"crazy pro/anti-nc conspiracy theories belong in windypops' thread, not here. please take them elsewhere."
"more like following the good instructions of vote early, vote often.better than waiting for an opportunity that never arrives."
"my own advice comes back to haunt me..."
"jonathan,i wanted to let you know that i put in a very enthusiastic vote for you today. i wish you well with your csm experience!"
"amaroq you can think of it like the futures markets. jita is the nymex. amarr/tash-murkon, oursalert, and rens are like the mgex, kcbot, and cbot. the market system will naturally create hubs. one central hub, and several distributed regional hubs. this arrangement is not strictly out of convenience but rather an emergent architectural feature of virtually all trading systems. if you remove the central market, another will emerge, simply because the market has participants who will travel to the busiest market to receive the best price."
"as you may know, i'm the csm6 candidate the most attentive to the roleplayer's voices, and such a use of it makes me sad.i won't troll this topic into turning into one about godmoding and the way rp shouldn't be used as a way to present concerns that have, let's face it, nothing to do with rp.to speak of the underlying \"problem\" of trade hubs, i think it won't be easy to nerf them. it's very possible, even with the market needs for them - a rise in trade costs based upon stations' hangars free capacity, meaning increased costs for market orders in busy stations, would pretty much achieve that, and with a valid rp reason nonetheless.now, is it really needed ? since the removal of stargates highways, the main trade hub have switched to jita, and several secondary hubs appeared in all the main empires. traders love 'em, and while one can dislike the crowded stargates, hisec pirates, and local scamming logorrhoea, they will continue to exist.if elected as a csm member, i'll... do absolutely nothing about trade hubs unless the situation evolves vastly."
"there is a way to prevent market to create one big main hub like jita :increase taxes, broker fees, etc.make your nearby market interesting again because it has almost no fees.(or just increase travel cost but... would be a lot harder)"
"if ccp does things to jita, everyone will fly their stuff to new caldari, niyabainen, perimeter, and urlen, distributing the amount of stuff being sold from one system into five. if prices haven't dropped sufficiently at that point, then the market would migrate into the citadel, which sits directly between domain (amarr) and the forge (jita), and expand to fill stations as needed based on price pressure.the citadel region index would replace the jita system index as the central market of the eve economy, due to the availability of stations and proximity to two previous hub systems."
"still better than an overcrowded jita in my opinion.and i think it would greatly improve secondary hubs in other regions:people who nowadays make a trip to jita every week or so to sell their stuff when they live near dodixie, rens, amarr, etc. will probably just sell it in the hub nearby instead of wandering in citadel in their freighter to find the best price. ah and add more taxes to ranged buy orders, it would be logical.i'm not an economist, but i know there are ways to weaken jita. i'm honest though, i don't know all the effets they will have."
"it looks like we're going to breach 50k :)i was not too educated on voting systems before reading this thread, i must admit. after some reading and the inevitable hyperlink compulsive clicking, while i somehow ended up on a page about some aspects of buddhism, i also gathered some new knowledge about these election systems.and i concur, a system that would create less \"wasted votes\" would be better for the eve community."
"yeah, definitely, putting something up for debate on the internet is the solution that you were looking for here.hint: this will accomplish nothing and you're just putting words together to make yourself sound important"
"small to medium gang sized pvp.... lul.... 3-1 odds baby 3-1 odds..oh and my ceo!"
"you have my vote!"
"+3 votes from me, keep up the good work meissa.on the topic \"why\"meissa is a great csm member, and i'm sure he will remain there for at least few more terms. he is one of the most competent and intelligent eve online players i know, always very helpful an"
"coders 'vanishing' wouldn't be a problem if they had been documenting their code and changes while things were in progress. :cripes: moddable ui requires comprehensible and tidy code to begin with, so it might amount to little more than a pipe dream w/r/t ccp."
"saturday evening bump"
"a deserved bump for a deserving candidate.ps: you owe me a vote..."
"thanks. and no i don't, actually. i have four votes. i used three of them on myself, and one on you. figure if i don't get elected, you're the csm delegate i get the right to pester. also, i have written a blog post regarding my feelings on vuk's resignation."
"i just read the post, and agree with your conclusions.and you actually spent one of your votes on me? boy, if you miss out being a main by 1 vote, you're going to be ****ed!"
"while i entirely agree with you on an abstract philosophical level, one also has to consider the reality of both playing in, and running, a game universe. when the server is lagging out (or melting), nobody is having fun -- neither the players nor the operations staff! and last time i checked, having fun is why we play games (or perhaps, that's what makes eve different -- it's the game you play so you can feel good by escaping back to your real life ).eve is full of artificial constraints imposed for real-life performance reasons. for example, the watchlist is limited to 10 ships for this reason. changes implemented to encourage (as opposed to require) fleet sizes to max out within current server capacity are no different, they're just more visible.finally, it should be noted that as the technological limits increase (either by better servers or better code), constraints imposed for performance reasons can be relaxed."
"no, you're misunderstanding me. the only reason i mentioned grids were because your idea reminded me of how i could foresee your fog of war working. i was assuming that the server would have to, pr client, calculate the distance to everyone around him and adjust the overview accordingly. i'm currently not giving ccp the benefit of the doubt that they can actually make this work in a non-suck way, and to be frank it sounds very non-sandboxy and jarring.also, i may not know the exact technical details behind how grids work, but i know the general idea of how the \"falling off the grid\" deal works. i have read the grid-fu manual. a while ago, but i have read it.i'm in agreement with this, as long as eve is as limited in how many people can be in a system (moreso when those people are using drones and/or missiles) as is the case today (for technical reasons, not mechanics or policy reasons). however, i'm strongly opposed with the way you wish to achieve this, and i think your thinking on this (along with pinball titan dd; we got rid of aoe dds for a reason: it was overpowered.)your way is essentially creating dungeons in space, and that is the wrong way to go. what you want is a way to enable attackers to attack multiple systems at once, and have a way of making progress even if the defenders were to turtle up in a single system at a time. dominion sov doesn't do this, it enables the defender to turtle up in up to 6 systems in a roundrobin fashion, and that (much more than anything else) is creating the \"hit it with a bigger hammer\" tactics of today. that is what needs to be fixed, it should be my choice to commit 500 dudes to a single system and leave the rest of the systems vulnerable to counterattacks, not some dungeons in space mechanic that puts an even greater emphasis on skillpoints.i'm aware of the limitations put upon eve by stackless python, that's not really what i meant, though. what i meant was that it would be nice if they could refactor the way eve was structured (at the core) so it worked in a way that did actually scale a lot better. i'm just theorycrafting here (and it'd probably end up with a fair bit of overhead, if it's even possible), but if they could refactor the codebase so that players (and the missiles etc they fired, for example) were one process (instead of keeping this in the solar system processs), then it would be much easier to scale up. but as i said, i've no idea how much work that would be, nor would i bet on ccp doing this (or if they did, they'd probably find some way of ****ing it up or leaving it unfinished).however, as i think i've made abundantly clear, this is far from the main problem with 0.0 today (as i see it). the sov system, the fact that living in 0.0 (apart from ratting, mining abch ore, moongoo and pi materials, and of course the e-peen) is more or less pointless, and the fact that even mining is more stressful than in empire (i can't watch a movie while minig, which makes it a lot more of a chore than mining in empire), all combine into one irrefutable fact: if i got kicked out of goonswarm today, i probably wouldn't try to go back to 0.0 with it being in the state it is now. i'd go back to empire and manufacturing stuff there, if i wouldn't just outright quit."
"and that is what needs to be changed. we need to get more empire dwellers enthused about 0.0, we need to get them out there, we need to make it so they can go out there and try to live there without being a 2000+ alliance with 15k napped friends. that's what they said they wanted with the new sov system, that's what they completely ****ed up, and that's what needs to be fixed, not tack on dungeons-in-space mechanics to try to cover up that deficiency, because that's what ideas like fog of war would effectively be trying to do.correct. that's why i'm pushing you so hard on the fog of war idea, because it's giving me an impression that you might not be as good as you think you are at doing exactly that, namely asking ccp hard questions about their ideas for 0.0. i'll probably get tons of \"lol ur a goon\" eyerolls over this, but i honestly want this game to get better, and i firmly believe that for it to do so, it needs to avoid these kinds of ideas."
"zim,i think we can agree at this point that we both want to get to the same destination; we're just arguing about which route to that destination is the best one.i would generally agree with you that some sort of multiple simultaneous objectives mechanic would be one way of addressing blobbing; it would basically cut the blob into sub-blobs. similarly, addressing force projection so that deploying the capital fleet was strategically committing is worthy of consideration.however, i would point out that cutting blobs into sub-blobs does not deal with the underlying game-mechanic reasons why blobs happen in the first place; it merely delays the problem for a while. as the number of players increases (which we all hope it will), and as nullsec population increases (which it will if nullsec is made more attractive, which both of us want), the total size of a fleet, and thus of the sub-blobs, will again creep up into the danger zone.so in the longer term, the issue of blobs still has to be addressed -- and this has always been the point i was trying to make.whether this is best done by addressing god's-eye-view issues (by fog-of-war, or in some other way), or by some other mechanic, remains to be seen. clearly, whatever mechanic is chosen has to be computationally feasible (within the limitations of the eve architecture) and fun to play.with respect to refactoring for better scaling, team gridlock is working on this; the io serialization was one result of this effort.finally, whatever you think of any individual idea i might have, i hope that you recognize that i am (usually) thinking critically when i make them, starting by attempting to define the real high-level issue. i will admit to a weakness for out-of-the-box thinking (some would say out of the building that contains the room that contains the box), but while that means that many things i come up with may turn out to be dead-ends, the discussions that they stimulate (like this one) are often very useful in unexpected ways.i am a firm believer in sturgeon's law (\"95% of everything is crap\") and do not labor under the illusion that i am exempt from it. but at the same time, i do have a 30-year track record of crapping out the occasional lump of solid gold."
"thank you again to everyone who is filling my inbox and casting their votes. please make sure to direct everyone you can to massively's eve online csm 6 candidate roundup. this is an excellent article where you can learn quite a bit about who is running and why."
"if you don't vote for draco a goat will go to your house and eat all of your turnips."
"you got my vote, because i believe you represent best the industry minority.good luck."
"thanks to everyone that has offered support. if you haven't voted be sure to realize that forum activity and votes are not the same thing. miners, carebears, industrialist, solo players, small corps and folks that live in high or low sec, you have a csm candidate that will represent you!vote issler dainze for csm!"
"issler has been to csm before and is my voice for the way i like to play eve which is a desire to turn gameplay into isk profit! a vote for issler is one for better profit from what you do no matter what you do, erm, that make sense?"
"i prefer someone who isnt still trying to get a little notoriety by making a mole hill out of a non-event and cant seem to stop themselves from making disparaging remarks six months later.six months later and youre still making sour little remarks. surely there is someone with a better agenda than this. how about ripard teg, trebor daedoow or mike azariah?-windjammer"
"sour remarks? not seeing any in the thread, but thanks for the bump. commenting on some funny drama in previous csms maybe......anyway, again i really appreciate the in game support i'm getting. i remain committed to supporting the majority of eve, the miners, the industrialists, the small corporations and of course will try and get ccp to show low sec the \"luvin'\" it has needed for years!issler dainzevoice of reason csm candidate"
"agreed - i'm not seeing any \"sour\" comments here, and issler has always been positive and supportive with any problems or concerns i've ever had in the past. good luck issler - and i think we need at least one lady csm!! you've got my vote!"
"with all these trolls out there, i like to be sure i convey my ideas without misunderstanding. it's sad that it makes me a bit verbose indeed. but who cares ? if someone has a very short attention span, he will never get to this thread anyway, the eve forums being what they are. they will cast their csm vote basing upon the messages displayed on the vote page.thank you for the information, i did not know some of these things. in short, whatever my role is in the next csm, i'll do what i can for that policy to be continued. so, expect to hear my annoying accent in some audio meetings, even if i'm not a full-time member. will you accept a haiku ? i need my votes, i'm not a returning candidate like some of us here"
"you could set up some alchemy pos to create tech roc, that might win you some votes. ed: except you can't make r32s through alchemy. oh well, no nc votes for you."
"can't stop the roc."
"vote for krutoj :)"
"alright i have done the drawing:3/16/1121 iron straw - 50x reinforced rolled tungsten plates51 naughtygrim - 150x dual 150mm railgun ii48 trinneth - 100x electron blaster cannon ii44 el daniels - 53x fleeting propulsion inhibitors40 huntin4cloud9 - 100x light ion blaster ii3/18/1145 drakoneus aivoras - 68x true sansha magnetic plating42 brusanan - 30,000x morphite"
"do they sell crazy by the bushel, or do they use metric these days?"
"your paymaster mittens is hardly going to be delighted that you're bumping this pr disaster of a thread... bet you're kicking yourself that it cost him more to bribe the eve news 24 website for an official endorsement than your own 'impartial' eve tribune website. i'm willing to bet he only paid you about 200m for that."
"the purestrain rageposts in reaction to a thread not particularly relevant to me personally are a good sign for my csm run, i thinkif you weren't scared, you kids wouldn't be this desperate to flail about so ^_^"
"so... bushels then?"
"all the poop flinging and dummy spitting going on in this thread show just how much csm needs rational clear headed candidates voted in. just like me."
"this is now a widot thread."
"op, minus his comments (since who really cares what mittani has to say anyway) did yet again another \"lets post something for no reason\".vuk lau didnt even run for csm this term but to say he 'resigned' is pretty funny since he only started whining about csm / ccp after his term was over anyway like a little baby, haha.as for mittani being in, well that was obvious, no one for a second thought you wouldnt get in, the sheeps will follow you as long as you have your title, the contradiction in every mittani thread just shows how stupid goons are, agreeing just because \"its the mittani\" careless of the fact that mittani hasnt been consistent about anything he has said since he started his lets obsess about molle campaign.finnagain zero - yeah, still ignoring your poststhis thread is almost as funny as those 1 day alts spamming my mailbox with \"hahah you got rejected from csm\" which is funny since i never applied nor had the time to commit to something like that anyway.coming soon,..'mittens - the hand that rocked the cradle'a documentary about how mittani rp's sarah palin in game and at the csm meetings, which resulted in daily whines about how supercarriers were underpowered and how jump bridges needed a buff.thankfully ccp wont give a **** what he has to say anyway"
"ccp has already threatened to sue him for what he had to say in the past..."
"yup im sure ccp will make a fortune out of suing people in a different country with no assets or income (outside rmt), all because they 'said words'."
"hey, hey finn! finn! i'm not listening to you!!! can you hear me? i said i'm totally ignoring you! finn? did you hear me!?! hey, i'm ignoring you!!!by the way, speaking of your obvious trolling, found a cite yet to prove that the nc only had 20 titans and about 8 motherships, among all their member alliances? how about proof that any single nc supercapital pilot had their loss removed (and somehow also removed from hostile boards, go figure)? how about a cite to show that razor has set aaa and atlasdot blue? no? yeah..."
"still not caring"
"i think we can all agree that all forums everywhere will be better off when kalle demos stops posting forever.also, if this were a mittani-run conspiracy, vuk would have gone to fanfest and loudly denounced ccp gms live on evetv. with his pecker out."
"hell, if it was a mittspicracy, vuk would have endorsed mittens as the only hope for eve."
"no honor in resigning.sorry but if you felt strongly enough about the issue you should have championed it as long as you can. by resigning you only remove the only voice fighting against it. it's kinda how certain politicians fled a state recently to avoid voting, and then were upset because votes were held why they were derelict in their duty.reimbursement has been inconsistent for years, we all know that. it largely depended on who got your case whether or not you'd get reimbursed. while we may not agree with the stated reimbursement policy at least it is there for all of us to see now, which is better than what we had before.we all know the servers can't handle thousands in a system, yet everyone keeps sending thousands into them. a gentlemen's agreement not to send more than 300 on each side into a fight would probably help more than anything ccp can do. this doesn't mean you couldn't have reinforcements next door to replace losses. lag is a problem i'm not going to deny that. it was better prior to dominion, which means the problem most likely lies in the dominion code. however it can never be completely eliminated as our technology level isn't high enough to do so."
"what \"bang\", some guy didn't get preferential treatment from the gm department like the important internet politician he thinks he is so he threw a sissy fit and resigned when his turn is over anyway."
"so vuk lau loses a titan and tries to use his csm position to get ccp to give it back. i am not surprised by this. quitting the csm in a temper tantrum is also not surprising.you got what you deserved vuk. you have been the biggest opposition to fixing 0.0 and pushed for it to remain the same stale and stagnant ultra power block **** it has been for a long time now.the funny thing about all this the fact that the csm alternate that will take your place, will easily be more active in the last two weeks of the term than you have been for the entire term. let's face it, you will not be missed. hell, you were never really there to begin with.if ccp decides to remove/nerf jump bridges, you going to quit the game too?"
"good riddance? if vuks post is representative of his ability to communicate, just how valuable could he have been? ive little patience for quitters, especially when there was so little time left in his tenure.i dont much care for the mittani, but i dont really see how he benefits from vuk resigning.speaking solely for myself, petitions are usually met with courtesy and some attempt at reasonable resolution. no, not all gms are created equal and this is why ccp put in the ability to escalate a situation to a higher, more senior, gm and/or review board. ive only had to escalate a petition once and the situation was quickly taken care of when i did. i havent experienced any worse customer support from the gms than i have from any other customer support team. other people are obviously having issues, but ive never seen a company that didnt have a similar situation.the csm has largely disappointed me as it has others. however, csm5 did make some serious contributions to the game of eve. i dont agree with everything they did and didnt do, but some of the things they did were absolutely for the improvement of the game and were an invaluable platform for feedback to ccp.ccp has disappointed me as well, over the years, however they do seem to be growing up a bit and have pleasantly surprised me of late. am i in love with all their decisions? heck no, but they do show signs of improvement.seems like vuk had himself a little hissy fit and thats just about it. i doubt it will have any sort of lasting effect. more likely people will forget about this in a couple months.-windjammer"
"please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"this coming from the guy whose platform is basically \"i promise to glare meanly at 'mittens & co.' and be as obstructionist as possible simply to screw over those dumb goonies while enjoying my free trip to iceland hey guys myyyyy turbo diesel estate sportscar.\""
"for those of you unable to read, let me 'splain it to you.he's not going \"zomg i dint get preferential treatment, im quitting!\"he's resigning because the gms, as a whole, tend towards incompetence and very obvious bias, and all attempts to get the issue addressed fell on (predictably) deaf ears, meaning the only way to raise awareness of the problem was through a big, public gesture.ccp, csm candidates, listen up! the players are speaking. gm incompetence. institutionalized bias. unfair reimbursement policies. ridiculous nerfs to 0.0. unwillingness to accept player input. these are things that concern us."
"you mean like all those nc super capital ships that died and were respawned after down time and ccp let them keep them?still worried jump bridges will be nerfed and the entire nc power block will collapse over night and you will be subjected to having to put forth :effort: into living there? i welcome the idea of logistics and power projection that requires effort again.oh yeah, those ideas were brought up by the player base and ccp is listened. vuk is just hoping to pull a \"i'm resigning because of microtransaction on remap!\" bit like t'amber did."
"the bias has existed as long as i've played, the devs are themselves biased always have been. it exists in every game. it happens because most of the gm pool is always taken from the player pool, as such they have friends and inevitably will be more lenient towards friends than foes. i think that's why ccp published for the first time a reembursement policy since i've been here, they wanted to work on improving what would happen, we may not like what it says but it is progress at least we all know where we stand now and that works to remove bias. at the same time it removes the wiggle room gms used in the past. in a way vuk was successful just not in the way he wanted.quitting something because you are not getting the result you want in the timeframe you want is not heroic. it only silences the voice that might could have continued the fight. you remove a voice that could have brought these issues up at fanfest, instead he cops out and quits."
"csm drama, best drama \o/"
"why are people even bringing up vuks lost titan like it means anything? you do realize he is the leader of one of the richest alliances/coalitions in the game. his personal lost titan really doesn't mean ****. however it is apparent that ccps attitude towards a lot of issues has been at a steady decline for quite sometime."
"you summed it up right there. ccp didn't bend to his, \"i'm the nc leader and on the csm so no changes to 0.0 to keep it boring and all nc ships are to be respawned after down time for us if we lose any!\"ccp won't auto-reimburse nc ships and wants to nerf logistics and power projection for super coalition and he quits like a little emo *****."
"try reading the op a little harder, mabye you could gain some insite as to why he quit the csm. until then stop spurging it makes my eyes bleed."
"re vuk: more like a tempest in a teapot. no one really cares, with only two weeks or so left in our term. if he really wants to demonstrate how ****ed off he is, he should just cancel all his accounts and quit eve.also, the incarna open letter is merely a public record of csm5's concerns (as i stated in the letter's thread). there has been no drama and none expected. there has been zero response to the letter from ccp, and quite frankly given the precedent they have established related to lack of communication with csm about incarna, none expected."
"what i read was he was trying to help some of his friends with some petitions and it is not going his way. so he gave up and quit. does he use his csm influence to try and help non-blues with their petitions?also your posting is some of the worst."
"please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"1. mynxee: best csm (w/diedra vaal!).2. vuk quit. that's what it looks like. if he *really* wanted to push his agenda, he would have made ccp pay his way to iceland, then made a *real* stink. in every meeting that he could get into. far as i can see, all he did was quit (but, +points for giving the alternate a couple weeks notice).3. mittens: no one doubts he's going to get into the csm, because of his name, and his affiliations. however, because of *who* he is (super serious internets space-lawyer) - he will be no more effective than jade constantine was. entirely because he's such a divisive figure. and possibly even *less* effective...no one will trust what he has to say, because he's said so many times that he's a lying manipulative bastard (re: lawyer). re: the o/p: i've done about a half dozen petitions. got fast turn around on the important ones, decent service on the rest. vov"
"he probably couldn't get off from work to go to ff and decided to use the opportunity for grand standing csm5 is all but wrapped up so he loses nothing and gains points with whomever is gullible enough (or do not follow politics in general).. guess this constitutes the csm version of 'emoragequit' which is in all honesty what i have come to expect from the memememe crowd living in null currently."
"i completely understand where vuk was coming from.i had a petition in once where a pos magically warped to another moon that already had a pos, so there was a pos inside of a pos. the modules on the pos that moved remained at the old place.you couldn't change settings on either pos because they were in each other's pos bubbles, so tearing it down wasn't an option.it took three weeks to resolve the situation. it was eventually solved by a gm manning the \"stuck\" queue who just destroyed one pos and re-created it. that's all we wanted. it took another week after that for the original gm to reply with \"sorry we can't reimburse you for the lost minerals you would have mined! lulz!\" which we expected anyway.this is just the most flagrant example of terrible gm petitions. i've had plenty of petitions responded to with canned responses because they weren't read completely (or at all). i don't expect 1 hour turn arounds on petitions, but a little competency, and some timeliness (or responses claiming to be \"working on the issue\") would be a massive improvement.besides, it's not like i'm petitioning \"hay my toonie got blown up in his mommie by smarties and i lost a bunch of iskies can i hav it bak plzzz mr gm sirrrrrrrr\""
"do you have any idea how much effort it takes to live in nullsec -now-? how much work it takes to import materials, construct ships, distribute ships to market hubs? how much of a pain in the ass it is to get fleets formed up and moving to their destination? power projection won't really be negatively impacted, but the lives of individual players will be made about 10 times harder than they need to be.those ideas were brought up by ***goty hisec mission runners in terrible 8 member corps, much like yourself."
"i have written a blog post with my comments on this."
"ex-tri posters remind me a lot of bob posters; their arguments all amount to a smug declaration that they and only they know the 'right' way to play eve online, followed by demands that anyone else's way of playing be removed asap 'for the good of the game'i suppose that explains why such personalities constantly clashed and resulted in like seven alliance cascades/respawns"
"as opposed to you claiming that you, and only you, know the \"right\" way to run the csm, followed by assertions that you should be chairman \"for the good of the game\"?"
"obvious bias is obvious... brave sir robin! (for those who didn't know.... ;)"
"glass houses and all"
"just to be clear - i'm not 100% sure that we can take down any more macros than ccp already is currently. what i know we could see is some transparency from ccp to show how much they are actually doing about it (and from there whether they could be doing more)."
"maybe you should fight the macro's in your own coalition first!surely you dont expect anyone to believe nc is against botting do you?especially when nc have an open policy on botting and do it just as much as drf"
"kalle, thank you for gracing my campaign thread with your presence.i'm unclear however exactly what you're trying to show here. all i see in those links are a few systems with some npc kills - some with as many as almost 7k (rarely though).numbers of npc kills does not prove macro use. with an upgraded system and running anomolies in 40 minutes (easily achievable, particularly in pairs/small groups), you can get over 7k npc kills in a 24 hour period (2 havens + 2 sanctums per system, ~50 npcs per anom, ~40 mins per anom, 23.5 hr/day), and that's not counting belts or complexes/hidden belts etc. so what the numbers you are showing proves that the nc might just be full of carebears. stop the presses!given your apparent inability to distinguish heavy ratting from macro use, i'm glad that it's not you that is leading the campaign against macros.to be quite frank i don't care whether you're nc, drf, caaaserol, empire, whatever - if you're using macros you're cheating. it's that simple."
"i expected your kind of bull****, so i will just ask anyone who clicks those links to just put two and two together just by looking and comparing stats on 'jumps' & 'npc kills'.not to mention the fact, most nc (and other alliances) alliances are open on their botting issues, dont you think you should deal with your internal botting issues before focusing on the rest of eden, after allnext up we will have vuk lau give his \"i want to end number warfare\" speech"
"how are those numbers/calculations bull****? were they out in any way? please elaborate on that.are you also suggesting that people who heavily rat in a system jump around a lot, rather than parking up in their pos when they're done? i do wonder how much grasp you have on life in nullsec if you're suggesting that those numbers conclusively mean anything regarding macro use.and would you like to actually provide some reference as to who made that off-handed comment that you quoted, or did you just make it up? it does seem to suggest that somebody thinks somebody else does something with bots. there is a big difference between off-handed comments and proof/confession.my message still remains the same - i'm for removal of all macro use, regardless of who, for the benefit of active players."
"eve needs more magical fairies - with bells and sparkly dust to turn missiles into flowers. thanks for the new campaign platform.as for bridges, i was in a 40ish pilot gang trying to engage two 35ish and 50ish pilot gangs (on seperate occasions) who were roaming through our turf, and without bridges we would have been mucking around for ages trying to engage them. as it happened we got a couple of good fights fairly quickly. so bridges help to facilitate small and medium gang warfare (and who doesn't love that??!?).sure, that extra mobility helps the home team and not the invaders, but if you're paying the sov bill and maintaining all the infrastructure it's fairly reasonable to have some advantage.one thing with jump bridges vs titan bridges is that they are fixed from one point to another, whereas titans can bridge all over the place (with just one pilot for a cyno). so titan bridges have a whole lot of flexibility and can be used dynamically, where jump bridges are pretty static (meaning the invaders can find out where they are and account for them).and just to clarify, i've used both jump bridges and titan bridges (and also black ops bridges - lots of fun).edit: spelling and grammar"
"removal is questionable, balancing is not. i would struggle to find a single military strategist that would not consider logistics as one of the most important issues for a military, both in their effects on maneuvers and on their economic effects.jump bridges allow nearly infinite logistical capabilities of the defending forces. this leads to the ability to turtle. which leads to strategic sov warfare being boring and, well, not strategic.then there's the economic factor. null sec is already the single most profitable realm in eve. the ridiculous ease with which materials can be moved in and out of null sec with jump bridges means that the strength is only that much more intense. this means that null sec goods end up having high sec liquidity for even the most minimally organized alliances.since eve is a total war system, the economics of an alliance are directly tied to the military strength of the alliance. this means that the economic logistical strength is yet another logistical defensive strength.tldr? jump bridges lead to excessive defensive strength."
"no. jumpbridges do give a slight defensive bonus, but the majority of jb usage is mostly non-military.sov warfare is made boring mostly by the ludicrously awful sov system, combined with supercarriers. we can theoretically keep up to 6 separate systems under siege more or less completely safe by stuffing them choc full of supercarriers/titans and rotating them one system pr day.i think you'll find that most material is moved, not via jbs, but via jfs, and mostly on the way from jita, not to.again, no."
"i call your magical fairies and raise you one space kitten."
"please elaborate... how do jump bridges provide infinite logistics? and how do you mean they provide the ability to turtle.additional, please add the length of time you served using/depending on them.im afraid i agree with goonie here. most everyone i know uses a carrier or jf to move the 0.0 spoils. this is usually due to the fact that jbs can not provide any level of save transport through low sec, or protect from gate camps, where jumping a carrier/jf right to a station does. so i don't think this is a valid point in the overall grand picture."
"bump :oa vote for me is a vote for sanity!"
"you fail to see the point there.i'm not anti-powerbloc as a playstyle in eve.i want to oppose to powerblocs in their wish to have full power in the csm to keep eve easy for them.and yes, i do think smaller groups of people should be able able to disrupt powerbloc lives in a way or another.just like a 10 men corp can really annoy a 100 men corps in high sec with a war : it's the only way to bring some risk to them. that's the reason why i consider myself anti-powerbloc, i think they have too much gamebreaking priviledges right now, and someone need to voice that concern in csm.no, i have nothing against powerbloc players, they have the right to live, i don't want powerblocs to disappear either... i just want some balance, new wars in 0.0 and new kinds of guerilla wars, no more locked stronghold full of tamed npc and belts, ressources in wild areas again, a new possibility for smaller alliances to live in 0.0 whithout being a powerbloc slave... will that kill powerblocs ? i doubt that."
"hey guys,last year we did a massive csm candidate roundup article at massively, where we collected together all the links and information on each candidate and put them all in one place. a spike in the voting graph for the days following the article suggested that as much as 10% of the total votes may have been due to our roundup. candidates also reported large spikes in the number of hits to their campaign websites and videos. the article clearly had a big impact on voting, so this year we've done it again in an effort to get people voting:massively's eve online csm 6 candidate roundupas with last year, the article has a full listing of all candidates in the running with a short researched paragraph on each of their goals and what platform they're running on. next to each candidate is their picture and links to any relevant campaign resources like a campaign website, forum thread, debates, interviews or videos. all the info on them is there all in one place so you don't have to hunt around for details or endure information overload. candidates are divided into three sections -- members of previous csms and ex-ccp employees, new candidates (or those who haven't been previously elected) who are running active campaigns, and a few relatively unknown pilots that didn't make much of an effort to run a campaign.it was pointed out last year that this order might favour previous csm candidates, but figures from massively showed that around 90% of people who visited the first page of the article also went on to read the list of new candidates. it seems people really do want to know what all their options are before making a decision. not many readers went on to view the final page of players who didn't make much of an effort in their campaign, but that's to be expected. for many of these players, i couldn't find much concrete information beyond a vague forum thread or lazy blog post. some of them have made absolutely no effort to convince us of why we should vote for them.although there are only four days left in the voting, i encourage you to point out any mistakes, additional information or relevant links (such as new interviews) you find. perhaps someone in the list of relative unknowns has a detailed campaign website, debate or interview i've overlooked that would put them into the list of new campaigners? or maybe the summary i've written up of someone's position isn't entirely accurate and could do with some ammendment. whatever the issue is, please let me know and i'll get right on it. as long as you guys supply any new info that comes to light, i'll keep the article up to date as a comprehensive resource leading up to the voting's closing on march 23rd. feel free also to submit new information, links and corrections via this thread.massively has always been a big supporter of the csm, providing coverage of the csm summit and interviews with csm members to put them in a more public arena. for those still hesitant to vote, last week's eve evolved was also dedicated entirely to convincing people that their votes really do count. if you know anyone who doesn't think their vote will count, maybe one of these articles will change their mind."
"neat next term, earlier timing! independant and industry media are becoming ever more important to this emerging dynamic called eve please visit your user settings to re-enable images.seleene's blog - trebor's blog"
"i had forgotten just how much work it took to produce this roundup last year and so started a few days late. next term it should be much earlier, but hopefully this term it will help indecisive stragglers to select a candidate."
"csm, and everything around it (including coverage like this) is a hell of a lot of work (at least for those who want to do the right things right). so no worries, it's nice to see this. maybe next term, there will even be options for creating synergy between player and other media along the way.please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"of course people should vote trebor, seleene, and ripard! and then meissa and roc if those won't do. nice roundup. i lol'd at your rather...blunt...comments about those who appear to have thrown their hats in the ring on a whim and with no plan or platform! you tell 'em, nyphur!"
"is it me, or was draco not on that list?"
"nice. that's a fairly accurate summary of my campaign message.there's a lot of detail missing in a brief lineup like this so i thoroughly recommend people look at candidates a bit closer too.thanks for putting this together."
"(woops, ignore)"
"yeah, looks like a pretty good summary. i don't think you should have lumped former ccp devs with the returning csm though."
"this was primarily a decision made based on the numbers as there were much fewer returning csm members this year. since ex-employees will have the same experience in dealing with ccp directly (if not more), it made much more sense to put them alongside ex-csm than to put them in any other category."
"someone finally noticed i got the csm 5 perfect attendance award!"
"some people have jobs and a life that interferes with the meetings but its definately something that needs to be pointed out, and its a good indication of your level of dedication. i do not doubt that everyone would have assumed that you'd attended every one."
"very nice round up. i learned a few things about my competition / possible future council members."
"nice article you made there ! it brought me some extra info on some of the other candidates, and allowed me to update my \"dream list of who i'd like to share the seats with\".also, way to burn some of the \"relatively unknown\" there. ouch for 'em."
"one thing, nyphur: the article states: \"several ex-ccp employees have signed up to the council\"only two, not several."
"that image .. saw it on shc and it still looks like a poster for/against spouse abuse. poor guy looks completely whipped by his dominatrix wife right down to the ever so sad face"
"just goes to show you i wasn't kidding when i said i was running for re-election because i had \"not yet plumbed the depths of my own masochism.\" and i will point out that my wife thought that this movie that animeigo released was \"charming\"."
"thanks for the support!issler"
"only a few days left on the csm elections. thank you if you have already voted for me and another thank you for all the people who have mailed me over the past few weeks. i really have had a lot more mails than i expected to get. but all have been answered and your ideas taken down.just because the election is coming to an end doesn't mean you need to stop mailing me. please continue with your questions and ideas for the game."
"my apologies.i thought it would not be discovered, but you, sir, have singlehandledly uncovered what could possibly be the biggest alt / csm conspiracy of all times !i must hand it to you, my alt posting disguise was no match for your superior power of deduction. 10/10 sir, good fight and jolly nice neck beard you are sporting today!"
"until i've exhausted my means of internal protest, i'm not ready to \"bring a case to the forums\"."
"who wouldn't support this?"
"i think the ccp devs in general have an extreme prejudice against drones because of the lag they have caused (moreso in the past, but the prejudice remains). so whenever they see anything about improving them in any fashion, it makes them immediately recoil. they want to discourage drone use as much as possible to cut down on the perceived lag threat.the first step for this drone improvement and any other will be to convince the devs that drones are not evil incarnate--they are part of eve and as such need to treated with the time and support they and their users deserve as part of the eve community."
"objection: if we did something to improve drones, that would disproportionately benefit gallante, and as we all know it is vital to the ongoing development of eve that they should get a boot to the face at all times."
"i wouldn't call an 80 to 150% price difference nothing. it may be chump change to us, but the price differentiation is significant."
"maller to proph <-amazing buffer capabilityomen to harby <-exelent gankage at rangethis is the thinking"
"being flashy is not comfortable in long term. people get big advantage being able to aggress you anywhere without being fired by sentries themselves, i.e. they can just aggress you with rifters at the gate. this docking you're talking about is somewhat meaningless, there's docking delay for everyone aggressing. if something needs adjustment, it's that one."
"that would also fulfill the rebalancing quite nicely. good idea, thanks!"
"it would be nice if fofs didn't target members of your own fleet who happen to be flagged for aggression towards another fleet.also, how about a system for setting the default target for all fof missiles fired by a fleet? e.g. following the f.c.s target broadcasts, or the closest ships picked out by designated 'fleet target painters'?"
"supported in principle. f.o.f. missiles could use some improvement of some sort.i'm unsure about the present proposal, though."
"yeah, that is beyond annoying. lolthat is a good idea! i will add that to the op, thanks."
"well, that's awfully rude. last i checked this was an open forum for discussing game fixes. we are all, by definition, amateurs here.the attitude isn't appreciated, however."
"absolutely supported. flying a dramiel feels like cheating, and dying to dramiels makes you feel like the other guy is cheating.the first concern you have when you fit a frigate out these days is, \"how can i specialize this fit to kill a dramiel?\" firstly because there are so goddamn many of them out there and secondly because you have to specialize to kill them. this shouldn't be the case.hit it with the nerfbat."
"i know this has been a feature for a while but wtf!i spend all my time, my isk to train for supers and titans, then find i need another decent char to play the game normally if i want to fly a super/titan! otherwise its visible in a pos for all to see and shoot! so your forcing me to have 2 accounts or but another one!! so i can pvp whilst my other char is stuck in a ship in a pos! are you for real? jeez! what a **** take...let supers/titans dock! and if ppl post no then better give a damn good reason why not! cos this is *******srant over."
"oh noes, supercaps are inconvenient. we should make them like normal ships so there are more of them."
"death to supercaps.death.to.them."
"in all fairness... the idea behind supercapitals (and capitals in general) is that they are not supposed to be solo ships and require logistical help from others to do things and/or get around, thus promoting teamwork. people get around this by making a second account so they don't have to rely on teamwork to do stuff.moreover, supercapitals were never meant to be \"cost-effective\" or \"easy to use.\" want ewar immunity and shiny firepower options? pay through the nose and live with the idea that your ship will always be at risk (i.e. you can't dock) as those really the only limiting factors such ships have.edit: not supported."
"the whole point to being \"stuck\" in a supercap/titan is to deter players from using them. if you could dock a titan everybody and there mother would have one and the game would be flooded with them. so no...no docking for supercaps."
"they are not supposed to be a easy.. they should be a pain in the arse..they should not be able to dock in any station.you don't need a second pvp pilot, you need a holding toon, a secondary account/alt that has the skills to sit in it and log off in so you can use your main toon for other pvp.. or yea get another pvp toon works too. now one thing i'm not opposed to is an upgrade to a sov held system that would allow supers (maybe just supercarriers) to dock in player owned stations. def not low sec/npc stations. even this idea would have to be thought through to make sure it doesn't make them too convenient"
"i'm sorry to hear that you don't have any friends and have to play with yourself."
"not supported."
"there are really, far too many inactive, dead corp's in game; and there should be a way to clear them out, and make way for new ones. tickers for example, are very nearly exhausted; with limited options, and few choices remaining. how many 5 year old, 1 man corps are out there? lots.supported, if a flat rate fee is charged; such as 1-5 million isk per month. something inconsequential to established, active corp's; and low enough, to make new player corp's still viable."
"it is a fact that what players enjoy a lot in video games is personnalization of their things. it is for sure that in eve lot of people would enjoy personnalizing their ship with their own (or proposed) decoration and painting... it would be great that a corporation would impose to their corp member to have a logo on their ship. it would be great that a corporation will suggest main colors for the corp members ships or would not.we are really waiting for such thing, lets give us a chance to personnalize our ships, one way or another. thank you for listening my ask."
"i think this would be a great idea. there is no way possible that we could make our own skins, not just because of the lag and bandwidth issue, but content (just look at the most common type of creations that were made in spore. various parts of the human anatomy...), but if there was a giant predetermined set of skins, patterns, and colors to choose from, it could easily be implemented with hardly a touch of lag, if at all. lets say, that each model had 10 skins, 20 patterns per skin, and 3 color options, out of say, 10 colors. the game already loads up models once they enter the grid. so lets take a drake for example. attached to that drake, would be the details of its skin, pattern, and colors. it would really be no different, perhaps less so, than typing a message into local chat. one person sending a message to 20, 30, 50, 1,500 people. it could be formated thus: 5.14.3.7.6. 5th skin, 14th pattern, primary color 3, secondary color 7, tertiary color 6. that's less resources than it takes to transmit all those thinly veiled scam offers in jita."
"agreed !:) they could create kind of decoration fitting !"
"i say let's wait and see how the game handles loading up several hundred people in jita 4-4 station when incarna releases...then let's talk about ship skins.i say this for one reason...load times...when incarna releases we are gonna see how the system handles loading so many different skins, costumes and whatnot. if it can handle that then it would likely be able to handle custom skins on ships. i would also only support the idea if the personalized skins are something that can be turned on and off. that way when i get into that large fleet battle i can shut them off and not worry about the extra lag time and load on my pc it would cause.otherwise...yeah...not a new idea...been something players have been crying about for some time now."
"1.0"
"great idea +1"
"that's a terrific idea dude"
"supported of course. good idea."
"damn it ! what is it ? its look great !! i want it ! :)"
"awesome, if again, players could choose to deactivate this feature. serious also gets a cookie."
"one of the most commonly argued points in eve; is ship fitting, and overall effectiveness of design. everyone has a complaint, or praise available; in reference to one design, or another. myrmidon, drake, rifter, or raven; they will have something to say, about all of them.here's my issue: i find the design of various ship types, and fitting requirements; offer little or no room for realistic fitting, and cost effective design. sure, one ship or another; they'll all get the job done. and yes, provided you have a fleet, you can utilize all available slot's; to make a ship truly effective, for a given task, in accordance with it's intended purpose. you can find the breakdown of my idea; in the features and idea's discussion forum:"
"supported, of course. though, i believe it needs much more thought; and could use some additional input, and fine tuning. this would take some serious time, and thought; with a great deal of rebalancing, and reprogramming required. i think, in the end however; it would make for a better eve."
"that would raise eve to the level of a modern space sim. i don't think ccp is up to the task."
"drakes are not overpowered. fitting one with a half decent tank, while using point and/or web; means you can't fit decent dps, and you rarely have room for anything else. they're a chunky, awkward ship; that's ill-fitting, with little purpose. that's why, there are only 2-3 recommended fits for a drake; because the rest are crap. if you ever flew one, and tried to solo pvp; you'd know, they fair no better than anything else t1.we don't need ships to be nerfed, to balance eve; they've already been nerfed enough. now, everything requires squeaky fittings, that leave slots empty; and the ship is generally still underpowered, and easily ganked. anyone who flies solo, in anything but a cov op's; is easily ganked, to put that in perspective. you just can't fit a ship to survive; as you sacrifice the ability, to achieve the goal.fit for tank, and lose the ability to apply dps.fit for dps, and lose your ability to tank.fit for tackle, and lose your ability to tank or dps.eve is balanced so pilots, require other pilots; to attempt any sort of pvp, or succeed in it. there is no versatile ship platform; and soloing is out of the question.i say we add one mid, and one low slot; to every ship available in the game. then make sure anything above destroyer; has more than 4 weapons available. sure scorpion has ewar; but you need every mid-slot, to ecm a tempest effectively. which means, you have a 4 slot armor tank; and can't apply bonuses to your ecm. i flew a scorpion with a full passive tank; and got taken down in about 45 second's, by a lowsec gang. it was just a test, of course; but it was kind of pathetic, how poorly it fared. for reference, i have almost max shield skills; and max capacitor skills.i also proved to myself; that ecm burst modules, were completely useless. i got ecm'd out, neuted completely in less than 10 seconds; didn't have range, or targeting to apply nos, and had no dps. it was a short battle; and not much of one.no more nerfing!!"
"you're doing it wrong cassus temon. sorry but i thought i had to say it. give your minge a wipe and learn how to fit your ships. drakes are exceptional ships because of their excellent bonuses and weapon systems. i don't want and most other people do not want to nerf the ship. (almost) all of us can see that the problem lies with guided missile range.ham drake:570 dps kin 475 all others (before overload) out to 20km+77.8k ehp (before implants, overloaded invuls and fleet bonuses)tackle (point and web)mwdand a small nos to keep those invuls alive when you're getting neuted.hml drake:520 dps with t2 scourge 434 with t2 others (before overload) out to 75km+75k ehp (before implants, overloaded invuls and fleet bonuses)tackle (point)target painter (it does help with those t2 heavy missiles a lot but optional slot for something else)mwdmedium neut if you need it or if you're a fanny fit a nosthese are both solo fits that will cause your enemies a lot of grief. if you get ganked solo that's just eve for you. not much solo stuff happens in eve any more and there is no such thing as a fair fight.the fact a missile boat can get over 75km range and keep its mwd/tackle/tank and most of it's dps is the problem.no other weapon system can compete."
"sniper mid guns get 100+ km, and snipe small targets. missiles can't. damage take long time to project, hits for almost no damage on smaller faster targets regardless of lack of transversal, lacking tracking mod but rather have to use valuable rig slots on two separate tracking rigs (rigor and flare catalysts). if you want short range use hams, long range weapons are supposed to have long range, nothing wrong with it. just because you got killed by a drake blob doesn't mean \"nerf you, buff me\" is warranted."
"i have to agree with goose, heavy missile range isn't an issue. do you have problems with caracals? nighthawks? or sacrilige? nope.the problem with the drake is it's tier 2 so get a hp bonus and on top of that gets a resist bonus making it a huge brick. in fights with low numbers you may have problems getting over the shield regen hump, never mind the huge number of hit points; and with larger numbers (drake blobs) the resist bonus basically gives a 33% remote shield rep boost, along with large amount of time the buffer gives the logis to lock and save the primary (similar problem with hellcat fleets notice abaddon = top tier with resist).i dont think the drake needs a nerf, just change the resist bonus to a rof bonus and remove a launcher. works out less hp and alpha, but more damage, for a more balanced and importantly easier too kill drake."
"@gooseseriously? you think guided missiles with a target painter are inferior to turrets at applying damage to small targets?are you ****ed? just go into eft and create a new dps graph and see the difference between arties/failguns/beams vs hml's.oh yeah,"
"undock once in a while. tps suffer heavy stacking, paint something very small and it's still very small. not to mention speed is also a big factor (flare), not just sig. if you've actually shot at interceptors you'll know that missiles do no dps after long chase, while guns sometimes score devastating volleys at long range. missile dps are poor to begin with, and the eft warrioring kinetic dps rarely translate well on anything smaller than a stationary bs and don't somehow has a kinetic hole. whinning about tank is one thing, but whining about a drake's dps elicits no sympathy."
"making ships unprobable and off-grid boosting are not good game mechanics. just another stupid game mechanic ccp has failed to fix or they just do not care."
"supported ."
"not a bad starting point.. i think t3 needs more attention overall.. but drons are not a bad place to look. with the right details i would support t3 drones yes."
"only if i can launch drones that loot and salvage distant wrecks for me"
"do want!"
"no.you really need to look into back story about anoikis and rogue drones to understand why this is a really bad idea."
"i completely agree. especially the last part. the one box i have a major issue with is the status box that tells you the countdown cycle of the enemy that is using ewar on you. it is stuck in a spot that i use for my local chat...i can see it but it is annoyingly hard to see and not able to be moved it seems. please fix."
"you don't agree on my point of view and this is totally ok. however, i would like to comment on some of your arguments.i've moved my freighter through 0.0 like 2 weeks ago. it's not a big deal. in high sec, while flying on autopilot my freigher was scanned a couple of times, and i am sure, that it would have been ganked if i have had valuable cargo. in 0.0 you have intel that warns you plus jb are quite safe, you have no such things in high-sec.why should i rat in 0.0 without galaring on intel? however, before i moved in 0.0 i did missions in amarr space. there were certain alliances who droped by for suicide ganking multi-billion ships. and there is no way for you to know that they are coming for you, while in 0.0 you know that there is a hostile gang incoming like 10 minutes before they actually arrive.honestly, i've seen several scs ratting while hostiles in local and we have successfully ganked some of them. i am quite sure that ther will be enough sc pilots traveling without a scout at all."
"my main has about 700 kills in 0.0... i certainly don't lack experience..."
"i read the whole thing...it is a horrible idea. anybody with a brain can figure out why.not supported."
"you said it yourself, all you need to do to avoid ganks in hisec is, for the most part, just avoid having too valuable cargo. and the only reason there isn't an intel network for hisec is because there is absolutely no need for one.but let's compare a freighter in hisec vs 0.0:hisec: load up cargo, set a destination, undock, press autopilot, make dinner, dock up 2 hours later. job done.0.0: load up cargo, set a destination, check intel, check local, check intel, check intel, check intel, undock, hope no blue is awoxing, warp off after an eternity, check intel, jump into the next system, hope no blue is awoxing there, warp off after an eternity, wait an eternity for the freighter to warp to the next gate, check intel, check intel, jump through, hope no blue is awoxing, warp off after an eternity, wait an eternity for the freighter to warp to the next gate ... should i go on?in 0.0 you get ganked just for being there, in hisec you have to be a pretty valuable target to even be considered ganked. yeah, no difference there.again, in hisec l4s you have to be pretty valuable to be ganked, whereas in 0.0 you'll get ganked just for being there. this increases the amount of work you have to do, and it forces you to glare at intel. this means that unless you find mining or ratting extremely fascinating, then hisec'll probably be a lot better wrt isk/hour and isk/risk.face it, no matter how much of a \"sea of blues\" there is, 0.0 inherently has more of a risk than hisec.yes, that's ***gots using scs to rat in. it's not sc pilots travelling to a combat area. there's a huge difference there, sc pilots travelling to a combat area tend to be ... ever so slightly more on guard than some idiot using an sc to rat in.so you get kills in 0.0, bravo. how much time have you spent owning space? how much time have you spent doing logistics in 0.0? how much time have you spent in a capital ship?"
"fix.the.cyno.mechanics."
"this is how it should be.i simply ask a corpmate to scout. he flies to jbs and tells me whether they are camped. then i fly to jb jump and warp to the next jb and so on...if there is a big group of reds in system, i simply don't jump. where is the risk or challenge? that my brain turns off and i jump even though i know that i get ganked?in high-sec, i can only escape a gank with luck, because someone was kind enough to warn everyone in local.theoretically you are right. however, in practice you have to be brain afk or stupid to get ganked in 0.0 (besides the enemy has a blue spy who tackels you), while in high-sec you can never be sure that you won't get ganked at the next gate. i kind of doubt that. a titan takes like one minute to align and only 1,5au warp speed. he is an easy target for subcaps or a covert ops fleet that cynos in if he travels without a proper support fleet. besides that, fleets with titans would be as fast as the slowest ship in the fleet. force projection will become quite pain in the ass...so you would have to devide your fleet in order to defend all borders.i still don't get why this matters? 1) like 4 -5 months2) i do the logistics only occasionally. we have one guy who handels the logistics for the entire corp, mostly alone. it is too easy.3) 0"
"edit: i went through and re read your idea just to make sure:every single idea you have is built on a belief that is totally wrong about current game mechanics and things you can and can't do.your gigantic wall of text might try to mask all those error, but they are there, and before you say \"whats wrong with them\", just know that my answer is \"everything\", and the points are too numerous to take individual issue with.tl;dryou don't know a damn thing about sov warfare, or whats useful and whats not"
"you're not understanding the meaning of the word \"risk\", are you?you won't get ganked in a freighter in hisec unless your content is worth more than, oh i dunno, 500m? 750m? the rest of the time you can just afk autopilot around. in 0.0, you have to constantly pay attention to intel, or have an alt warping around and checking for you, or have a corpmate check for you, or have an alliance mate check for you. why? because there's more inherent risk. how much clearer does it have to be spelled out for you? it doesn't matter if you \"can use intel\", it still means there's more risk there. you have to actively mitigate it and keep vigilant. in hisec, you don't.trust me, if hisec had been as ****ing dangerous as you seem to think it is, nobody would be warping anywhere, least of all without scouts. as it is, very few are, because the risk doesn't merit the extra work.so you've got 1 guy doing \"all logistics\" for your corp. how many poses does that involve? how many ihubs? sbus? tcus? fuel for the poses? modules for the poses? fuel for the caps? ammo for the caps? war-caches near the front? pre-fit ships for the members after each fight? moving moongoo to empire to sell?basically, it matters because from where i'm sitting, you've got very little idea of how much work it is to keep up a largeish alliance in one or more regions, and you certainly have no idea what the changes you're proposing actually will entail, nor have you been in a war as anything other than another \"f1 f2 f3\" guy.quick edit: spelling. also hi grath :hi5:"
"the real john maynard keynes is spinning in his grave as he reads thisnot supported, sorry"
"john maynard.. you have to understand something.. you are proposing a lot of things for sov and capitals neither of which you have much hands on experience wish (to your own admission) you are being told by people from razor, goons, and pl, three alliances that are very heavy in 0.0, have a lot of logistics to deal with and understand both capital and sov warfare because its what we do.the other thing to note here is while we are actually not all friends (but are enemies) we do understand how things work. its also interesting that all three alliances are very heavy into pvp (meaning we are not trying to keep carebears safe) pl is unquestionable one of the best alliances and skirmish, fleet and capital pvp.. i personally like to think razor is quite good too and goons, well they are goons.. love them or hate them they do what they do :) we do this stuff all the time. do you really think we are just saying this stuff to wind you up?i don't think any of these groups will tell you 0.0 is easy, risk free or free from some severe flaws, and the root of your points do identify those flaws, we are just saying your suggestions are wacky and will make things worse not better."
"hello to everybody.time went by, skillpoints comes through and more and more materials want to get sorted.my tries with the \"search\" didn't went succesful, so i wanted to ask, if there shouldn't be an update for it... perhaps with an skill to learn for like \"hangar logistics\", that you could use different tabs in the station containers?second point is the saved fittings, wich you aren't able to fitt when the items are stored in containers.and third ... producing something. should work from the active hangar or container.yeah ... use the search in items ... i heard about it, but im not a friend of chaos in my hangar xdand if some don't like it, he don't have to skill it.just an idea ^^'plzzzzz xdmay the sun always shine on youehrinat"
"i think it would be really cool eye candy.. but frankly cant see it serving any practical use.. most ppl have to turn even the most basic effects off just for normal pvp."
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service."
"soluslunes and i support this product and/or service."
"i support this product or service. but thats only because i got shares in the company"
"i support this product and or service"
"nothing"
"w3370pi4 and i support this product and or service"
"trizan and i support this product and or service"
"sarah reese and i support this product and or service"
"ly with \"i support this product and or service\" in the same thread will bebumping a fail thread"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and/or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"please visit your user settings to re-enable images.please visit your user settings to re-enable images.please visit your user settings to re-enable images.please visit your user settings to re-enable images.new submissions from virt."
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and/or service."
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service."
"dr karsun and i support this product and or service"
"i support this product or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"worpout and i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service."
"worpuout and i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and/or service."
"nimbat and i support this product and or service. (this is not nimbats alt)"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service."
"i support this product and or service."
"phrinsar asnurich and i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service.did i win?"
"lilgreenbag and i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service.good luck!"
"we are down to the last couple of days, i have heard from a bunch of folks both inside and outside wormhole space that i am their choice. now is the time to get everyone out there to vote, and make sure that the csm that is elected has the voice of as many folks as possible behind it."
"now isn't that ironic ... don't ya think."
"thank you for the vote of confidence.and more importantly, thanks for voting."
"no no, no no no, you're not getting what i'm saying.if ccp only does a focused, specific nerf against jita alone, it will change nothing the jita market will move into one of the immediate neighbor systems around jita.if they do taxes and stuff then it will hurt every hub and the hub will become the citadel because people will want to get onto the central market index without having to overcrowd one station and thus incur fees. but the only way ccp will kill hubs entirely is to eliminate regional markets and make the market system universe-wide.otherwise there will always be one place, be it a station (4-4), a system (jita), or a region (the forge or the citadel) that is regarded as the \"central\" market by all the market actors."
"some of you are not getting it.. really what the hell is the problem with jita... its over crowded sure.. so what.. sometimes you have to wait a few minutes to jump in.. so what.. if ccp does anything to nerf jita.. (as already mentioned) the trade hub will organically move on its own.. you will create a never ending cycle of nerf/unerf in attempt to do what?? avoid crowds? see a shink.."
"if overcrowding is such a ****ing problem for you, move to amarr. the market there is perfectly adequate unless you are a high end trader who specifically needs the volume of trading that goes on in jita.i have solved your problem, please send me isk as i am a problem solver. tia."
"you do not understand.i'm not asking for a jita-specific nerf, but for a dynamical system which would make this kind of super-hub uninteresting.a dynamical taxe system which gets higher when the system/station is overcrowded, or have too much orders, (kind of like office rent right now) will really make the \"hub\" system less interesting.citadel market might stay the main reference, but if its market is spread in the whole region, a lot less people will come and buy things there. you don't want to wander through the whole region to put everything in your freighter. the effet will still be a repartition from jita/citadel onto smaller hubs.the market would be a lot more complex, people will have to think instead of just \"jita\" everything. local small hubs will become a lot more interesting.and the op wanted some rp answer : it makes perfect sens rp-wise, markets in big cities have more taxes than smaller local ones, there is no \"center of the world\" market-wise, buit lots of big hubs (big cities) with quite high taxes (paris, tokyo, la, ny, whatever), and your local market where everything is cheaper, but you have less choice.introduce some dynamic fees, and you'll have a market much more logical rp and economically-wise."
"jita's success explained:"
"very nice graph, and extremely interesting information overall :)i rather agree with everything you said, but i think you missed something:you pointed out that people wanted the safest, shortest routes... but they also want the easiest and fastest ways to trade. having to move to a group of distant systems, jump in different ones depending on what you want to buy or sell... it's a pain.right now, everything you have to do is \"dock jita 4-4\".just splitting jita market in two or 3 systems would already have a huge negative impact for lots of people, who can't be bothered separating their loot or produced modules. that and the taxes will make them consider their local market more, and i really think with a good tweak you could have a more coherent market overall, with some regional hubs of equal importance with rather high taxes and a very elaborated market, like jita now, but with less traffic to keep taxes lower, and many smaller hubs with a simplier market, but no taxes and better prices.would be a lot better rp-wise in my opinion."
"what again are we trying to fix? whats wrong with jita?"
"so you are proposing that we roleplay an economy that defies the natural, emergent behavior of economies; behavior that stems from real psychological factors influencing the market actors?why would we do dat?"
"in real life broker fees and other taxes are driven by natural behaviours, in eve that's not the case, turning the market in what we know : jita as the center of everything, the rest for people who don't want to travel (either because it costs too much money, or time, or because of the risk).dynamic taxes and broker fees would just be a mean to turn the market into something more realistic, where travel time/cost is not the only issue people face.jita as it is pleases lots of people because it's easy (0.0 alliances, for instance, who can just come to jita, buy and sell everything without even having to think about market dynamics). but i'd like eve economy to be more challenging."
"no, on the contrary those are the only things which are fixed in a market and driven by policy rather then by the choices of the actors. nowhere in your :words: have you proposed an actual fix you've just given the vague impression that you're butthurt over how things are. i'm guessing you're either tired of getting suicided or tired of having to fly back and forth from whatever hovel you've chosen to squat in because nobody buys in your backwater region."
"keep calm we musn't live in the same world... in mine, there are fees on everything you buy, and these fees change by a huge margin depending on the country you live in, for instance. taxes differ from a product to another, depending on what the government decides. all over europe, gaz has extremely high taxes: not the case in the us or in arabia. in france, tobacco is twice as taxed as in neighbouring countries. our value added tax change depending on the country, too.aren't these actors, when you look a a worldwide scope ? of course they are ! and why woulndn't jita govenrment decide they have a higher tax because they want to, and they can, and it will replenish their wallets ?the fact they are npc doesn't mean we should not try to make them a little more realistic, complex... and fun !in fact, i used to trade, and i stopped because trading needs more \"jita order update bot\" than brain right now."
"there is more to it than just jita. sure jita has become the big market place (by natural processes, not by ccp making it so), but there are regional trade hubs too. i'm not just talking about amarr, ourselaert, rens etc, but in 0.0 too (h-w in tribute, g8ad in cloud ring, ya0 in deklein, c3-oy in tenerifis to name a few) with local alliance based trade areas too.mission hubs are another thing to consider - drag some ammo/drones to places that have a lot of good level 4 agents, even if they're only 3 jumps from jita, and you'll make a tidy profit.the only thing higher taxes in big trade hubs will do is act as an isk sink, unless the tax level is cripplingly high which would just be a big pita and not much fun."
"i am so glad to see that all 32000 of windy's friends did actually vote this year !grats windy, we have this in the bag !"
"higher participation is good. from those stats, the number of accounts in eve has grown 11% in the last 12 months. growth is good, not sure if the rate is accelerating or declining.@ccp how does that compare with previous year(s) player base growth?"
"i appreciate the support of those who have voted thus far.i'm sincerely hoping that people are actually thinking for themselves rather than bloc voting and/or having their votes bought.those need to keep in mind that the only incentive needed for your vote should be your desire for a better game.the potential for a fatter wallet now simply means you'll pay for it later.have a great weekend!"
"why apologise? most people living in technetium space agree that its ridiculously broken.(we'd be dumb as hell not to be exploiting it as hard as we can until it gets fixed though)"
"if you don't get in then i will rage, elise:["
"it's those high cheekbones and snappy dressing that does it."
"or i dunno - finding them again and offering them a consultancy fee to explain their code so it can be altered/improved.anything has to be better than adding another layer of **** to an already enormous **** lasagna."
"has my vote!"
"people who don't document their code may not be able to figure it out themselves after the fact. i know that from personal experience and its one of the only reasons i document my code since i don't work with other coders.edit: but this is far outside of the scope of the csm. csm isn't in a position to talk about document management for ccp. that is definitely beyond scope."
"i can't help but think that coders not documenting their work is a deliberate attempt to create some job security \"you can't fire me, i'm the only guy who knows how this crap works!\""
"it can be two things, honestly:1) ccp has a lax documentation policy so all the lazy coders didn't write any for their code.2) ccp is forcing the coders to produce so much code for each expansion (remember, it was two a year) that they didn't have time to document the code before moving onto the next thing to be done because they'd miss the launch date."
"i have a fairly good handle on the technical details of ui modding. i'm more interested in people's stance on the gameplay implications."
"if you lose by 1 vote, you're gonna be sorry lol! excellent blog post."
"voting closes in a few days.be sure to have your vote cast before that!"
"i too understand what you are saying, and i would even agree with you if the csm was voted in to be part of the game design process - but they arent. it is not your brief to come up with solutions, it is to provide feedback on proposed solutions. as a player, there should never be a push to impose more limits, but to always fight for open ended, sandbox conditions. this is the problem i have with the approach taken and the reference to 'past experience designing games'. it is irrelevant in this context: you are not going to be designing anything, and even if you were, you should not be designing solutions that limit the players freedom to approach the game as they want. the csm should be the last line of defense against the kind of ideas that restrict player freedom, not an active supporter."
"it would also mean that picking one system to defend (as one would do today) while leaving the rest to tick down on timers, would no longer be a valid tactic, and it would be a throwback to the old bob war, where bob occasionally babysat a whole system because a pos building a titan was reinforced. in the meantime, all the other systems were put to the torch.this is a good thing, because it adds depth to the strategic/tactical subgame, both for attacker and defender.and while this is all good and all, it still doesn't change the fact that the main limiting factor is still that the solar system is running absolutely all the code in a single thread. \"blobs\" will thus always be a problem until this limitation is refactored out or fixed, and since cpus generally don't get any faster pr core these days, but mostly just add more cores, that means that we're effectively locked at a \"fairly low\" number. it doesn't really scale.i'll go ahead and lay out what i think would be the main reason for shutting down your fog-of-war idea. first of all, it's highly anti-sandbox, especially if i interpret the idea correctly that you'll only see, say, the nearest (to you) 50-100 people. let's say, for the sake of argument that we set the visibility level at 100 people total. to make sure that blues don't pop in and out of view, they would probably get the priority, so you'd have to start making choices about who and what to bring. some optimal median would have to be found, let's say 10 logis, 5 tacklers and 60 dps, leaving 25 slots of visibility available for the opposite fleet. is that more or less how you would see this happening, or would it be more chaotic so that you'd always see a maximum of the 100 nearest you?in either case, what you're going to end up with is that newbies are going to be told to **** off because they'll be a liability (instead of an asset like they are in goonswarm). tight fleet compositions are going to end up being even more key than they are now, and smaller and less skillpoint-intensive alliances will have even less of a chance to break into 0.0 than before that change was added. this is why this is a bad idea.some of the same goes for the titan pinball idea, back in 2009. it looks cool on a trailer, it sounds cool, just like both on-grid titan aoe dd and titan remote aoe dds, but try imagining being on the receiving end of one, regardless of whether or not the titan weapon did or did not discriminate between blues and non-blues.good ideas for eve needs to be balanced and have counters, and it shouldn't involve one (or a few) people ruining it for a lot of people (say hi to the titan aoe dd and now supercarriers, respectively). and to be honest, numbers should be a valid counter to skillpoints. i want :shobon: newbies to have a place in fleets, and i'll oppose and ***** about any mechanic that tries to artificially limit or stop that from happening."
"bumping for great justice."
"i have never claimed otherwise, except with respect to our sub-role of questioning ccp decisions and providing feedback when requested.i believe you are making an absolutist argument that i do not believe can hold up. i would think it obvious that someone who has written successful games in the past, and who has been a professional programmer for 35 years, would be one kind of person you would absolutely want on the csm, for the simple reason that i am extremely difficult to bull**** over technical details, both of coding and of design.a perfect example of that was at the june summit, when ccp rejected the proposal to display drone damage status for drones in the drone bay. it took me less than five minutes to drill down through their argument and demonstrate how a modified solution could be implemented without significant performance impact. as a result, this item was not rejected.and by your logic, seleene, a former dev, would be a horrible choice for csm, yet i don't see you making that argument. again, you are making an absolutist argument that has no place in the real world of software and game development. there are always tradeoffs that have to be made -- often nasty ones -- and one role of the csm is to help ccp find the compromises that provide the most value for the players."
"if you'd permit me to come back to your crowdsourcing/prioritisation efforts, i think that's a great idea, but there is one point which slightly concerns me and i'd appreciate if you could take a few minutes to address it.one area which could do with development in eve (and i'm pleased to see ccp have some plans on the drawing table for this) is the eve api. i'd hazard a guess that eve players have a higher than average percentage of people who understand what an api is and does but i've met many pilots who clearly had little clue beyond plugging it into [insert name of your favorite skills monitor here]. the fact is that the features in the api benefit almost every eve player, including the ones who don't have a good understanding of what it is or what it does.so coming finally to my question, how do you balance the importance of work on the api, which is likely to get less prioritisation votes simply because not everyone has a full understanding of how api changes will affect them?consider your reply carefully because if i end up voting for you and you get onto csm6, i'm going to be bugging you about this."
"bump for support. if only i had more accounts to cast more votes for you."
"i've had the chance to work with and fly with mark and in my opinion he is the best choice in this election."
"+3 for seleene. you have hit the issue nail on the head. we all understand that ccp is in the money making game and they wish to expand their player base to as wide an audience as possible (incarna)(dust). that said, the players who are already playing an"
"since you've been there...what's your opinion of the agile development process...and do you think it's the best choice for ccp in developing eve?"
"not the turnips!!!!!!!!!!"
"i have a few questions regarding your campaign objectives:1. what specifics do you plan to address in regards to bringing gallente in line with the other factions, do you support redoing hybrid turrets as a whole, alterations of ship stats and bonuses. some have suggested a overhaul of armor tanking, what is your position on this subject.2. do you plan to support mission runners and any changes made to the mission/agent aspect of the game3. what is your position on faction warfare and lowsecthanks in advance"
"specifically id like to see the tracking looked at, and the ship bonuses for blaster ships to allow them to get in proper range. for blasters specifically i would not be opposed to slightly increased range option. i have done my fair share of mission running and would be more than happy to support a good proposal, but i also understand that lvl4 grinding along with mining are one of the foundations of the economy. any changes made would have wide spread impacts and would have to be thought through carefully. both need quite a bit of looking. i personally am not the most experienced on fw and would be contradicting myself if i said i could 100% represent it. low sec does need some love tho.. my main issue with low sec is the risk/reward system is way out of scale. except for pirating either hi sec or 0.0 offers much better options. making low sec a place many people avoid at all costs. i think the rewards need to be increased or the risks need to be buffered some. there are dozens of ways to do this but that would be the end result. drive more people to low sec for somethings that's actual worth getting.thanks in advance"
"sorry i wasn't able to make a voice interview this morning. i know some folks were looking forward to hearing me. seems someone cast \"flu\" on my rl character (why do we still play that game?!) i will be on this evening and would be glad to chat either text or voice in case anyone would like to ask me anything directly or just to chat.and thanks to everyone that votes in the csm election. support of the csm can improve eve.issler dainzethe voice of reason csm candidate"
"ha! thanks for that link, and for believing."
"so vuk lau is resigning at the end of his csm period?resigning at the end seriously sets a sign.rofl.end-of-cycle-csm trying to have a cool ending."
"mittani, you are really trying hard to win. i lol when i read that post. it seems only one, not more than one, but one person was upset over ccp cust service. all the other csms were fine with ccp. one disgruntled guy cries and you use it for trying to get people believing you will be the man to do stuff. lol it seems you are getting desperate! what else will you pull out of your azzhat?"
"look, it is simple. if vuk actually wanted to make a statement, he should have posted this stupid thread himself. letting mittani create the thread is a pretty damn clear indicator of what this whole thing is actually all about."
"post some more about how scamming makes you a bad person, i loved your earlier work"
"i was being involved in 5 times more petitions for neutrals/reds then for the blues in last year or so, there goes your ****ty trol. also if you have halfbrain you would know that gms cant know that anyone else is writing the petitions cause sharing private communication with ccp employees is breach of tos/eula. i am running my own company so its not a problem for me to give myself days off :pi initially posted the thread on the rawr forums only and later in the evening on the nc hc and rzr forums. despite knowing this will eventually end posted publicly it was not aimed for the general population.i had an option to travel to iceland and raise my concerns on roundtables and panels but i already did that on 5-6-7 previous iceland trips. also as i said despite looking forward seeing a lot of chill eve players and ccp guys/girls i would eventually see a lot of ccp dudes i think all the worse (professionally not personally ofc). as getting older my tolerance bar for stupidity is bellow ground zero so i would either have to contain \"anger\" inside myself (which is unhealthy) or to cast rage publicly which will not serve the purpose."
"this is basically what a lot of you dumbdumbs are doing itt."
"there will never be a 100% agreement between players on how the game should be. you know this. everyone will debate till they turn blue in the face because they truly believe their version is the right one. it is a never ending battle. do you agree?the one key factor is time. players willingness to travel a certain amount of time to get to a target varies. the longer it takes for a player to get there, the number of players wanting to make the trip goes down and down. this applies to many things. same for the market. buy a module for 2.5 million isk at the station your in or travel 19 jumps away to buy the same module for 2.49 million isk. is traveling 19 jumps to save 10k isk really worth the players time? of course not. do you agree?i am one of the players who would like to see smaller local wars in 0.0. in order for this to happen it means iteration on the sov system, moons, pos's, local resources, more space, mining, nerf, boosts, balancing, blah, blah, blah... then so ****ing be it.power projection has become easier and easier in this game due to game changes and more players playing. at what point does it slow down? when a coalition can click a button, appear next to a small tower on the opposite side of the galaxy that a ten man corp setup as a stating point for some exploration, obliterate the tower and corp in a matter of seconds, click a button and have their armada of thousands of ships instantly be teleported back in time for lunch?if that same armada was told they had to take every gate to get to the ten man small tower that had no moon value, no space value, would you still get the same number of pilots?if you want it to remain a power block haven then so be it. at least give you opinion and stand by it instead of just looking at someone's alliance history as a cop out to letting everyone know where you stand on what the game should be. is the current version of 0.0 the way you think it should be?i honestly don't expect you to answer me in any sensible way. not without every second word being about some comment on t20 or a persons alliance history, neither adding anything of value to your statement.is goonswarm still on its first version? if so then why does it say goonswarm federation?"
"except, of course, this ignores the actual issue. most nullsec folks simply want to play the game the way they want to play it. if other people want to form small pirate alliances, or mercenary alliances, or play in lowsec, or play in fw in lowsec, or play in wormholes, or run missions in empire until their fingers fall off, then they're fine with that. they just want to play the game their way. then there are others who declare that small pvp is better than everything. or mid-sized pvp is better than everything. or roaming gangs are better than everything. or what have you. and then they declare that the game mechanics themselves have to be changed to boost that play style and nerf opposing play styles. some go even further and rage while trying to argue for reasons that people shouldn't freely associate in a sandbox game and form political structures as they see fit in a game that's driven by player-created content. actually, it means you need to find some other people who also want small local wars, and go fight them instead of trying to change those who want large, trans-regional wars. it's a solution so obvious that you've gone right past it and onto trying to force through game mechanics changes to stop other people playing the way they want. it's just as wrong, and for the same reasons, as someone who only wanted large-scale inter-regional conflicts and demanded that small fleets be nerfed. for all practical purposes, yes. the goons did not cascade anymore than bob/kenzoku did before we kicked them out of their space."
"so finnagain, what you are basically saying is that you believe all the players in 0.0, when it comes to pvp should be between huge power blocks and if it is small to medium sized pvp they should go somewhere else besides 0.0?do you also believe that all the current game mechanics that are associated with 0.0 are working perfectly?"
"no. not only is that not \"basically\" what i said, it has absolutely nothing to do with what i said.and of course not all 0.0 mechanics are working perfectly. but that also has nothing to do with your desire to deliberately alter game mechanics in order nerf play styles you don't like in order boost play styles you do like."
"then what are you saying?you do a **** ton of talking without actually saying anything. maybe they should limit the amount of characters in your post to that of a tweet or a haiku so you don't bury what you want to say with a bunch of nonsense."
"well spoken lady spanky - you look to be truely spankworthy !"
"hint: what i actually said. your failure to comprehend is not an error on my part."
"the problem 10 man corps have with getting set up in 0.0 is not mega powerblocks crossing the whole map to crush them. if anyone is crushing them, it's the locals. the real problem though is that the logistics of feasibly holding any amount of territory in nullsec are such that, even if no giant powerblocs or jump bridges existed, it would be nearly impossible without a space-rich, organized group that had reached a certain critical mass size-wise. such a group could hold 10 systems just as easily as holding one.tl;dr version: it's too hard because sov mechanics are too ****ed up and the basic level of logistical organization needed is absurdly high.plz learn to troll better."
"if only the locals were not part of the same power block that spans the the other side of the map...so make improvements in how residents can utilize their own space to survive instead of having to constantly suck on jita's tit?i agree. the current sov system is ****ed up. if ccp made some improves into local resource gathering in addition to removing titan and pos jump bridges, other things like blockade runners, black ops, jump frieghters and freighter escorts would be more than enough for logistics.your problem is you have the mentality of, \"why should i have to put forth effort into logistics when there is sanctums to be farmed?\" on the brain.so what improvements to sov could ccp do to improve on say, paying for a sov bill? they could make it fully automated so each month it pays the bill and people don't wake up to no sov at all."
"try doing the same thing in, say, delve, querious or period basis. there's probably no jb network there now (that's being used for defensive purposes anyways, i've no idea how the 3 corps still left in it are using it, if at all), then come back and ***** and moan like the little ***** you are about \"power bloc\" (not block) that spans \"the the\" other side of the map.tell ccp that. they're the ones that have essentially made it so deklein can't make more than 6 minutes worth of t2 ammo for a full maelstrom fleet (the slowest firing bs in the game), or 2 days worth of ratting ammo (i.e. missiles) pr day, which means we essentially have to suck on jita's teat (not tit). and that's during peace-time. imagine doing the same thing during wartime.what kind of local resource gathering would you propose to make it easy to gather sufficient amount of minerals etc to build up (and maintain) a subcap, capital and supercapital fleet (let alone poses, pos fuel, non-combat ships, etc etc etc) within a reasonable amount of solar systems?keep in mind that with the current game mechanics, 1 neutral/red guy sitting in a solar system, cloaked and possibly even afk, is enough to completely shut it down for industrial uses.when was the last time you actually lived in 0.0?"
"why is everyone so afraid of the afk cloaker?"
"so what you are saying is if i invaded nc all 55k of their bandwagon wouldnt join in, because theres some pets i would like to kill, would go after rawr but you guys have yaay and well thats an iwin button on its own.the funny thing about the last several comments is the orion guy brings up pretty valid points that most people criticise the nc for anyway.you guys are trying to make it easier for yourself just so you can removed. navigator more moon goo and make it easier to control more space.oh and an alliance doesnt just have to have 5 people manage the logistics, the whole idea of 0.0 is group work not 5 people get the credit for 5000 people :p"
"ahaha do you even pvp? how do you suggest i escort a freighter? a 15 man fleet averaging 400 dps will kill a freighter in 30 seconds and they certainly aren't going to shoot the escort first. people regularly drop dreads on jump freighters at bridges just for fun. perhaps a freighter 'escort' should be 2000 people so that the nodes can't fit any hostiles."
"because the afk cloakers can easily be containing a cyno to hotdrop a ratting carrier/supercarrier, or they can easily provide just enough dps to supplement rats to kill off your mining or ratting ship. and there's ****-all you can do about them short of ignoring them, which will get you killed.this isn't rocket science."
"how many ***gots from dc are even close to deploying in force to geminate right now?i usually don't do this, but i'm having a hard time taking anyone with 42 kills over a 3 year period seriously when it comes to how 0.0 works.how many, pray tell, do you think are involved in logistics in all of dc, or even goonswarm?"
"guys you dont get it owning space in 0.0 is supposed to be awful and tedious and not even slightly fun! you're supposed to spend hours every day escorting freighters around and babysitting miners!what do you think this is, some kind of game?"
"why do people in the northern coalition keep saying they are in the deklein coalition? there is a coalition within a coalition???"
"anyone who makes the serious argument that ccp should \"do something to break up power blocs\" is an utter moron. people will play with whoever they want to play with. before alliances existed in-game, corporations worked together. i can't speak for all of the current power blocs, but the northern coalition and deklein coalition are bound together (both within their own members and to each other) by bonds of friendship and mutual spaceship brotherhood. there are no game play mechanics that can dictate who players want to associate with. never mind that virtually all of the organizational tools to organize and maintain eve's power blocs are done via third party sites and platforms that ccp can't control. if you want to \"break up the nc oh god\" then you're going to have to do it. don't sit on your ass and expect ccp to handle it. players took down phoenix alliance, ascendant frontier, band of brothers (and all their vassals), and it alliance (and all their vassals). now let's get back on topic. ccp's gm team needs serious improvement. there are lots of possible causes and possible solutions. try to come up with some, instead of crying about how the nc is killing eve."
"is this really your best comeback to my post? really?"
"i think i've subscribed for the last time now...ccp just keeps on astounding me with short-sighted maneuvering and terrible expansions. and grossly terrible forum mods--i can't believe i'm asking for zymurgist back. shadow wasn't so bad, either."
"the language wasn't great on my part, but the point has to do with maneuverability. jump bridges give a massive advantage to maneuverability, in terms of speed, safety, and limiting intelligence. this all leads to advantages in force projection and concentration of strength. now, that's not inherently a problem, the problem is that the advantage is too strong. guerrilla warfare against a defending alliance should be about the ability to attack logistical capabilities of a larger force, and the ability to have a higher level of maneuverability. with the prevalance of jump bridges this isn't a possibility. you can't split a defending force at a gate and you can't outrun them. the fact that a battleship fleet can outrun an interceptor gang is an example of the problem.as for whether or not i have ever used/relied on them, no, because holding sov for any reason other than selling it is incredibly boring."
"first off thanks.. was hoping to be able to get into a good debate on this.. and im glad you posted cause i think you represent so many that share your views. let me go through each one and see where we get. speed  yes it does allow the defenders quick movingsafety  yes it does provide some level of safety for ppl that arent idiots. limiting intelligence  no i disagree with you here.. any fc that does real 0.0 pvp knows the enemies jb network already.. i know that when we are the attackers, we use this info to our advantage all the time. we know their bridges and use them tactically.ok, i dont mean to be condescending here, but a frigate gang isnt really what we are getting at here.. a group of ceptors will out run bss regardless of bridges.. you cant even bubble them in.. i will assume that was just another bad example.. as for attacking logistic capabilities as you say let me explain his one thing as i assume you dont know it or you wouldnt have said that.. do you realize that a fleet of 40-50 bss with a few guardians can knock out a jump bridge well under 15 minutes (closer to 10 actually)? that single act alone, if planned right can cripple a network. have you ever seen a bunch of 0.0 pvpers when their bridges are down? half of them dont know what do to, and the other half are yelling at those noobs to quit whining. point is, you speak as if these amazing, overpowered, structures of awesomeness are invulnerable. they are far from it. and think about it.. you spent 10-15 minutes doing that and they now have to rally a fleet, defend, and then they have to spend hours getting logistics ships together to rep that bridge to bring it back online.. as a point of reference.. it would take roughly 10 triaged carriers about 20 minutes to fix what you did with those bss. and i totally respect thats how you like to play, just do bear in mind that having never used, managed, maintained, defended, attacked, or repped, jump bridges, it does kinda leave you at a disadvantage to speak on them."
"do they fly?"
"the limited intelligence is that the hostile fc has little idea what's coming because jump bridges will allow people to come from any number of systems. granted, most alliances are too lazy to actually split up their forces before concentrating them and good guerrilla forces will have spies in the alliance home defense fleet channels, but still the point remains that there is little way to scout one of 20 jump bridges that are in range of the system you are in.not a bad example, maybe i just wasn't clear. lets say we're in cloud ring in p5-kcc in an interceptor gang, with a bs home defense fleet forming up nearby. we can haul ass to w-4 and there is absolutely no chance that we will reach there before the bs fleet.of course, on the field we can out run them, the reason i chose the inty vs bs thing was because of the different warp time. fast fleets should be able to outrun slow fleets, defensive or not.first, i doubt it would cripple the alliance since they could just use one of the other 100 jump bridges they have. second, in what world could a 50 man bs fleet sit in a hostile alliance system for 15 minutes attacking a strategic objective and not get attacked?if destroying the jump bridge actually caused a significant disruption then *maybe* i could see your point, but i don't think that it really would. the nc jump bridge network is filled with so many redundancies that only the laziest and most mentally challenged pilots would be affected by removing one of them."
"i think we might have hit on a very key misunderstanding.. there are no redundancies in jump bridges.. there are not 20 possible places in range.. it does work like that.. if you are in system x there are only 2 points you can come sin from.. jump bridges points are hard coded.. if you are at a jump bridge you can only go to the one points its link to.. not anywhere in range. if that one points is knocked out.. well its down, you can not jump.. you now have to resort to gate travel travel as you cant have as many jump bridges in a system as you want.. it's limited.the other point is you can sit in an enemy system for 15 minutes and this shows me you have never tried. i have on many times sat in hostile space and refed pos,stations, and jump bridges.. hell we do it sometiems just to get a fight. it can and is done. it comes down to strategy.. knowing your enemies down times, and if they are off on another op somewhere else. the reality is many alliances wont bother to defend a station or a pos on initial attack.. they will let it get ref'ed and then defend on the timer."
"bridges: are they unbalanced or even overpowerd? in my opinion they are not! yet they are not in the current enviorment that eve has to offer.titan's (bridges): are they unbelanced or even overpowerd? yes they are and have been for quit some time now. back in the day when they where added to the game as lag killer and means for logistics as well as projection of force they where fine. because it took one hell of allot of effort for an entire alliance even an entire bloc to get one build! but in eve today this is different very stable 0.0 regions to build in without any thread to the csaa's at all eased logistics and much higher avaliblity of titan bpcs at reasonable prices as well as much higher income for alliances due to dominion changes as well as moon goo changes. it takes hardly any effort to build titans now a day. there are just to many of them today so a nerf is in order either removing bridge from the titan entirely or limiting it to certain ship classes.force projection: i can not agree that large blocs will get the same number of ppl to boring blob fights which last for weeks or even month if the more casual players suddenly have to fly 50+ jumps instad of 6-8.. taking them hours instad of minutes to get there just to be back home after a few minutes. also having to use gates for such long distances will increse the chance of getting into an enemy roam while on your way to destination. as well as it will make it harder pilots who lost there ship to just reship and be back on the battlefield in a matter of minutes. so without jb's fights would take allot more concideration and planning ahead of time moving replacement ships to nearby station system placing medical clones there etc.. which again requires logistics..also the carebears are to lazzy for that so you will see reduced numbers on battlefields in the longrun.your rules: well when talking about bridges your rules don't work quit well. because the question is not whatever they work as intend which they do but rather do they work in the current enviorment which they don't and the reason for that is that blocs have build an bridge empire covering half of 0.0 space.. in my opinion there is no real fix for bridges making the ihub upgrade more expansiv issnt going to fix the problem because one of these blocs has infinite income from tech moons the other an infinite renter empire.. nerfing its range won't do much either. but removing the ability of bridges to connect different regions might not be such a bad thing bridges would still be usefull but ppl would be forced to atleast use the regional gates for once."
"it doesn't have to be within system to be redundant. even having a jump bridge next door is redundant. being able to keep your fleets, or your solo pilots, off of gates 24/7 represents a massive strategic advantage. and are you really arguing that yall wouldn't whip out an nc blob home defense fleet if you had a 50 bs fleet reported in intel? i mean...are you really arguing that?of course you would. for me the problem simply comes down to the inability of small groups to disrupt large alliances. their large fleets can use jump bridges to outmaneuver even the most maneuverable fleets and the individual pilots can use them to avoid any risk of using stargates."
"thanks draco :pi do agree that titan bridges do need to be nerfed some, the best thing i can figure is to require soem special becon be used for the titan portal to lock onto. i am thinking of a carrier class mod that would have around a 30 second warm up where everyone in system woudl be able to see what you lighted and after teh 30 second warm up its up for 4.5 minutes when people can bridge to you. like the cyno you can not move jump out cloak etc but it also has the aspect of the triage where your local rep is buffed and you can not get remote repped, if you move or drift into a pos's forcefield it is imposible to jump to teh carrier anymore. my rational is that your not going to be able to nerf them enough to stop them from being used but just make them so that there is a bit more warning that a fleet is coming and so that any cyno frig cant bring in a 200 person fleet.for jump bridges i like the idea of making jumps between regions harder eiher by not allowing them between regions or requiring special region bridges that use mroe fuel so its harder logistically.i'm not sure if this was jsut for 0.0 but i do think that black ops jump bridges need a bit of a buff not in range or ships that can go through but allow them in empire so covert cynos can occur there which woudl lead to a nice change in empire war so that it can have a 0.0 feel of fleets movign around more freely than just down pipes.short versionrequire cyno carriers for titan bridgesincreadsed fuel consumption and cost for regional jump bridgesallow covert cynos in highsecmy spelling sucks (and i dont care)"
"not arguing what would happen, but what is observed - it's not at all uncommon for a 50 man bs gang to move through an area unchallenged. this can be for a variety of reasons like not enough pilots online, pilots being cut off from their pvp ships, pilots being elsewhere doing something already (out roaming, moving goods, whatever), but for whatever reason, i can verify that this does happen."
"knowing the pos password to a blue jump bridge and being able to use it is pretty ****ing over powered don't you think?"
"the #1 reason to not engage and just ignore them is there is nothing that 50 man fleet can do that is not incredible easy to avoid/repair when they leave. \"ignore them and they will get bored and move on.\" should not be the go to tactic for defenders."
"here are a list of things that a can be done with 50 bs man gang or smaller size with various ship types1.) incap jump bridges (abotu 10-15 mins)2.) knock out station services (time varies but the smaller services can be taken out relatively quickly) 3.) camp jump bridges4.) black ops bridging into carebare havens for ganks5.) roam for good fights (this is usually the motivating factor to do a lot of the above items)i know this can be done, we do it all of them all the time when we (razor) deploy to enemy areas. do you still want to sit and say that a small alliance cant do anything to a large one?"
"i have talked about the capital/carrier type cyno with many people and at a basic level i like it, i have also talked about reversing the bridging mechanic. so the titan is where you bridge too, maybe even require 2 titans (in source and dest) to form the bridge. all valid ideas that i would entertain.increased fuel for regional jumpbridges or blocking them all together are decent options too. blocking them would form inheritance choke points that smaller corps/alliances or just small gangs would camp on a regular basis and could surely create some havoc. it would not promote much more pvp tho as in 95% of the cases when these types of camps take place, they scatter like roaches at the first sign of opposing force. so is this promoting small scale pvp? no. it just create ganking opportunities.. which is fine from a sense it increases risk.. but lets not confuse it with promoting proper small pvp. (unless they actually stay to fight)"
"when you bring a hostile fleet into an alliance's space you choose the time and the place. you have the advantage of potentially weeks of planning, you can bring your best fc, a perfect fleet comp. the defending alliance has what, 30 minutes before your add kicks in and you move on to scramble for an fc, pick up whoever is on and assemble them in one place. you, as the aggressor have all the advantages.i've had this conversation with a number of people and what it eventually comes down to is them pointing at the 20 people docked up in a station and crying that they won't undock and fight them. ignoring the fact that undocking from a station leaves your fleet blind, all in one spot and potentially staggered, half of those people are probably afk, the other half are likely ratting or industrial alts.you don't get good fights from industrial alts, you get ganks. if thats what you want then fine, but stop getting all ****y that people won't fit their haulers with guns and undock into your fleet. assuming you've not had an existential crisis at this point it should be fairly obvious that jump bridges allow the defenders to form a fleet to engage you before you spot a shiny thing in the distance and leave.unless of course by \"good fights\" you mean \"fights i win\" in which case you're never going to be happy with any reasonable solution."
"well, except the defender has jump bridges. pvp ships and capitals already in place. stations to dock up in. intel channels to keep an eye on aggressors. the agressors on the other hand, have the advantage of surprise and that's it. and the really ****ed thing is, even if an aggressor does make it into your space without being blobbed, and even if it manages to keep all of your forces docked, there's still nothing they can do short of a massive invasion that will result in any significant damage to the sov holder even though they didn't bother to defend their spaceanything of significance these days happens in systems where taking 15 minutes to fire your guns is considered to be reasonable lag, and half of everyone in that system is staring at a black screen.aggressors having all the advantages, i lol at you sir"
"firstly i'd like to point out that draco misquoted me in post #19, when it was marconus orion who made that statement.i will also add to the aggressor/defender discussion. having time to plan and gather forces ready for when you want to strike (or even just roam around) does give a significant advantage. it may not be the only advantage available, and the defenders have some advantages too (a point i disagree with yeep on), but to say that the only advantage the aggressors have is surprise shows you either didn't read yeep's post, or you have very limited experience of alliance level combat pvp.also, to comment on the \"anything of significance\" thing - those \"things of significance\" might be the only things which attract caod chest beating or eve news 24 reporting, but they certainly aren't the only significant things happening. often the truly significant actions go entirely unnoticed."
"this is frigging crazy..ok lets do it this way..1.) how many times have you come into 0.0 sov held space with <50 people and of those times how many resulted in your being blobbed to death before you could do anything, causing your whole fleet to die in a fire2.) i already listed 5 things above that you can do as the aggressor to cause damage.. since those are obviously not what you want.. what do you want?"
"how few, pray tell, should the aggressors have to be before they should be able to cause \"significant damage\" because they're ignoring you like the little gnat you are?and what's the reason for that then?oh right, it's the dominion sov system's fault, but let's blame something completely different. that'll teach them for ignoring you!"
"right.. so because the dominion lag hurt fleet warefare.. its obviously due to jump bridges... i totally see the logic there get rid of jump bridges and we we put 1500 ppl in a system it will now work?and 15 min lag is not acceptable.. frankly most pilots will consider module lag of up to a minute manageable but more than that is considered unreasonable.."
"they do at the moment. but i think improved mobility in space you own is a reasonable advantage to expect.your roaming gang isn't in pvp ships?but we just established being able to dock up when hostiles enter local is unacceptable. people should be forced to fight any hostile gang that shows up in their space and bangs their chest. but they shouldn't have enough time to actually threaten the gang, that would be unfair on the poor small gang pvpers.intel channels aren't something ccp provides to space holders. talking to other people isn't exclusive to 0.0 alliances.its nice to selectively ignore the parts of my post you don't like. i'll give you a minute to go back and try again.so how many man hours would you consider the minimum to put in to do 'significant damage' to a spaceholding alliance? in fact i think you'll find the sov holder will defend their space if you actually threaten it, however you probably won't like what happens when they get to choose the terms."
"all trolling aside, they have fixed the majority of the session change bugs, the problem's mostly just the massive amounts of hp and the hilarious amounts of timers now."
"i dunno. i mean, i really don't think it's game breaking or anything, but i still feel jump bridges have too much power. people defending the point argue that they aren't really that powerful, which seems a bit ironic because if they weren't that big of a deal then why would people be arguing to keep them that strongly? i still think that the reason people are defending them so vehemently is that they offer massive advantages to the defending alliance. if they didn't, then why would you even start this thread?the only part that really bothers me, really the only part, is that so few people in alliances have to use gates. with the security that jump bridges allow for moving and the low risk pve due to sanctums and whatnot that already exists it's no surprise that small gang warfare is as dead as it is. we need to have pilots using gates and earning isk in belts, this leads to gfgfs and a less lazy mentality in alliances. jump bridges aren't the whole/only problem, there are other issues (like sanctums) but the end result is easily defended and highly lucrative space which pushes people to nap train everyone they can.i have no problem with blobs btw, small hostile gangs should get blobbed in alliance space. my problem is that its either blobs, the rare idiot using a gate, or nothing. rarely will people have a 5 man roaming group, and no pve systems are ever actively defended because the defensive setup in null sec doesn't require it, null sec defends it self by its very nature."
"having people moving their pve ships by gates (still happens a lot btw) and earning isk in belts doesn't lead to ~good fights~, it leads to ganks, and ganks are never good fights.going out looking for a similar sized group to fight with while avoiding the bigger gangs is what leads to good fights. sometimes you run into smaller groups and solo players and you can either gank them or they get away (neither of which is a particularly good fight), but either way ganking pve ships isn't nearly as satisfying as an evenly matched fight.admittedly, those evenly matched fights are a whole lot harder to find (amidst dodging the bigger gangs), but they definitely are out there for anybody who wants to look."
"i rarely use bridges because currently i log in to a staging system, join the fleet, shoot ****, go back, log off. i don't do ratting (because it's boring as ****), i don't do mining (because it's boring as ****), so i don't travel. the main reason i argue for keeping jbs is because it makes life more convenient and less like stabbing yourself in the ****ing face with knives.of course, it is used from time to time to get ahead of a roaming gang, but at least in deklein people either roll up the region (which is basically just one long corridor) or down the region, and they have to go through at least a few \"heavily\" populated areas (by 0.0 standards). at which point they either get ignored, or they get outblobbed.why do you need to have people using gates? the only argument i've ever seen have been \"because it means we get more pvp action\", and there's something else which i think is the root cause for this. i'm outlining this in my answer below.0.0 does \"defend\" itself by its very nature insofar as the dominion sov system basically require a very large fleet up to 6 times in a row. i keep saying that any alliance can basically easily defend up to 6 systems by defending one system at a time and breaking the sov grind chain one system at a time (provided they're all properly setup with stations etc). that means that when joe random elite pvper comes around with his small bunch of elite pvp friends, people are either going to be travelling blind (i.e. they're dumb), caught unawares/afk (i.e. they're dumb), or they're going to form up a large enough group and **** the everliving **** out of these elite pvpers (who of course will ***** about blobbing).this has ****-all to do with jbs and everything to do with the fact that we have developed intel channels because we basically need it. we haven't got concord to make sure that you roaming ***gots need to make a choice between a security/isk hit and a killmail, so we have to provide our own security. that is, after all, what 0.0 is all about.if you absolutely want to see a change in the number of people in a system, then you wouldn't be vyving for making life ****tier in 0.0, you would be trying to make life in 0.0 for the common dweller easier and more fun, because then they would be logged in more and they'd do more stuff. of course, the flipside of this if you do things right (i.e. if f.ex the whole of goonswarm could've lived in a single constellation and not feel stifled) is that roaming gangs would have it even harder to get a \"good fight\", because they'd pop into systems with maybe 100 or more goons in it, which means that you'd get even more outblobbed if everyone except those who weren't paying attention didn't dock up.as for the whining over not having 5 man roaming gangs, face it, eve has more people in it. cope."
"some interesting points raised, im all for making armor a viable alternative to shields, but i still have a few questions:1. what changes to the gallente faction do you plan to support overall e.g. redone hybrid turrets, ship speed and stats/bonuses2. do you plan to support mission runners and any changes made to the mission/agent aspect of the game3. what is your position on faction warfare and lowsecthanks in advance"
"i can't speak for any other alliances but goonswarm historically does not deal well with peace in the absence of external enemies we find conflict within our ranks, the loss of delve is probably the most recent example of this but its held true all the way back to 2005. the mittani knows this, vile rat knows this, they've both lived through most of the alliance's big self destructive peactime phases. its in neither of their best interests to stagnate 0.0. but they already can. come sit 10 people in my ratting system and i won't be doing any ratting for a while, you might even catch my ishtar if i'm busy with other things. sit off a jump bridge with a cloaked dictor and stealth bomber and you'll kill countless haulers. all this is disrupting the lives of 'powerblock' players.you still don't really understand what a priviledge is. other than supercaps requiring sov space to build and being required to take sov space (something that nobody likes) what you're complaining about is tradeoffs. you seem to think living in 0.0 is all puppies and icecream with no sacrifices at all.tried living in npc 0.0? the market mechanics make sharing a conquerable region with people who aren't your friends more painful than its worth. how many systems would you like your 10 man alliance to hold? goonswarm holds about 1 system per 100 characters, thats 1/10th of a system for your 10 man alliance. if a big alliance isn't allowed 'locked stronghold full of tamed npc and belts' how is a small alliance going to make any money? or are they allowed these mythical strongholds?have you asked test or tnt how they feel about being 'slaves'? or do you just want to live in 0.0 without having to do obnoxious things like make friends with people outside your corp? like it or not politics is a big part of eve online, its one of the many things that makes the game unique. without politics you wouldn't get the grudges that cause most of the game's most memorable wars. but i'm sure your desire to have a small part of space to call your which nobody can take from you, no matter how many more friends they have is more important than that."
"list these gamebreaking privileges, and why they're gamebreaking privileges."
"thank you yeep, you took the type out alot of the things i was thinking when i was reading that.alsythi would love for you to get a seat on the csm, just so that (if i get one) i can have this conversation face to face. 1.) you are absolutely right. the csm should not be owned by 0.0 powebloc delegates.. but i think you are mixing this valid argument and powerbloc game playright now there are no mechanics in eve that promote coalitions. for the people that have to manage the standings and access its kind of a pain, which is one of the reasons the diplo role evolved from nothing to an relevant career line in eve. i dont disagree that 0.0 sov system could use some love but groups of people will always join together for a common cause. and i want to reiterate waht yeep said. there are sooo many things you can do with a small alliance to disrupt a large one.. if you are <10 people do as he said, put afk cloakers in carebear systems. roam through regularly so ppl cant mine or rat, camp jump bridges. if you have more.. say 30-60, mess with structures, incap jump bridges, knock out station services.razor, is an alliance that is constantly looking for gfs. when we don't have action at home we go and find it (yes many times alone without daily support from the rest of nc). we go to low sec or npc 0.0 and do this exact stuff. we roam with 10-20 man gangs, we do black ops, and jump bridge camping and even market pvp. we really p1ss off our enemies. not be playing to sov grinding and large warfar but by being irritating mosquito 's (mostly trying to instigate a real fight).again, im not saying 0.0 and the sov system dont need love.. but dont confuse things you cant do with things you dont know how to do :)"
"late responding, but i think the key is a csm that has a the full range of eve pilots represented. the majority of pilots in eve will never be part of or care about the major actions in 0.0 space. that doesn't mean that aren't affected by what happens there. so yes, every csm member has to understand how 0.0 affects eve overall.but my issue is that i think the ccp continues to be overly focused on aspects of eve that may generate epic conflicts for 10% of the player base have nothing to do with the lives of the majority of the pilots in eve. someone needs to be thinking about those other folks and making sure ccp considers their game experiences. that has been and will continue to be my focus.so let's hope we get a csm that can fairly represent the entire population of eve and not just the major 0.0 power blocks (which is what i fear we are getting in csm 6).issler dainzerunning for csm to represent the \"little guy\""
"issler you do make some quite valid points.. but i want to add one thing.. almost everything that happens in 0.0 effects everyone. i know a lot of people don't realize this but that 3 month old n00b pilot is severely impacted by the happenings in 0.0. the results to any change to 0.0 will affect even those types.here are examples.1.) recent conflicts in geminate, specifically o2o battles have results in the loss of thousands of ships. who made those ships, who did the invention for the t2 hulls and modules, and ammo, who did the manufacturing, who's mining the trit and pyerite and other high sec ores. who's mining the ice to fuel the towers used for staging, and capital fuel.2.) moon goo. any changes to sov or moon mining will effect every high sec person that only does invention. that person may not give two craps about 0.0 but when the cost of there reactions shoot up or crash that affects there ability to make profits.3.) missioners that love phat faction fit ships, well yea most of that fancy faction loot comes from 0.0. changes to complexes, anomalies, sov, ability for 0.0 carebears to do those things will affect the availability and prices of said items (not saying its bad thing)point is confidantes need to understand how everything is interconnected, and how at the end of the day 95% of everything that happens in eve is in some pay for or based around pvp (in any security space, but 0.0 is a major part in that)"
"one of my campaign platforms is promoting more low value npc space for smaller alliances to occupy that big power blocs won't be interested in. this is a perfect example of a member of one of those power blocs thinking about the game as a whole.just realise that being a member of a group doesn't necessarily mean that your only interest is that group's welfare at the expense of others - it is possible to be part of one group (a 0.0 power bloc), and part of many other groups too (mission runners, miners, industrialists, traders, etc etc).edit: quote messed up"
"so having spent the last week reading a variety of blogs (sic.) and posts and websites....i find myself in a conundrum.my understanding of the csm is that it provides feedback....feedback from the playerbase (in it's entirety) and feedback directly to ccp on their ideas.many (if not the majority) of candidates are promising to lobby for certain change, alteration, concepts or other...is this not a cheap, tardy, cloak of deception? is this not polititian speak for we want your vote, but will do what we want with it ?this behaviour cannot be condoned. anyone who can't spell colour with a 'u' or cotton with two 't''s surely cannot be trusted.in addition to the basic facts laid out above, i find the only candidate who promses to run 'against' the others, against false promise, misdirection, deception and a powerbase that is hugely inflated in a certain direction is non-other than:general windypoop !if you chose to waste your vote elsewhere,.....then so be it, but please, if you do, please do not post anywhere any whiney, blob this, jumpbridge that, small-gang poo-poo, t20-99, exploiting rubbish ever again !the only candidate who has promised one thing, and one thing only, is windyplopp ! and all he has promised is what can truely be delivered - to stand up against the tyranny of evil that is before you!!!(ok so that may be a bit strong, but it is a major coallition of potential not-niceness)vote hard, vote often, vote windy!that is all - keep up the good posting ![edited cos i was told to - just like you were told to vote; yes, you know who you are!]"
"if you don't want false promises, you'd do well to vote for someone who has a proven track record...member of csm 2, 3, 4 and 5. you'd think if i was making empty promises and/or stupid statements, i wouldn't get reelected. especially when i have no large alliance backing me off...so go with someone reasonable, intelligent, knowledgeable, who can work with everyone no matter what play style they chose.someone whom many members of past csms say positive things about, including but not limited to: mynxee, larkonis, t'amber, mazzilliu, trebor, etc.in other words: vote for me:"
"another fine candidate, i agree.however, i take heed of the political speak that tries hard to persuade me that indeed you may (or may not) be more (or less) intelligent or knowledgeable.beware citizens of eve, read through the words, see past the rhetoric, look through the clouds, find clarity in the gem that is windy !unpaid (but i will find him if he refuses me the 100 cap booster 150's that he promised me) i will continue to lobby (as is my right) for the one, true candidate that is windyplop !please, waste no more votes on these unsavoury (except meissa, as she looks to be a bit of alright) wanna-be jimmy carters and winston churchills (i cant mention certain other political leaders, but you get the picture)"
"so windy is wanting your vote because he doesn't want others to get in - what exactly is it that windy is running for, or will support?personally i'd rather know what a politician's (if you can really call us that) stance is before i vote for them, which is why i outlined where i stand on various issues. no false promises, just stating where i stand so you know what you'll get."
"i understand your questioning.more should question too.what windy stands for is the populace. currently it appears (if the vote numbers and candidates are correct, and we have no reason to question ccp) that there is an influx of players who share a common goal/area/philospohy/blue list.with this in mind, what the feedback to ccp would be is likely to be slightly prejudiced at the least - as we all, ultimately, have our own interests at heart.the only candidate i could find who promised to stand against this and to feedback honestly to 'us' was windy. he also did not make (questionable) promises about gameplay, features, causing havoc, shouting at ccp or any the such.what he 'stands for' is a freedom of speech, of a voice in the wilderness, of a light in the dark....a break in the clouds.i am not here to answer your questions specifically - i am not running - i have no need to answer your questions. what i am here for is to lobby for a candidate that i beleive has significant value to me personally(and i can assume to many others too)you wish for the csm to be so totally one-sided that it slides and falls off the edge of the world? or would you rather a candidate that helps provide the world with a spherical being - ensuring the csm can slip effortlessly without the fear of falling off the edge ?"
"it's puff puff pass."
"just means you haven't read and dont understand everyone's campaign..or your just an alt of windy and this is another thread for shameless promotion :)"
"of course this is a windy alt he's not even trying to hide them"
"he could at least make them attractive, i'm not taking voting advice from someone with a portrait that ugly."
"oh god, i've wanted my own personal fanboi for years (since general windyp0ps was biomassed). why oh why, when i finally get one, does it have to be this one."
"sorry, all your posting is a glaring example of a mindless rhetoric itself."
"as some of you know, as part of my election campaign i've been running a free lottery with a top prize of up to 6b isk. so far, over 1000 pod-pilots have signed up.when voting closes, so does the lottery, so time is limited. there's no cost, no obligation, and let's face it, no advantage to me -- most of you guys have already voted.in fact, the main reason i'm posting this is that a large number of goons have signed up -- and i'd really rather not be sending the isk to one of them! so take a minute, enter the lottery, and good luck.the winners will be chosen in public after the csm session at fanfest.best,trebor \"soon to be poor\" daehdoowps: a complete list of all the goons who have entered the lottery and then traitorously clicked on my vote! button is available for a reasonable fee. pps: traitorous goons can be removed from the list upon payment of a slightly less-reasonable fee."
"i'm really just after a candidate to push for change in the invention/t2 production realm.the current ui and system is not very nice for those who make their cash from invention.here's a good example post regarding the issue.i'm not after someone who suddenly decides to see god, i'd like to read a thread written by them regarding this issue somewhere in the past.rev."
"improvements to the ui (not just in invention) have long been a focus of mine. it was one of the core planks of my platform in the csm 5 elections, and i raised the \"low hanging fruit\" ui proposal last year and ran the associated prioritization effort.while it is impossible for any csm to promise that a particular area of the game will get attention, ccp is clearly focusing more resources on the ui, and the whole science&industry interface is in obvious need of some love."
"being inventer myself (i do up to 250 inventions a day, when i do modules), i made several requests to help on that front.doing multiple inventions with one click has been requested already, it didn't get prioritized yet however. i'll keep pushinglikewise, i requested pos improvements on that front (try manufacturing using equipment assembly arrays, a nightmare).we got last year a more responsive ui on the invention front, if you remember 2 years ago one had to wait a long time between job runs because of the unresponsiveness of the ui. we still have way too many clicks (and for ****'s sake, remember my \"range\" settings), but you can trust that i'll push for improvements on that front."
"both of the above choices are good, but i would also put my name forward.i do a lot of research and manufacturing and understand the 'click' issues. i will be pushing (no promises form ccp) for a revamp of the science and industry interfaces as well as the corporation management interface."
"invention is a primary way we fund our corporation. trying to improve invention and pos lab access is a big piece of what i will focus on in the csm if elected.issler dainze"
"clickfests are one of my pet peeves with eve. in my csm campaign i've highlighted planetary interaction as something that i just don't do because of the insane amount of clicking to implement anything, and that it's just not fun.invention is something i do on a small scale, so it's kind of bareable. still, i'm firmly opposed to any and all clickfests - this is a game (well, persistent world if we want to be pedantic... which we do...) and it should be fun and engaging rather than repetitive work (with sporadic moments of fun/excitement)."
"click here"
"explanation"
"please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"i'm still here guys dont worry. a little busier than usual. however atm ccp is plowing through a back log of changes that usually land on my desk to be put on here. rest assured i do check this weekly for changes and new topics."
"here is an idea to make fw occupancy meaningful without making it so everyone joins the winning faction:lets say amarr gain occupancy of the system evati. right now there are a few minmatar npc stations there. well lets say that with time after amarr take over, there is a certain percentage chance that those stations become amarr npc stations. so a boundless creation might become a carthum conglomerate! the idea is that companies are generally not well served to open up factories in places that are occupied by the enemy. they would tend to fair poorly for numerous reasons. in other words the players are shaping the universe. it would no longer be a universe that ccp made and always remained the same.the chance of this happening may depend on how long occupancy is held. say every 6 months you roll the dice on any enemy faction corps leaving. there may also be a chance (smaller chance) that a corp from the sister faction would move in { so perhaps lai dai (caldari) would move in. there would be new agents that go in to that etc. the rp story would be boundless decides to close down facilities in evati due to a sudden increase in taxes and sells station to carthum/lai dai. (or some such)now it would be an indirect benefit because you usually have high standings with the faction you fight for in fw. so you would gain new agents and resources for those in your faction. but then again if one side loses many agents the value of that lp should see a slight rise because the goods are more scarce. so it would be a decent storyline consequence that wouldnt likely lead to a lopsided war. would this work for actual militia stations? that might be going too far and lead to a lopsided war. but maybe not. if they added some decent faction specific items to the fw lp store there would be a natural balance. those lp would be worth more. i certainly think many amarr mission runners would fight to keep huola.if for example minmatar took over huola 24th crusade station and it became a tribal liberation force station then the missions would have to send minmatar back into minmatar space. the agent might say something like  i figured we were stretching ourselves too thin in capturing this station. now the amarr are starting to attack us back at our home stations"
"agreed. i prefer the original proposal's modification to the idea of a new cloaking device. duplicate modules aren't a very elegant way of fixing problems.as for removing passive recharge...ehh. i suppose, though the amount of time it'd take to regenerate any significant amount of hit points is so long that i'm not sure it's an issue."
"no to dumbing down eve for peops who want cheap capital kills."
"cloaks should have more of a down side when used on ships they were not designed to be used on. although i would like to see local in null sec go the way of the dodo if a change like this were to come into being."
"i think this change will make eve more complex... not dumbed down. capital ships don't deserve to be able to cloak to regenerate cap in 100% safety."
"i should start by saying that i regard neutral remote repping as an exploit and believe that it should incur the wraith of concord something i think most posters here would disagree with.so if the neutral remote repper is flagged with an aggression timer against a ship in a corp he is not at war with what will happen?"
"sorry pitboss, i'm one of those of the opinion that those \"criticisms\" you claim were addressed were either insufficiently addressed or criticized and/or countered themselves.i still find nothing wrong with current rr as it stands in game, changing it will do nothing to help current high sec wardec mechanics.still not supported."
"agreed. i support this. hybrids/gallente needs re-balanced and fixed.what's a bit more damage when you can't apply that damage?!it's like telling gimli to fight legolas. gimli is very skilled, but he'll never win against legolas who can just flank him and avoid his strong arm and axe and shoot arrows at him all day."
"i have a few skills i would like to get rid of (my pure pvp gallente alt has like research 3 and a couple of others that were from pre-tyrannis character creation). good idea imo and not a big deal."
"because mining level 1 just looks bad on my character sheet"
"providing there were inbuilt fail safes to prevent accidental deletion of skills (e.g. handled similarly to biomassing) then i would love this to be implemented for the benefit of those of us who like to keep skill sheets cosmetically appealing."
"which is the problem, some of those ships are pregimped by the tier system. the omen does good theoretical dps, but it fails at the actual application of dps. the prophecy and maller both fill a niche role that really doesn't need so many ships in it. if the proph had 8 turrets, it might be viable with no dmg bonus."
"the problem with the teir system was never that it simply exists, just that ccp have lets face it, been pretty poor at revisiting old balance problems and fixing broken ships.lack of iteration is what is causing the issues with old ships, its nothing to do with teirs whatsoever, when was the last time stock t1 ships were even looked at balance wise?"
"do it!"
"they have have a spotty record with that sure. they are good about revisiting things that affect the richest players, but not so much about the general populace. i don't think i've seen a patch since sovereignty was implemented that didn't have a lot of changes to 0.0 specific game content inlcuded.i'm don't think iteration means what you think it means."
"i agree. i support this wholeheartedly.i'm focused in gallente and there are serious flaws, as stated all over this thread and in the op, that need to be addressed. gallente is becoming more and more broken over the years. please, re-balance the ships and hybrids so us players focused in gallente can have some fun and pride in our ships again.we're not asking to be top dog. we're just asking to be on par with the rest of the races because we've dropped far below them in pvp becuase of all the changes that have seriously injured gallente."
"imho replacing all armor repair bonus on gallentean ships with hull resistance bonus would work pretty well. in pvp buffers work better then active, and hull buffer would make gallentean somewhat unique - powerful tank with low fitting requirement but painful to repair in a hurry."
"my alt has fof 5 for the reason i stated. they really don't need to be made any better. although the not shooting fleetmates bit would be cool."
"trolling comments removed"
"i reported them like 12 days ago, lolbetter late than never, i suppose"
"throwing my full support behind this one."
"amazing! about two years ago, just after i started playing eve, i submitted a similar proposal and was quickly shot down and flamed by just about every response. it wasn't pretty. my oh my, how attitudes have changed towards this topic.i definitely agree that there should be some way to train more than one character on an account at the same time. the op's suggestion is just as good as any i've read and has the advantage of both giving the players a wanted feature and putting more money in the ccp coffers. as far as this being a micro-transaction - hogwash. it's simply additional subscription fees. and since you still can only play with one character at a time, those who have two or more accounts so that they can play two or more characters simultaneously, would still keep those other accounts. i happen to have three accounts and i guarantee that i would be using this on all three accounts, at least to train a second character on each. the third would be as necessity dictated.i would prefer though, that the price was a bit lower than a full sub price, and with the option of using plex as payment as well as the standard sub payment method...option #1 - standard payment method (note - using this option you cannot use 3, 6, or 12 month plans except with only one character training and/or using plex for the others.):1 month/1 character training = $14.951 month/2 characters training = $24.951 month/3 characters training = $31.95option #2 - plex payment method (note - since plex costs more - #34.99/2 - than standard monthly subs, the benefit is seen in the training times):1 plex applied to an account = add 1 month sub time to account or 1 month training on both 2nd & 3rd character or 6 weeks training on 2nd character.2 plex applied to an account = add 2 months sub time to account or add 1 month sub time to account and 1 month training on 2nd & 3rd character or 2 months training on 2nd & 3rd character or 3 months training on 2nd character.in addition, training times would not be at the full 100% for all characters training...1st character always trains at 100%.2nd character trains at 75%.3rd character trains at 50%.in the skill queue, you would designate the status of the character as 1st, 2nd, or 3rd. this could be changed and switched at any time so that no character is locked into a slower training rate.so anyway... supported with some adjustments."
"quoted for emphasis. i forgot this bit in my original support post."
"not supported.this is the thin edge of the wedge. once you go down this route then there will be calls to make it cheaper, there already are some in the replies.posted from an alt account."
"thin edge of a wedge? what is wrong with suggesting it be a bit cheaper than a full month's sub rate or be able to be payed for with plex? besides, it's only a suggested proposal at this point. i actually think that even if it went through as the op proposed, it's still a good idea and would be used by a lot of players. the main point of the proposal is to be able to pay for concurrent training on one account and ultimately, if the idea did ever get accepted by ccp, they would set the cost to whatever they decided is most beneficial to them and as fair as possible to the players regardless of what is suggested here."
"i'm not sure but couldn't you eject at a safe private pos and then board with an alt on the same account? then try to safely get to a station to jump clone out of your slaves."
"this tbh"
"i'm not against the idea they can dock since:docking time is really really slow -15min or+ to avoid station gamesstation fees for docking are very very expensive and daily- you don't pay, account stoped, not enough isk? - ship's kiked out of station and everyone can take or shoot itjust some ideas but wy shouldn't they be able to dock?-they should but with titanic drawbacks."
"what made you think you need a second account?just make a new character on your account, train to fly the hull and nothing else on it (e: on second thoughts, train to use the basic cloaking device too, you might need to use it at some point), and just do a safespot login alt - eject - login main - board dance.a little dangerous for sure, someone could steal it if they scan out your safe quickly enough, though you're not going to be doing this anywhere but in a secure system held by your alliance so it's not that much of an issue."
"hell, you don't even have to train to fly the hull -- you can buy a character off the bazaar. god knows the price is reasonable for anyone that actually intends to fly the ships the way they were intended."
"maybe because they are already larger than the station? unless someone does manage to find a new technologies allowing us to create storage bubbles overlapping on multiple dimensions, we won't be able to put them in a docking hangar"
"hang on, firstly why should i have to train another character? why? where in the game does it state, if you want to fly a super then you must have 2 chars or accounts. and ideally yes you would have 2 accounts.you say i need to just train the hull thats is still considerable training timeguys with respect your trolling not one of you have given me and answer or reason for this?also what has friends got todo with anything, it makes no difference lol to this situation. is ccp going to give me back all my wasted sps now? because thats what it is. i should not have to train another char, i dont want to.yes i dont literally have to, fair enough, and ccp can dispute that technically you only need one. but then my super is exposed to the world in a pos, which in essence means the games mechanic pretty much make me have another char or in this day and age im 100% going to lose my ship.your making the rules up from your own heads. there is nothing in official literature thats says i must be in an allaince or anywhere, i may want to be solo and live in low sec with a super.also come on, with the amount of titans and supers about you really think being with friends is going to stop pl, russains, nc removing it. i should have to be in a large alliance to own a super.but anyway, i really dont understand your logic on saying no, about allowing supers/titans to dock? you have not given me any real or decent argument against this, even if that means upgrading the station component to allow it. obv in low sec this would be available in all stations.if you dont support this, then i am more than happy to listen to it, god knows why anyone would not support it, even 0.0 guys. but hey i have trouble understanding the intelligence level some ppl have in eve."
"the point is mate why should i have to train another account, i understand the game mechanics, thats fine, what if people dont want to be in a large alliance. the game is becoming so unbalanced now its silly. so what we saying is you have to have a second account/char, and be in a big alliance to have a super, i must of missed that when i signed up for eve, otherwise i would never have trained for it."
"you don't have to train another character. for that matter you don't have to even get into a supercap. there are methods to playing in other ships while you have a supercap...they have been explained to you already in this thread. you don't like those options? don't get in a supercap. pretty simple."
"it is ******ed that so many things need multiple accounts, but hey this game is built on exploits and metagaming. /shrug"
"if you can afford an sc, you can afford one plex a month for an alt holder character.besides, two other slots on that same alt account can make enough isk for a plex without much effort or playing actively (datacores, pi, invention, production, station trading, scamming,...) so basically, you get it for free."
"so you knew this was a fact, and still you invested everything you had for them, only to get angry about it when you reached the finish line? i am sorry, no disrespect, but you have only yourself to blame then really."
"sorry, meant to post with my main."
"really now? there's your argument.like others have said, there is nothing that prevents you from climbing into such a ship and there is nothing that says you have to get such a ship or that you must get a \"holder alt.\" however, all ships have limitations. the inability to dock and/or go from system to system by itself are just 2 such limits. it's these limits that prevent wholesale proliferation of said ships and something that maintains balance within the game as a whole. if such \"limits\" were not in place then everyone and their mother would be scrambling to get one and the bar would be raised for being a competitive force.so harden up and realize that there are simply some things that you will be unable to do alone."
"as stated you dont have to be in an alliance or have a second toon.. you dont have to.. setup your own tower in your own corp and leave it in the bubble. just cause you think you should be able to do something doesn't mean you shouldi should be able to dd in low sec, i should be able to use a dic/hic bubble in empire. i should be able to bomb or smart bomb 4-4.. should i demand to get all the skills back after spending 2 months training for a onyx only to find out i cant bubble up in rancer?show me one piece of \"official documentation\" that tells you anything about half of this stuff. eve is notorious for being undocumented.. so your arguments are all invalid.the point is, as many have stated.. the reason you cant is that its a deterrent to make them hard to manage, hard to support, and hard to deal with. that is the point and the reason.. if you dont accept that, thats on you.."
"i propose supercapitals should be able to use jumpgates and dock just like any other normal ship, this allows them to be the only ships in the game worth having which is obviously the way it should be.i'd /sarcasm here... but if you managed to miss it i fail to care."
"or do we just have a bunch of 1-2 man corps for avoiding the 11% tax?a bit of a poll, i suppose. if you feel that the change was ineffective, pointless, or worse than the problem it solved, check the support box, perhaps with a reason you feel that way.if you don't, feel free to throw in your two cents too."
"i fail to see the use of those npc-corp taxes... mission runner? just fly through one more mission every 10-missions cycle and, that's all...what was the goal of those taxes, right from the beginning? just suppress them, and we wouldn't see anymore of those solo-guy corps..."
"the goal was two fold. first to encourage people to form their own corps and leave the npc corp nest. second to remove the unfair tax disadvantage player corps had compared to npc corps. player corps have to use taxes to fund corporation activities, so they have to have a tax rating unless they are for the purpose of tax evasion/glorified chat rooms. the average corp tax was around 10% at the time, so the npc tax was put at 11%. the 10% comes from removing the disadvantage and the 1% is the encouragement to push people to leave the npc corp. i will also like to point out, that ccp was quite fine with the fact that many would just form a tax evasion corps, so if that is a problem to someone, it is their personal issue, but it isn't a problem for the game and needs no solution.i feel it was a good solution to the problem of player run corps having a clear disadvantage in taxation and it made them competative and even attractive compared to npc corps. the extra encouragement to join player run corporations was just a bonus, so i would say the change has been a success."
"it has accomplished its goal. there are fewer people staying in the safe harbour npc corps."
":twocents:"
"i think an npc corp should tax you about 15-20%.forcing you to join a corp.if you are a new player - you get like 5-12 months grace - 0% tax.new players are not effected,any player wanting to 'hide' in an npc corp that cannot get war dec'd gets taxed from the other end.just my opinion - many may not agree... i just dont like the fact that you cannot war dec 1 person in an npc corp.cheers'"
"supported! i want to paint fairies on my mach."
"i want flames decals on my megathron :d"
"yes please"
"hi, i logged off during a battle becasue my ship stopped responding and i received repeated and contant lag report which never cleared, and several hours later my friends were saying that my character and ship was still online and visible in the game.i did not want to loose my ship while not even in the game so i logged back in. it took me about an hour to log back in to find my ship stuck, and non responsive to my commands once again. next thing i knew i was killed and podded to my home system.a good number of my friends all died while logged off, due to game bugs, and the mechanics and programming of the game failing to work as intended. this is not acceptable, given the amount of money we pay to play this game. fleet battles are not working! many of us are re-considering whether we want to continue playing eve after recent events. we need the game to support large battles. at the moment, one side gets major lag, and cannot even get into gang, and the other side gets free movement and no lag, and can totally destroy the laggged out enemy. this is not a fleet battle, this is a fkn lag massacre. we are not dying because our tactics are bad. we are dying because the game cannot support large battles and continuously ****s us over with lag.many people logged off at safe tower, then desynced, then logged back in at spawned at the enemy tower. what the hell is that for christ sake?please fix the bloody game and address this.regardsvlade randalpvp director - hirr corporation"
"bump"
"bumpi couldn't even log back in after dt. tried for about 45 minutes and just said screw it. force quit the eve client and crashed out as there was nothing i could do.sorry you lost your ship, mate."
"bump"
"1.0"
"much agreed with the amount of real world dollars all of us have put into the game this should be something you could look into :) ty in advance"
"bump"
"supported"
"exactly what vlade said...!!! logged in after dt and after 20 mins waiting and finally loading there was no local or chat windows.... sat there trying to move for 20 mins and nothing responded however after that period of time i started taking damage, sat there for another 30 mins still unresponsive and in the end said wtf am i even trying to do...logged off and today am back in station in clone. i mean i knew that would happen but get serious, is that the best that can be done?prior to dt the lag was there, but workable...i mean the same old stuff-guns taking 15 mins to cycle etc etc...but after dt absolutely rubbish.i mean is this really what we are paying for?reinforced nodes should be capable of performing better than that.totally right vlade...!!"
"bump i wasn't in this particular fight, but this has been an issue for quite some time. the entire large scale combat system is in question at this point.module lag is one thing, but the excessive desync and utter inability to make any action is completely unacceptable."
"its true ccp fail you should at least change this: eve online - a massive multiplayer online roleplaying space game ... becose massive multiplayer cant be done in eve.. you are lying to your customers.."
"agreed.. it was quite ridiculous. 4 hour fight and i only shot 10 volleys the entire time. 15 minutes per command, people dying to lag and not being able to login. quite ridiculous.. in these situations it should be ccp's to priority to keep things as smooth as possible. i feel bad for the people that lost big stuff due to dc's and unrealistically terrible lag. that is a lot of time and effort wasted."
"you got to shoot 10??? i got about 6 off... i was at least on 3 titan kills. who knows how those happened due to the lag...."
"ghost supers warping and moving themselves around eve... i mean seriously wtf!"
"supported."
"it was the same here...sitting in africa i accept a certain amount of lag but i think with the way the game has grown and the direction it went it is time that changes are made...i was a player years back and back in the day even with the african lag we could pull fleet battles with minimal lag...i know this is petty *****ing but it is getting to the point where i cannot be bothered to join fleet battles and would love to see a response from ccp in relation to this problem"
"i was among the lucky ones. did not dced and was able to do one action every 3-5 minutes. i warped off and back 3 times and i loaded grid in minutes. totally i did in 4h a total of actions that would probably would have taken me about 3 minutes in normal game conditions. if ccp finds this acceptable and they are happy with their amazing progress against lag than ok.... if not.. maybe they actually start doing something to be able to scale support for fleet battles. unless their purpose is not more subscription and more ships dieing, cause i thought that was the goal for them... start acting acordingly :) oh and hire some developers while you're at it :dfreaking bump"
"agree ... it would be one thing if these large battles were something that was not wanted by ccp, but considering they are used in trailers to attract new players that can hardly be the case. it's time to put a little effort and developement into fixing some of the basic mechanics for a bit rather than some of the bells and whistles we've been getting lately (example: planetary interaction - it was all the rage for about a month after it was released, but who even uses it now.) for gods sake, please fix some of the existing problems. when it says soul crushing lag your not lying"
"i was one of the lucky ones and after downtime fiasco with tool bars not showing menus not working align not working and all that. i logged off for some miracle my ship actully disappeared unlike alot of the other players ships which ccp cant blame on agression timers being the reason why the ship stayed as some of the ships were still on grid after the user logged off an hour before. just broken game. like the enthusiasm and support the cause. but ccp dont give a **** lets face it they get there money amd we get standard mail saying the same old awnswers. welcome to the massively online lag called eve."
"with all your new content added recently, you seem to have totally forgotton about us out in 0.0.we cant fight for our space.our enemies cant take space.since incursion there ahve been so many strange happens and bugs, i even wrote a petition for one and got the same anwswer - its not us.well it is you, cause its not us, we log on to play internet spaceships, you allow 1000 ships to be in the one system, yet claim no responsibility for what happens afterwards.stop advertising epic fleet fights until you can prove they can actually take place, and listen to the players."
"supported..we all worked very hard, and spent lots of time and money to get to this so call \"end game\" of eve online.. you know, the \"this is eve\" part, and it is, in most cases, not playable wtf ccp???"
"supported"
"same thing here.tried to log-in after dt,i see ''entering game as blablabla'' and after waiting like 10+ minutes i am entering game and see that;gf? or no fight?i'm looking at my wreck inside my ship.we are spending a lot of time and money to make these things,but in 10 min due to lag we are losing all of them.and ccp doesnt care about it.thats not fair,looks like eve losing its popularity.because 0.0 pvp is dead."
"use your money to provide some sort of fix for all of this nonsense lag"
"thumb up"
"i don't even go to large scale fights anymore. i do not find it enjoyable clicking f1 button every 45 minutes.this isn't about our alliance tag, it happens to all pilots in large scale fights. sometimes you can be on the lucky side and ****, sometimes you will be in the receiving end.my personal choice is to simply keep away from these fights, because i actually want to have a ship that reacts to commands or logs off when i have no aggro. however, if everybody did this, nobody would contest sov. the game urges us to continue jumping into these lag fights, if we don't, then alliances lose space."
"+1 i support."
"when we were ordered to warp to safes it took me literally (no serious, not a guess, it is how long it took) 1.5 hours before the warp command was executed. before dt it was a bit better (serious was it moved to a non-reinforced node during dt), but still horrible lag. now some people will claim that when ccp improved performance we will just put more people on a node and it lags again, they are right. but that is not our fault, that is ccps fault (to be precise, the idiots who designed dominion sov), the only way we can defend our space (or attack someone elses space) is by stuffing as many people as possible on one grid. sadly by changing it now ccp would have to admit it is a horrible failure, and :18 months:, :incarna: and all that stuff, it wont happen for a long time."
"basically +1however i'd state it this way:game/server should be able to detect when client/player/ship aren't controllable due to server side issues and at least make such pilots invulnerable to make if fair. so those famous scenarios when you jump (gates or cyno) and that is last last moment when you controlled you ship (before you find yourself in medical servise) should not belong to game. if you are not loaded grid, if you blackscreened (don't know why) - you should remain untouchable because you simply can not protect/take_care yourself. that is acceptable minimum.as maximum we all could wish that such things wouldn't happen and even biggest fleet fights would happen without lag - but that is technical issues and we understand its nature.but still when you ship died in condition when you are not able to control it due to server side problems - it is not fair and makes any bad feelings like \"i didn't pay for it\"."
"i agree. had almost identical situation lately. made a petition and ofcourse got rejected. the game is broken. making locked out ship invurnerable or cloaked is a one part solution to this +1."
"it sucks if you get stuck for hours and hours... duck shoot for one side, massacre for the other. it doesnt depend if we win or loose. this sucks :("
"i don't know if the node of the system went from reinforced before downtime to sleeping hamsters afterwards - but this is not the way how this game should work. yes, there is lag in eve and ccp tries his best to fix it (as someone mentioned before) and they are improving it for sure - but they made adverts for big scale fights and the servers atm just do not look like that they support it.so i just say, continue the work in improving eve and please let players (of all sides of a fight) control their ships again.we, as your customers, want epic fights, not click to wait fights."
"in before \"u mad?\" and \"nc tears\" commments! :di couldn't even do anything in this battle. ship was stuck. before dt i was at our pos not able to get my damn ship moving, after dt i was for some strange reason at the enemy pos and warped from there to the station on where i could do.....nothing again. and i have been in quite some 1500+ fleet battles, but this was probably the worst ever. this game needs some serious work to be made playable again."
"supported"
"supported."
"supported.have experienced near exact same issues as original post stated."
"+1 support this. althou doubt ccp will do anything except give their usual excusses.i would suggest even our enemy's to support this."
"+1it seems ludicrous we continue to pay for a game where such a massive aspect is clearly broken and has been so for quite some time. however, i doubt much will be done to fix it any time soon until it becomes clear people are not going to stand for it an"
"same here. im lost my carrier 7 hour later when jumped and loged.ccp give my carrier back"
"same experiences on all 3 accounts. game is so laggy sometimes that you cant log off , your ship just stays there, one account can log off and few hours later the ship and the character are still there. how are we supposed to play like that? you can kill people when they are offline for hours like that.not to mention the \"entering space\" for like 2 hours after logging on. but even if we dont have the clients open at all for hours we cant log off, our ships even warp around by themselfs.ive died and made a petition about this aswell allready but i keep getting the same crap that you dont have log from it. while the gm specifically said that you were aware they were issues lolstill no reimbursements. this lag is the sole reason why i never even bothered to get a supercap, im not going to have you kill it with your crappy servers and programming ccp."
"i support this. i was not in this battle but i have been popped and podded hours after i logged off without aggro... i am with anarchist uk... i no longer go to big fights... it is simply no fun having a ship that will not respond... please fix this ccp"
"i support this.it is not like larger fleet fights is a new or unexpected thing in this game, yet the lag only seems to get worse and worse with each patch, with no sign of improvement."
"being stuck, orbiting a station, with my ship completly unresponsive for 1 hour recieving the soul crushing lag error is not what i pay for ccp. fix the lag!"
"three words ccp: fix the game."
"eve is lining up that shark pond and racing towards it at 100 miles an hour; can you fix your pathetic system before your player base jumps the shark?you have repeatedly promised to fix lag; 1500 in a system is nothing. it was barely 5% of the logged in player base at the time - so there is no excuse.and your pathetic, puerile \"our logs show nothing\" is the kind of head in the sand approach to player management that led to the t20 debacle.but that's all right; soon i will able to walk in a station; shame i can never fly in space!"
"+1 supportsuggestions: - cap system/nodes to only allow a certain # of connections, and use a ques to add more people as spots open. exploitable, but would at least be manageable for the current eve code/server. - ccp invests in more/better hardware for r"
"1.0"
"eve is a good game. its got something unique. but unlike eve, other games are at least playable! ccp, yours is not."
"vlade, thumbs up for the post :)"
"suport u vlade"
"the thing is the game engine is a little outdated :)..it needs to be overhauled"
"interesting fact was the lag was actually 'manageable' (only took 15-20 minutes to cycle weapons) before dt... but after it was purely sickening. i think the node was not reinforced.-log in was blackscreened for 20 minutes. after 5 minutes of being logged in, chat windows and local froze. local froze for me when it was at 1553 people. that is about 400 less than during the height of the fight, and when local was reported at 800 and dropping, lag was actually worse.-it took an hour and a half to warp to the tcu at 30km. during this time i was locking the station for 45 minutes till it actually locked.-by the time i warp to the tcu, there are reds and blues on field.-all blues, and this is *confirmed* - all blues in our fleet and outside of it were stuck. the caps, supers, and titans that were on station with me were actually logged off the whole time but never disappeared.-during all this, the reds (drf) were not stuck at all and could mobilize as they wanted. this was confirmed, as the op said.-a single abaddon targets me, has 5 valkryies and artilleries on me at the tcu and dpses me as if there was no lag. he cycles normally. i log off because the warp i initiated to a safe pos when i landed on the tcu won't work, and i know it won't take effect until 1.5 hours later. -at the tcu i am locking 5 targets for 10-15 minutes, none of them do lock, of course. i launch 3 garde iis and 2 warrior iis, which never do leave my drone bay. as i am taking damage from this abaddon, who seems to have no problem, while i'm still trying to lock him, i decide to just log the hell out. perhaps i can survive 15 minutes (assuming i don't become a ghost). -yeah you guessed it - i die anyway. in my death mail, the drones i launched are still in my drone bay of course. the warp i initiated to safe pos would not save me within 1.5 hours of getting hit by the lone abaddon and subsequent reds who did lock me in the time i logged off and in the next 10 minutes... how were they able to do all this and blues were not?-fact: if i stayed logged on - dead anyway. if i warped anywhere, dead anyway. if i warped back to the station - dead anyway. drf dropped bubbles and supers on the station. again... how were they able to do this?-finally, i log in the next day (today) and find myself back in my clone station. so after all that, my pod was a ghost too. and i was killed long after i logged off.ccp, this is not acceptable. this is sickening. we pay real money for this, the ones who don't rmt, etc. people have spent months, months to acquire the amount of isk to buy these supercaps. and they lose them when they are not logged on.and how do you all reply to that? standardized messages, inhuman replies. something has to change. to the people who claim it's our own fault for bringing too many numbers, well slap yourself in the face right now. this is war, and in wars like this, things are at stake that will affect thousands. this is a battle we've fought for weeks, where double digit titans and supercaps have already died. we are a large alliance and we will keep bringing large numbers. in real life war, numbers make the difference. so do not spew that bs.ccp, the state of large scale combat is broken. it needs to be fixed now. i hope something is being done right now to address these issues. just imagine how much fun a 2000 local fight would be with zero lag... can you imagine the fun? hell, doesn't have to be zero lag... even realistic lag, but not being stuck for hours and losing major ships and isk without being able to do anything. that's my dream, ccp, and the day this is fixed will be a good day. i just hope something is being done about it."
"bump... for being so unlucky.."
"if you're herded into a system of 2000 players. no sense crying because of lags and the destruction of the ships in the lag"
"supported."
"fully supported.i was in exactly the same situation. barely loaded a thing after dt. client eventually crashed. decided to go to bed. i woke up in the morning to establish i had been killed and podded whilst i was asleep.ccp - you guys do a good job.... but this is one thing that isn't going so well.csm - want my vote? push this issue"
"1.0"
"sup"
"totally agree, my other character was stuck in o2o after dt yesterday as well, trying to log back into the fight without any luck, after an hour of trying and getting fed up of the crappy soul crush lag notification from ccp, i logged off and gave up. only to find out over an hour later that i have been killed.just because of server side lag i should not still be in space and able to be killed, sort out 0.0 ccp.and take bloody responsiblity for fleet battles too, you knew that there was a big fight there, that o2o was reinforced from the previous day, why did you not do a count of people in system at the start of dt and keep the system reinforced? big fat fail on your part, start looking after your customer base, we dont all live in jita!"
"1.0"
"1.0"
"very unfair! i logged off safe at dt in my maelstrom and logged back in 2hrs later to a smoking pod. apparently, the reds were shooting me for a very long time, even though i was not logged in. no survival chance at all.and ccp refuses to reimburse? this is completely unacceptable.if the servers cannot handle something, don't allow such a situation to occur. limit the size of battles and/or improve server performance."
"damn right son. *****es better get that **** right....whooo weee. ccp be popin these commercials with big o fleet fights and ****. cant eve activate moduals to pwn some mofos in the damn fights and ****. cant even log outta that **** at a safe cause yall never be warping of grids and ****.....and den mofos be like \"we ain't giving you squat back cause yall be fleet fighting and even though we advertise naggas popin that way, our servers cant handle the ****. so yall aint getten yo ships back. fix yo ****!!!"
"please ccp, we want less crappy new features, and more solutions to \"soul crushing lag\"please fix the current game issues before trying to update the game to newer versionswe love the game you have created for us, but you are \"crushing our souls\" with lag to the point that its not fun any more. spend a little money and resources on better hardware, and refined programming to reduce lag. we want to have seamless fleet battles as featured in the eve promotional video! please give us what we want."
"caricat savoia !"
"a few minutes lag, or whatever we're used to, we accept that sure there might be soooo much demand on the server that it takes time to keep up with everyone. what becomes something that we petition (rightfully so) but get slapped in the face with, is submitting commands to our ship, and seeing them stack up one by one in the soul crushing lag monitor; only to have other pilots fly around with no lag, killing you while all you can do is hope the game catches up and responds to your four hour old requests. your only other option? logout 4 hours ago; to login and be respawned at a hostile location which you weren't at before and get killed. dieing in a fight is fine -- we accept losses happen, but seeing your kill mail appear when you're at work at the next day, isn't a game you can be playing, let alone one you want to play."
"the lag was terrible. it was bad before d/t, 5 mins for every action. but impossible after d/t. i tried to log in immediately but it took me more than 30mins, and finally i logged off as my fleet has moved off grid. i logged in another character 2 hours after d/t. it took me 70 mins to get into 020, 30 mins to warp to pos, and than 70 mins to jump out. i was one of the lucky ones, able to save my ship. this game needs to improve. we are all being killed by the soul crushing lagggggggggg!!!!!!!"
"what makes matters worse, last friday one of ccp was actually in system recording and gathering intel. check the data with ccp veritas. same system 3 days later. ccp you honestly suspect that when the final timer comes out there will be less people inside on a sunday then on a friday? maybe you should set a warning \"don't hold fleet fights at sundays cause we are not working\" i was one of the lucky ones that got my cap out after been blackscreened after a frozen game for 3 hours. and don't hide behind the \"our logs don't show anything\" you have a setting to see listed commands and when there executed. if a ship doesn't perform a command within 15 minutes it should have gone to emergency warp and be safe. stop useing eve as a test platform for wod. wod is a great game wich no doubt will be verry enjoyable, but we would prefere to be actually play the game thats available now"
"our logs show nothing. stfu angry customers, what do you know about eve?!? what is next you want, well educated and intelligent gm staff? get out now (but leave your money)!do it like pl and move to xsyon, runing around naked and ganking people gathering grass."
"supported.i hope we can get our drf friends to support this topic too, as i'm sure they have the same experiences as us.ccp say they want 0.0 to be more dynamic. maybe it would be, if fighting over it wasnt such a pain in the behind."
"+1to come at this situation constructively : many of us understand the nature of the players in the lagfest; each side of the fight wants a bigger blob, so more and more come in until we exhast the supply of players to join or the hamster explodes. an awf"
"quite right."
"the solutuion is simple, unfortunately unless you make it hurt ccp they will persist with their current course of action and this will be the way it will be. you want results either take ccp to court over false advertising or demonstrate a commitment to make them suffer by restricting their income by canceling subscriptions and exercise the only real power you have.the game is bugged no denying it, i was in the fight and could do stuff, but it was not an acceptable situation. the user interface needs some serious thread love.sorry for the pain, but you all know the solution to your problem."
"fully supported.i wasted 4 hours... for lag, and then lost my carrier. thanks ccp for another awesome gaming experience."
"priority server side disconnects!!!as a temporary solution ofc.if a server can not recognize your client's status for a period of time, server issues an emergency server side \"disconnect\" and removes your ship from the field.it will not solve lag, but it won't influence the battle either. if you are unlucky enough to be stuck, you've lost your play time for the night, but at least you have a chance of seeing your ship after logging in the next day. at least, you could die only by the game mechanics and not because the company you are paying for does not have good enough server to handle the game mechanics offered and advertised."
"+1 this problem is getting worse, ccp is already losing players to the issue. if this is not resolved or at least alleviated then more people will leave."
"supported"
"signed, this game is doomed from view of many old players and new players. if ccp dont chang it's mechanics , it will bleed more and more players out of the game . there are so many good solution to create multiple objective battles in same times , so we are 200 vs 200 not 2000 vs 2000, but ccp keeps ignoring very good solutions posted on the forumsty signed!"
"+1 fix this"
"supported.ccp you are clearly aware of when the lag is occuring.. is there nothing you can do to ensure the vital game mechanics stay functioning? (seperate server to track logout/disconnects and their associated timers???)"
"sadly, but ccp really needs to make some kind of hard limit on player count in a system, say around 800-1000 people. if someone just blobs in 1000 members, enemy just has to go to system near and take his rage there. the defenders are forced to jump in and take them out. if fc are stupid, they will sit there and wine \"ccp are ****\", smart will make it a playable game and try at least to stretch forces and play the damn game!really, it should be down to the members. planing an attack? just make a hard point to fc, that if they will not stretch the forces, you people will make your own fleet and go roaming and not to the event. after 2-3 such messages they will have to think something, because if enough people support such action, there will be not much forces to attack at all.i think ccp can do something, but it will not be fast and it will limit the gameplay or something else. it's just damn hard to do something fast about it.i think players should make a message to the alliance and corporate leaders. really, why not split in two groups with 300-400 members in each and make a simultaneous attack in 2 directions? enemy is overblobing your fleet of 300 with 800? get the hell out and go to different target (while the second fleet rages through the enemy space because the it's blob is somethere else). there can be only 2 outcomes:1. enemy splits its forces and you get plenty, and probably almost lag free fights something of 700-800 pilots total.2. enemy stays in blob - 1 fleet gives a quick pounding of the infrastructure - poses, bridges, outposts. second makes the blob to try and catch them - plays cat and mouse and takes down whatever it can reach. maybe the fleets will switch the roles from time to time when the enemy blob switches the targets. anyway blob will have hard time to catch 2 more mobile fleets.everything is in our heads. we have to start with ourselves. if our leaders make it a target - lag the enemy to hell - then the leaders has to be poded by the fleet as the protest."
"i can't really support this idea.first off the problem isn't ccp, there is no game that can support more than ccp can in a single battle.pl vs -a- and friends has been having lag free fights. the trick don't cram 900+ of your own side into a system. that's already past the server limit so anything more makes it crawl.the technology does not exist on the planet that you can have 1200 vs 1200 battles that are lag free. we don't have the infrastructure for that fast of transmission and processors are not advanced enough to process fast enough to control that much."
"fix the lag."
"hi.when you came to system with 2000 ppl you can expect lag i have one mesage this game should be - a massive multiplayer online roleplaying space game ... ccp told us on web and when you look at promotional videos there are epic fights with even all efects on so i dont know how about iceland but in my country its even crime told customer something what isnt true...(yeah they are definitly have something in eula what makes imposible to demand quality)this games is played about 50000 ppl in same time so you can exept even 3000 in system. you can call me crazy but i am not. if they made game which cant handle it,they should setup limit to max players online then and not only take our moneys.if they cant handle numbers, then separate regions and make more servers. do what you want but server should handle at least 1/4 ppl in one place. you told us \"every pilot can join corporation which is part of alliance and together rules parts of the universe\" - from one of your own videos .. something like that was in one of them. i have to ask... you force us to cooperate as much as we can and when we do you crying you cant handle 2000ppl in system thats realy crazy.. dont want to be rude ccp but you force me and i am not only one who think about end up with this game becouse of this lagfest.. my opinion is go back to beta if you cant solve it and made it free becose you take money and do nothing.you had a plenty plenty of time to solve these problems. there are new patches and problem is still there. if you can't solve this and you probably can't then you should make some changes not meet so many ppl in one system.pls fix 0.0 fighting and system's lag.. end thanks for atentionsorry ... my english is not so good but i have to wrote this."
"i support this!!! i have lost a ship to this lagg fest in 020 and i couldnt get a new ship because of the large fleet battles. ccp needs to do something or make it free. we pay for this game and expect to get our moneys worth.ccp needs better quality service..."
"yes plz fix the lag before bring new useless **** like pi."
"this is because pl and -a- are much smaller entities than those fighting in the north. it's a totally different scale of war. in geminate there are more pilots, more alliances, and more supercapitals involved. this creates a need for more resources than the smaller fights you are referring to."
"the problem is ccp and only ccp. nice no other game can support more than eve in one fight, but the issue is that no other game has game mechanics that requires that, unlike eve. sure the nc or the drf can decide they wont put more than 200 people in a system, that side loses any war. the entire 0.0 sov mechanics are atm only about putting as many people as possible on one grid, other games might not support battles the size of eve, but they have better mechanics where such blobbing is not a requirement. in eve you just have to do it if you want to keep your space, it is not optional."
"i lost more ship in my eve life while offline (or being unable to react) then i lost while being online (or being able to do anything). one of the main reasons i'm nowhere to be seen in eve recently."
"i believe we should divide the problem into 2 parts.1st - that's the lag. which is fine. blame and flame all you want - but expecting lag free battle with 2k players in local is just unrealistic. 20mins cycling / dying without knowing it till it is too late etc. well, this is what we sign up for when we w8 at a titan bridge rdy to jump in a system with already lots of pilots inside.2nd - game mechanics / server - client issues. since we do sign up for that stuff... (not because we want to crush the nod, or because we are mazochists - but because we can't stand letting our brosefs die while we make iskies) it's ccp's minimum obligation to protect our assets when we are not logged in. i don't care how they do it. they must do it, it is beyong comprehension to loose assets when you are not even logged in .-perhaps ccp should make a \"real time combat\" limit to 1.5k players , and above that number implement a turn based fleet vs fleet mode that is playable only by the fc/wing/squad commanders or everyone somehow, i don't know... large fleet fights are turn based as they are anyway with clicking - watching the monitor window for outstandings - clicking - w8ing ... and so on. the irony is that ccp invited all these pilots into 0.0 when they implemented the dominion expansion. i'm not judging - i actually prefer it from shooting pos-es down to take sov - but i think it's safe to make some conclusions now about how that expansion influenced 0.0 afairs."
"i look at it this way:first of all i totally agree with randel 110%secondly :they do more and more new stuff, new feature instead of making what they have atm work perfectly.they need to concentrate about making what they have work, and i<U+FFFD>m sure this will make all of the players in eve happy.by now ccp should be able to handle big fights in eve. hell, they can handle 1200 something in jita with out much lag.they ( ccp) have even made a form to send in before big fights but it seems it has had no effect.i do not wanna loose anymore ships due to lag.blue"
"so you are wondering about lag while there are like 2000 players on grid? seriously? i bet when ccp makes 2000 men battles lagfee the nc will simply bring 4000 people and keep *****ing about the lag.(actually the nc is only bithching about the lag they cause only when they lose)face it, this fight against the lag is one that can't be won by ccp because huge power blocks will simply keep bringing more people as long as the game mechanics necourage them to do so in order to win..."
"pl and -a- have battles with low lag in delve atm with around 700ish in local tell your overlords to cancel some blue standings and you can have fun again..."
"and get overrun by drf who do bring then 1k pilots? the first group here that decides to bring less people loses. in the last part you show you understand it, so why the first part? if the server can handle 2k people we will indeed bring more than that. but that is simply because bringing alot of people is not optional in sov fights, more people is always better, if we dont do it, our opponents do it. the issue is ccps horrible sov mechanic. blobbing the crap out of a node isnt fun, but it is the most effective way if you want to keep your space."
"in general, i support the idea.however, while the lag situation with all its perks (10-15min cycle time, soul-crushing lag messages, ships dying half an hour after being shot and warping out, etc) is something that certainly has to be worked on, it is also something everybody more or less willingly accepts when jumping into a lagged-out system. i'm not saying it's not relevant, but ccp knows this and raging about it at this point won't help the process.the main problem i see here, and the one that really causes a lot of anger, is that in the current state of the server, you can lose your ship despite having logged out (or crashed) hours ago. many nullsec dwellers live by the philosophy that once you undock your ship in 0.0, you accept and eventually expect to lose it. fine. but efforts should be made to ensure that as soon as an account is offline and their aggression timer is up, their assets are invulnerable, losing ships while at work / in bed with your computer turned off is not part of the deal.every single fleet battle is essentially a showcase for a prisoners' dilemma case, with bringing as many pilots as you can always being the dominant strategy. that has nothing to do with who is involved, any side in any conflict opting for the inferior strategy of just bringing a few hundred would inevitably get obliterated. now i am fairly certain ccp understands this premise, and within current game mechanics, there is nothing either they or the players can do to solve it.but there was a feature announced once that might have helped a bit. anyone remember treaties? sure, nobody brings 200 people when the opponent has 600 at the ready. but what if the leaders of the involved parties could sign an in-game treaty, voluntarily limiting their fleet size to a certain number? a small breach of that treaty within a margin of error of say 10% would result in a reasonable fine, but if any side decided to bring significantly more than agreed to, they would automatically forfeit their strategic goal (usually sov-related)."
"signed"
"because eve is a sanbox and because huge power blocks are a part of the problem. alliances like pl, ncdot and ev0ke have desided to stay \"small\" in order to keep having fun in eve. nc and drf could simply cancel 50% of their blue standings and the problem would vanish for the most part and everyone would have more fun again. alternatively, ccp could nerf the ability to gather blobs by removing jbs and \"nerfing\" cynos or limit the ability of power blocks to be big by imposing some kind of limits to blue list or the maximal number of players in an alliance. however, i promise you that such limitation would cause the playersbase to outrage even more. just look at the jb discussion in this thread. plus, the to didn't ***** about the game mechanics but about the inability of ccp to fix lag and it is funny how nc never *****es when they win thank to the lag they cause or successfully crash the nod on purpose. thus, the right question here is not: \"why can't ccp fix the lag?\" but \"why are powerblocks able to, or rather, do gather such huge fleets?\". and according to the opening post, this thread is about the first question. thus, this thread here is just ridiculous and doesn't help at all."
"ncdot recruited everyone with a pulse to outblob the locals...sure the nc can split up, then soon again we are back together under our new russian overlords. the most effective method to keep your sov (or get new sov) is simply outblobbing your opponent. of your examples pl does not actually want to keep the sov and evoke/nc. have an interesting way of intentionally staying small considering the margin at which they outnumbered the locals in fleets. you do realise evoke couldnt achieve anything until nc. came along to provide more numbers (and especially supercaps)? (no disrespect towards evoke)."
"<U+FFFD>ve have not been playable for more then a year in my opinion."
"bump"
"i am not an \"ev0ke-expert\" but i do read en24 propaganda, as far i remember there are only few battles where you see ev0ke and nc. together. ev0ke has the problem that they don't have us tz players and this is where nc. helps them out.the search function of en24 helps here as well:"
"signed, and before all you russians/ex tri mk 352 and butthurt pandemic legion toons type in umad it is the same for drf etc than it is for us. the other night we got lucky and ****d their face due to them being \"stuck\". then 2 days later we get our faces ****d due to being \"stuck\".what i'm saying is this game really is at the end of the road if this carries on.alot of us are at the end of our patience with you ccp.so.........sort your f--------g s---t game or we take our money elsewhere."
"welp, my opinion. just another one of those times, when the ccp staff is just too busy or too arrogant to take care of business. yes the game is screwed up, and it's our fault. lol. it's always our fault, and ccp will take this position every time, unless you have proof positive. come on guys, shouldn't it have been obvious to the ccp staff, that this system, and the surrounding systems, should have been perma re-enforced. this is real simple stuff here, i can't tell you how many times, i've lost a ship to this exact situation. you know in a good fight if we loose a ship, at least we get the satisfaction of a real fight. loosing it this way, is just sh*t.bottom line, is total disappointment with this. be advised ccp, my playing buddies decide there going to migrate to a different platform, where you think i'm going to go? by the way here are just a few of the gtc's i've purchased and sold in the last year.** code: gswusjhbr96sxp4n** code: gsxdcths7xqkgvcz** code: gsxejmynmegckc6y** code: gsxez3qc5djq67f8** code: gsy5byv932cghapl** code: gsysfmqmadwy8e5e** code: gsyvf2xr85vpmrap** code: gsz9d5ub5jly9mew** code: gszhhm6gf79q98fe** code: gszpplpsue4nrx6j** code: gt2bfvhrq7bknk4m** code: gt2dvx7nvj4ebq7z** code: gt2sa62hxdbstjgn** code: gt4sh6y2uhznx98g** code: gt4t2a398mmx5gu4** code: gt5uzx494fkp8h22** code: gt8eu55texexy37x** code: gt8kn89xg2ua9r54** code: gt9qups2sv8d4kmr** code: fba8nslkal3cgwar** code: fbalf4l3xr4nbbrj** code: fbavd4brr9h2fsh8** code: fbbavwf2dbszjwkl** code: fbc4fxwa5xwqsz95** code: fbc4wgayyb6xb8qh** code: fbcdlm7pfjjwaqa2** code: fbcgrnmjcgjwsa6a** code: fbcr645fuq43zcjd** code: fbct699d7y5tba6t** code: 7vxpfkx6fkhqjxq5** code: 7vxr3aqrgza96xz7** code: 7vy4r2ayx3bxhk4r** code: 7vypdy6cufufzevg** code: 7vz7ezr2nfgn3l8s** code: 7vzf38nxzqhsr9fw** code: 7vzfdch56rd2bmng** code: 7vzgjfpdhra3nxxc** code: 7vzhyw3k6lksb9e3** code: 7vzugk7jc665qwey** code: zzt7lqhvbkj2f9yc** code: zzt84qxh3jwp3s6k** code: zzt87sp9f5rn5as7** code: zzt9nw7zlwscf298** code: zztbtgtfm9k7kd4k** code: zztcraftwrhpdmjm** code: zztczh3ncbt4rw85** code: zztdcg4tykzb5ycz** code: zztdvcm9muc8xyqq** code: zztef6qmr4prz6s5"
"supported"
"not working as intended"
"the problem is ccp. if you can't eliminate lag at least you can offer some kind of customer service. it's not a client side error. it's not related to the quality of your connection.it's not your isp's fault.it's not user's error.it's not playing outside of game mechanics.it's ccp's direct responsibility to handle this situation because it's happening on their server infrastructure and their server side code.losing your ship due to lag became acceptable in eve. losing your ship several hours after being kicked out of the server is incompetence of ccp and their sole responsibility. if they won't reimburse ships, for reasons stated in devblog, the least they can do is patch the server code to remove your ship from the field when you get the black screen.that is not messing with the outcome of the battle or showing favouritism to any side involved. if you can't even log in and you got kicked out because of server halt (not lag - complete stop), then your ship shouldn't be on the field in the first place. you still lose your paid game time by not being able to log in, which has to be fixed too, but for a start at least they should provide some kind of customer service.after all, if removing of ghost ships gets the highest priority possible and actually works, complete halt would maybe be reduced to lag only. that's far from a solution, but it's a start."
"having lost an erebus after being logged out and on an alt for 1h 15 mins and then having my pod killed at 9h15mins from logout id say ccp has some work ahead of them but ofc tyhey just say your the one bringing the numbers nothing we can do well its now gotten to the point were 0.0 is conbsidering testing the limits of empire nodes, consider it a promise or a threat of briniging the issue to light from those that wil lcomplain and do the choice of hitting quit faster"
"may i ask you something?when you hit the \"jump to 020\" button while sitting in your erebus and knowing that there are like 1000+ players in system, what did you expect to happen?"
"+1 supported. an unresponsive pilot/ship should not be on grid at all - disconnect would be the easiest solution.on a personal note, i know how hard it is to implement a good load balancing cluster. but a node should never let 1000+ people into a system i"
"joining fleet battles with supercarriers and titans is just suidice atm, ccp must fix this. throwing all those good titans and sc's to die in lag is crazy."
"game exactly works as intended by both ccp and the nc.ccp says \"massive fleetfights\" and afaik having 400 players in system without mentionable lag is achievable.nc says \"cram the target system until our enemies cant fight\" and by bringing 2000+ players, this is also achievable. (drf might call the same tactic... but i don<U+FFFD>t speak enough russian to quote).i promise: should ccp ever manage to support \"all nc ships in one system\", there will be another \"move your bookmarks\" or \"drop containers\" initiative to generate enough lag to have something to cry about and petition when ships get welped. if all this doesn<U+FFFD>t help, some hostile entity will be called \"cheater\", \"botter\" or whatever seems to be an acceptable excuse for oneselves fail.jumping a titan into a system everybody knows to be crammed and laggy and loosing it, only means one thing: pilot and fc failed to eat enough brains for breakfast.nothing more, nothing less. ccp made a sandbox. they allow players to ruin their own fun through their own actions. this is not a fault - this is simply an different concept than teletubbies online."
"i'll answer for him. we all expect this to happen: \"logging in pvp combatif you are in pvp combat, your ship will warp to a random point and remain there for 15 minutes, unless it's being warp scrambled, in which case it will be at the mercy of your enemies. if your ship is blown up after you log out, your pod will remain for another 15 minutes, which is plenty of time for a resourceful player to find it, using scanner probes.\"source:"
"i have seen this happen too often and is getting worse instead of improving. large scale battle is one of the best features of the game. if it is broken so is the game. it isn't much of a victory when you are on the side that isn't lagged to death. more like shooting fish in a barrel. the vast majority of players prefer a more sporting scenario.losing an expensive ship because you are on the lagged out side is bs and a reason to look at new avenues of entertainment on which to spend money."
"no, you<U+FFFD>re expecting heavy lag und unforseeable consequences. that why both sides bring that amount of people.don<U+FFFD>t tell everyone you<U+FFFD>re stupid and don<U+FFFD>t know what happens when you enter a 2000+ players system with a supercap.stop whining and accept reality. it<U+FFFD>s simply and only your fault."
"eve used to lag out with 100 people, they fixed that. then people brought 200 and crashed it. so ccp improved it further. now you're *****ing about having 2k people on grid crashing the game. the problem is not the game, it's you. the hardware and code can only support so much. eve is designed to not have hard limits but ffs keep it reasonable."
"supported"
"i've bought myself a new computer. it has a quad core processor which allows me to open several applications at the same time. last night, i've been working on my masters thesis i kept the word file open and forgot to save it. then i opened 20 eve clients and the computer crashed. it didn't even let me enter error mode to close some eve clients so i can save my thesis. should i sue the manufacturer?"
"lost my hel the same way... supercarrier:originally intended to have a corporation take months and months to build and construct.un-intended to die to reds while not piloted or able to for 3 hours.i also love how the gms close you petition and you don't get to rate them if it was because of this situation!"
"if money is the only thing they care about... wait until those \"huge\" alliances all leave."
"not much to look for after empire i guess :("
"ffs i wish people would read the topic before making such posts. yes the first part is true, but only because ccps sov mechanics force you to blob, there is no choice if you want to keep your space when a large block attacks, besides cramming as many people as possible on one grid.so the conclusion is: it is ccps fault, not because the node cant support 2k people (well the issue was mainly after dt when the funny people at ccp apparently decided to move it from a dedicated node), but because the node cant handle the amount of people required to defend your sov per ccp mechanics."
"depends if it actually killed your computer or not. since its working as intended to crash your eve clients instead of burning up."
"no, the manufacturer in that case is not responsible. the responsible party in that case is system administrator, which is you. if you did something wrong or haven't done necessary steps to save your work, you are responsible for any damage.just like ccp is responsible for functioning of their servers and server side game code. they didn't make sure to cover the possibility of a large fleet engagement (which is advertised and supported by the game mechanics) and servers halts with their hardware/software configuration, they didn't implement a fail-safe server side code to make sure you don't lose ships hours after logging off, and they are not providing any customer support whatsoever. whose fault is it? customer's?"
"i love this thread..."
"so when microsoft + intel give me a system and promise that it can handle several applications and i overload it, it is my fault. but when ccp gives you a client/server that is supposed to handle big fleet (note, a fleet of 300 is also big) fights and you overload it (because ccp gives you the freedom to do so, but you know from experience that it will happen since it is simply impossible to handle this numbers) it is ccp's fault?"
"so jumping into o2o as the pilot of some supercap doesn<U+FFFD>t make you responsible? but the admin of that pc is?lol.sounds like those ******s thinking \"cruise control\" allows you to make coffee in the back of a caravan while being the driver. on a highway.the problem is not \"weird things happen during lag\". the problem is \"to bring more people than a system is capable of supporting\" on purpose.ccp should just dissolve entities trying to damage their server using such tactics."
"ccp advertin this video ccp says a battle between thousands of players. and its their advert. so ccp fix ur game. and then ur claims through adverts will be valid.also the thread wasnt about lag. yes we know when we jump to every 020. as every one else. its about the bugs of server side code. and one major bug is the inability for ur ship to dissapear from local after the 1' or 15' countdown.also ccp a suggestion. reduce the number of fighters and fighter bombers. make them 5 and only. pump their hp and dps to match the 10 or 20 deployed by carriers and scs. then the crashing and bugged bombers will be less and ur node performance will be improved.for me as a paying costumer makes me angry that ccp has a jitanode of supporting 2k+. and they cant offer same nodes for large battles in 0.0."
"so is this an official statement - theatening ccp to damage their nodes if they don<U+FFFD>t act in a way that supports your group of player?what would you think to be an appropriate response here? just ban you as the threatening person, or dissolve your whole group as they are - by implication - the tool to make the threat real?what... you don<U+FFFD>t want to go that far?then stop talking about legal **** like \"in their announcement bla bla they promised me\". you<U+FFFD>re playing the game long enough to exacly know what to expect and when.stop whining when things work exactly as usual."
"exactly. in a client/server environment i did everything in my power that my client will function in optimal conditions: got the hardware configuration that can handle the client, closed all applications, stopped download, reduced graphics to minimum, removed brackets,... etc. as a client side administrator i've covered every single possible issue and made sure everything runs smoothly. as a user i also made sure to get all fail-safes in place: jumped to a combat clone, checked if the clone is updated and updated it if it wasn't, insured the ship.on ccp's server side there's something wrong, either hardware or software (or both). they haven't done enough to keep the server functioning, or implemented any fail safe in case something goes wrong (and it's going for a too long period of time now), but they refuse to provide customer support or build the fail safe server side mechanism that works, as quoted above."
"jeah fleet fights are broken.but so is ccp customer \"service\"."
"the server limits are well known. just because they are no hard limits doesn<U+FFFD>t mean they don<U+FFFD>t exist.you and your fc made the decision to jump into that system while perfectly knowing all possible consequences.let me guess: you always choose the road that has reported traffic jams and blame the state when you<U+FFFD>re fired due to being late?"
"this!"
"yes server limits are well known - but only in jita because of the artificial cap. since their half-done broken sov warfare mechanics is still in its original dominion form, capping the nullsec system isn't an option. before everything gets sorted out on that side, how about just a little fix like a priority fail-safe server side code to handle ghost ships? it's not that hard."
"my thoughts exactly.thread fully approved. ccp, if you're doing something, feel free to share with us because right now, it's nothing but lag and bad gm policy all around."
"+1.will consider cancelling next sub for both my chars next round if gms keep pushing this off instead of admitting the problem in the system and trying to fix it. i understand that it's a difficult problem - thousands of players on a node is a tough one"
"how about joining a smaller alliance? like pl or ncdot? isn't that hard..."
"supportedcurrently i won't go on the large fights anymore. the lag is just too frustrating, and not worth losing a ship over. take for example the fight in uemon, that was the biggest cluster**** i've ever seen! people called it an epic fight, and i'd agree if the lag wouldn't have been so massive. people being logged off for hours, or entering a command hours ago and not getting a server response is just unacceptable. think about a fight as big as the one in uemon if there had been little to no lag, that would have been truely epic!for eve to continue to be a truely dynamic user influenced game, something needs to be done about large scale fleet warfare because these battles are only going to continue to grow!"
"renault advertyou see, the cars are extremly safe. go ahead and try such crash with a renault. should be safe right?"
"1.0"
"ya i should leave the corp, and friends i've been playing with for 2 years and join because pl and ncdot are nascent little alliances. i'm sure they would just welcome a couple of thousand mm/me/rage/razor pilots with open arms....how about ccp fixing the game? like other mmo's do? isn't that hard..."
"what mmos allow you to have 1000+ players at the same spot? the most of them have more than one server.you could also simply reset your standings to the rest of nc, there are many ways how the players can solve this.ccp could of course impose limits on alliances, so that they can't form such big fleets anymore. however, such an action by ccp would cause epic outrage by this very same alliances that don't understand why the server can't handle 2000 people in one system."
"supported."
"lag and server crashes impact players in other regions than 0.0customer support handling the issue does not exist.players should be able to play together if they want to.enough reasons for me to support this."
"ships shouldn't get blown up when the players that were controlling them get kicked from the game or don't even load the system+1"
"+1 to this idea just because there's nothing between fixing the game and this proposal except trolls who use inappropriate rl \"analogies\""
"so u mean that they missleading us and they talk trush. we agree on that.ofc and they r trolls. thats the reason they use alts."
"supported."
"supported.ccp is about to lose customers. because they can't provide the product they say they can. sov battles are not supportable by this company. either they have to set a hard limit for maximum number of players allowed on a node at any point in time so that lag is not a factor.or tey need to be able to stand behind their claims and support their nodes to the nth degree when size doesn't matter.lag losses are this companies responsibility period end of story. your product can not do what you say it should be able to do and therefor ccp is responsible for that loss. one side can not effectivly fight the other. how exactly does ccp consider this a fair and legitimate loss? really?i'm at the point where i will not fly in large fleets because this company can not provide the environment where large fleets ca both act and fight at the same time in real time. this isn't a feature i am willing to continue to pay for and ccp continue to fail at providing. either you can do it or you can't. it works or it doesn't. i've paid for this feature for 6 years now and it still doesn't work? how much longer do you think i'm going to continue to pay for services that ccp can not provide? not long at all ccp, not long at all."
"best proposal ever. not.just provide all the cowards with just another way to save their internet spaceships. just in case anything goes wrong and the enemy actually shows up. just another addition to your stupid blobbage and logoffski warfare.maybe stop cryin \"i<U+FFFD>m gonna quit if you don<U+FFFD>t give me my carelessily lost ship back\" and actually quit. solves multiple problems at once."
"this needs to be the absolute top priority on ccp's agenda. not incarna, not wis, not highsec neutral rr mechanics, not drakes, not eve-fps, not world of twilight, not fanfest, not at9, not hiding cams in stevie's bathroom, not superior white elephants, or new ship skins, or music videos, or chess boxing. every ccp employee, from the ceo to their illegal immigrant mexican janitors at the georgia office need to be in on fixing the god damn lag."
"just say it like you mean it:\"ccp, give us with all the ships that we carelessily lost back and just keep our enemies ships down.\"or isn<U+FFFD>t that politically correct enough for you?"
"bump, support, agree. this issue has not changed or improved in 4+ years... maybe it's time to set some priorities?"
"it already has priority at ccp.this is just the same thing as everytime this entity loses a fight: players not getting the concepts of technical limitations into their strategies, loosing internet spaceships and assigning blame to ccp afterwards.tears tears tears.just imaginge the tears that would be spawned by a technetium rebalance. hilarious. i<U+FFFD>d really like to know the specious arguments that would be provided by the same group of players..."
"supported.we pay for a fun and functional service, please hold up your end of the bargain, ccp."
"something like:thank you ccp! you first let our ships die in lag and then take our tech so we can't replace them and have to buy gtc. money is the only thing you care about, don't you?"
"hahaaaahahahahahahaaaso where are the drf tears?they also died in lag and - oh wonder - don<U+FFFD>t have tech to replace their losses for free. shouldn<U+FFFD>t they cry for some free ships first?oh wait... this is the moment someone plays the \"evil botter empire\" card, right?"
"supported... one thing to die in a fair fleet fight another to die when your not in game please fix fleet battles!"
"especially when goons refuse to show up in order to crash the node and post funny gifs and internal chat logs on kugu instead."
"since when is \"fair fight\" the new agenda for the nc?oh wait.. it isn<U+FFFD>t. nice pun."
"funny thing, i never said just the n/c. i think anyone that lost a ship to these pitiful conditions, should get there ship replace. yes anyone! but that would be good service. something ccp seriously has a problem with."
"totally agree with this - there is absolutely no fun in big fleet battles because of lags. ccp needs to fix this - even if it means breaking the fight up into a number of sub fights - i suspect that simple math (n in fleet - n*n interactions) means that ccp can't even keep up as it is.al irksome"
"i agree that a bit of node lag is a problem; and more so, when it involves a fleet battle. eve is about that, right? ..at least, a small part of it is. don't give me this crap; about it not being massively multi-player though. when was the last time you saw an mmo, (aside from eve); that could get more than 20 players in the same instance, without lag occuring. right. never.fleet battles are, however, an advertised; and celebrated, part of 0.0 life in eve. they should be more easily managed; and nodes should be capable of handling them. the problem is, reinforced or not; the nodes, and servers they are attached to, don't have the ability to handle the **** you guys throw at them. when ccp comes out with a fix, or buys a bunch of new/better servers; 0.0 decides it's time to up the ante, and brings another 1000 people. that's the real problem.goonswarm is what, now; something like 5900 members? fleet battles occur; with excess of what, 3000 players? you guys are killing not just each other; but the servers meant to handle the battle, and resulting load. sure, they can be better.i could, and very nearly have, designed servers; that exceed the specifications, of the ones ibm designed to ccp's specifications. they would be marginally more costly; but could, handle the load required, as things stand. the problem is, that the 0.0 crowd, would just seat another 1500 pilots; and we'd be back to where we were before. the problem with ship loss, and log outs; i understand; can be annoying. chances are, you lost it anyway; and just don't know it. are you sure client-side hardware has nothing to do with that; at least, in some small part?here's the deal. lag sucks, but your computer and the servers can handle it, (mostly); but when you get alpha'd, suddenly that little bit of code that handles client-side details, skips a beat. everything was fine, until your client-side data exploded; right before your ship decided to, and your client froze. okay.. pure speculation.i do know, however, that that little login glitch; so often described here, happens one out of 10 times, i log-in. it doesn't matter where i am. here's the key. it's a minor little bug, or memory leak; that just crap's out, when you load your client. call it internet traffic, downstream gateway's, and ip routing, or whatever; but, somehow, the messages don't all get through, and your client doesn't entirely load. now, i've personally got about 20 down, and 1 up; and it doesn't get any better, without spending over $1000 on my connection. that's the limit, on local highspeed, on the up-side; and about 4 shy, on the down-side, around here. causes some problems, and a few dropped connections with ventrilo and eve; when the local traffic constricts the flow. that's not the problem. somewhere, down the pipeline, things are jamming up; and traffic is bottlenecking, and packet loss is occurring. not often; but enough. could a fix to the client, cure this? i have no idea. i am pretty sure, a bit of code could be cleaned up; and better optimized for throughput. client-side code. but that's all.how does that cause you to take 4 hours to log in? it doesn't; and that's the point. what's causing 4 hour log in times; is you insistence on bringing everybody to the party. pushing the servers, beyond expectations; and consistently, organizing bigger, and more demanding fleet battles. i'm not sure that's fixable."
"supported, please fix the lag."
"you want... the janitors... working on the code. wow. just... wow. what is he gonna do? keep the keyboard clean? maybe warm the chair at night?"
"lots of text - and no actual explanation why you propose these changes ?all i get is vague mention about neutral repping. is this a problem of a fit system ?"
"agreeing with di mulle. no explanations of why the current system should be changed. and since usually there are no complaints about it, i fail to see what's wrong with it.this step aside, i see a major drawback to your system: no more adaptability. each ship would become role-specific, and we would see a whole range of hybrid fits disappear... (i'm thinking of the dominix missions/rats grinder: usually we use an armor active tank, but you can easily be more effective with a semi-passive shield tank. using your system, we should probably restricted to just one tanking method...)so, not agreeing with your idea. you should have take a tour through the feature and idea discussion forum firstly."
"drakes have good dps. l3rn2f1ti love killing intys with missiles. i think it's hilarious. and very easyoh and kinetic hole on ships? ever heard of t2 minnie ships. they love engaging caldari missile boats."
"lol, fail post of the year."
"seriously. you do get good dps out of drakes if you don't passive tank them which is the impression i'm getting from everyone in here saying \"drakes don't deal dps\". you must be doing it wrong if you can't get at least 500 dps out of them"
"a 3 bcs hml buffer fit pvp drake get 400 dps kinetic and 300 dps anything else, with max skills. in game kinetic deals much less dps than em or explosive. 3 shield expander rigs leave no room for missile rigs. it won't hit the broad side of a barn, worse if t2 instead of faction ammo. they are overtanked sheeps individually, only dangerous in blobs where they don't die. drakes were the laughing stock for pvp for a long time, with the same stats, the only difference now is blobs grew larger."
"dont nerf drakes (unless your going to remove them from game coz i hate them)on the other hand. there is nothing wrong with them. apart from low dps. wich is made up for by numbers. i love killing them.if your going to nerf them remove them alltogeather because like most caldari ships they are as ugly as i am with a hangover."
"you can only even try to argue that the drake is unbalanced under very specific and limited cases. outside of those cases, the fitting capabilities and attributes of the drake are as limited and specific as any other tier 2 bc. i've fitted drakes, harbingers, hurricanes, and myrimidons before and they all have similar problems and limitations when attempting to fit for just about any situation."
"i agree that the drake seems overpowered.but since you can technically train for any ship in eve to fly it- without a fair nerf i would leave it as is.my arguement for the drake is that it can solo c2' wormholes and c3's easily- but any other bc cannot.but then again -anyone can train for it - so its not such a big big issue in my eyes."
"i agree. drakes are not balanced.they should get increased powergrid, because having a little bigger powergid than a thorax is a disgrace. it should also have an option to fit active tank, like cyclone for example (which can be passive tanked too), because caldari as a shield race does not have an active shield tanked battlecruiser.oh, and while we're at it, it's not fair that missiles take damage reduction on all ship movement and can't even hit a target when it's moving fast enough even on a straight line while all gun based weapon systems take damage reduction only when there's a high traversal and will always hit a target moving on a straight line."
"confirming draketrain is totes op"
"you need to learn too english how to working.glad someone was able to figure out what you were trying to say, though."
"been talked about for ages but with a shiny new topic here on \"ccp sucks cause the game crashed when we tried to put 2k players on grid\" brings it back to the front. we have blobs in eve because the only counter to a blob is a bigger blob. irl, the counter to the blob is itself, aoe, splash damage and so on. there comes a point where bringing more simply means you lose more, it doesn't enhance capabilities. this real world mechanic needs to be imported into our virtual world.los is a tricky issue, particularly in high/low sec with gcc mechanics. so i'll leave that out for now. instead let's bring in some proper anti-blob aoe. the key to anti-blob aoe is it must be low damage but with a wide aoe. the reason is simple, if it's high damage, it actually encourages more blobbing. the weapons must be weak enough that it only makes sense to use them against large concentration of targets where a little damage across lots of ships ultimately means lots of damage. this also allows for some new ship classes to specialize in it. so here's what i have in mind, feel free to modify and pick it apart.scripted smartbombs. unscripted have their current stats, with a range script we get massively enhanced range but greatly reduced damage. a large named smartbomb would have range increased from 5km to 20km and damage reduced from 300 to 50. normal smartbomb rules for gcc and aggro would still apply, use in high sec at your own risk.strategic bomber: new t2 bc that specializes in bomb launching. it would not get a cov ops cloak or any other sb type bonuses. it would be a bomb delivery system with the following attributes: +100% bomb velocity, +100% bomb blast radius, can fit 4 bomb launchers simultaneously. base resists should be inline with cs's, additionally, all of them should receive a 5% per lvl resistance bonus and +10% to shield/armor hp (i'm thinking of a damnation with 4 bomb launchers basically).the purpose of these two things is to try to get fleet sizes under 100. anything above that becomes a lagfest and tbh even once above 50vs50, player skill largely become irrelevant anyways. so it's a bad mechanic really. this is accomplished with these two additions by giving fleet sizes diminishing returns. sure you can bring 1000 smartbombing bs's, but you'll lose 999 of them to your own smartbombs if you do."
"instead of scripted smartbombs how about scripted doomsdays. unscripted is the single target massive damage as it currently is, and scripted dd is a low damage (say 100k) with the ae size of remote ecm bursts (20k). this would give fleets the ability to remove massive numbers of support ships if coordinated properly with multiple titans, and bring back the scary part of titans being on the field."
"aoe by nature brings its very own lag problems. while one massive aoe blast doesnt hurt that much, a gazillion weak aoe blasts for the same effect are costly."
"so in other words bring caps or gtfo for fleet combat?"
"there is no lag without blob, there is no lag once ppl are popped and podded. bring back the aoe torps."
"no, bring an imagination to what sort of ships you bring. small sig, fast ships, or don't blob all your ships into one ball?"
"hello all,the following has been bothering me for a while. technetium is insanely overpriced and is giving the few powerblocks that hold them an insane advantage. for instance if one block holds 50 moons for a month, which is not an exception, they gain 6.5 bil * 50 = 324 billion each month.this is isk that can be used to manipulate the game even further and will provide the means to keep holding these moons. also you have to realize this is isk that will never leave the game. in the end, nobody will be able to withstand these few individuals, no matter how good they are, and eve will have been broken. the holders will be able to:* buy high sp characters for their newer players* replace unlimited ships & caps* buy gametime for alts (+ superalts)* prevend newer players to grow into their own entities because they will never be allowed to get a foothold.* hire unlimited amount of mercs* raise prices on markets to their advantage* etc.(and all to relative little or no effort)in conclusion: the longer you allow this scam to live, the stronger the holders will get, and the less fun it will become for the rest of eve that tries to achieve something by hard work and dedication. right now the organization behind the ones that hold the moons is not strong enough, but once it is there's no fixing it anymore. there will simply be to much isk in the hands of some individuals. even if they get defeated at some point, they can start a new army on the fly and retake what was theirs under a different name.in short: this has to stop & i hope you agree."
"i know a good way to stop tech deficit - stop buying t2 but actually it's not a problem with technetium, reduce consumption of tech and next big thing will be neodimium, then something else. the problem is with moons producing the same amount of materials as years ago while t2 demand grows.there should be a fix to moon mining, maybe allow individuals mine some smaller quantities of moon minerals with pi-like mechanics; have separate material abundance in moons for these 'prospectors'rp explanation can be it is not feasible to mine small, depleateable deposits with a pos moonminer"
"feel free to come and conquer our moons"
"from:"
"i like that ccp referance, only thing is that the reason that this is possible is because of a big scam, therefore it is a scam itself and should be against the eula.if you think that t2 building actually made the price this high you should wonder why the price didnt go up when t2 was first introduced..."
"i'm not seeing an actual proposal as to what to do about it, but the problem isn't with tech. it's with moon mining in general.op shows a fundamental lack of understanding of economics. there is always a choke point. give all choke points a release valve and it's possible to keep all prices balanced to whatever ratios are desired. the big issue isn't that tech is too valuable, it's that one mineral is valuable because a special interest group can control it's sources. it's also showing that the alchemy mechanic is failing. is tech even covered by alchemy? isn't tech an r32, and only r64's are covered?i do support that a more permanent and thorough solution to the moon mining bottlenecks be implemented."
"i'm not sure i understand this sentence. are you saying that tech moons are giving out isk? how much isk can you fit in a silo?!"
"the north is ready for the taking, all you need is a few thousand dedicated pvp'rs, a couple hundred super caps (and plenty of spare replacements), and fc's who know how to run major cap fleets during every time zone. when you get all that together you'll fix the tech moon problem. -1 support."
"your story is full of poopy.any friendly remote act by a neutral upon anybody with an aggression timer will transfer that aggression to the neutral. any friendly remote act by a neutral upon anybody with a live wardec will gain an aggression timer and turn red to anyone the target is at war with.in simple people talk. if a remotely transfers (cap, sensor boosts, armor rep, shield rep, or hull rep) to b.. then a goes red to anyone that can currently shoot b."
"shameless bump.+1"
"ccp's complete failure to even acknowledge this issue is disgusting."
"restoring 0.0 mechanics. there have been so many ideas for this. i propose a mixture of all of them. the tldr version is this sov has 3 levels that affect different areas of control, system sov, constellation sov, and regional sov. as you lose sov in these areas of space, a steam roll affect happens that allows attackers to gain momentum by dropping more defenses. this means that you cannot just welp a timer or a single system and be ok. the more advances an attacker makes, the better they will perform in the future to prevent fortressing. system sov: - directly impacts upgrades to a system in financial terms. this means ratting, mining, pos fueling.- once you lose system sov, there is a 7 day period of claim required before you can online an i-hub, station can only be repaired in armor, and reinforcement timers are reduced by 1 day. constellation sov. directly affects jump bridges. - requires 50% control of a constellation in order to maintain jump bridge networks.- jump bridge fuel cost is directly related to % claim of a constellation. cyno beacons- requires 50% control to online a cyno beacon. sbu onlining- % claim directly affects sbu onlining. - once you lose 50% of a constellation, sbu onlining becomes 50% of its original value. reinforcement standards- i-hubs require 50% regional control to maintain shield reinforcement. shield levels will be reduced based on how much % control of a constellation is maintained. loss of 50% control removes the ability of i-hubs to have a shield reinforcement timer.regional sov. directly affects cyno jammers- you must maintain 50% of a region to use cyno jammersstation defenses- station shields and services shield levels are directly tied to the amount of regional sov you claim. reinforcement standards- i-hubs lose all affect on system sov control.sbu onlining- % claim directly affects sbu onlining. - once you lose 50% of a region, sbu onlining becomes 5 minutes. feudal system. to offset the complaints about regional control, a feuldal system will be implemented. the feudal system is as follows:a system rental contract will be set up. once a contract is in place, the holding alliance will receive a 10% reduction in system sov bills.a constellation rental contract will be set up. once the constellation contract is in place, the holding alliance will receive a 15% reduction in sov bills.activity requirements to maintain contracts.:just like with current sov system. in a feudal system, there will be an additional calculator for the renter that requires their system activity levels to maintain x% of each activity in system including mining, ratting and station service use. this will prevent alliances from exploiting the reduced cost. failure to maintain levels for at least 4 days per week will result in a revoking of the contract by concord."
"i support this product and or service if only because the current system is bad to the highest order."
"i support anything tomcat supports"
"wouldn't this further penalize smaller 0.0 entities v. larger entities which can control an entire region, or a significant portion of one? if the 500-man alliance which owns a single constellation cannot online cynojammers they are left without a significant defense against entities who can drop 100 supers on him.sure if you can field 100 supers you can probably out-subcap blob too; but at least with a cynojammer up the attacker has to make it about taking sov and not just harassing/moon harvesting with cap/super fleets.my own alliance would have been sorely put to defend against pl in pure blind if these changes were in effect during that campaign. as it was we were able to use our cynojammers to our advantage, allowing us to fight holding actions with subcap fleets and calling in cap/super support when needed.i see the proposed changes having a paradoxical effect from the one i believe you intend where the small, 500-man alliances *have* to band together and form bigger alliances that are able to control 50%+ of a region in order to have any systems at all. we have some of that now with coalitions, but if game mechanics force you to control lots of space in order to control any space that's what people will do.please correct me if i'm misunderstanding part of your proposal."
"not emptyquotin'"
"which means a small alliance has only a few choices, feudal system, or the desire to grow and claim more space. this means more conflict. the alternative is a reduction in their ability to defend, also creating more conflict. most small 0.0 space holding people are there for conflict in the first place. as for super cap production, it can be changed to reflect the feudal system to allow building. you still get the bulk of protection just from constellation sov. however, affording you all abilities simply b/c think it's fair removes the willingness for conflict. conflict makes 0.0 interesting.these changes also make it easier for another small entity to come in and fight you at a more reasonable level. yes, it also allows a larger entity to do the same, but ideally, the complexity of holding space because of the way these changes impact everything means they'll be too busy guarding their own space."
"can you explain more about the \"feudal system\"? to whom are the contract set up to? is it concord? or maybye your local blob who will make more isk than ever after this?"
"both. there will always be a cost to renting b/c nobody is willing to allow it for nothing. but there will also be a sink to concord that would be paid."
"so no one cares? it's a good thing i'm not a gallente player."
"a lot could be done with drones.... there's just so much room available to improve them. overview and ship icons, sure, more control over them. command them to orbit another ship but not fire, etc...."
"you stole my hotkeys! (cept i also have ctrl+4 to toggle aggressive stance)"
"its very hard to tell when your ecm drones make someone lose their lock on you during pvp.would be nice if the overview or something on the target icon above had some icon show up that he was actaully being ecm'd."
"you mean like when you hit the cycle with ecm modules? that little grey bar below? hmm... could be useful if it's not too much to ask."
"how about... the little yellow/red blinky brackets surrounding the ship disappear?"
"ive not voted.i recived and email today about voting for csm. on the email was a questionare. i completed this to the best of my ability. from the response to that questionire it has become apparant that not one single csm has a grasp of the changes that need to be made to eve and that they contradict them selves.things of note. low sec needs love -no it doesnt works fine and we get loads of kills.super caps need nerfing -no they dont they work fine (they can easily be taken out by carriers)jump bridges need removing to make 0.0 better -tweaked a little mabey but removed hell no.do large power blocks need removing - yes but it's never going to happen. why do we bother to vote for these people who dont have a clue?why are ccp taking such a small representative sample as the views of the masses?close the farse ccp before it goes any further."
"hah. you're funny."
"lol.. /hugs"
"-5/10i've seen some bad trolls in my time, but this one deserves a medal."
"as a mining foreman (orca pilot) and owner of three alternate miners...oh and ceo of our corp...i don't see anything wrong with hulkageddon. in fact, i love it. here's why:1) competition gets slammed. mineral prices adjust a little higher because of the event. a lot? no not really, but isk is isk is isk, and i get more of it during hulkageddon.2) as a manufacturer i do see an increase in the value of the equipment and ships we make...which, not surprisingly, is most mining stuff. who'd have guessed? again, more profit for me.3) it's a player driven event, which is incredibly cool since most mmo's don't have a purely player-made event.4) hulkageddon won't ever run into a marathon unless the organizers can throw together enough resources to make enough prizes in quality or quantity to keep people interested that long. even if it did run that long (and the prizes were that good) the market would begin to feel the burn from lack of miners/indy's transporting. if it didn't...at least we'd have proof of bots! =dso...if you don't like hulkageddon, sorry but it isn't griefing or against the eula. it's a really cool idea and you ought to join in on the fun. our corp doesn't mine during it, we get out and hunt other folks. it's like a vacation for us. better yet, why not organize your own player event - pirate shoot-out or something, since you obviously dislike ganking, where the prizes go to the most kills of wanted/criminal pilots? or do a capital-carnival and hunt capitals only?long story short, hulkageddon is fine and it works well. if you only plat eve to mine, then hulkageddon is like a season for you and adds to the difficulty of your chosen career. you might want to consider missioning during it instead? it's not like mining leaves you too poor to do so."
"/hugi'm not trying to say hulkageddon should be restricted as it is now, but am instead raising the question of how far can the players go to develop the game before it conflicts with the vision of the makers of the game, this game is built around how players make it, and is far more sandbox than any other game out there that i can think of, and that's what makes it special. however i have to wonder where/if a line will be drawn?from my understanding of the game, high sec is meant to be somewhat secure, not totally, but just enough.say for example there was a corp made for the sole purpose of ganking new players repeatedly, and that they where very effective at their job. chances are new subs would drop some if they made a large enough impact. my question is, at what point would ccp intervene to adjust things to get more subs,"
"1. so u're basically scared of what \"could\" happen but has not happened in all these years? get real.2. what do u know about ccp's vision, besides the fact that actually, it's only your own vision that u want?3. high sec already is just secure enough. rookie ships aren't being suicide ganked and exhumers face the only risk a t2 mining ship would ever face in high sec. or u can stick with a mining barge and lose nothing if u ran your mouth enough to still be worth ganking. try it sometime.4. and how would u know if that hulk pilot is a newbie or an alt of a -10 or 0.0 player who can't handle risk outside of high sec? u don't.5. if a corp is that effective in ganking newbies, it would not be by suicide ganking since their targets wouldn't even know how to defend themselves in the first place.6. do u know what it really takes to get more subscriptions? take a look at wow, which caters to laziness and stupidity. in fact, try it sometime."
"dang, ok, well i concede to your points.right now the game is fun for me, if it becomes un-fun, i'll move elsewhere, til then, no point in worrying about what might happen."
"tank your hulk, problem solved."
"up for t3 dronesbut also: t3 weapons ammo and battleships"
"this."
"supported"
"drone upgrades \o/ please please please ccp!!!"
"supported"
"hello all! how are we?this proposal is on a variation on the contract mechanics already in place called treaties. they way i propose they work, is that if alliance a was next door to allinace b, in order to feel slightly (and only slightly!) more secure with one another, alliance a can signa treaty with alliance b that they would not attack one another provided certain conditions be met (such as payment of rent, transfer of resources every month, military aid during conflict etc).you could also ask an opposing alliance, after there defeat, that they sign a treaty with any, some or all the conditions stated above (and any suggestions you the community can think of)rather than simply ransoming them for there corp wallet!this system could also apply to corperations as well. in terms of mechanics of enforcing these treaties, i honestly havnt thought of a sound way to do it (any suggestion on that?) but its more of a feature that makes agreements between corperations/alliance's seem more official with effectivly a digitaly signed copy from the ceo's(and or) directorite's of those involved.comments/suggestions?"
"the words of a treaty are worth naught but the blood they're written in. let the skies be the open domain of all with the firepower to claim them.plot the destination and let all those with the courage to follow do so. the rewards are ours to claim and we've nothing but our lives to lose. the age of the capsuleer is upon us, and the wait has been long enough! lock primary!(it's 4 am, i've been watching pirates of the caribbean, and i'm feeling weird. carry on )"
"majority of my corp has multiple moniters in place, would be nice to have better support so my screen isnt clogged with windows :p"
"\"i support this product and or service\""
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or serviceno people or animals were harmed in the making of this message but many, many mimes were run over by the courier delivering it as requested."
"i support this product and or service"
"why is this thread not locked for spamming?"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or servicegl :d"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service."
"i support this product and or service."
"asyyra and i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"b0bbles, i support this product and or service"
"ignore"
"i support this product and or service."
"b0bbles, i support this product and or service"
"b0bbles, i support this product and or service"
"b0bbles and i support this product and or service\""
"i support this product and or service"
"zaneth orin and i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"mibad and i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"actually it's a turbo diesel touring sportscar. even faster than my turbo diesel hothatch."
"just wanted to let you know that i voted for you. i may be just one voice in a crowd but at least its a voice. good luck and i hope you can help ccp keep this game one that many can enjoy into the future.and thanks for the eve mail. the personal(ish) touch is always kinda nice. and just my two bits. always keep this in mind...you cant pleae them all but you can make them bi**h less."
"thank you for your vote. and keeping ccp on track for the betterment of this game is my goal."
"yeah, i wrote a column about this election. nbd. one day left. vote for me."
"facepalm.that was almost like one of the old :lolccp: devblogs with absence of affinity and traps of self validation =p fun read at the end of an evening though, ever considered applying to ccp for storywriting?"
"depends on how much they'd pay me. ^_^"
"creating an artificial tax on the market in jita will not fix the problem (if in fact there is a problem).as for your assertion that 'big markets' move to a lower taxed area, that is crap .. really big markets turn to the location they are in and say, give us cheaper tax or we go somewhere else. the location then realises that they have come to rely on the tax income and can not afford to lose it.look at all the largest cities and see how they started.london : trade center for englandparis : confluence of a number of trade routes in europeconstantinople/istanbul : meeting point of european and middle-eastern trade routessingapore : trade centrehong-kong : trade centretrade/market hubs are a natural progression in human evolution dynamics. we are inherently lazy creatures and if we can have our needs satified in 1 place rather than 10 then that is where we will got, just look at the success of the hyper-stores like wal-mart, target, ikea etc these are just commercial versions of the same human dynamic.now in eve the empires do not bid for a share of the tax income, but if we suddenly started putting taxes on the market hubs people would find a way to avoid this in a way to that still meets the human need.if the crowd in jita annoys you then just use red frog (i think that is their name) the freight hauling alliance.in actual fact it is proven that people will pay a premium for convenience, so even if jita was a couple of percent more expensive than other markets, because it has everything i want i will still go there.market hubs are natural, from an in-game point of view the only thing that will break them appart is an automated interbus that will ship to anywhere in empire cheap and a global market that shows all trades. then it would not matter where i brought it from as i could have it all shipped to a single location for my convenience."
"i logged into my account and saw no link to vote i had to go back to the main page, to dig around for the vote ad."
"well seems we well get a 50% bonus vote since last year, i hoped for way more"
"+2 fanboy votes"
"hey prom, i've got a few last minute questions for you.there are a lot of voices out there all with differing opinions. how would you attempt to come to a middle-ground/agreement with them in regards to ship rebalancing?with your push to improve the grossly-underwhelming t2 frigates and command ships in view of small gang warfare/soloing, what other potential ship improvements/rebalancing would you suggest that would support/be good in both small and large fleet formats?what are your thoughts on keeping small fleets still relevant, yet maintaining large fleet power, and where would you start (might be a repeat question from above)?i know you have been grilled about lowsec. as a player who has some mildly horrified interest in the area, i'd like to know if you would, and how would you, improve upon the mechanics already in place in lowsec? what would you add or change?what are your thoughts on highsec and wormholes, and what suggestions you make miniprofessions such as ninja salvaging and exploration more relevant to gameplay?am i even allowed to ask these questions?"
"i would start by looking at the overall picture. sure some changes may sound cool and effective, but come testing they may prove to be overpowered or completely terrible (ie: 4-mid deimos). some ships may work well on their own, but as a fleet asset, totally useless or redundant. there are many things to look at when it comes to balancing, so i'm sorry i can't really give you a straight answer.rebalancing can mean anything from lock times, ewar tweaking, gate sizes, to even sensor strength. this is a fairly broad question, but overall i'd like to see ccp focus more on a players ability to be effective, rather than simply adding more people to the mix.smaller fleets shouldn't be considered dead simply because they are outnumbered. once again, i'd like to see individual skill being more effective than simply having more people. i have some ideas regarding this, but nothing so fleshed out that i'd be willing to discuss them as part of a platform. i think it's a safe bet to say that increasing the value of low-sec space is as simple as moving most (if not all) of the very well paying missions there. it may end up promoting teamwork among mission runners, and perhaps even result in missions fits turning into pvp fits and the like. on the other hand, things such as neutral and pirate remote rep should be looked at. for example; it makes no sense for a pirate to get a gcc for repairing another pirate who doesnt have gcc. just my thoughts, i'm not the authority on low-sec.i feel like high-sec has become a bit too much of a safe haven. many will tell you it's far to easy to make a ton of money doing low-risk missions, and it isn't really worth the effort stepping into more dangerous space. i partly agree.exploration and ninja-salavaging have been / are in the process of being looked at by ccp iirc. the new salvaging ships are a great example, as well as the refurbishing and addition of new 00 complexes. as for wormholes, my experience is limited to the first few weeks of it. i don't have any input on them.probably not, but we have freedom of speech in canada"
"why? because he is spamming jita local saying that he gives a free plex for every voter.have i fallen into his scam/exploit? nothis should be forbidden and a drastic measure should apply. this person with such a low moral standard should not get into the csm, just sayin'."
"the office of special projects will be looking into these allegations and appropriate action will be determined and dispensed once the quarterly budget meeting is finalized... next tuesday."
"lol just logged my jit alt in:approved: boratz > 15 free 30 day gtc left, convo <url=showinfo:1376//874265450>darius iii</url>btw: are mass emails allowed??check this out:hi,i'm writing to you because you've participated in significant discussions on the forums, so i'm pretty sure you care about the future of the game.the csm elections will end soon, and i'd like to encourage you to take a minute and vote. the bigger the turnout, the more seriously ccp will take the csm.i've been a member of the previous 4 csms (ie, csm 2, 3, 4 and 5), as such i've helped carry your message and represented you with ccp.as a player with experience and interest in all areas of the game, from industry to lowsec, wormholes, etc. i've been a constantly unbiased voice in the csm.yet i've earned the respect of my fellow csm members, no matter where they originated from. you can find positive comments and endorsments from known names such as mynxee, larkonis trassler, t'amber, vuk lau, mazzilliu, trebor, the eve tribune, etc.i have a proven track record of efficiency and consistency.this time more than ever, the csm needs players who are not aligned with large groups, but rather it needs people with experience, knowledge, intelligence and the ability to work harmoniously with others, so please vote!you can learn more about me here:"
"this was already getting dull in c&p, and now you have to drag it here?inbm&/orl"
"he should be made chairman or whatever they call it."
"scamming to get votes. sounds like a true eve pilot to me."
"probably the only person running deserving of getting elected tbh and i don't even know them. i got the same mail and replied with my \"why i'm not voting\" spiel, got a well thought out and expressed response, and a good one too."
"can we list the achievements of past csm's? maybe there is something awesome they have done for the community that i am not aware of? if so perhaps i will start voting. if not, then meh..."
"as you wish."
"they will be quick to point out stuff in the previous patch notes but those changes were going to be done regardless if the csm was around or not. that something was done that also happened to be on the ginormous list of things the cms wants done is simply convienient for ccp to have a nice marketing gimmick to point to for interviews and such. as in: hey look gaiz! we(ccp) did something the csm wanted(even though we(ccp) were going to do it anyways) so they do have a valid role!!! vote now!! example #1: \"the skill-training queue was a csm initiative.\" yes, because no one in the entire time eve has been around has suggested that ccp impliment a skill queue. ever."
"how naive and/or literally (and tragically) ******ed does one have to be to think that a plex is worth a csm vote? the fact that this issue has multiple threads in c&p, and now in general as well means that not only are normal eve players fecking stupid, but that there is far, far, far too much isk available in game, to the extent that it's apparently believable that a plex is a worth a vote in a system where thousands upon thousands of votes get cast.i hate you all and i hope you hurf in flaming car durfyeah well."
"we know csm has been a good influence over the game untill now. the question is, will that good influence still be here with these low level morals that some csm candidates show? or will the candidates throw isk around in hopes of a free trip to iceland? we should focus towards those 2 questions and answer them as honestly as we can.in my opinion, this kind of moral should be banned by ccp as it does not support the healthy development of this game."
"does it matter? no.out of the last (well current really) csm i hear we are now up to 3 who have quit the game. one of whom apparently said he wasn't interested in playing \"second life in space\".ccp do what they want. their company, their choices.the csm is there for ccps (pr) benefit, not the players playing experience, although the current csm were bloody-minded enough to say \"enough!\" so fair play to them.ultimately its a sideshow ccp can shut down as and when they choose."
"and that somehow marginalizes the other 6 examples... how?actually, ccp originally stated that they would never implement a skill queue because of fears that it would enable character farming. when ccp eliminated ghost training, ccp prismx promised that he would *try* to get a skill queue implemented for us if he was allowed to. however, nothing more was heard on this front. it wasn't until the csm brought it up that ccp was actually convinced to implement it.also, the csm has given ccp the opposite of positive pr. they have made the most noise against ccp's intentions to increase profits through microtransactions and also made a huge outcry when they felt that ccp was ignoring them. iirc, both of these events resulted in ccp issuing an apology of sorts and changing their policies."
"ccp should only ban players for nda shenanigans...like some of the ones that have gone on in the past...which is likely to happen again if darius is elected, and probably the only reason he's running. don't perma ban them though, just a month or so..."
"oh we vote, right cause all i see at the top of these forums is a stupid banner for 'new forums-coming soon!'."
"let me reuse a bit of text i wrote in reply to one such comment: and please stop with the \"free trip to iceland\", i've been there a bunch of times, i haven't seen anything but the ccp offices. also, sitting for 8-9 hours of continuous meetings after meeting is gruesome work... each hour the teams talking to us change, they're fresh, we're not... it's no vacation.that's not even taking into account the time we take during the rest of the time to read forums, answer player queries and requests, spend time in our own csm meetings.if i had to charge the time spent on csm stuff, those would be the most expensive holidays i've ever been on, and not a single geiser or whale picture to take back home for it."
"then why do you do it?"
"because i don't go to iceland for vacation, i go there to make this game i like better..."
"best q&a ever."
"suuuuure you haven't"
"you just got my 10 votes"
"elise knows his stuff, and no nonsense around it either."
"thanks for the unsolicted eve-mails to 3 of my characters telling me i should vote for you. be rest assured that if i want to participate in the travesty that is the csm, i can do it under my own volition and suggest that you refrain from spamming peoples inboxes in a desperate attempt to get more votes."
"i'm sorry you think the csm to be a travesty, i suppose you don't appreciate the things it has brought you...we unfortunately have few venues to reach out to people, and many people don't read the forums... judging from the feedback i got, many of those found my mails useful, i'm sorry you didn't."
"i have a few questions regarding the changes you would support:1. what specifics do you plan to address in regards to bringing gallente in line with the other factions, do you support redoing hybrid turrets as a whole, alterations of ship stats and bonuses. some have suggested a overhaul of armor tanking, what is your position on this subject.2. do you plan to support mission runners and any changes made to the mission/agent aspect of the game.3. what is your position on faction warfare and lowsec.thanks in advance"
"the first thing is that balance is not about making things equally useful in similar circumstances, but rather making sure nothing is so useful using anything else would be stupid. also, always keeping in mind a boost to something is a nerf to something(s) else.that said, gallente hulls are, in my opinion, mostly fine. i love my myrmi, dominixes are great, etc. there's a few tweaks required on individual ship basis, but the same can be said of the other races too.about hybrid turrets. there's lots of crap information into why hybrid turrets suck. the fact is, close range, they're great. when one needs to move between targets, they suck. they outdamage everyone else when they're in that sweet spot between not having enough tracking and being out of range. and there lies the rub. the distance at which they're at their peak has cliffs on each side, making them not really viable in a fleet situation, or even small gang situation where targets are not packed. so, i do support changes to hyrbid turrets, not a total change. i'd rather see the \"sweet spot\" at which they're great extended. and their range extended as well...overhaul of armor tanking. i'm unsure about that. there have been suggestions to change the way they work (more peak repair with less continuous and vice versa), i'm still unsure whether a change is needed, i like it as it is.do i plan to support mission runners? sure! why wouldn't i? but changes to missions have to be evaluated. there's different kinds of mission runners. there's the people who like the predictability of farming their well known l4 missions. those could use more variety, but not necessarily more danger. likewise for the adventurous, l5s don't live up to the expectations. they're harder, but equally boring. there needs to be extra content for both of those groups (and ffs not more mining missions :p)factional warfare. great idea, botched implementation. as things currently stands, it sucks donkey balls, and it needs a serious overhaul rather than the small patching that happens to fix the most glaring holes. unfortunately with incarna taking the resources, there's precious little left, and given that limitation, i can't in good conscience decide to devote the majority of those resource to fw. as far as lowsec goes, it needs a better risk/reward ratio. there's fights to be had, but the situation is far from ideal. incursions may lead to more people here (i live in lowsec at the moment), but i'm doubtful about that, but there definitely needs more people. and maybe the way to have that is some form of risk mitigation rather than increase in rewards..."
"voted for vile rat, but mittens is a chill dude that you want fighting for a better game."
"flerp"
"bump cause i like the cut of your jib."
"thanks! ignore the two annoying people cursing me to lose a seat by one vote."
"i have a few questions regarding the issues you could champion:1. what specifics do you plan to address in regards to bringing gallente in line with the other factions, do you support redoing hybrid turrets as a whole, alterations of ship stats and bonuses. some have suggested a overhaul of armor tanking, what is your position on this subject.2. do you plan to support mission runners and any changes made to the mission/agent aspect of the game3. what is your position on faction warfare and lowsecthanks in advance"
"1. look at"
"as nice it is of you to reply to my post e man, due to the fact your answers contained phrases like \"i presume rip will\" and \"i cant speak for rip\", i would still like to hear from ripard himself full answers to my questions (especially question 1).no offense intended"
"surely this is an inevitable side effect of any idea that removes the \"bring numbers\" method? once you stop getting a scaling advantage with numbers, then you're going to focus on quality.however, i suspect that the situation is not so dire for the noobs as you assume. even with $_magic_solution that fairly, \"sandboxily\" and gracefully deprecates blob-fleets in favour of merely big fleets, numbers are still going to give a huge advantage in that (for example) the nc will be able to deploy 6 250 man fleets to hit 6 objectives, rather than 1 1500 man megablob. the hypothetical opposed small alliance that can only cta 300 guys might be able to defend one objective, and harass 1-2 others with bombers, whilst being forced to leave 3 others completely unopposed."
"well, keep in mind that neither the csm nor ccp just blindly follow the prioritizations; they are a base-level input to the process, which we then filter.also, the api has been getting resources within ccp, most visibly through the work of ccp prism x (aka \"lord dreadlock, slayer of learning skills\") and ccp stillman. there have been significant discussions in the csm internal forums about the api, most recently related to customizable api keys. so i think ccp understands, to some extent, the leveraging value of the api.now, if you and other apioholics believe the current level of resource allocation is insufficient (or that a particular area of it needs particular attention) and can make a decent argument to that effect, i would be happy to help with getting a proposal through the csm.i personally love the api, have written multiple tools that use it (most notably evie, a browser-based skill-training applet), and in fact am developing a new one now. so, like black ops, i'll have to be careful not to let my bias in this matter affect my judgment."
"quality is such a loaded word here in that it implies that a low skill point player is worthless.the worth of the low skill point pilot only comes into question with hard caps. and if your hypothetical 300 man alliance is unable to defend their space with force and incapable of preventing hostilities with diplomacy, why should they hold any space at all?"
"well whatever the $magic_solution is that means bringing larger fleets gives no advantage, it will implictly mean that after you have n pilots in fleet, you get no advantage from increasing that to n+1. that's not necessarily a hard cap, but it might as well be since it means that for every scrub in a t1 4x spr drake, you're potentially losing the use of a a high skill guy bringing the correct ship.but as i said above, that's not an automatic death sentence for noobs in fleets. it just means that they'll get assigned to more appropriate objectives than \"pack out the system until the node dies\".that's a seperate issue. i included the hypothetical example to make the point that, despite whatever $magic_solution is implemented or discussed, a large alliance/coalition will still have a significant numbers advantage over a small one. in any case it doesn't matter since there are currently no non-bloc small alliances within sov space, with the single exception of pandemic legion (who have made their short-termist intentions quite clear). whatever $magic_solution is, it can't possibly make the situation for small indepentant alliances worse than it already is. given that overwhleming numbers will always give an overwhelming advantage one way or another, i'm not sure that a merely magic solution can help. divine intervention would probably be required."
"what size of engagement do you think should be the maximum before bringing more people is not effective? is it coincidentally the size of fleet you personally are able to field or should we extend that all the way down to 1 person. that way each alliance could put forward one level 85 spaceship pilot champion to fight in honourable combat in an instanced arena to decide who gets to keep space.because new players should just mine in empire for 2 years until they can fly tengus right? how dare they even look at you with their t1 fitted ships. i thought this attitude died out 3 years ago.it really isn't. any objective achievable by a 300 man alliance is achievable in half the time by a 600 man alliance, or to two targets at once. small and mid-sized alliances need to be setting themselves small and mid-sized goals. currently the game doesn't really allow for that because all 0.0 space is equally good for member level money making, therefore theres nowhere that a bigger alliance wouldn't want to take but that has nothing to do with jump bridges or force projection or filthy newbies daring to fight you."
"you're fixated on nullsec in this question, i think. eve uni is a good example of an alliance that has many new and low skilled players, but they make up for it in gangs, often outblobbing pirates and being hated for that. it's also, from what i've heard, how the goons originally started off, by using large numbers of rifters to overwhelm their opponents.while things have changed in eve and especially nullsec so that you probably couldn't use the zerg rush method effectively any more, the basic concept still stands that a group of new players has a chance against a smaller group of more skilled players. however, the problem remains in getting new players to work together. it's a social question, one which goons solved by getting their recruits from sa and one that eve uni solves by offering pvp classes.i don't think that suggesting that theoretically a 1500man nub alliance will have much of a chance against a 500 man highly skilled alliance is true these days any more, though."
"i am not taking an abolutist stance - compromise is always a good thing. taking a compromising approach from the outset though is not how you start a negotiation. the impression i get is that you might go to ccp and say: 'hey guys, dont worry about fixing x by doing y, i know programming is difficult and so if you do this, which is easier, it might be faster/better. i am sure players wont mind not being able to have more than 200 in fleet.' . i did not mention seleene because i have no prejudice against developers / programmers being on the csm as long as they know their place and do not try and design solutions for ccp that are not of benefit to the players. i do not want a csm that actively works towards curtailing the freedom of the system from the outset - i prefer people with no knowledge if necessary who go in and push back rather than bend over so to speak..."
"thanks, good to know that the prioritisation is just a starting point and that ccp have an understanding of how important this area is. if there are a couple of devs working hard on this, i'm happy that this is an appropriate amount of resources as long as they're not pulled off to do other things too often. i'd like to see api changes go faster, but i'm not so selfish to think it should be prioritised above everything else.i'd love to see the holy grail of all publicly available information in the game being available on the api but i agree that the customisable keys should come first, as soon(tm) as possible.you have my 2 votes sir, and when the election results are announced, i'll drop you a note with my more detailed thoughts on the api so that you can show your own personal bias is backed up by at least one other player. hopefully there are many more like me."
"3x votes from me."
"thanks for responding to my question on small gang pvp. i listened to your interview on lost in eve podcast. great job. i hope you make it on the csm."
"i have a few questions regarding the changes you would support:1. what specifics do you plan to address in regards to bringing gallente in line with the other factions, do you support redoing hybrid turrets as a whole, alterations of ship stats and bonuses. some have suggested a overhaul of armor tanking, what is your position on this subject.2. do you plan to support mission runners and any changes made to the mission/agent aspect of the game.3. what is your position on faction warfare and lowsec.thanks in advance"
"+1 seleeneorigional post by me accused trebor daehdoow of mail spaming me, and others. i edited and removed that after reading, and finding out the full facts. i was in error. but my vote for seleene still stands :)"
"issler dainze is just the grounded, well-rounded person that we need in the csm! vote issler dainze for csm!"
"i have a few questions regarding the changes you would support:1. what specifics do you plan to address in regards to bringing gallente in line with the other factions, do you support redoing hybrid turrets as a whole, alterations of ship stats and bonuses. some have suggested a overhaul of armor tanking, what is your position on this subject.2. do you plan to support mission runners and any changes made to the mission/agent aspect of the game.3. what is your position on faction warfare and lowsec.thanks in advance"
"confirming i got bullied via helicity's blog and vile rat's own very persuasive arguments into volleying for him."
"1) are you sympathetic to the cause of the shader 2.0 community who will lose support in a few short days?2) do you believe that players should be able to recall csms due to poor representation?"
"1) sympathetic : yes. can much be done ... not really. technology moves, and while ccp have been really good about maintaining support for old hardware, there is a time it must be let go.2) very much so, but how to do it in a way that can not be 'exploited' would be my major concern."
"so, it looks like we're in the last days of this voting period.some of you are waiting for the last moment, the last bit of information before adding their votes, and take a lot of time considering their options before voting. if you have not voted yet, it can be due to several reasons :because of all the uncertainty you can feel about several candidates platformsbecause you couldn't find someone who would care about your issuesbecause you are a roleplayer and felt like you were going to be neglected at the csmand many more...if you are one of them, if you have not voted yet, please, re-read this thread, including my campaign message at the start. together, we can do it.a vote for me is a vote for you."
"thank you all for your support :)"
"vote for krutoj, only he can fix the supercap problem, if you know what i mean"
"death to all supercaps."
"thought i will repost a short br of o2o fight pre dt from kugu"
"seems some canditates are using spam to get the mail out. i really enjoy the lack of spam in eve. no one wants there mailbox full of isk offers or corp join requests.why do cdm think they are above thses rules and spamming people.list who you have been spammed by so far and will thus 100% not be voting for.trebor daehdoowmeissa anunthiel"
"when i get mail i feal wantedit makes me all warm and fuzzley inside"
"you have mail."
"you received two messages, the same as me, hardly a deluge is it."
"i got one and the only reason i got it was stated in the first part of the email. i forwarded it on to my corp modified becouse i want them to vote."
"bump\ well guys & gall its getting close to the end of the vooting period so dont delay!!vote menalapan todaylets make balance out priority for csm 2011"
"absolutely, which is why bernie madoff is running for president.oh wai-"
"vote cast for manalapan. good luck! (update your campaign blog site will ya?)"
"yes, i will do that tonight. i actually need to redo the blog....i didn't copy over the permissions when i switched servers so it is a little painful to use."
"this thread wasnt even anything todo with killing nc, it is todo with mechanics and the fact that vuk lau quit eve for wow because gms wont give him special treatment.nc make a campaign to take over csm focusing on making 0.0 easier, they also announce that the whole 'controlling csm' was to protect jump bridges and punish non-sov holding alliances.then about two weeks later, mittani pops up and goes \"they are all lying to you\", rages about something that makes no sense, flames everyone that isnt him, then *****es like a little girl on k.comnow he posts this thread which is a little random, trying to get votes but instead everyone is once again against him, minus the sheepcan you really expect anyone (that isnt brown nosing) to take you guys serious.not only that mittani couldnt even answer questions on the vote match and half of his answers were \"ccp have a back log\" yeh no ****.we are aware of how to kill nc with the current mechanics, it doesnt take a genius to work out what would happen if everyone aligned and took out nc.the problem is, the second you guys are dead drf will replace you, how is that any better than the current situation, the current mechanics promote blobbing and number warfare that makes it impossible todo anything without huge numbers this is the problem.do explain how this is considered good game play?"
"i think it's a low blow to even imply that that vuk would play wow. that's the eve equivalent of \"when did you stop beating your wife?\"i think you've stepped over the line here, kalle. have you no shame?"
"hahafunny enough that was only included towards the end, reply felt too normal without it."
"in the treborland wife beats you :wink:when it comes to community dudes - is anyone missing kieron?"
"vuk lau is a wife-beater?why didn't you share this tasty morsel earlier..."
"the question still remains, why did mittani even make this thread?all it did was make nc look worse than it is (if thats even possible), mittani look like a inconsistent sociopath (which was obvious) and vuk lau like an emotional kid throwing a tantrum (:yaay:).im sure this wasnt the plan but with mittani trying so hard to mimic his predecessors its hard to tell"
"the game mechanics don't promote blobbing - human nature does that all by itself. i don't see ccp being able to change that in any expansion or patch."
"jesus, there's some sick people playing this game."
"no kidding. howd you like to read the, mutual spaceship brotherhood, line right after breakfast. its the most important meal of the day and would be a tragedy to lose. talk about your gag factor.-windjammer"
"i think it was a pre-arranged stunt by mittens supposed to 'prove' his assertion (\"they're lying to you\") that ccp don't care about the csm. he expected us to be outraged, at marvel the martyrdom of vuk taking a stand. instead all it proved is that one of mitten's main rolemodels on the csm and closest allies had a childish tantrum and tried to influence the petitions of his friends.cripes."
"those of you fortunate enough to meet my wife at fanfest will quickly realize that (a) this is true and (b) she makes it hurt sooo good."
"quite how you interpreted the above as mittens asserting \"that ccp don't care about csm\" is beyond me.vote for me, i have solid reasoning and comprehension skills."
"keep working on those \"solid reasoning and comprehension skills\", kiddo."
"seems few people like to try and get there votes up by taking advantage of newer players or players who havent seen trhe scam before.a guy called darius iii offering a plex for a vote and then sending an empty package....lolshould people like this allow to run for a candidate?"
"i personally don't see a problem with this.whats the difference between him promising plex for votes and then not delivering, when others are promising ideas or promising to fix things in the game that they have no hope of ever delivering .yours,serious ip"
"all this from a guy who tried to sell his vote. epic lulz ensuing."
"you seem to be suggesting that trying to buy votes is less morally-reprehensible than trying to sell a vote.i say darius should be dq'd, as he deserves, and those who fell for this scam should simply have to deal with the fact that they lost their votes, as they deserve."
"i fail to see the issue here. there have been no announcements against the buying or even scamming of votes. there are no rules against this as this is really encouraged eve conduct. there is no reason he should be dq from the voting simply because you do not like that you got scammed out of a vote or do not like his conduct."
"in real life i have personally driven a bus full of random people to a voting station to vote so no lying/scamming is within reason to get votes. so long as you don't dig up people to vote, wait nm i activated my old accounts to vote....yea its all fair game in this rigged contest."
"still waiting on kalle demos to call me out on my \"bull****\". good thing i'm not holding my breath"
"making jump bridges only able to be used by the alliance that owns them would be a good compromise imo."
"i'll bite. what does a smallish mobile roaming gang have as an advantage other than surprise? i've already covered the fact that anything of significance happens in laggy, node-crashing blobstruly significant actions of a gang in hostile space such as ... what, exactly? how many alliances have fallen because some roaming gang shot their station services up every day because the alliance would never defend it? do you think that causes any realistic longterm damage to an alliance? none of those things cause lasting damage. even if they never, ever defend their space and always wait till you're gone to come up and repair what you've broken, you cost them nothing. i didn't blame anything, some fool thought the attacker has all the advantages. all i did was point out how stupid it is to think that when faced with how entrenched alliances are nowfor you i can understand that. why do your allies share the same benefits? if they want the improved mobility they should be forced to get their own space, not form naps and reap the advantages of holding space without actually holding any of that spacealright, i'll go slow this time. my roaming gang members each have one ship to fly. the defenders each have several ships in their hangar (hopefully), which they can choose from to form an optimal defense fleet. this is a defender's advantage. does that make sense now?no, they can dock up and not fight if they want. but it should cost them something. if letting a roaming gang shoot uninterrupted at some target in your system for 2 hours caused no anomalies to spawn in that system for a day/few days/week, it's far more likely they'll cobble something together to try and defend their space rather than wait for the hostiles to leave and then go right back to doing whatever it is they were doing. if they choose not to fight, fine but now the pve value of that system is temporarily reduced. if they blob us, they defended their space and therefore continue to reap its benefits. you see?this is exactly why taking away an aggressor's power of choosing where and when to strike and putting in reinforcement timers the defender controls instead was such a bad idea and led to our current predicament. obviously a small gang can't compete with this, so there have to be alternative goals the small gang can pursue which are meaningful or else small gangs dies off *gasp*. turning off the services while i camp a station hoping to fight the locals only to have them repaired 30 minutes after leaving is a pointless waste of time"
"you have nothing other than surprise to lean on. you're invading (albeit temporarily) someone else's territory. you've setup no staging pos, you've made no preparations other than you've got a hopefully quick and nimble gang of high dps ships, and you have (hopefully) a plan of where to go and how quickly to get there, and an exit strategy. apart from that, you've got ****-all.additionally, it's not all \"laggy, node-crashing blobs\". almost the entirety of the goon vs it fountain war involved less than 750 in local, and i almost didn't even have to turn automatic gun cycling off.do that for a week or a month straight and see what happens. i dare you.(hint: either the people holding that station didn't deserve to live in 0.0 in the first place and will actually failcascade, or you will get face****d because they will get sufficiently annoyed with you to actually start fighting back.)technically this is more or less a reflection of how it works in real life. friendly railroads etc were easily usable by allies. vovwhere do you think my pvp ships are? in the middle of our main systems, or at the fringe where there might be a use for them if someone should try to do something other than just be a tiny, but annoying, gnat?as i said earlier, try to do that. you might get away with it the first time, but try doing that more than once. see what happens then.obviously what you need to do is to keep doing it, and not move on after less than 15 minutes. what most \"roaming gangs\" do, however, is run through a region almost as fast as they can, and the only time they spend in each system is enough to check the majority of belts and/or anomalies. **** giving them any heed other than getting safe and waiting for them to leave.oh, and additionally, you are affecting the locals by being in/near their system: most of them safe/dock up before you get to where they're at, so they're not getting ore and not shooting any rats. what more do you want given the average roaming gang's effort input?"
"^ these things are further advantages to the invaders, as previously mentioned by yeep (as previously referred to by myself). i've been on both sides of this coin and i know which is more fun/exciting/easier.take a look at the recent fall of it alliance. the camp in 6vdt was the final straw that showed that they weren't going to defend. the weeks leading up to that included regular harassment roams to weaken their (and their allies') resolve.atlas and -a- lost their space (-a- have gained theirs back now) because they didn't put up a fight to protect their (and their allies') space. the large capital blobs at the end were what finished it, but the fight was over well before that because of the lack of response to the regular small gangs.my point is well made by the fact that you hadn't noticed these things leading up to the caod/evenews24 worthy events.on this point we can agree - if the locals all pack up into the castle or lock themselves in the cellar and let the barbarians do as they will while the villagers/women/children stay safe, the barbarians should have the ability to raid supplies, burn crops etc etc.... the analogy is simple enough, you get the idea.the issue is that a pitchfork fleet vs an organised roaming fleet will very often go badly for the advantages that have been mentioned above. having the ability to destroy local resources would only mean that the big alliances can go burn down the small alliance's infrastructure without having to organise for the sov warfare grind. this would simply make it even harder for a small alliance to occupy sov space.something worth thinking about if it could be balanced right though."
"as the others have said if you do this for a few nights you will start getting fightsbut i don't think that's really what you want.i don't think you want to be able to roll up into pure blind with 30 bss and get a fight with 30 bss. in fact, im better if your scout spotted a 25man abaddon fleet you'd prolly run.what im getting from this that you want is for a small corp with 20 ships to be able to roll in and surprisingly devastate the foundation of an alliance. c/d?"
"\"hey guys, let's have a discussion under terms that exclude perspectives i don't like! also, we'll be discussing game mechanics, but my feelings will be very hurt if you illustrate your points by making reference to the way they're used by their primary beneficiaries.\"oh, and you define a 30 man tardblob as a 'small gang.' that would be hilarious if it weren't so tragic."
"you might value your time as worthless but i can assure you most people do not.when i invite my friend around to help me with something i don't force him to **** in the street because its unfair to all the other people on the street who don't have easy access to access to a bathroom. i let him use mine because he's my friend.this is pretty rich coming from someone who appears to have selective reading disorder but why aren't you bringing an optimal attack fleet in the first place? you've potentially had weeks to prepare. the defenders (assuming they all have pvp ships in one station that you happen not to be camping the undock or the route to) have in my experience maximum 30 minutes before the attackers move on.reinforcement timers exist for a reason. there was some guy in the euro goon channel yesterday arguing that alliances should have to maintain 23 hour camps on their chokepoints 365 days a year in order to defend their space. thankfully everyone else agreed he'd probably been dropped on his head repeatedly as a child but eve is a global game with people in different timezones. any permenant damage has to come with a reinforcement timer unless you want the servers to be split into us/europe/asia. so now your time has value? i'm not sure what you mean by 'putting in reinforcement timers'. they've always been 'in' for the reasons i outlined above. once again you're banging your chest and demanding a 5000 person alliance does what you say when you say it because you want them to and its not fair and mommy the nasty people have more friends than me."
"projection: - delay on cyno/jump or mass allowance on cynos (think babylon 5 with a bazillion hyperspace holes opening up).- tweaking of ranges and fuel involved.bridges (convenience -> vulnerability):- move away from armed pos (or declaw towers) and allow anyone to use them .. even hostiles (highway of space). - have bridges and jammers be mutually exclusive (perhaps combined with mooring of supers at stations).small scale pew:- revamp sovereignty to ditch ehp based system in favour of smaller objectives (constellation wide), a mash-up of fw and incursions if you will.* defensive measure could be partial control over the sizes required for the various objectives.the only ehp involved should be that on ships dammit!"
"as it seems this so-called csm debate isn't only for candidates...i think it'd be neat to jump bridges them from moons to a specific fairly rare planet type such as ice, oceanic or storm. it would make them a bit easier to interdict if that's your thing but the main advantage is it would make some systems much more valuable than others logistically. many systems couldn't have a jb and of those that can most would only have one jump bridge while those with two, three or four would become important transit hubs. empire entrances with a planet of the appropriate types become more valuable than those without - for example in providence kbp has an ice, y-mp does not, while with oceanic jbs the reverse is true. this change could introduce some more friction to nullsec politics - not enough to break up bffs but adding tension between neighbours who are only blue for convenience. also ccp could probably then tie :dust: into it somehow or other. oh and for the apparently essential first hand experience i used and came up against jb networks for a handful of months in catch and provi, and did refuelling of them from time-to-time when u'k was in catch."
"itt: 2 people chat.news @ 10."
"as the person who masterminded kugu's best voted troll of 2010, i endorse this product and/or service.really? kugu's full name is censored?that's stupid as hell ccp."
"vote white tree"
"kugut"
"sumen"
"darius 3 is bribing or scamming to get votes, now what good really is someone like this going to do to help eve community, and no i did not vote for him i voted for meissa anunthiel"
"black ops ships should be excluded from this with a role bonus"
"shoot the caps when there engaged in battle , not while there trying to travels around.so you think eve would be a better game if it was a complete pain in the arse to move caps about ?staying cloaked with no cap regen till the one idiot in a buzzard finally gives up a pulls in his combat probes after 40 minutes .no thanks to this dumb not thought through proposal."
"because god forbid anyone ever move a capital ship with an escort fleet."
"lolhave you actually played this game yet ?.who the f is gonna call all there buddies and arrange for escort when ever they need to move there carrier from a to b.no one.all this proposal will do is increase the amount of time cap/super cap pilots have to sit around cloaked doing nothin.way to go to make eve more fun."
"so every other ship in the game having to deal with travel combat is okay? just so long as it isn't your thanatos... right?hell yes i do. caps already move around far too easily. and being able to be just about perfectly safe while doing it doesn't help anyone.let him find you. then kill him.it is far more thought out then your counter. frackin' carebears."
"i'd much rather see a change to the module. right now super caps are strong enough and their deployment should mean more than omg we are losing this fight quick throw out supercaps."
"delicious approval, go!"
"combat probes, use them.-1"
"stop whining"
"great analogy since gimli would lose a knife fight to legolas anyways since gimli would never be able to hit legolas with his axe. give gimli better tracking!"
"i would love to use hybrids but frankly they are all around the worst turrets. bad range, bad tracking, low damage"
"remove the plex out of game. the numbers of bots increased nearly at the same time plex introduced to this game and still rising.take them out of game and force players to pay direclty to ccp and not via other players through plex will cost all the bot users a lot of rl money and force them to rmt. which is much more trackable and sanctionable by ccp."
"no.legitimate players should not suffer because of bots. plex is useful."
"i rather enjoy playing for free. if i actually had to actually pay $30 a month (2 accounts), i probably would have left a year ago. what makes botting possible is that eve's pve is highly repetitive. remove the repetition and botting becomes basically impossible."
"i know players who have to 'buy' plex through the web or in game because they live in a country where its very hard to pay with a credit card directly to ccp.so i do not think your solution is a good one - as some players would lose the option to play.cheers'm."
"without bots the eve economy would crash. much of the ore to make the modules that are sold in highsec and many other places is mined by bots."
"oh joy, yet another anti-plex thread by an rmt/isk seller.plex is the best thing to happen to mmos and the worst thing to ever happen to \"gold farmers\". go find some other way to make your family its cup of rice."
"the concept is flawed, and plex is mostly a good thing. it hurts the botting/rmt market.however, ccp must already have considered the idea of tying all accounts to some real-world bank account or credit/debit card, to force botters and rmt agents to either commit fraud (suddenly it *is* a crime to bot), or give ccp a way to find and ban every current and future account a player owns.they must have thought of this and discarded it, because it's stupidly obvious. yes there are downsides:* not everyone has access to a credit/debit card* international payment issues.but these can probably be worked around. the key thing is that i think it would be a good idea for all players to have a traceable method of identification which is is illegal to forge. then ccp can take the problem from a technical angle (bot prevention and detection), an economic angle(plex /unholy rage), and a legal angle(make it possible to take the b***ards to court)please rework your proposal to this concept and you'll have my full support. any suggestions to work around the issues i raised?"
"this is both stupid and wrong. for two reasons:1) the market is self-correcting, if mining becomes very profitable (which it would should there be a shortfall - go spend some time on md) then people will flood to mining - even if it's dull - to make some cash.2) if the shortfall is so great that this self-correcting measure cannot keep up, then ccp can *easily* change the dynamics of mineral faucets - simply, say, doubling the rate of ore->minerals, or halving the mineral requirements of every item. fixing a market problem is *easy*. fixing the botting problem is much harder."
"bots ruin the eve economy.and only plex allow a bot user to run more than 3 bots 24/7. because the bot making the isk to buy the plex.this is no isk seller / rmt whine. this is the only option what will hurt them if they have to pay rl money for their bot armies."
"quoting because i am, in fact, down"
"supported"
"supported"
"i gave you a solution that would be slightly inconvenient but allow you to use your titan as if you can dock it (in a sense - while your alt is flying it and logged off it's untouchable). i'd suggest you make use of that, as the game isn't going to change just because you demand it. hell, who are you to demand such a thing?by all means, keep whining, but don't expect ccp to bend over and change the game just because you asked. titan's can't dock for very good reasons - for one, off the top of my head, they are/can use freaking superweapons. are you saying there should be no drawback to that at all?i'd rather be questioning the intelligence of people who do support dockable titans than those who realize that, really, it isn't that much of a drawback to begin with and that titan pilots are lucky it's so easy to work around."
"i have no sympathy for supercapital pilots. at all. none.when supercapital pilots complain, i feel like i'm looking at some celebrity brat throwing a temper tantrum because her rat dog is not the right shade of pink."
"here's my assessment.the tax does absolutely nothing to remove the disincentive to join player made corps. when you can still get a 0% tax rate by training a 10 minute skill, even the newest player can claim whatever tax rate he pleases. the only difference is that now you're losing a 0% tax rate from a 1-person corporation instead of from npcs.the tax does absolutely nothing to remove the \"safe harbor\" of npc corps. as long as corp hopping exists, the \"complete wardec safety\" of an npc corp is something you can achieve by docking up every 24 hours and clicking \"apply to corporation.\"the tax penalizes younger players. before the tax, new players would use npc corps as a way to acclimate themselves to eve, find new people, and eventually work their way into a new corporation. many corps actually kept alts in these npc corps precisely for that reason. now, these players are penalized for precisely that, to the tune of 11% of their revenue.the glut of 1-man corporations has removed many of the available tickers available to new corporations with legitimate aspirations. while not a huge issue, it's significantly worse now than it was.i feel this cure is far worse than the disease it was meant to treat."
"15% tax is fairly common throughout all corps. i too think a rookie period 0% + 20-25% when not rookie anymore will do more, but nobody stops you to form a corp for just yourself, neither does anything to prevent 'alliance hopping' or 'corp hopping' to escape war decs."
"supported 100%. bots are a problem in any mmo, but especially in a game with a supposed \"player run economy\". i know it's an impossible dream to get rid of them entirely, but ccp could surely be doing a much better job than they are today."
"i want to paint flames on my hulk."
"under a corporations attributes tab, there is a member count. i propose that on the attributes tab for an alliance, it shows the member total of all the corporations in the alliance."
"until then..."
"thisand this..."
"fix it please."
"i had recently a bug in win 7, which i already had in win 98. unfortunately ccp and mass battles is the same story."
"*supported*here's my 2 cents on a fix that could help. why not design an option that would require players entering a potentially overstressed node to use a different pared down version of eve that would have much less in the way of stress on the server per player. sure the graphics may be down to 1980s level and everything be oversimplified, but when we go into these 2000+ in local battles, we aren't there for the graphics, we are there for the results of the battle.dunno, may be a totally ******ed idea, but it's mine dammit"
"supported. you can jam your walking in stations where the sun don't shine. fix the problems first."
"once local hit 1600+ people; my commands were a average 18 minutes behind the action, when safe in a blue pos my ship warped off 28 minutes later to the tcu, i couldn't stop the warp"
"thank you for the post vlade.the drf and nc players are suffering equally as a result of the game's inability to support their communities. ships should never be destroyed hours after the player logs. keep feeding the trolls. you can count on them to continuously bump the thread."
"*supported*"
"drf shows there hate on eve.ru and evenews24. all the 1000+ opinions stay the same, need to fix lag and not make my characters pretty."
"it doesn't look like it's a priority. like mentioned before on this thread, there is a game mechanic that was supposed to cover disconnects, server kicks and other nasty stuff - the 15 minute ship disappearing timer. unplayable lag, server crashes and black screens started to b more frequent and intensive in dominion. since then, the only mechanical thing that got fixed (a couple of times) is desync. other \"fixes\" were only cosmetic. like rocket fix for example.... what? they needed that much time to change a couple of static database values? come on. hardly any effort at all. but on the other hand, what was introduced that does have to do with mechanics? pi that's favourable to 0.0 players because of abundance of resources in 0.0 space and incursions which is again favourable to 0.0 alliances because they can drop some very expensive stuff there. at the same time, level 4 missions got nerfed, npc corporation taxes introduced, good quality agents give crappy missions if you work for them too much and they tend to send you in lowsec in your pve fitted ship. well, guess what... i want a taste of 0.0 space too, but how the hell can i move there if the damn thing is broken. so, i got myself a situation here: stay in highsec and be bored to death, play docking games with wardec griefers (the most ******ed excuse for a pvp), enter fw which is meh anyway (oh... and broken), play like a \"pirate\" and sit on a gate while my eyes bleed shooting at the targets that can't defend themselves, or... finally... move to 0.0 where all the action is and where everyone is a fair target. for me, 0.0 is the end-game goal, but having tasted the lag when some of the alliances clashed in lowsec empire some time ago (and me not even being in that system for that matter), makes me wonder what crap do i have to endure in order to get some proper pvp experience in the lawless space in the game.you see... i don't give a damn about technetium. change the bugger so it comes from moon interaction or something. i don't care about the \"nc\" or \"drf\". i care about being able to play this game and having customer support.edit: paragraphs"
"makumba aki and schantalle stop trolling plz. this is not caod. if you don't have anything smart to say, its better to remain silent. this way you are looking so funny.once again i want to support this. it is one thing to die while you are online and another to die 10 hours after you log off."
"ur dum shudup u"
"the entire thread is a troll.ask ccp to introduce machanics that would discourage blobbing even though they would hurt big power blocks. this whine here is just ridiculous.to ask ccp to remove the lag is like asking scientist to provide you with unlimitted source of energy. the technology that could accomplish this simply doesn't exist."
"what about customer support? is that impossible to have too?"
"would you like ccp to spend the limited amount of money they have on more gms, so that they have more time to work on your petitions, or on more developers so that they can improve the game?"
"yes."
"on more developers that will improve the game by giving priority to the \"15 minutes\" ship removal mechanics."
"as far gms ccp needs to train them much better and offer them better tools so costumers dont take the answer \"our logs show nothing\". as far developers they recently hired 150 person in us. that means about 10-15 teams. assign more teams to lag and fixing bugs than to incursion incarma etc. also how many times did they introduce more bugs with a patch??? where is the qa??and again its not about lag. its about bugs of certain \"features\" not working. and when they gave jitanode for lxq battle and in local there were about 2000+ the lag was ok. for me this means that they dont want to invest on better servers/nodes for 0.0. they could hav 2-3 such nodes for big fights. finally about 1 or 2 months ago in a big fight (less than 1k) nothing was working in geminate/branch/tribute/tenal. many characters were stuck. can ccp clarify how many regions do they hav on each node????and last proposal. ccp can inform that a system is reinf by putting a sign or something. many times we dont hav knowledge about a system being reinf."
"this ^^"
"this is why i'm not renewing my subscriptions as they expire. i'm sick of ccps years of not giving a frak."
"did any of you guys report the schedualed fleet op to the gms before the operation? ordinary servers are not able to handle the thousands of enitities interacting, so gms can use a second upgraded server to minimize the risk."
"from what i've heard, during last o2o fight, ccp removed the reinforced status of the system at dt even though the battle was in full swing. that or anything else happened, certain is that according to most reports, the server's performance was way worse after dt, with less ppl in local./supported"
"apocrypha"
"oh, god... this^^"
"my prospective is simple. the ccp silence in this regard is deafening. everyone plays this game to have fun. i cant tell you how many times, i have petitioned ccp expressing my disappointment in poor game performance. i have tried to get into so many battles with a simple battle ship, and simply couldnt do anything. system is locked up totally. couldnt do anything what so ever. ive lost at least a dozen battleships and such to this sort of thing, so much so that i personally really, look before i leap, want to join the battle, but realize the futility of it. not one of you, no matter who you fly for, can say this isnt frustrating. be real here. now imagine your in your titan, or super carrier. these ships dont come easy man. many players, n/c, r/f, it, p/l, etc. worked years in this game to get one of these ships, only to loose it, when they couldnt do anything, they couldnt log out, jump out, warp out, fire a laser or gun, they couldnt do anything what so ever. i know what its like with a battleship; honestly i couldnt even imagine what it would be like with my prize super. my position is a simple one. anyone that looses a super to this sort of thing, no matter who they fly for, should have it replace promptly! thats called customer service! the real question is who holds ccp accountable for ****ty customer service? i sincerely believe the ccp prospective is just eat the **** sandwich and smile. the real question here, isnt why havent they fixed the game, i think we all know this may be beyond there capability, and probably is. the real question is why ccp feels we should just accept this level of customer support and service!if you do happen to be a super pilot, and have the overhead in cpu. please make sure to frap your operations. ccp cant simply ignore this type documentation, but then again, its there servers, they actually know what happened, they simply choose to ignore it. once again, who holds them accountable?could you just imagine the outrage, if the, \"mgm grand hotel and casino in vegas\", experienced a network wide server failure in there gaming machines, and said, sorry folks, we just had a network failure, but all the money you had in your prospective slot machine is gone. couldn't be helped, these are the just the risks you take when you play our slots. better luck next time."
"bump."
"is this thread seriously just \"[issue]lag is bad\"?wow. can i have my 5 minutes back?everyone knows lag is bad! everyone knows ccp should fix it! ccp knows! (and if you'd read a devblog once in a while, or even, say pay attention to eve, you'd know that it is being worked on and it is getting better)the real and only permanent solution is to nerf fleets that are too big."
"dude from eve uni if you think this is all about alittle lag you need to get out of empire and try a fight defending sov against 800 or so reds!this kinda lag is just crippling trying to target a ship and after over a half hour of finally locking to find he warped of already yet his ship is there or to finally lock him after more than a half hour and wait another 20mins to get one shot off is ridiculous about 20 of the ships were ghost ships then i got kicked of and after 40mins of not even entering the game 5 hrs of that crap i gave up on eve that day !!"
"supported.the excuse of \"you made the lag by getting 2000 in local\" is dumb and pathetic to use. eve \"created\" the idea of having huge battles in their videos and expansions, but we barely can even get into grid..."
"killing bridges won't do it. nc existed before them.killing cynos won't do it. there were coalitions before them.pl hasn't gotten away with keeping to a small list of blues. they've lost sov how many times in their history. not really an example of success when it comes to sov.-a- was successful when they were in coalitions. -a- was not successful once the sc fell apart and the much larger drc invaded. again, not an example of success when it comes to sov.so, you can't point to them and say \"why doesn't everyone else do that?\" because it is not a successful adaptation to the game mechanics. this is darwin beating you. adapt or die. it doesn't matter much how you would like the game to be, it matters what the game mechanics are."
"forgot to click the support button before"
"me too."
"\"you made the lag by getting 2000 in local\" what a pathetic execuse...i never heard execuse like that in any mmo i've played.1. if the system doesnt support 2k people then set the systems max numbers.like 500 or 600. 250 a alliance 250 b alliance.2. people losing their stuffs coz of lag,its not their fault its yours.everywhere in life,if u are buying something and finding something wrong about it,then seller changes it with new one or give your money back.this is customer rights and service.'' everything looks normal in our logs '' is not support or customer service.3. yeah u are rocking with sanshas...4. '' eve online, the universe is yours '' sure, we saw that universe in o2o."
"and thought the events in 020 can were the biggest fight ever plus there were no fighter bombers and such capital blobbing before dominion...so you don't wont your shiny capotal fleet anymore?"
"coalitions are not the issue, the ability to gather many players in one system in a short amount of time at low transaction costs is the issue. they are doing quite well, are pretty rich and **** fleets twice the size of their fleet. the only reason why they can't hold sov is because you guys always come with a huge blob, cause you know that you need to outnumber alliances like pl at least 3 to 1 to have a fair chance.so again, the problem it not the lag but the game mechanics. so please nc, start a theread where you welp about game mechanics that made you and drf so huge and mighty and not about lag you cause.exactly, so why are your brosefs (the most of them) still complaining about lag and customer service and not about the actual problem, the game mechanics?"
"supported. the only real way to combat blobfests is to increase lethality of large battles to the point where they're a significant drain on resources regardless of how big a coalition's magic isk faucets are. and how do you do that? fix lag to the point that a good part of both sides' fleets will die if they go for a numbers-over-everything slugfest (+edit2: ensuring the viability of other tactics would help, but 'same tactic, more people' is pretty much inevitable). to this end, i would suggest:add wormhole/incursion-type effects, increasing damage modifiers of (non-aoe) weapons but increasing cycle time as well, to nullsec systems over a given number of pilots. say for the sake of argument that it scales from 1x at 500 to 5x at 1000 to 10x at 2000. note that this would also reduce the impact of 15-minute gun cycles, and reduce the number of gun cycles being fired in the first place due to the rof penalty.make sure bombs travel the correct 30 km, and consider giving priority to bomber decloak/launch commands. (+edit) also, add rage and javelin t2 bomb variants.consider restricting full overview (in packed systems only) to pilots with 9 or more subordinates on-grid, and transmit broadcast targets only to the rest.get some good data on whether autorepeat works. if it does (fcs seem pretty confident that it doesn't), and if it reduces load, try and get people to use it.get rid of local in busy systems, or have it show only # of pilots per alliance and mute it. not sure if this would reduce load, and may be reading too much into the name, but i noticed that the step i was hanging at on login attempt was ::joinchannels.additionally, get a well-announced brainstorming thread going to see what corners might be cut under high load that would increase performance but not dramatically alter balance."
"epic bumpage"
"the whole post was intended to address the fitting system; so, yes, i was addressing that particular issue. neutral repping is the simplest method of creating a win-win scenario; provided the opponent fleet, does not have the same, or similar advantage. the same could be said about ecm, and various other roles. i'm not proposing we remove them.basically, what we have, is a situation where people can fleet fit; for strategies based on role bonuses, and not on real tactics. it's a cookie cutter system, where you pair and match ships; so that you can provide the best possible scenario, to take on any adversary. if you know what ammo types they are using, or have intel on their fits; then you have tenfold, multiplied your chance of success. this works, because of the current fitting system; and the ease with which, it is exploited. nevermind the fact; that ship scanners, always return muddled fits. it's still relatively easy to determine; what you are up against.i'm proposing a more complex ship fitting system; one which makes ship fitting tighter, and less open to exploitation. a good example is the hurricane; with 6 low slots, and 4 mid's, which can be used for a variety of purposes. here's one:[hurricane, passive command hurricane]shield power relay iishield power relay iishield power relay iishield power relay iishield power relay iishield power relay iirepublic fleet 10mn afterburnerrepublic fleet large shield extenderrepublic fleet large shield extenderdread guristas invulnerability field220mm vulcan autocannon ii, republic fleet emp m220mm vulcan autocannon ii, republic fleet emp m220mm vulcan autocannon ii, republic fleet emp m220mm vulcan autocannon ii, republic fleet emp m220mm vulcan autocannon ii, republic fleet emp m220mm vulcan autocannon ii, republic fleet emp mdark blood medium nosferatusiege warfare link - shield harmonizingmedium core defence field purger iimedium core defence field purger iimedium core defence field purger iivalkyrie ii x2hornet ii x2now, drop that into eft; and tell me: should we nerf the hurricane? i'd like to think not, and i hope not; but, that's a lol fit from hell. drop a low slot, change something else; and you have a useless ship, that would almost never be used. that's what i mean. the hull-tanked :lol:moros i saw mentioned elsewhere; is another great example, of how the system fails, as it is."
"your assumption of a drawback, being limited adaptability, is incorrect; though, i understand my rather limited explanation, leaves a lot to be desired. i was actually considering, proposing role bonus removal; and making all ships reliant on the officer system, to provide their role bonuses. the officer system, is something i heard mentioned elsewhere; where ccp, would be adding 'slot' for personnel, with the coming of incarna. sometime after the release, possibly; though, it is currently just in the proposal stage, i understand. this would result, in all ships; having greater versatility. given, that you could simply move officers around; and provide yourself, with the bonuses you wanted. the base design, i have formulated; is actually relatively flexible on its own. personally, i like ships having versatility; and wouldn't want to see it disappear. what we have now, though; i do not consider versatility."
"1. that 'lol fit' hurricane.... is bad, it doesn't really suggest any changes are needed to me. to explain further, why would you so heavily tank a hurricane which serves no purpose in being present at the fight? why is it even there? it's fit with random faction mods for a passive shield tank that isn't really super amazing or anything, minimal firepower, and you don't even have an optimal spread of drones (hint: its 1 med 4 lights). it's apparent purpose is fleet boosting which requires none of these things, and your fit hasn't added much in the way of usefulness beyond just that.2. removing the seperation of missle/turret hardpoints is also known as how2makeminmatargodmode, there's a reason caldari are the slowest crap in space."
"try thinking outside the box. put 10 hurricanes like that in a squad; and put one in as the squad commander, over them, providing bonuses. now add to that, the squad members all have remote rep, instead of the gang link; save one, which can take over as squad commander. have the rr each other; and all can provide dps. now fill a wing. now make more wings of the same; toss in some ecm, and others. sure, the drones could be swapped out; but the faction mod's aren't random. i threw them in there, for two reasons: the first, is because the ship cost is pretty high already, with the purger ii's; the second, because it provides the best speed, lowest sig, and highest resistances. swap them out for tech ii, if you like. it was also originally looked at as a pve fit; which was not intended to see pvp. the point, is the same.individually, it wouldn't last long in pvp; in a fleet, with the right bonuses, it's quite unbelievable. in a blob, it's not individual dps that kill's; its combined dps, and every ship supplies it. what's not impressive, about a 700 dps tank, on the lowest resist? combined with +500 m/s velcoity, and a relatively low sig radius; while putting out 445 dps, under even a relatively good fc? drop rr on that tank; and see what happens. have interchangeable squad commanders; to apply variable bonuses, for different situations. no need to dock up, either; just swap the booster.you seem to have a limited imagination."
"wait... ever heard of drake blobs? only difference is they are overpowered with t2 fits instead of faction fits...the officer system will not be implemented... it would totally destroy the ship diversity... seriously. just take the hull with the better survivability/mobility rate, then put in a role dedicated officer. then, pouf c'est tout!"
"stop playing in eft seriously. if heavy missile are so good why are you correctly fitting aml to caracals? if heavy missiles are so good why isnt everyone using cerbs not zealots/muinns/vagabonds? im mean stuff 84km cerb gets 180km!!! by god it must be the best ship ever! to what range are you suggesting their range too anyway? 70? 60? 50? 30? 20? 10? youll have to massively nerf range to make any real difference then introduce really powerful mods to get it back up to 84km. did you consider what effect those mods would have for all other missile ships?theres a hurricane, harb, and drake in the fleet, guess what will get targeted? is it the drake with its overpowered long range weaponry, or the harb and hurricane? its the others everytime, why? because of the drakes tank, its a huge time sink to try and kill it even if it is slow and is easy to hit with its huge sig.to reach 80km (even thats a theoretical range missiles take time to accelerate and target movement can tends to increase the distance the missile has to travel), the missile takes 15 seconds. in eve combat thats an age the target could have been destroyed/warped, or even yourself warped or been destroyed long before your missiles arrived, drakes typically do not engage at long range.the main exception to this is vs hellcat fleets when they can sit outside scorch range, frankly if your out-manuvered by a drake blob with a hellcat fleet your deserve everything you get. finally ill leave you with this: with t2 mods, no implants, no t2 rigs, no faction its possible to get over 840 passive regen. even neuted it near regens nearly 600. try engaging one of those and saying missile range is the drakes problem."
"purger drake"
"that is a waste of a drake and is useless for basically all sorts of pvp except bait"
"that sounds off by a long shot. even with purgers drake get 235 hp/sec max passive regen, assuming you save 3 mids for hardners. myrm, on the other hand, gives 350 hp/s regen under the same conditions. rattlesnake gets 800 hp/s."
"you including resists? maybe i should have said 840 ehp regen, seems a bit pointless to quote figures without resists taken into account or you'd just use extenders.the 840 \"semi-passive\" or passive tank to none anal people, is a pve fit which variations of you across in low sec/0.0. frankly if your not in high sec, all fits are pvp , yes its a fail fit but is a pain in the arse to take down none the less."
"rubbish!i solo passive drakes in my brutix. it's easy."
"yes there are other nice ships but lets face it, the drake is easy to get into while offering a large tank along with very good range and alpha. however the real issue is the nature of fleets these days more than anything. the ham boost was a major impact along with everyone and their grandmother using logistics even in small gangs.the drake has to give up little to still support a solid tank and good dps. other ships mentioned above are targeted first because they can be killed much faster (you can kill 2-3 with the effort it takes to kill 1 drake)."
"well really people primary others first cause they want to clear the main dps off the field, rather than waste time shooting what is possibly a brick tank with no dps"
"sounds like a challange to me, what do you say i throw together a passive drake and you bring along your brutix."
"yet another \"it takes too much effort to kill a drake\" thread from people who can't think for themselves.wow is that way --->, no thought or effort required."
"yet another post made from a a snap judgement. instead of reading the thread and posting any constructive counter arguement simiply states, nerr your wrong, nerr.perhapes eve is bit complex for you? maybe you'd be better playing something a little less taxing? farmville perhaps?"
"it's difficult not to troll when people throw \"expert opinions\" claiming that purger drake is actually a good ship or that ham drake is remarkably good at anything.it takes some time to figure out what went wrong but i am sure we get there after 20 pages of trolololing."
"hml [mwd/no point 0.0] drake: 109k ehp 475 dps with drones out to 80kmany other 2nd tier bc: approx 55k ehp approx 300 dps to 80 km. unable to fit drone link augmentors without seriously gimping fits.if we reduce guided missile flight time by approximately 40-50% this is the effect:hml drake: approx 55km rangehml caracal: approx 85km rangecml raven: approx 170km rangegive missiles a mid slot module that boosts range and explosion velocity that can be scripted to give 30-40% extra missile flight time (scripted t2 module). drake now has to use 1 or 2 mid slots for high cpu usage modules to project its dps just like turret ships. this would reduce the ehp to a little under 70k ehp give or take. these stats would bring the drake into line with other ships in it's class performance wise (it is still a little better). other ships that use guided missiles aren't really gimped as their bonuses still give them very good range.low slot module (less cpu & unscripted) could also be available but would give lower bonuses.**stealth boost** missile boats get a module that lets them hit fast moving targets even easier!we reduce missile flight time and not velocity because we don't want our missiles taking an age to get to their targets. we also can't increase missile velocity above what we already have because they then start behaving very strange. i am thinking about this not just throwing daft ideas around.oh and if you need names for these new modules:mid slot: missile navigation computer. [description] increases flight time by using missile fuel more efficiently without effecting missile velocity. also increases missile accuracy (explosion velocity or radius. whatever, i don't care)scripts: [flight time] missile navigation [explosion vel/radius] missile accuracy.low slot:missile control computer. [description] increases flight time by using missile fuel more efficiently without effecting missile velocity. also increases missile accuracy (explosion velocity or radius. whatever, i don't care)"
"i'm sure there are many of these threads, but i thought i'd start my own ones and present my ideas on the situation. hopefully you can all give your ideas and comments on mine! first i'll explain why i feel this way:for me, this would help balance 0.0 combat a little bit more effectively. if you have a bomber or force recon ship which sits afk in your system (you have sovereignty 5) it can be quite frustrating because it puts a halt to all activity in your system(s). what i propose is the following:1. provide an alliance with a sovereignty upgrade (or a pos module) which scans the system for any ships who have an active cloak. this way if the person is in the system waiting for a juicy target all they need to do is keep moving between safe spots (they have no disadvantage if they are active). it feels like its quite unfair that one can simply fly off into space cloaked for hours and then decide to come back at any time and search for targets. in all situations there should always be at least one way to counter the strategy. the way i propose the module works is that the fc (or whomever is in the highest position in the fleet i.e. squad commander if no wing or fleet commander is present) is able to use the module to scan the system and warp the fleet into the location from the pos.2. i don't support the idea of probes that decloak targets simply because it will not solve the problem, if you have a self-made safe somewhere and cloak up the probe won't hit you anyway (unless its a system wide effect), however i find that 1. makes more sense.guys, i know i'm revisiting a very much discussed topic but i hope you can comment on my ideas. i'm really looking for some opinions! thanks a lot, i'll be replying to your comments!"
"cloaking is fine.just man up and rat if you are sure he is afk, and if he is afk this wouldnt solve it anyway as you can make an unprobable cyno stiletto that you would never catch and he can just go afk in that.also as im sure it will get pointed out, this has been suggested before."
"if you warp in a dramiel to catch the stiletto when he is afk flying into space then i argue you would be able to catch him. *edit: the covert cyno is the issue."
"not supported."
"thank you for your reason."
"if that stilleto goes to his usual safe spot that dramiel wont catch him. covert ships as in the ones that can fit the cov ops cloak, have already got plenty of drawbacks for the ability to fit the cov ops cloak."
"if we have a cyno jammer then why should a covert cyno be able to be activated in the system?"
"how will the change you are suggested stop this from occurring? in your op you say that the change wont affect active cloakers only afk ones, but afk ones dont light cyno's."
"sure you can open a covert cyno in a cyno jammed system.and no support for your idea, it is one of the less things you can do against bots."
"my suggestion is introducing a module that scans for cloaking ships, so if they go afk they will be exposed because they are not moving (between safes). i don't want to get off topic and discuss covert cynos. edit: spelling.."
"my suggestion was to counter afk pilots, not to remove the covert cyno in a cyno jammed system."
"but what you suggest doesnt stop people going afk in a safe in unprobable cyno stiletto's, and now we are back to where we started.you brought up covert cyno's as an issue, with the cyno jammers not stopping them (and they shouldnt) your suggestion also does nothing to people with covert cynos"
"this is why i posted this topic, to look for suggestions/solutions to the flaws in my idea. i know its not perfect, i'm looking for feedback. thanks for that, i didn't realise that problem. do you have a suggestion?"
"but what you suggest doesnt stop people going afk in a safe in unprobable cyno stiletto's, and now we are back to where we started.this is why i posted this topic, to look for suggestions/solutions to the flaws in my idea. i know its not perfect, i'm looking for feedback. thanks for that, i didn't realise that problem. do you have a suggestion?not really, i dont see them as a problem. when a neutral or red goes afk in system i go back to ratting. i keep an eye on my directional and local. i dont sit at the warp in spots in the belt/cosmic anomaly im running and because i take these precautions i dont tend to lose ratting ships."
"this is why i posted this topic, to look for suggestions/solutions to the flaws in my idea. i know its not perfect, i'm looking for feedback. thanks for that, i didn't realise that problem. do you have a suggestion?not really, i dont see them as a problem. when a neutral or red goes afk in system i go back to ratting. i keep an eye on my directional and local. i dont sit at the warp in spots in the belt/cosmic anomaly im running and because i take these precautions i dont tend to lose ratting ships.really you watch local when he's already in system? you watch direction scanner to keep an eye if his cloaky ship shows up? you also don't sit on the warp-in point because then you'll see him warp in his cloaked ship?do you live in 0.0?"
"i live in catch/curse.you watch local because if he isnt a cloaky and just a scout local will spike if someones coming.you watch directional scan for any ships on it, as most of the time these 'afk cloakers' arent covert ops just whatever with a cloak fitted and if they are warping in they can be seen.and you stay off the warp in as obviously they will get warped there first, if he warps in on your head then so be it, just one of those things. edit. if he warps in on you he isnt an afk cloaky and again your suggestion doesnt work."
"]]again, i'm talking about the situation before he/she warps in. once he's active well then we can't catch him anymore with the module. <- because he is moving (warping)."
"ah sorry i thought it was afk cloakers that was your problem. so you want to be able to find cloakers before they decloak next to you and shout surprise"
"and as many thread like this and before it....down in flames it goes.do not start your threads with \"for me....\" \"i feel\", \"this is wanted by the majority or many feel this way, when the only conversation you have is with three people that has less of an idea what is going on than you do.threads like this and others fail because it is based on a self centered emotional view, they assume every one thinks like they do or should. and once the crashing reality hits, the op's proposal will then deteriorate into a defensive \"you are nothing but troll's and illiterate sociopaths.\" in reality, it is really a terrible idea."
"np"
"the problem is that local is usable as intel tool, not the fact that someone can cloak.that afk cloaky is alot less scary if you dont know he is there (or alot more scary)."
"actually no, because smartbombs nuke drones and we all know how good dreads are at hitting bs's."
"want to see how many sentry drones i can put in a carrier?"
"look how well titans worked.other than that, stop and think. area of effect weapons do not reduce number of people in fleets. if they can accomplish a strategic goal (whatever it is) by gathering up in one spot at the time, they will. current game mechanics do not particularly weigh on travel/logistics and dividing your forces."
"test alliance successfully sprouted from nothing not long ago and now owns all of fountain, all while having zero tech moons. obviously tech needs to be rebalanced, but your sputtering rage gets you nowhere."
"r64 needs a buff :p"
"@charles, test wouldn't have been able to do this without the help of the nc or goons, which indirectly relates to the technetium income. they were put there by nc & goons because they'll create a buffer. nothing more, nothing less. also i'm not raging, i"
"moons in general need to be far less valuable, possibly even not giving out any resources period, and if they do nothing thats worth anywhere near as much as technetium.there was a time in this game when alliances could actually become bankrupt from war. the reason this was possible was because making isk actually required a degree of effort. mining used to be the only large source of income and getting together in a system and coordinating it was both dull and time consuming, but it made wars better because losing ships actually hurt. tactics were a requirement because the more you lost the more you had to put in to making isk again and the more morale dropped, so it was important not to lose ships or fleets.in its current state losing ships is simply a non-issue. there is so much cash available that the only way to beat an alliance is to either crack it from within or beat the hell out of them so much their members don't want to fight anymore, however thats not really possible since with 1k-2k in a system there is no beating an alliance tactically or with skill because your modules and tactics mean nothing when there is several minutes of delay on every action. i would have no problem with alliances making 350b a month if all of their membership put in the effort to get it, but when large coalitions get together and sit on these literal isk printing locations with such ease it means the game is indeed broken, and regardless of the flames that changing this would bring on ccp from these large entities they need to do something about it soon because this isk will just build up and keep building up. so how could we fix this?there are a couple of options i think would at least be a step in the right direction...1. have certain npc stations offer unlimited resources at a certain price ie. 999,999,999,999 technetium available at xxxx price at certain stations in every empire region. this would prevent technetium from ever going above a certain point of ccp's choosing thus controlling alliances incomes.2. have a much smaller portion of profitable locations, make it harder for alliances to split the massive volume of available resources between them, for example nc have 10 alliances (an example only) but there is only 1-2 valuable resource locations per region. the reason for point 1. means that controlling the markets would be taken out of the players hands after a certain point. they will have control but their control would be controlled by ccp in the pricing of certain minerals.for point 2. the reason i feel it would be better is because it would be a reason for coalitions to break up. if there is only a few easy and large isk printing locations in their space the alliances will all want those points for themselves and theoretically may go to war for them or at the very least create friction between those \"allies\". if taking again the nc as an example (theoretically), mm have a much larger income than say mh. there are only 2-4 of these high value locations within their space. mm can try and tell mh to give those resources to them (in turn annoying mh and causing friction) or mm can choose to share evenly and keep a co-operative relationship lowering mm's income and raising mh's and sharing the isk more evenly rather than a few individuals controlling a huge portion of a coalitions overall income. as that was quite a lengthy post i'll summarize: - large isk making should be a time consuming task requiring the input of many - the volume of resources needs to be far less than it is currently because huge coalitions can work together and share resources and all be happy. this wouldn't be so much of a problem if the servers could handle fights of 1-2-3k smoothly but it cant, quite simply coalitions must be split up.- war needs to cost more than alliances can make, it shouldn't reduce the overall income of the alliance, it should cost more than the alliance makes resulting in bankruptcy."
"confirming this doesn't work. why? simple, whoever managed to get it will become the new owners of the monopoly. different people, same stuff, as far as the market is concerned. it will change nothing that matters."
"throwing random numbers around angrily!50 tech moons? really? very very few alliances have moon goo on that level. it also takes tons of resources to secure and protect such things as well as to run the supply chain. you could call that cogs and/or expenses if you want to break down the numbers like an accountant.technetium sells for about 100k/unit. a moon produces 100 units per hour, or 10m isk per hour. a ratter can produce about 100m isk per hour with the occasional faction loot drops. a lvl 4 mission runner can make about 100m isk per hour. if your argument is that one is passive income and the other is active, you clearly haven't had to manage a pos.the biggest flaw in your reasoning is that alliances are some kind of giant, monolithic individual and not a whole ton of individuals grouped together for the common good. often, the moons are spread among corps within the alliance, cause let's be honest, everyone is greedy and they aren't going to protect someone else's income stream without reciprocity and a similar income stream. these corps have about 100 members on average. these members lose ships defending the moons which are reimbursed, usually through said moon goo. in the end, a corp like mine nets a few hundred million to a billion in passive net income per month from moon goo (depending on how active military operations are). right now, with the fighting going on between the nc and the drc, this number is much reduced.to put that in perspective, my r&d agents give me about 300m isk each month in completely passive income. i don't have to defend anything. i don't have to fuel anything. i just have to jump clone to empire and empty them every once in a while. if there is any passive income that is ridiculous, it is r&d agents in empire space."
"last i checked, that's how it already works."
"if this where only true but this is not what happens. i see it all the time in domain region with neutral remotes which can not be touched as they never go red while boosting/repairing engaged wardec target."
"i wonder if that's an overview bug.-liang"
"\"new topic\" is not the same as \"reply to topic\"."
"ok hopefully that got a gm's attention. but yeah, at the moment there are thousands of players like me, who are not very happy with the situation being placed on them in null sec. they feel that ccp are not doing anything for them, and at the top of the list for thousands is to fix the major issue's with large scale fights.those who say its our own fault, are partly right. technically the game cant support what we throw at it. but we have no choice with the sov game mechanics. now im not saying that i expect a gm to say, yeah next update lag is fixed. but what are you guys doing/looking into to try and improove things.an idea thrown about is something like jita, where players get kicked into systems that isnt crowded, or there is a system limit and so on. some players would/would not support this but what about ccp ?all i would like is someone from ccp giving us an update. at the moment we only hear from you guys when you have actually got something for us, but we need to know we are not forgotten. please ccp a update, we want to know how you guys are doing on these issue's. are you working on it ? are you struggling with a specific aspect ? have you got idea's in your head already ?"
"my suggestion, fit smartbombs and fof missiles. also, try reporting to the gms when you're going to have a fleet fight so they can reinforce that serveri've lost most of my sympathy for complaints about lag in fleets since my caracal was hotdropped by a titan and support fleet. i'm pretty sure that the only reason i survived was because of lag."
"i) gms won't post hereii) there are more important things to be fixed, like new level 4 missions or grammatical mistakes in item descriptionsiii) not supported"
"you reap what you sow. sorry, no pity for the 0.0bears."
"anyone who dares a gm to do anything is either ******ed or just flat beyond all reasonable help.get help... fast.or take a break from the game."
"within a couple of hours of a dev-blog on lag being posted.priceless."
"as title say , when you apply plex you become immune to lag for 24 hours.all server and bandwith power gets primary to suit needs of your game."
"rofl!! you don't know how the internetz works, do you?"
"it's probably a troll.*scoops out its eyeballs and eats them*...hmm. strangely crunchy."
"all the changes made with the addition of the carbon engine in the game are alienating a good chunk of the player base. a lot of the lag comes from the hair model generation.supported since the graphics/code changes made since the carbon engine is worse than the ingame learning curve."
"the op has been updated with new info.thanks for your support everyone! keep it coming!"
"please un-withdraw the proposal. this issue is not only caused by shader model. for example, i can load the character design screen but not the portrait design screen: the loading bar for the latter fills up and then sits there doing nothing forevermore. the only reason i have a portrait is because i managed to get it to work on linux."
"i was not aware of this mirabi. i un-withdrew the proposal."
"thank you. :)"
"well if one alliance owns too much space, then it just takes a few other alliances all attacking different places to take some of their space... in the end one alliance isn't worth a whole lot, takes a few alliances working together to do anything big. all these alliances that supposably own most of 0.0 actually hardly do anything with any of their space, so, as this topic is about, its fairly common to steamroll them... the reason why coalations like nc work is because its a whole bunch of smaller alliances working together with the bigger ones.if by any chance any of the big alliances decides to defect, or go against what the coalation wants, the rest of the coalation is still bigger than that one alliance, so the coalation can survive it."
"well this is ******ed, why boost alliances holding entire region(s) of space and allow to steamroll the smaller guys? isn't that the opposite of what ccp always declares they want - to allow smaller entity entrance to 0.0?"
"so, small alliances should have the choice of either being way more vulnerable due to game mechanics than larger ones (and then add the numerical differences), or they may become pets?how does this actually solve any of the dominion problem? it only makes the last part of steamrolling a dying block or just attacking a smaller alliance easier. you should be aware (hell anyone who makes posts about 'fixing' 0.0), that pretty much everything you do to 'promote conflict' ends up in more people nap'ing each other to compensate for the decrease in safety."
"fortressing' should be a valid way of holding off attackers regardless the territory an alliance controls. it will not work if morale drops or you run out of assets. and this propsal will just discourage sub-region level sov brawl. i'd think very carefully through any changes of territorial mechanics."
"because one of the lunacies of 0.0 atm is that it's a massive grind reguardless of who holds the space. small alliances atm still can't hold space on their own without big brother, all this does is make it a defensive disadvantage. this proposal only speeds up the attack on the current system of moronic space holding making the larger alliances more vulnerable if they choose to keep it in place.it's also incredibly hard for larger alliances to hold huge amounts of space they way they currently do using the new system. for example, i'll use mm. currently, mm holds part of pure blind and part of vale space. under the new system, those territories would be much weaker. also, mm jump bridge and jump beacon network across the north would be removed under this system because of the requirements not being met. this means mm would have one of two choices, give up the space to someone else, or claim the entire region/constellation. this means there's a higher cost, and a much easier way to break the sov than trying to grind an i-hub just in the primary system. attackers can now attack the entire constellation, and force morsus to defend 6 + systems rather than stack 1 system with crazy numbers. it effectively deblobs an entity to some degree. this means using a large coalition as an example, the larger alliances can fight the pirmary fight, while smaller groups can achieve secondary task in other systems left undefended. this actually adds viable goals for smaller groups.if you're asking me how this changes the ability of smaller organizations in todays eve, the simple answer is, it doesn't. it changes the requirements of the larger entities to actually defend their renters/pets from a lot of attacks, or for those renters and pets to actually lose more of their freedom. both of these ultimately create more conflict."
"vindicated by mittani's confession of null-sec conspiracy to blob the csm."
"you are aware that \"big, protected hubs\" are hubs because of the resources available around them, right? the deserted areas would become very populated almost immediately if your \"big plan\" came to fruition.jump bridges aren't at all safer than gates. you don't know if a hostile gang is waiting for you on the other side, and you do not have a cloak. they also require expensive fuel for every jump - getting a decent sized bs/bc/hac gang through a jump bridge route will easily cost hundreds of millions of isk."
"i'm going to assume that i don't have your vote. while i wish i could have done better to convince you, i respect your decision. who have you chosen as your candidate instead?"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service."
"i support this product and or service."
"i support this product and or service."
"i support this product and or service."
"i support this product and or service."
"i support this product and or service."
"i support this product and or service. (not really, i just want the free plex)"
"we like honesty :pentries close @ 23:59 utc on tuesday march 22 (today)"
"i support this product and or serviceim a newb on trial updated account today"
"(i remember trials can't post in the forums?)i support this product and or service - also some kitty art entry!space kittens?1- please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or servicefor the plexbut i voted...... for the space kittens! :*d"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service."
"i support this product and or service."
"dark hicquavideeum and i support this product and or service."
"tus and i support this product and or service."
"garkonite and i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"\"tanith yarndemon and i endorse this product and or service\""
"tanith yarndemon and i endorse this product and or service."
"i support this product and/or service love you"
"tanith yarndemon and i endorse ths product and or service."
"soubie maeed and i support this product and or service"
"tanith yarndemon and i endorse ths product and or service."
"i support this product and or service"
"tanith yarndemon and i endorse ths product and or service."
"i support this product and or service"
"richard willington and i support this product and or service"
"first wait this isnt ebaumsas way to fing lazy to really read it but i seen free copy paste something or another bio so idid and yea there my vote buddy ccps been sucking balls do something about itcandidate for the sixth council of stellar managementview my candidacy post and find out how you can win upto 42 plex for taking part in my campaign. you do not need to vote for me to be eligable.random posters who reply with \"i support this product and or service\" in the same thread will be selected for bonus plex prizes.- police microtransactions- monitor subscription cost vs content- make incarna relevant- promote live events- free the space kittenseve-online candidacy post:www.tinyurl.com/winplexmain character: cerbusvote for me here: www.tinyurl.com/voteserious"
"richard willington and i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"richard willington and i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service."
"i support this product and or service"
"prize pool one entrants[post] character (ticket number)[001] serious internet politician [002] serious internet politician [003] serious internet politician [004] fire elf (1)[005] brother stud (2)[006] de bug2 (3)[007] shackdavid (4)[008] ramingo (5)[009] boddin (6)[010] mazzilliu (7)[011] tehebil1 (8)[012] ilroth crendraven (9)[013] olroth (10)[014] jawarrior2010 (11)[015] sokratesz (12)[016] deadly baby (13)[017] iella wesirri (14)[018] quigon jimm (15)[019] viktor klimenko (16)[020] aloe cloveris (17)[021] raven koran (18)[022] lilgreenbag (19)[023] valamarth morgurth (20)[024] general beanflicker (21)[025] shade sunji (22)[026] silentleaf (23)[027] donatien de'sade (24)[028] ip0d [029] sephixan (25)[030] niraia (26)[031] phreakinout (27)[032] phreakinrockmuncher (28)[033] bath sheeba (29)[034] edward harris (30)[035] barbaro55a (31)[036] kalnov (32)[037] operator dano (33)[038] selene d'celeste (34)[039] ownsta (35)[040] lederstrumpf [041] xydros (36)[042] mr waran (37)[043] erimisha (38)[044] caliwyrm o'libr (39)[045] annaborn (40)[046] el'niaga [047] tremor brash (41)[048] onyth (42)[049] carn validus (43)[050] hadiax (44)[051] whiteghostbear (45)[052] not t'amber [053] lejaro [054] sokratesz [055] hirschg (46)[056] zirkur (47)[057] two shots [058] tuttomenui ii (48)[059] princesicelouspoena ii (49)[060] jinli mei [061] serious internet politician [062] serious internet politician [063] gx307 (50)[064] kinkouin168 (51)[065] darkancient (52)[066] morwen lagann (53)[067] yukii matasake [068] moppin miner (54)[069] blkhawke [070] patri andari (55)[071] google this (56)[072] carlos sagan (57)[073] krazyjames (58)[074] ospie (59)[075] sor'ral (60)[076] sor'val (61)[077] tiamat's shadow (62)[078] troyd23 (63)[079] sutjin (64)[080] andrea griffin (65)[081] andrea griffin [082] hannah tyrie (66)[083] serious internet politician [084] wempire (67)[085] cheese nippels (68)[086] dextrust (69)[087] alacta lithia (70)[088] caprica battlestar (71)[089] jason longshadow (72)[090] marconus orion (73)[091] hila acami (74)[092] thiridae morgurth (75)[093] mr vm (76)[094] xrayzii (77)[095] neoscience (78)[096] dark soldat (79)[097] greymouse (80)[098] caldarian admiral (81)[099] 3rr0rc0d3 (82)[100] uchihaitachii (83)[101] ironpole ironpole (84)[102] sawako (85)[103] julliette libertine (86)[104] tharill dasai (87)[105] haydin lightspeed (88)[106] washukanni (89)[107] kirki (90)[108] lina theist (91)[109] serious internet politician [110] tek909 (92)[111] depitaros (93)[112] aviamond (94)[113] najo temp (95)[114] caldari silence (96)[115] andrea griffin [116] ifinity (97)[117] chaney08 (98)[118] khornne (99)[119] sweet revulsion (100)[120] kaiken vitae (101)[121] senjo ling (102)[122] aniltan (103)[123] sinister borris (104)[124] boge (105)[125] zackel ellesar (106)[126] iced earth (107)[127] skilluuhh (108)[128] garishwinner (109)[129] garalan (110)[130] morf mokulov (111)[131] yarda do'urden (112)[132] planetary genocide (113)[133] yonna (114)[134] joop (115)[135] tygoka (116)[136] endercapitalg (117)[137] gaius slade (118)[138] zin leya (119)[139] magnelien (120)[140] loulou belle (121)[141] loula belle (122)[142] cuhlen (123)[143] amneamnius (124)[144] random27 (125)[145] valhala king (126)[146] targuth [147] zelda wei (127)[148] simmonite (128)[149] mark726 (129)[150] zalajin (130)[151] lakasha nachthexen (131)[152] aesic (132)[153] tythihoz (133)[154] shadeow (134)[155] donhel (135)[156] selene d'celeste [157] xclusive (136)[158] kinghybrid (137)[159] okawa jericotorques (138)[160] arden elenduil (139)[161] madmat (140)[162] mortem obire (141)"
"prize pool one entrants cont...[post] character (ticket number)[163] llyandrian (142)[164] xeradeph (143)[165] ragnar stormbringer (144)[166] imiarr timshae (145)[167] malefectra (146)[168] zaphor reed (147)[169] kagehik (148)[170] fire elf [171] feligast (149)[172] petra darklander (150)[173] haul 5000 (151)[174] egola (152)[175] silverdog (153)[176] listine (154)[177] heift (155)[178] serious internet politician [179] xodd hil (156)[180] mahai ano (157)[181] nelleien (158)[182] shmak datash (159)[183] urian kandor [184] serious internet politician [185] swynet (160)[186] entrox (161)[187] deezel swoopfast (162)[188] randomtoon987 (163)[189] serious internet politician [190] pandamoneum666 (164)[191] x3r0n (165)[192] mr zver (166)[193] kozahgii (167)[194] t'amb3r (168)[195] tesla grass (169)[196] maxus mekkus (170)[197] serious internet politician [198] cassina lemour (171)[199] leedha lemour (172)[200] da smasher (173)[201] kamdem (174)[202] serious internet politician [203] karbowiak [204] serious internet politician [205] natalia kovac [206] serious internet politician [207] serious internet politician [208] phosphofuctokinase 1 (175)[209] hannah senesh (176)[210] conjugate momenta (177)[211] carnegiesteel (178)[212] dextrust [213] zak calibre (179)[214] sephixan [215] flak tommer (180)[216] lisaaa (181)[217] garkonite (182)[218] andrea griffin [219] serious internet politician [220] eden abey (183)[221] andrea griffin [222] dgram loop (184)[223] serious internet politician [224] doctor dodo (185)[225] cypher v [226] perky c (186)[227] alotta baggage [228] cerbus [229] zim katharsis (187)[230] disturbed lucy (188)[231] tanis red**** (189)[232] tsra (190)[233] xxifmxx (191)[234] soluslunes (192)[235] mmohawk mman (193)[236] carebeard (194)[237] soluslunes [238] serious internet politician [239] not kalle demos [240] soubie maeed (195)[241] serious internet politician [242] e30089 (196)[243] albert camus (197)[244] d3inon (198)[245] shadowslayer552 (199)[246] prof solen (200)[247] serious internet politician [248] xerophim (201)[249] saraell tellon (202)[250] carni albah (203)[251] quygen (204)[252] serious internet politician [253] ravion magnus (205)[254] dob bole (206)[255] saraell tellon [256] mister sparkles (207)[257] me ofcourse (208)[258] megaphone man [259] sable lowell [260] saraell tellon [261] totally notdave (209)[262] darkprevelation (210)[263] saraell tellon [264] kyle arkinsaw (211)[265] razpaljotk (212)[266] zegna starblighter (213)[267] pi petra (214)[268] kaze blackscar (215)[269] xious dunier (216)[270] tus (217)[271] murtal liven (218)[272] echopheonix fireborne (219)[273] evil valkyrie (220)[274] anthonyke (221)[275] xexexe xe (222)[276] sloany1979 (223)[277] dave lister2155 (224)[278] agonoid 1979 (225)[279] serious internet politician [280] wastelander miccey (226)[281] wastelander scout (227)[282] rio aideron (228)[283] comm4nder (229)[284] amadeus val (230)[285] yazawa isao (231)[286] vulnevia (232)[287] delfain (233)[288] lhayla (234)[289] cora lafleur (235)[290] nonah (236)[291] gizm0 sama (237)[292] bjornargoestospace (238)[293] firinmah lazor (239)[294] maximilien marat (240)[295] nypheas azurai (241)[296] guardsman30 (242)[297] hesterberg (243)[298] lady spanky [299] tatius jorgstern (244)[300] kyo haku (245)[301] dax hakoke (246)[302] elizabeth azora (247)[303] widemouth deepthroat [304] serious internet politician [305] ashterothi (248)[306] thats no moon (249)[307] maxathar (250)[308] rushu metesur (251)[309] noxiotious (252)[310] not a troll (253)[311] catalytic morphisis (254)[312] hauler alt 01 (255)[313] ref'tal (256)"
"prize pool one entrants cont...[post] character (ticket number)[314] worpout (257)[315] mrs coolhair (258)[316] killr buneh (259)[317] thund3r (260)[318] htaed axor (261)[319] firex alal (262)[320] luna alhirizam (263)[321] moderatedtosilence (264)[322] w3370pi4 (265)[323] amarrdelusion [324] trizan (266)[325] sarah reese (267)[326] vjeko (268)[327] afrikains (269)[328] yuki yukoe (270)[329] tythihoz [330] exordium8 (271)[331] xmdmx (272)[332] serious internet politician [333] kithran (273)[334] rama sirius (274)[335] zach 101 (275)[336] jacqd (276)[337] herschel yamamoto (277)[338] tractioncontrol (278)[339] sinister borris [340] dr karsun (279)[341] sealiah (280)[342] molesty smurf (281)[343] quazal atreides (282)[344] without hope (283)[345] scalar angulargf (284)[346] aeryn skye (285)[347] not a troll [348] fcosta (286)[349] viperct (287)[350] mrs coolhair [351] nimbat (288)[352] transportbur (289)[353] eleionomae (290)[354] mindblow (291)[355] derivative mind (292)[356] archer89 (293)[357] thiridae morgurth [358] patri andari [359] lil'er greenbag (294)[360] nakami choukimee (295)[361] tetragammatron prime (296)[362] laia delo'var (297)[363] perrigrene (298)[364] zev lothair (299)[365] ava stonlai (300)[366] shobon welp [367] miss teri (301)[368] halnabo (302)[369] atheistoffail (303)[370] atheistoffaillite (304)[371] vali yost (305)[372] harris dorn (306)[373] myr catan (307)[374] farid flux (308)[375] trader bro (309)[376] asyyra (310)[377] sualcc (311)[378] alienta dia (312)[379] trocomare (313)[380] dr alvin (314)[381] drift past (315)[382] hulk flipper (316)[383] b0bbles (317)[384] senoirita backstabbe (318)[385] senoirita backstabbe [386] macabre devil (319)[387] alberto mkoll (320)[388] blokia (321)[389] zaneth orin (322)[390] uko's land (323)[391] gordak land (324)[392] mibad (325)[393] alice silversong (326)[394] davethedog (327)[395] dessa bevari (328)[396] taylor lautner (329)[397] le'kal (330)[398] felix lazlow (331)[399] katozyem (332)[400] jun'kizar (333)[401] lak'el (334)[402] giovannui (335)[403] sable lowell [404] serious internet politician [405] hells devils (336)[406] white ra (337)[407] coil sharpe (338)[408] saleen lee (339)[409] niddian ortamius (340)[410] dantaeri (341)[411] kbriggs (342)[412] mister direction (343)[414] dark hicquavideeum (344)[415] george camp (345)[416] iamsamsara (346)[417] arkhan novikov (347)[418] decimah (348)[419] soubie maeed (349)[420] lois bourne (350)[421] e80386 [422] neith boucle (351)[423] lloir (352)[424] kally staliete (353)[425] richard willington (354)[426] marshal georgy zhukov (355)[427] hassish (356)[428] adora belle audeles (357)[429] cividan (358)[430] skaxo (359)[431] djakonn (360)[432] commander criton (361)[433] woogsaghk (362)[434] sip[435] sip[436] sip[437] jhoanna stone (363)[438] sip[439] sip[440] sip[441] sip[442] skilluuhh[443] wraithkiller (364)[444] herr wallenquist (365)[445] blaun bongs (366)[446] alia idaho (367)[447] elijah xtock (368)[448] 1337sushi (369)[449] tronk drokar (370)[450] teylaemmagan (371)[451] karthak deth (372)[452] ship wreak (373)[453] klrazy13omber (374)[454] princess wensicia (375)[455] rachel luttrell (376)[456] klrazy13omber[457] data minmatar (377)[458] castina (378)[459] bunny jumping (379)[460] skilluuhh[461] spider fly (380)[462] skilluuhh (381)[463] thorensen (382)[464] grimmsbeard (383)"
"iamsamsara and i support this product and or service."
"prize pool two[post number] referrer (ticket number)[208] cheese nippels (1)[209] cheese nippels (2)[210] cheese nippels (3)[211] cheese nippels (4)[213] cheese nippels (5)[240] witchkingofangmar (6)[253] hachi ironfist (7)[264] saraell tellon (8)[274] saraell tellon (9)[277] sloany1979 (10)[278] sloany1979 (11)[280] tanith yarndemon (12)[281] tanith yarndemon (13)[282] tanith yarndemon (14)[283] tanith yarndemon (15)[284] tanith yarndemon (16)[285] misslycka (17)[289] tanith yarndemon (18)[290] tanith yarndemon (19)[299] nypheas azurai (20)[308] noxiotious (21)[311] ref'tal (22)[313] catalytic morphisis (23)[320] soluslunes (24)[324] w3370pi4 (25)[325] trizan (26)[326] sarah reese (27)[341] dr karsun (28)[347] worpout (29)[350] worpout (30)[352] nimbat (31)[356] phrinsar asnurich (32)[359] lilgreenbag (33)[377] asyyra (34)[384] b0bbles (35)[387] b0bbles (36)[388] b0bbles (37)[389] b0bbles (38)[391] zaneth orin (39)[393] mibad (40)[413] dark hicquavideeum (41)[414] tus (42)[415] garkonite (43)[417] tanith yarndemon (44)[418] tanith yarndemon (45)[420] tanith yarndemon (46)[421] soubie maeed (47)[422] tanith yarndemon (48)[424] tanith yarndemon (49)[426] richard willington (50)[428] richard willington (51)[431] richard willington (52)[434] iamsamsara (53)[443] alia idaho (54)[444] white ra (55)[445] skilluuhh (56)[447] skilluuhh (57)[448] skilluuhh (57)[449] skilluuhh (58)[450] skilluuhh (59)[451] skilluuhh (60)[452] alia idaho (61)[453] herr wallenquist (62)[454] alia idaho (63)[455] alia idaho (64)[457] alia idaho (65)[459] alia idaho (66)[461] alia idaho (67)[464] thorensen (68)"
"soe shareholder draw[post] character (ticket number)[4] fire elf (1)[5] brother stud (2)[6] de bug2 (3)[7] shackdavid (4)[8] ramingo (5)[9] boddin (6)[11] tehebil1 (7)[13] olroth (8)[14] jawarrior2010 (9)[16] deadly baby (10)[17] iella wesirri (11)[18] quigon jimm (12)[19] viktor klimenko (13)[20] aloe cloveris (14)[21] raven koran (15)[22] lilgreenbag (16)[23] valamarth morgurth (17)[24] general beanflicker (18)[26] silentleaf (19)[27] donatien de'sade (20)[31] phreakinout (21)[32] phreakinrockmuncher (22)[34] edward harris (23)[35] barbaro55a (24)[36] kalnov (25)[37] operator dano (26)[40] lederstrumpf (27)[41] xydros (28)[42] mr waran (29)[43] erimisha (30)[44] caliwyrm o'libr (31)[45] annaborn (32)[47] tremor brash (33)[48] onyth (34)[50] hadiax (35)[51] whiteghostbear (36)[53] lejaro (37)[55] hirschg (38)[56] zirkur (39)[58] tuttomenui ii (40)[63] gx307 (41)[64] kinkouin168 (42)[65] darkancient (43)[66] morwen lagann (44)[67] yukii matasake (45)[68] moppin miner (46)[70] patri andari (47)[73] krazyjames (48)[74] ospie (49)[76] sor'val (50)[78] troyd23 (51)[79] sutjin (52)[80] andrea griffin (53)[82] hannah tyrie (54)[84] wempire (55)[85] cheese nippels (56)[86] dextrust (57)[89] jason longshadow (58)[92] thiridae morgurth (59)[93] mr vm (60)[95] neoscience (61)[96] dark soldat (62)[97] greymouse (63)[98] caldarian admiral (64)[99] 3rr0rc0d3 (65)[100] uchihaitachii (66)[101] ironpole ironpole (67)[102] sawako (68)[104] tharill dasai (69)[105] haydin lightspeed (70)[106] washukanni (71)[107] kirki (72)[110] tek909 (73)[111] depitaros (74)[112] aviamond (75)[113] najo temp (76)[114] caldari silence (77)[116] ifinity (78)[117] chaney08 (79)[118] khornne (80)[120] kaiken vitae (81)[121] senjo ling (82)[123] sinister borris (83)[124] boge (84)[125] zackel ellesar (85)[126] iced earth (86)[127] skilluuhh (87)[128] garishwinner (88)[129] garalan (89)[130] morf mokulov (90)[131] yarda do'urden (91)[132] planetary genocide (92)[133] yonna (93)[134] joop (94)[135] tygoka (95)[137] gaius slade (96)[138] zin leya (97)[139] magnelien (98)[141] loula belle (99)[142] cuhlen (100)[144] random27 (101)[146] targuth (102)[148] simmonite (103)[149] mark726 (104)[150] zalajin (105)[151] lakasha nachthexen (106)[152] aesic (107)[153] tythihoz (108)[154] shadeow (109)[155] donhel (110)[157] xclusive (111)[158] kinghybrid (112)[159] okawa jericotorques (113)[160] arden elenduil (114)[161] madmat (115)[164] xeradeph (116)[165] ragnar stormbringer (117)[166] imiarr timshae (118)[167] malefectra (119)[168] zaphor reed (120)[172] petra darklander (121)[173] haul 5000 (122)[174] egola (123)[175] silverdog (124)[177] heift (125)[179] xodd hil (126)[180] mahai ano (127)[181] nelleien (128)[182] shmak datash (129)[186] entrox (130)[187] deezel swoopfast (131)[190] pandamoneum666 (132)[191] x3r0n (133)[192] mr zver (134)[193] kozahgii (135)[195] tesla grass (136)[196] maxus mekkus (137)[201] kamdem (138)[251] quygen (139)[253] ravion magnus (140)[259] sable lowell (141)[313] ref'tal (142)[322] w3370pi4 (143)[330] exordium8 (144)[331] xmdmx (145)[333] kithran (146)[334] rama sirius (147)[335] zach 101 (148)[336] jacqd (149)[337] herschel yamamoto (150)[340] dr karsun (151)[342] molesty smurf (152)[343] quazal atreides (153)[344] without hope (154)"
"soe shareholder draw cont...[post] character (ticket number)[345] scalar angulargf (155)[354] mindblow (156)[355] derivative mind (157)[356] archer89 (158)[360] nakami choukimee (159)[368] halnabo (160)[369] atheistoffail (161)[378] alienta dia (162)[380] dr alvin (163)[381] drift past (164)[386] macabre devil (165)[394] davethedog (166)[397] le'kal (167)[398] felix lazlow (168)[399] katozyem (169)[400] jun'kizar (170)[401] lak'el (171)[402] giovannui (172)[407] coil sharpe (173)[418] decimah (174)[427] hassish (175)[443] wraithkiller (176)[445] blaun bongs (177)[446] alia idaho (178)[447] elijah xtock (179)[448] 1337sushi (180)[449] tronk drokar (181)[450] teylaemmagan (182)[451] karthak deth (183)[452] ship wreak (184)[454] princess wensicia (185)[455] rachel luttrell (186)[457] data minmatar (187)[459] bunny jumping (188)[461] spider fly (189)"
"signature curation(if you name is not on this list, you aren't eligable for the bonus sig plex)fire elf general beanflicker planetary genocide tesla grass lisaaa d3inon saraell tellon ravion magnus darkprevelation woogsaghk nepenthisgeneral infoall mistakes are my own and i will do my best to catch any errors before the draw but errors caught after the draws will not change the results, so if you see something, point it out before the 30th.entries are still open to all events until 23:59 except for the forum sig event which is already closed and its entrants listed above."
"i support this product and or service!+ i have share!"
"alia idaho and i support this product and or service"
"ooo this is my polaroid entry -> please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"skilluuhh and i support this product and or service!+ i have share!"
"i support this product and or service"
"skilluuhh and i support this product and or service!+ i have share!"
"skilluuhh and i support this product and or service!+ i have share!"
"skilluuhh and i support this product and or service!+ i have share!"
"i support this product and or servicehave a share"
"skilluuhh and i support this product and or service!"
"alia idaho and i support this product and or service"
"[herr wallenquist] and i support this product and or service!please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"alia idaho and i support this product and or service"
"alia idaho and i support this product and or service"
"niceplease visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"alia idaho and i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service."
"alia idaho and i support this product and or service"
"my entry for portrait thingy"
"alia idaho and i support this product and or service"
"and here my second entry for polaroid thingy"
"i support this product and or service."
"thorensen and i support this product and or service"
"i will be travelling interstate when the campaign ends.good luck to all candidates, it has been fun, fun, fun all the way.especially good luck to windy, his goon made campaign speech will contnue to haunt my children's sleep long after he has won."
"my god, windypops is doing so well at trolling this csm election cycle.i love it so much."
"cool, maybe this csm term will actually be interesting."
"i still  goons, would have voted for goons, but know a cool dude running so voted for him instead."
"blatant bump without even the pretense of adding to the discussion.except to say, gl jon."
"well the elections are almost over and i am happy with the way things are shaping up.congratualtions to all teh other candidates and good luck on the final results.if there is anyone still out there that has not voted for me ... then please do so.i will see you all on the otherside of the counting process."
"entertaining but utterly biased column ;-)aaah, the old \"but they want to destroy our nullsec by taking away our jbs\" argument...btw, helen highwater was also present at that meeting ;-)i hope i do get in csm 6 so we can have the opportunity to discuss this whole 0.0 thing again"
"tl:dritt: attention seeker seeks attention."
"no scam ever pulled by any goon has ever come close to the level of pubbie tears that this csm run has created.gg"
"counterpoint: disband of brothers, csm1, t20 threadnaught.while amusing, this csm run has been little more than entertainment while we wait for someone new to destroy."
"insecure much?"
"sorry, i voted for someone outside goon."
"<3 goons unironically talking about pubbies. we all know that paying for sa membership fee makes one ~elite~"
"good article."
"went to the site pretty much expecting a self serving, biased article ... i was right"
"speaking of divisive personalities... i like how mittens thinks he will be more effective than jade constantine. hell, because of who he is, he might even be *less* effective, which would be a hoot in itself.at least this election cycle has provided some good forum pron."
"i has an sa account, i've played other games with goons, confirming they are the pubbie's pubbies."
"i know its a long shot, but if the mits didnt get his pubbie grubbies into csm-6..how would we ever stop laughing? a potentially serious medical concern.-windjammer"
"i think this is the cue for mittani to go all xanatos gambit about how tth page views ultimately benefit him."
"in case your vote-match result didn't suit you so well then vote for ms pacman.ms pacman the fix nullsec csm, more challenge for pirates and empire corporations"
"this is a wonderful resource, dierdra. as a relative newcomer to the world of eve, i could not have possibly gleaned from all the candidate statements how strongly they felt about the wide range of issues facing the csm. csm vote match helped me avoid the common mistake of selecting a well-spoken candidate who happens to support gameplay revisions to which i am diametrically opposed.the vote match is a great starting point, and i am grateful i did not have to read every candidate statement or personal web page before voting. thank you!"
"why must people always compare csm elections to rl government elections, people in rl get one vote, people in eve get one vote per account, that alone makes the current process comical.may as well do it like those ****ty reality tv shows so that players decide who gets in and ccp decides who stays"
"there's something wrong on the % values, pretty visible when looking at the 2 last numbers.i checked some others number and so you give value with 2 decimals while your base value seems to change between 344k and 351k... o_o"
"oh hey, idea.... make voting mandatory. even if its just to abstain, once voting starts, bring the vote box up on the client login and don't let them continue to the game until a vote has been cast."
"john, the 22:00 hrs update pls :)and the closing one at 00:00 hrs"
"pathetic goon mindwar failed. voted for trebor."
"many thanks, i do need them..."
"* the skill-training queue was a csm initiative.really? , this idea has been around since launch, csm input =0 * the csm helped the players give ccp a corporation-wide wake-up call in the summer of 2010, resulting in ccp allocating more resources to supporting and improving old content.outcome =0 * the recent removal of learning skills was implemented almost exactly as the csm suggested.again, been around since day 1, csm input =0 * csm and player pressure about performance issues encouraged ccp to create a special group, team gridlock, dedicated to the \"war on lag\".hahahahahahahahahahaha war for lag more like * csm crowdsourcing and prioritization efforts resulted in many csm-sponsored game fixes being released in incursion, and the allocation of team bff to the task of \"fixing potholes\" during the current development cycle.too many meaningless buzzwords to make any sense of this **** * csm lead the effort to ensure than any micro-transactions added to eve would be limited to vanity items.csm sould have stopped this altogether, micro-transactions = crap this isn't zero, its negative * csm encouraged ccp to implement staged release plans, as was used in incursion and will be used with incarna.ccp realised at last that they aren't good at releasing lots of changes at the same time - then said the csm helped them figure this out?p.s. 'encouraged' ?csm is like gaddafi's cabinetutterly pointless"
"indeed, some think of the csm as something like this: linkageof course some of us actually read the csm minutes and i wish more did the same. its not about just throwing your ideas at ccp and ban hammering any bad suggestions ccp gives you. its really about knowing the mechanics behind eve as well as knowing what is resonably possible for ccp to do. the more both parties understand each other's limitations the less wasted breath there will be in such discussions. its when newb csm members get in and start spewing nonsense ideas/suggestions that things turn sour. there are things sour on ccp's side as well in that developmental resources have already been allocated and it can be hard to get any good suggestion/idea somewhat into the development process. this is why we need more people like you in the csm to provide balance and at least some insight into what would actually happen from a players perspective when certain mechanics are put into the game. and i'm sure you push for action against bots and rmt just as much as the next guy. however, if i don't see or hear anything of significant substance about what ccp is doing about such activities during fanfest: i am disappointi had voted for you before you sent that mail i hope you get reinstated to the csm, you are needed. edit: darius, buying/scamming votes is just silly"
"ok meissa anunthiel i voted for ya. now csm people, maybe give us some pvp without the blob. mkay?"
"since the majority of eve doesn't vote (especially empire), scamming people into voting is a good way to get a free plane ticket.darius will come out on top too, you'll see, i'd bet a plex for it!"
"meissa knows more about the mechanics of the game than anyone, probably including some of the devs. all you have to do is review meissa's forum posts to see who you should vote for."
"i've never heard of her (him?) until this election. /shrugon topic about the csm: i've had more development impact alone than all the csm sessions put together."
"no, i haven't. i would give you my chat logs but everyone knows they can be faked. in fact i was the one wanting to scam him, to give me the plex first and vote for someone else later :).in these conditions a vote for csm is useless and i shall vote for none."
"you shall be the source for lolz, and you sir, truly are."
"as long as i'm the n1 source, it's ok with me :)"
"he is rooks and kings.therfore should be banned from csm."
"ok so i voted and he sent me the plex. this is not a scam."
"if you're prepared to have your vote bought, you should be equally prepared to have your vote stolen."
"i'm curious as to why you think that?we don't smack, we make nice videos, we fight outnumbered 2:1 or 3:1.if anything, the attitude, knowledge and skill we display should be reason to vote, not the opposite."
"listen to yourself, your reasoning is the very reasons people shouldn't vote for a bunch of clownshoe like you (and indirectly, r&k) for csm.nice videos? surely you mean, \"videos where we chase after the zen of uptightness, with the narration of david attenborough-wannabes\"?"
"do not vote for csm candidates that spam local chat in game. that is what i do, block and do not vote for them.ps: miilla for csmpps: if you convo hemp invader to give your vote, you could win a plex!"
"i don't like people buying votes because i have enough of it in rl.i also don't like those who jump all over high sec spamming to vote them.finally i don't like those who mass mail, it's actually forbidden by ccp terms of service.so, what csm candidate does not fall in the 3 above and still has a vague idea about how eve works?"
"actually when i have encountered rooks and kings in low sec you guys smacked like little babies. just saying."
"shame all the good replies never get credit, well done"
"thanks for letting me know about this candidate and on further investigation his position.6 votes for darius iii."
"funny thing is, he posted this email to me too, or should i say to another alt (or main depending on how you view it) that i haven't posted on the forums with for years, so either he reads old old posts or he somehow has some inside way of knowing who my main is, versus who i mostly post with."
"you pay attention to jita local"
"sending excessive e-mails is a tos violation, petition rules & policies -> harassment."
"he gave me my plex also after i voted for him, no scamone darius ( as csm ) to rule them all."
"indeed, hence why i cleared the matter with gms before sending messages.but really, if you were offended, i'm sorry. it should be obvious the email wants to be informative in nature, not inflamatory. most of the replies i received were \"thank you\" or questions."
"your finished contracts are open for all to see, don't have to be a genius to figure out a main if you have a regular supply traffic via contracts to/from your alt.also if you bought a character from the bazaar mr. google knows it."
"confirming that i am that candidate. confirming that i am a suicide ganker with over 1 trillion isk in suicide ganks confirming that i never ever bought votes. confirming that i offered to buy votes confirming that those i offered to give plex to for their vote-will never receive them (cold dead hands). confirming that ccp likes my style as i got more people who would have not voted without me (*smirk*) having scammed them into voting. sorry for the trillion threads i swear not one is me or my pr agent(s). read the non banned non locked c+p thread to see how i infuriated so many people and trolled them to a froth. literally: me \"please do not make forum post\" him: \"someone already did make forum post.\" me: please dont make second one-it would crush my campaign.\" lolz 999 darius threads and not one out of my camp. lolz sorry ccp mods win lose or draw- i kept my only election promise-\"to have fun with the election process.\" i do love you guys. protip> op was scammed by me out of my vote: looking thru logs. this whole thread is by a liar about failed to \"sell\" his vote about a suicide ganker, fraudster, pirate and known troll. he is worse than han solo from star trek"
"moved from general discussion"
"] hemp invader > hope you lose"
"excessive evemails means a lot of mails to you, not one mail to a bunch of people... you ****ing moron."
"epic!"
"confirming that darius iii gives plex for votes. he also gives a wicked reach-around."
"so by your logic, if you send 50k mails one to each player, it wouldn't be excessive? hahahah!"
"i know i would never do anything similar while running for a csm seat, but i have to say spamming and scamming are the sort of shenanigans i've come to expect in eve. i can only hope it really didn't net any votes, but there are those that play eve assuming \"you'll never go broke underestimating the intelligence of the average eve player\".... ;-)issler dainze"
"i stole hundreds of votes by scamming scrubs. and hundreds more voted for me becasue they approved. also: the game o/"
"guys, this is totally a lie. i voted for darius and he sent a plex to each of my accounts that i voted with. he's just trying to maintain his scammer-cred, but tell your friends that you will definitely get a plex for each vote you give to darius."
"last day of voting in upon usif you're looking for a pvp candidate, and for whatever reason you value killmails, i'm apparently on more than a thousand this month. yea that's totally relevant~seriously though if i place i have a pretty sweet victory speech written so you probably want to vote if only to read it. my \"welp i failed\" speech is significantly ****tier, it's basically \"welp i failed\""
"hope you get elected and serious candidates like you with the best intentions for the game in mind and no personall agenda."
"1. i love gallente ships, and there's no question that both gallente ships in general and hybrid weapons in particular need re-balancing. i've written a long blog post about this. when the subject comes up before the csm, i will strongly support such a re-balancing. may it come soon.2. i spent more than a year as part of the empire recruiting corp for a 0.0 corp. in that position, i ran a weekly l4 mission group for new members of that corp, most of them new eve players. i was running l4 missions weekly when the mission loot/drone loot nerf hit last year. in my opinion, the nerf was taken too far. i understand why it was done, but i think it hurt people who just want to play eve casually in empire. that said, mission-running is one of the aspects of the game that needs some new attention. many of the missions need to be re-balanced or re-leveled, and it would be nice to have some new missions written.3. i've written a post earlier in this thread about my ideas for low-sec."
"i am with you"
"your quick, helpful response to my issue with ccp's treatment of factional warfare puts real-life politicians to shame. i'm voting for you and my friends will all be advised to do the same."
"first of all, negotiating tactics that are appropriate for a political or business negotiation between two parties with power are almost never appropriate for situations csm usually deals with.we don't have power; we have influence. csm gains more influence by repeatedly proving it is a useful business tool for ccp -- the more csm does that, the more likely it is that groups within ccp will consult csm on a more frequent basis, listen to our advice, and take it into account.staking out an extreme negotiating position is pointless because all it does is provide ammunition for the :lolcsm: argument. and it's foolish because it's not a negotiation in the first place, it's a seduction."
"is that not a tad contradictoryyou spend most of this thread proposing solutions , giving the impression these are things you want to push to have implemented. but now you say the csm does not negotiate, the csm does not have power, the csm tries to beg and 'seduce' ccp to make changes? and this is ok with you? i wont drag this on indefinately: i am sure you wil work hard if elected, you definately seem to take the whole thing very seriously, but i can not agree with your goals or your approach. so best of luck, but my vote goes elsewhere."
"i don't think its contradictory at all.the csm has influence. the candidates post their opinions on the directions they want their influence to work in and why they will make certain choices when dealing with ccp. trebor has a great track record working on the csm. whether you agree with him on every point or not doesn't matter. whats imnportant is that he understands the csm process and will work in everybody's interests.unlike other candidates who make great pronouncements with little real substance, launch smear campaigns and rely on the bloc votes of their alliance peons to prop up their own personal ego."
"as i told trebor in some private correspondence, character still matters to me. i would much rather place my vote with someone that i disagree with on some issues but is an honest person who listens and tries to make a well informed decision. compare this to other candidates who run smear campaigns and will promise you the moon (an r64 one, at that) for your vote just to get elected.i don't begrudge those who have the backing of a large alliance. after all, a large alliance represents a lot of players and they deserve to have their say in front of ccp as much as anyone else. the problem comes when those elected have only the interest of their alliance in mind.the csm, being a committee, means that the members have to play nice with others. if they don't then there isn't a point in having a csm at all."
"i really would appreciate it if you would do me the courtesy of misrepresenting my positions in a more skillful manner, sikhtar. you obviously have the skill to do it, and the fact that you're not trying your best is... well, it makes me sad. you well know that (a) the discussions in this thread about particular mechanics were not started by me, (b) they refer to suggestions i made in the previous campaign, and (c) i don't push my own personal ideas at the csm level.csm doesn't get things done by telling ccp to do things. it gets things done by demonstrating to ccp that it is in their best interests to do something that the players want."
"just a message of support to say good luck selene.csm6 is probably the most important csm yet and we need the best people we can get on board."
"you get all 5 of my votes!!i'll see you in space.globi"
"you have got mine vote too, if that matters.but please - do humor me and share your thoughts about those never-seen t3 frigs."
"3.0"
"i could simply say, \"yes.\" to this, as i do believe all of the above need looking at, but the issue is much larger than just one race or set of modules. i want to see a fully dedicated live balance team that does not get pulled off to work on shiny butterfly fotm new features. if we can get that, then issues like this would resolve themselves over time through an ever-evolving balance process.i would like to see a complete overhaul of the agent system. i touched a bit on that in this post.two very neglected aspects of eve. you might enjoy reading my reply here as it details my mindset on this issue.every vote matters and thank you. as for t3 frigs, your guess is as good as mine. they were hinted at in the keynote presentation at fanfest in oct 2009; it's been two years since the release of apochrypha and t3 cruisers. one would think that one of the more popular bits of game play ever released would have seen some form of iteration by now, amirite?this is exactly the kind of thing i am trying to win a csm seat over - i want to ask these questions on your behalf and i want to see the game play we have now and enjoy today be finished and balanced.the last ccp tweet said that there are 47816 votes so far. please poke everyone you know to get out there and vote!"
"best of luck, seleene.  will be interesting to see how the results pan out. it's been a pretty rough ride this year."
"el'niaga, you're so ignorant. lemme educate you. when seleene was an eve dev players loved his ideas and when he left players were asking ccp to bring him back. for months people were repeatedly saying on forums, 'bring seleene back.'so el'niaga, point your hate towards yourself for being uninformed. seleene was a respected and admired dev. and i hope he doesn't need your vote to get on the counsil."
"anyone know if i'm winning because if not i'm going back to bed.also what do i get if i win?"
"i will only support this if i can get kelley to take care of my fish because i won't remember and they will die."
"ok, just voted all 3 of my accounts for you.best of luck."
"last chance to remind everyone to vote!i hope i get a chance to represent the industrialist, small corp or solo player, folks interested in seeing low sec improved and the general \"carebear\" pilots of eve.elect me and i will do right by you!issler dainzethe voice of reason csm candidate"
"huge thanks to everyone that supported me!i hope i am given the opportunity to represent you in the csm!issler dainze"
"i use aura for android but its really only useful for displaying pilot skill queues. i would love to see an ap that has more useful features like being able to check and send ingame mail. to the best of my understanding, the current api parameters do not allow for these kinds of features. is there any chance we could get some leeway here for a more interactive mobile management interface?"
"1. as one of the developers of the current shader architecture (dx team member through dx 9.0) i guess the question i'd ask is how many players this change will affect? a small number i expect and i can tell you the jump in the shader revision provides the developer a lot more capabilities.2. definitelyissler dainze"
"1. no. upgrade, there no reason why development time should be spent working around old architecture. if you want to play something on your p2, play solitare.2. no. largely because what the public sees and what actually happens are typically clouded special thanks to ndas."
"soon but in the meantime here's how i think it'll end up being stitched.mittenskrutojvile ratwhite treehelen highwaterkiller2seleenetreboruakxxxxxadaddeasxxxx"
"your post just shows how much you pay attention to this game and its community.results will not be posted until the 30th, unless stated otherwise.thanks, and don't forget to vote prom4csm before it's too late."
"what?oh, you're mad he didn't include you."
"ok came back early! :)vote for butch! last push! :)"
"last day of voting...\"i am not a crook.... :)\" - richard nixon\"ask not what your country can do for you\"... jfk\"tear down these walls..\" ronald regan\"read my lips...\" george hw bush\"ahhhhhhhhhh...\" bill clinton! :)good luck to all! great voting run this year!butch leupold!"
"let me preface this by saying i haven't been asked by anybody to do this in order to promote him. i'm writing this post simply because i'm bored and figure that my posting isn't quite terrible enough that your eyes will melt.if you don't live in nullsec, and specifically the nc, you probably don't know who i am. within the nc and test's allies i'm slightly infamous; mainly because i yell and scream obscenities constantly on voice comms and partially because i trolled own alliance into caving in and being shipped off to the kalevala expanse to forever live as a buffer against the russian horde. i have terrible killboard stats (as if they matter) and have purposely lost a one billion isk rifter to blues to further that opinion.i'm voting for the mittani for a few simple reasons. the primary reason that i'm voting for him is that he's realistic. he hasn't \"sugar-coated\" much of his campaign. he's been blunt, honest and generally straightforward with his opinions and objectives on the csm. he wants a large nullsec presence on the csm to avoid another situation of \"yeah you should get rid of jump bridges.\"even though nullsec only makes up about 10% of eve's population, i agree that the csm should consist of largely nullsec players. this is because of the impact nullsec has on the game. it is, in my opinion, the driving force behind eve's popularity. the majority of advertising ccp employs is nullsec related; whether it's massive fleet engagements, capital warfare, invasions or politics, most of their advertising revolves around the various entities that live in null-security space.the importance nullsec players have on the game is also astounding. the sheer volume of alternate characters that nullsec pilots have in low and high security space fuels the various areas of the game beyond the fauceting of level 4 and mining. supercapital engagements have even been known to spike the price of minerals throughout the entire game universe.no, mittens does not have an enormous vested interest in fixing faction warfare. he doesn't much care about balancing various lp stores, or tweaking highsec aggression mechanics such as neutral repairing. he's a nullsec candidate who is going to focus on null-security issues and general game design choices (the ui, for example). however, changes to nullsec have a loud, reverberating effect on the entire game, whether it's from manufacturing sovereignty modules instead of poses, the recent popularity of the maelstrom or the death of the sniper armor battleship, every shift in nullsec changes the game for everybody in a way that just isn't present with things like faction warfare or level 4 missioning.the final, and one of the most important reasons that i'm voting for the mittani is that he's intelligent. yes, you can say he's a goon. the fact that he's a goon doesn't change the fact that he brought goonswarm federation back from irrelevancy; you can say they were donated deklein by tcf. you can say they blobbed. but the fact is that running the largest alliance in the game across multiple timezones and languages is hard. the fact that he is able to consistently and effectively manage his alliance with realism and without ctas or forced ops is a respectable achievement. this gives me confidence that my vote to the mittani will not be a wasted one."
"hurf blurf please visit your user settings to re-enable images.maybe you should listen to what the man says"
"the dude makes so much money in real life he could afford to go somewhere a lot cooler than iceland a million times over. i don't think he cares too much about winning a free trip to hang out with some fat developer nerds in an overheated office in iceland so he can argue about video games."
"please show your alliance name when brown nosingalso, its been done ;)"
"how much money does an unemployed lawyer make??"
"don't be cruel to the guy, missing the point can happen"
"a ridiculously employable ex-corporate lawyer with residual income.also, i can show my alliance name on here?"
"you can't. i mean most people can but i'm told montolio has specifically asked that any time you post that your alliance is not displayed. this is for our safety of course."
"\"somewhere a lot cooler than iceland\"... the north pole perhaps*kaching*"
"i want a photo of mittens kissing a baby ('s fist).... vote for mittens!!!!!"
"last day to vote, vote krutoj !"
"an insightful read, even though we are red to each other, can't argue the man doesn't know his stuff.as regards destructable outposts, i think more in the lines of severely disabled until a new egg is dropped to repair it, but upgrades not lost.people could still dock but absolutely no services work and only to put items being held into current ship allowed."
"i do understand the sentiment, however i made sure nobody was contacted twice. one email a year hardly constitutes a major annoyance. especially when, in this case, it is relevant to current matters and directed at specific individuals.there are few venues for us to reach out to you, so i'm making use of what is available. (and yes, i've cleared this with the gms before sending mails out).judging from the feedback i've had, it's been more well received than not and the vast majority of replies were \"thank you\" rather than \"**** you\".but anyway, if that is deterrent enough for you to vote for me or trebor, i'm sure there are other viable candidates to vote for out there. seleene's not half bad, jonathon has merit, check their programs, see if anything suits you, but vote."
"i also don't have an issue with it. i have received a few mails from candidates. three, maybe four spread out over two weeks is very reasonable. many players never read the forums and, believe it or not, don't even know that the csm exists or that elections are going on.if you don't like people sending you mail then jack up your cspa charge. they'll probably skip over someone who is asking for 1 million isk."
"actually i was paying the 1 million isk cspa charges just to get the message out. so some people made well off it. all in all i have spend about 50-60 million isk on cspa charges, which is well worth it in my opinion to get more voters to the polls.like others have reported. most responses have been good. some few bad, for which i appologise and wish them well.most people are just happy i have reached out to them. had some really good conversations as a result of this program."
"reposting:"
"are you sure you know this game as well as you think you do? (yes, that's a rhetorical question - now go and read up on cspa charges)"
"made well, ment that they forced me to shell out isk. i know it goes to concord, not the character."
"ankh did this as well, but she was annoying in general."
"bump for a candidate who understands what makes eve great."
"\"low sec pirates are crybabies who are afraid of bubbles, or they would be in 0.0 to have some real pvp\"\"fw is a training class for real 0.0 pvp\"\"0.0 is every industrialist dream, they just don't realize it because they are to afraid to come, and hi-sec is too cosy. moving all lvl4 to lowsec should do the trick, and bring us more pets and/or targets to shoot at\"\"napfest are here for a reason: so we can make more profit and buid supercapitals without worrying about wars or depletion of ressources. and that's perfectly normal.\"\"nerfing jumbridges would kill 0.0, without them 0.0 life won't be bearable -at all-, we won't be able to move! in hi-sec they can move safely, it's unfair!!!\"\"dominion was a huge success, it brought lots of smaller alliances to 0.0, as expected.besides, they are our pets now, and it means more money without even having to effectively do anything but building supercaps to frighten them, everything's good, we can roam lowsec in deadspace fitted t3 fleets when we are bored and hotdrop 5 titans on a random drake fleet for the fun\"tired of hearing that from 0.0 players?see why they can't understand empire players?want empire to be represented in csm6?vote for me :-)"
"yes that's a beautiful example of a straw man argument."
"thanks for the free bump :-)you're right, but i think it's clear enough it's an overemphasis, so..."
"pity bump"
"you know you're desperate when..."
"mittens' emorage is subtle and sophomoric. rather like a young student who's just figured out that the student council president can't really do anything about lessening the amount of homework or getting better food in the lunchroom, and decides that the student council is therefore worthless."
"no, see, in order for an insult about reading skills to have any weight, the person saying it has to not demonstrate their cluelessness in that very comment. mittens said, correctly, that ccp treats the csm as a focus group. that doesn't mean that they don't care about them, just that they care about them only as a focus group. this is basic. then again, as you're still hunting after a conspiracy theory, maybe that point is lost."
"the assertion made that you referenced (\"they're lying to you\") is very much referring to the csm candidates who are promising all kinds of shiny stuff and new features, not ccp.mittens asserts that ccp are treating csm as a focus group not a stakeholder. this is somewhat distinct from asserting that they don't care about it.politics are crap, largely because people misinterpret and extrapolate what others say, and then hold them to those misinterpretations/extrapolations, kiddo. vote for me - i like to make sure we're all clear on exactly what people do and don't say."
"funfact: the above quote can be said about everything associated with humans, when dealing with any game mechanics, honestly do you even know what 'human nature' means?also if eve was the only game out there, people may have believed your ******ed / generic reply, however since it isnt only the flying monkeys & sheeps will believe your bull****."
"funfact: the plural of sheep is sheep.seriously though, human nature (ie, what it means to be human, how humans naturally think/act) guides game design considerably, but ultimately whatever mechanics are put in place will take second place to guide what players do than what they are inherently conditioned to do anyway.one really cool aspect of eve is the sandbox - giving people a persistent world to go explore and play around with, but ultimately they're not playing with the game, they're playing with each other. the mechanisms in place support this at every turn.this is a social game where the content is provided by the players. if you don't like that there are plenty of \"theme park\" mmos which guide players actions a lot more (and therefore aren't as susceptible to the effects of human nature), but they are artificial and arbitrary. currently, eve is neither of those things.adding game mechanisms to limit how players interact with each other (eg blobbing) will fundamentally change what eve is, throwing the baby out with the bath water as it were.i thought the previously posted summary would be enough to convey the gist of this message, but apparently not.what might be nice is if you actually addressed the issues rather resorting to petty personal attacks. is that too much to ask?"
"ccp dont change lowsec, because of human natureccp dont change fw, because of human natureccp dont change anything in eve, because of human natureccp since everyone wants to survive just prevent ships from dying by making it impossible to kill ships / pods.what i mean is, changes arent needed because of human nature, so therefore dont change because of human needs, make sense? no thought not :pimigo, guess what theres a difference between real life and make believe and theres a huge difference between need and want, know the difference and maybe you will understand why the game mechanics are at fault"
"how lowsec works is a game mechanic and can be modified by ccphow fw works is a game mechanic and can be modified by ccphow sov works is a game mechanic and can be modified by ccphow moon mining works is a game mechanic and can be modified by ccpblobbing and number warfare (what your original complaint that i referenced was about) is not a game mechanic or an effect of game mechanics, it is an effect of human nature.try not to put words into other people's mouths just so you can argue a different point that they never made in the first place."
"once again you have said 'human nature' and fail to see how saying that can be said about anything a person does, you may as well have said \"players in eve do stuff because of human nature\".then do explain oh wise one why blobbing aka number warfare in huge 2k+ numbers doesnt happen in hisec, why whs arent blobbed with extreme numbers and why you will only hear about huge mega numbers in 0.0you can try and word it to benefit your cause, but it makes no difference, but dont think for a second anyone is going to fall for your \"number warfare happens because we are all human and need to survive and it has nothing todo with the mechanics of 0.0\" and expect people to believe it.in a game where risk / reward are balanced with every action, explain how 0.0 mega naps can blue everything within 60 jumps, get numbers past 2000 (just with half of their coalition) and not have any penalties for having 55k people naped, you guys complain about hi-sec mission runners all the time but the fact of the matter is, you are no different to them.in an internet spaceship game, human needs arent always taken into consideration, otherwise you would have had to feed your nap train, now thats human nature too. are you saying to ccp that you want to age, have hunger, get ill in game? i mean if we have to include everything in human nature we would have to include those, which is fine since im all for a nc famine.fact of the matter is, it is the mechanics that allow huge mega to form and why 0.0 is only affected by gigantic mega naps.what needs to change in the mechanics is timers and sov warfare (claiming a system), atm timers allow coalitions alot of time to form and blob in numbers only another coalition can match, sov warfare focuses on one system where battles end in blob vs blob vs structure.if sov warfare and timers were changed to make it faster in claiming a system and involved alot of movement (no jump bridging to a random system via a titan then sitting there for 10 hours isnt considered movement).there will be people who say \"well the nap wouldnt break it will just have alot of mini fleets everywhere\", while this is true everyone else can manage mini fleets, only nc and drf can manage 2000+ in numbers.naps would be naps and not \"hey we should blue because meatshields are best friends, yo\", i mean the whole idea of a nap is non-aggression but all we see are naps being renters and pets, there as cannon fodder.oh and one last thing, ccp and the previous csm including vuk lau all stated in the last csm minutes that the mechanics in 0.0 were in short ****, the warfare was limited to shooting structures so i cant really see why you are trying to convince people number warfare naturally happens and ccp cant do anything about it, especially when it is an obvious problem.tldr-- blobbing happens and someone will always get blobbed, number warfare (numbers > numbers > numbers) happens because of ****ty mechanics that limits movement, reduces warfare to structure and forces new alliances to pick a side rather than be independent. timers allow mega huge numbers to form, they also make the enemy focus on one system, they also prevent dead alliances (which have been dead for weeks) from dying, are you really telling people that the mechanics arent at fault here."
"i'm going to attempt to write this whole post without using the b word because its used pretty consistantly to mean 'any fleet bigger than what i can form'. but first i'm going to crosspost this from another thread because it seems pretty applicable here.bringing more people needs to work because otherwise you end up in a game where only people in t3 ships with massive entitlement complexes are allowed to pvp.wormholes and highsec aren't fought over by large fleets because anyone with the organisation to form one is out in 0.0. wormholes also don't stay connected to the same place long enough and aren't able to support more than a couple of people at once.human nature != biological needsthere are very few people who think the current sov mechanics aren't broken, but giant coalitions existed before dominion and will continue to exist long after its fixed. you are exactly the kind of person i was concerned about being a csm candidate in trebor's thread. you're mad because your 7 man corp can't claim space that a 5000 man alliance wants so you're willing to accept solutions which massively compromise the vision of eve because they also further your 'waaa people have more friends than me its not fair' agenda."
"you really must stop putting words in other people's mouths and arguing with points that haven't been made.i've never complained about high-sec mission runners, i've never said the mechanics of 0.0 are perfect, and i've never suggested that human needs should be modelled in the game. you seem to be asserting that i have, and providing counter points to that.i also haven't said that ccp can't do anything about blobbing/number warfare, i said that eve is a game where content is provided by the players, and preventing that (ie arbitrarily preventing players from forming groups) would make it more of a \"theme park\" mmo, which it currently isn't and shouldn't be.what you have said, is that \"the current mechanics promote blobbing and number warfare\".what i have said is that it's not the game mechanics that promote blobbing and number warfare, it's human nature. you can change the mechanics all you want, but people will always find a way to get safety in numbers (due to human nature) if that's what they want (which it seems they do).don't go confusing human nature with human need, they are quite different things.why doesn't it happen in high sec you ask? one possible explanation is that people in highsec don't need to defend their access to their territory (it's not really theirs as such), the game does that for them.why doesn't blobbing/numbers warfare happen in wormholes? well that would be assuming that it doesn't, but to humour you if you look at the qen, you'll see that less people live in wormholes than anywhere else. also, moving around wormholes is inherently a lot more arduous (no gates). these points could go some way to explaining the perception that whs don't get blobbed so much. although try asking the targets of aharm whether or not they got blobbed...so again, please try to argue the points i have made."
"that's your gripe?you don't like that folks that have large numbers of allies can bring their full force to bear?welcome to mmo'swelcome to the real world.as much as blobs #### me off when i'm solo roaming?meh.fleets happen."
"imigo i replied to exactly what you said, i even quoted you on what i was replying to, i cant see how im putting words in your mouth when my reply was about mechanics and human nature.as for the people saying blob, if you bothered to read what i said (which obviously you never) i already mentioned that blobs will happen and will continue to, its number warfare where strategy is dependant on numbers > numbers > numbers and i guess \"who can get into the system the first and not lag out and die\".blobbing and number warfare are two different things :ponce you figured out the difference between the two let me know, after all blobbing is being outnumbered and number warfare is exploiting mechanics so that you are always ahead in numbers and your strategy is as simple as that, 0.0 favours this because of timers & structure bashing.i made it perfectly clear what my point was :p"
"timers exist to prevent smaller entities without 23 hour coverage having their space taken while they're asleep. going on a crusade against large alliances then bringing up timers really highlights how much you don't know what you're talking about.you really didn't. your post descended into almost unreadable white noise before the end."
":lol:you do know what aka means, don't you?"
"not really. having more friends than you do is not \"exploiting\" anything.if you must have issues with 0.0 people, take issue with the vocal portion of them that are arrogant self-entitled ****heads who think that 0.0 blob warfare is the only way to play the game and anyone who just wants to make a quiet living missioning in empire or mining or whatever the hell is a \"idiot pubbie\"."
"interesting observation by raph koster (ultima online/star wars galaxies) that 40% of players don't like pvp. this is an estimated and general (ie not specific to any game) value. eve still has it's appeal to these player types, which in a primarily pvp game is quite an impressive design feat."
"pirates and empire corps cast your votes on ms pacman"
"i'm totally better, and more qualified. just putting that out there."
"i am an empire player, and i spend 95% of my time in pvp, be it pirates against anti-pirates or wardecs.i'm anti-pirate myself, but i'm not biased at all: i need pirates to hunt them and have my fun, and i think there is not enough of them. how to have more pirates ? make lowsec really interesting for everyone!on the other hand i also think anti-pirates and all low-sec pvper who are not pirates should see their gamestyle improved, through killrights, wardecs, and fw improvement mostly.as for industrial empire corp, i play with them every single day, i assist them when they get waredecced, and i really know what their everyday life is like, why they don't usually like lowsec, and most importantly :why a lot of them don't want to move to 0.0 because it's not the endgame, something almost every 0.0 candidates just can't understand, and explain why they cannot represent you. 0.0 pvpers thinking low sec pirates are crybabies afraid of bubbles, i think everyone knows that... how could you think these candidates could represent you ever?if you want to know more about me, ask anything, or tell me what you think about anything, please come and tell me.eve mail preferred for today, but if i'm connected convo or \"nw public\" channel will do."
"all eve players, remember to cast your votes on gehen sealbreaker. seriously extreme/pacman, you should not give yourself such hard limitations."
"do you really want to go there again??also.. want my turn to hijack the thread to say im the best candidate for all play styles... and you should vote for mewhat?!?.. everyone else is doing it..."
"not empty quoting (vote for me instead)"
"no.. me!!!"
"... because we don't think1) anyone actually listens to you.2) any of you actually give a damn what the majority of players actually want.3) any of you are worth voting for.thank you for playing. have a safe flight to wherever your alliance sit around and hurhur about getting their guy on the 'team'.complete and utter waste of time."
"much like this thread"
"and indeed your haircut"
"siouxsie and the banshees are effin horrible, get better taste in music."
"happy house"
"in fact, i'm running to make the voice of the majority heard, when some minority tries to get all seats.reminder : empire players are the vast majority of eve players. sadly, they don't vote enough, thus they are not represented enough, and the vast majority of csm members are 0.0 players (most of them from powerbloc this year, i bet).want someone to represent the majority in csm ? vote for me then."
"start by reading what some of the candidates say, or learn to troll better. :)"
"what? did someone say something? oh sry.. thought i heard something, guess not.."
"last call to vote!vote through this link"
"you must be trollin', right ?"
"krutoj sadly didnt do much campaigning and i should have really made this thread a week ago, but no matter, 1 day left so why not, if you havent voted yet, krutoj would be a great choice.firstly i would like to mention that drf arent the source of rmt / botting and sadly due to propaganda by nc, the finger is sadly always pointed at them, not saying they dont have players who bot, but every alliance has some botters / rmt and singling out drf is pretty stupid.ok so it may or may not be obvious by now but nc have thrown in the towel in this drf vs nc invasion which in effect will kill them, now while this may not be something major, since lets face it, it is just another coalition beating a weak one (despite the weaker coalition (nc) having more numbers and isk), drf unlike nc dont have this obsession with taking over everything.as you probably know nc want to control all of the csm seats (as well as all of 0.0), whatever the true reason behind this nc invasion, we should actually look at how it changes 0.0, drf have no plans to control all of 0.0, though xix have some past friendship with goons, unlike nc when there was a goon conflict they never got involved. this is proof alone that 0.0 will be better, now that nc have surrendered to drf, this may seem a little confusing so i will put it in powerbloc / csm terms, after all this whole post is todo with csm and the future of eve.with nc gone, goons will most likely die to the first alliance that invades them, they have never been good without nc and it is very unlikely drf will save them, this opens up a lot of opportunities in the north and west where several alliances now have the freedom to create new friends, enemies and most important wars and drama :dthis is something that has been long expected, the 0.0 problems will still be there, but now the urge for an evil dictator to control all of 0.0 wont be, ofc drf will still be larger and strong but unlike nc they arent afraid to reset and probably will as they enjoy local combat.i for one thank krutoj and drf for making 0.0 a better place already and think he would make an excellent csm as he understands the balance even in this horribly broken game and already is making the game and 0.0 a better place through war and destruction.vote for krutoj and bring back small scale warfare in 0.0"
"while i certainly hope i've earned your vote, if i have not krutoj would be a great choice as well. he would do a good job on the csm."
"seriously! that isnt scamming, it's out and out trolling fools ! if people even stopped to think for 10 seconds, who in their right mind is going to give a plax for each vote they recieve - are people really this ***b ?if they really are (and it appears some must indeed be so), then good luck darius iii.5"
"i stole hundreds of votes. the suckers were coming at me so fast and furious i couldnt keep up with the convos. i had to tell my remote posters to chill for a minute! at one point i had 20 open windows most of which i snagged. made a few friends. best part was when it came time to find it that they were scammed. \"when will i get my plex?\" me \"when do you think....\" \"never\"please allow 999999 weeks for delivery.thanks and sorry! thanks for your vote sorry i had to steal it. loads of fun. free trip to iceland here i come. lols"
"i voted for him, because i like his style"
"i voted darius as well, for the amount of joy he has brought these forums."
"definately a great marketing ploy, nice work :p"
"at the end of the day, with the democratic process it doesn't matter how good your policies are, how qualified you are, or why people voted for you.all that matters is that enough people click the vote button beside your name.isn't democracy grand!?"
"so petition it.there's a good chance that it isn't allowed. ccp's stance is that in-context scamming, like selling a regular raven as a navy issue is ok. out of context scamming, like cheating on plex aid, is completely out of bounds."
"you are filled with bitterness and fail. don't be a hater. so some scrubs got gaffeled out of their vote. those scrubs who tried to sell their vote then got ripped off (ahhahah ahahahah ahhahaha) desreve everything they got. bless the morons for they are many. not to mention using their shattered sense of importance to fuel the butthurt-they made no less than eight separate posts using their very bones to fuel the pr engine. how does it feel scamming votes? very satisfying ps: leave brittany alone!!!! i know my rights!!!!!"
"in a way, it's in the spirit of eve.i personally think it is lame (albeit funny) for someone to do, but even more lame for someone to accept the offer and then come to the forums to complain about it. seriously, what did they expect?however, how many of those people just pretended to vote? : > har har, free plastic wrap, for whatever that's worth. if the plex was real then the forums would be full of, \"darius is an idiot, i didn't really vote for him but i got a free plex anyway, lulz, aren't i clever?\"much ado about nothing."
"personally i would have done a \"vote for me and ill vote twice for you!\" spam just for the sake of it."
"so you believe your circle of friends make eve what it is today? i'm a young alt, but my main does do all the same things. the confusion for me is this... you are trying to make the game easier for yourself to get kills in high sec... why? if i'm understanding it wrong, please explain it to me. back in 04 when i started, high sec was dangerous, mines( set it and forget it kinda stuff(get kill mails a few days later because they wouldn't disappear for random amounts of time)). m0o gate camping high sec routes popping sentry guns, concord, and passer-by's. ccp has since changed sentry's(indestructible), made concord almost 100% indestructible, and left high sec pvpers with suicide ganks as their only means of pvp without aggression or war decs. why would the industrialist want to step backwards?ccp will not go backwards. black ops ships don't help anyone in high sec atm, so that might be a good topic to touch bases on(yes i know it's a lowsec/nullsec ship). past that i don't see much else on the horizon...besides you wanting to make ganking industrialists easier in high sec(for your group).on a side note, i listened to a conversation between your \"group\" and some random in local. educated or not, they didn't know that you wanted to change black ops ships or even change the whole cap ship fleet battle/blob structure(they were calling the person names, and i think they popped his/her frigate eventually). yet they were more than happy to link me to your voting page. i guess that's what friends are for(you should at least give them a link so they can properly advertise for you)."
"voting is closing soon - go vote. do it, do it now!"
"supported +1000000000000"
"supported"
"ok so i was thinking about this idea and figured out there may be a problem - ecm. lets say your in a minor plex. what is the best ship to use? well a griffin with multspecs will perma jam every other frigate. so they would need two or three ships to drive you out. not very fun.but there are various solutions that would actually not only solve this problem but i think make fw plexing overall.here is one potential solution: inside each races military complex they have boosted the strength for their own targeting systems. so in an amarr complex radar would be boosted 20xs. (im sure pie would be happy about this) in other words, jamming an amarr ship in its own military won't work.if you enter the minmatar plex then using the ladar would be boosted 20xs. (im sure pie just decided this idea stinks) now so that both sides do not always have to use the same 2 races of ships (caldari and gallente or minmatar and amarr) we could have some allied plexes spawn in each allies territory. so say 25% of the plexes in minmatar space are gallente military compounds. some amarr would be found in caldari etc. and yes allies should be able to cap plexes for their allies. lets face it ecm is nice when you are trying to fight outnumbered but it sucks for solo/and really small scale pvp. on the whole i think this would chill the use of ecm in general where it isnt an issue. if it were to become an issue people could start using the correct race ships to cap the plexes. moreover i think this would add a certain amount to the rp of fw."
"problems:1) fw occupancy usually has little to do with pvp. pvp and occupancy are often very different types of activity. or put differently fw occupancy involves too much pve and not enough pvp.2) fw pvp too often consists attacking someone and then getting blobbed.3) too much time is spent shipping up or down.4) too much time is spent looking for a similar sized gang you may want to engage as opposed to run from or that will just run from you. solution:1) remove npcs from occupancy related plexes. npcs in the plexes ruin it. who wants to fight with your ability to win gimped by some intangible amount of rat dps and ewar from rats? its lame fighting when you are under fire and ewar from npcs. really i dont want npcs whoring my killmails anyway. 2) inform militias when players enter plexes!when someone from fw enters a complex gate all militias should know who entered, where, ship types and the plex type. this is intel that should just be provided via a separate chat channel. after all if a system is contested that means both sides likely have npc spies there giving info. (here i do not mean player spies but npc militia spies that will post in the channel but they do not fly around in ships. they are more like bureaucratic spies. the only way their presence would be known in game is they would post in the plex intel chat channel) this way the players could get a gang out there to fight the enemy pvp gang before the plex runs. no npcs in the fight. instead information about where you can find pvp! 3) have more plexes pop up through out the regions and throughout the day not just down time. 4) dont require scanners just have the plexes appear.comments:if ccp made those two changes i think plexing would make fw the absolute best pvp mechanic in the game. will it solve everything? no but it will, i believe substantially cut down on the problems i listed above.i would point out 3) plexes shouldnt mainly spawn at downtime. they should be spawning throughout the day and frequently. i thought the csm already recommended this to ccp  though i could be wrong.how will this make plexing more of a pvp activity? by removing the npcs people will fit their ships for pvp. there will be no trade offs that need to be made for dealing with the various rats. fit your ship for pvp and go capture systems. wont this lead to people just flying noob ships in plexs? that is where the second change comes in. currently if you are going to do plexes the most effective way is to get in a small ship that can tank the npcs and hope the timer runs before the enemy knows your even there. the current mechanics make this the smart way to plex. :snip:bold = very good idea. the whole plex idea is a little odd; unless you conider it as a 'moving enemy militia' site. a good idea, would be to have the 'little teal text, pop-up in militia chat; with, \"enemy fleet spotted in #system#; move to counter, advance, asap\", or some such. you could also add fw plexes to the map; highlighting all current, militia activity for the faction you are in. incursion like features; could be added to the journal, for major plexes. telling you what ships, and pilots to expect; is unneccessary, and would fw pvp entirely. that bring's us to the next one.italic's = if they are indeed, moving enemy fleets; then you should have to scan them down. ..or, at least, run your scanner to detect them. if you want to 'detect enemy pilots; look in local, and use combat probes.underlined = if the plex is there, because of enemy fleet movement; why would'nt there be a fleet present. kind of ruins the whole idea; does it not. player fleets responding; are elite reinforcements. remove that; and it's just pvp. go pirate.you don't lose standings that way.."
"yes!signedccp has ruined my character"
"no support to blanket changes to nail a very specific issue.it's all about avoiding unintended consequences / collateral damage and hidden agendas.if you want support, then make a change proposal that only hits what you are aiming at.\"but that would require a new specific module\" is no excuse. that is run of the mill stuff for ccp, you ought to know that.latest example is the sansha hacking module, tied to use with a specific ship. more prevalent example is stripminers, tied to exhumer and barge class.t3 subsystems tied to racial cruiser.utterly trivial, tried and tested.given that, even more determined not to support blanket change to cloaking."
"poorly concealed attempt; to keep your exploit...next."
"good one!/signed"
"i would just like to remind everyone that the proposal will have little to no real effect on non-capital ships. the only exception being the black ops battleship which is specifically stated that it should be done in a way to not affect them.this is also not some silver bullet to zomgnerfcapitalships or anything like that. it is simply to encourage a better exit strategy than, warp to safe spot, cloak, wait till capacitor is at 72.5% or higher, decloak and insta-jump out in 100% safety.also please note that it does not mean when your cloaked you lose shields or capacitor. it just means that whatever your shields and capacitor was at when you cloaked, stays that way while you are cloaked.capital ships should be encouraged to have support ships when moving around. this does not mean that, \"omg! now it will be impossible to go anywhere!!!!\"i have also explained why making an entire new cloak module for capital ships to do this is simply unnecessary when a change to the current one will do just fine without almost minimal to no impact on sub capitals."
"not sure if you actually read the proposal..."
"shouldn't be able to self destruct while a cyno is lit."
"please help the poor space french."
"that's wy they suck and are not close to be upgraded"
"agree the gallente platform need's work over all."
"i started my character specifically to fly the myrmidon... would be nice to actually be able to fly the myrmidon without feeling gimped in fleet."
"i think it <U+043C>ust be nerfed much more than slight speed cut. frigate that is faster than interceptor and more powerfull than asault ship, fitted in dual prop.... it's really imbalanced. but still i support ts!"
"succubus and worm are balanced? i disagree. if we say daredevil is balanced then we need to bring the other faction ships up to it and tweak the dram down to it. but we don't need to balance the dramiel with the kestrel. is the dramiel price balanced versus other ships. its a bit inexpensive and it sounds like the bpcs drop too easilly. but on the whole its not horribly underpriced. its no more powerful than any tier 2 bc which you can buy 2 of for the price of single dram. and you can insure those bcs. its not like people should be running scared in their cruisers from solo dramiels. and that dramiel loss will usually be at least 2xs harder on the wallet. as for other frigates well no you shouldnt be engaging a pirate frigate with a t1 ship."
"the problem is little more than the dramatic difference in speed between the dram and other frigate class ships. other frigates should have more speed.less nerf, more boost."
"you probably are right but because of how over powered they are, everyone is farming the **** out of any sites and lp stores that provide them. factor in that jita is the final answer to a market hub and you have tons of people competing with each other on the market to get their dramiels sold. so cost to weigh in to the balance part of the ship starts to have less of an effect on it. i'm no market expert but just my opinion on the matter.it just really would be nice if the dramiel was not an automatic check mate against other frigates solo. i'm sure there are the rare stories out there of how a dramiel fell to <insert random frigate class ship> but we all know that it was due in part to a lolfit and a lolpilot. emo tj anyone?"
"to clarify: people who sell isk for cash cannot afford to pay cash for their bot accounts?"
"to clarify, rmt's do not want to use traceable payment methods; but then, they really don't have to. not because of plex; but because they bot mine on hacked accounts; or those purchased online, illegaly. or some other thing. removing plex isn't going to help. that will just compound the problem. the problem is, rmt's have always made their isk; from the use of other players efforts, or temporary accounts. ccp has worked fairly hard to limit rmt means of isk profiteering; but, there are limits to what they can do, without destroying the game. why do you think there are untrainable skills, for trial accounts? inability to transfer isk on trials? what ccp is missing, is the carefully concealed isk transfer done in alliances; with players in those alliances, providing the work to make that happen. the players in the alliances aren't responsible; most will not know it's happening. most botter's are also not rmt's; though, they may inadvertently work for one. they are lazy, and seriously lacking in ethics or morality; unwilling to do their own work, or find another means of accruing income. most, are pvp'ers. they would rather watch ships blow up, or 'nuke pixels'; than honestly put effort into paying for their losses.botting, destroys pvp.there's another tagline for you. if you can't define my logic or reasoning; then perhaps try this. if they didn't macromine and bot for isk; they wouldn't be able to afford to fly so many ships into battle. if they couldn't field so many ships so easily; they wouldn't be quite so willing to risk what they have. if they didn't so easily risk what they had; they wouldn't pvp as well, as they would lack practice. if they lacked practice; that would make them the same as the rest of us. i can't afford to pvp. i burned up all but 700m isk of my in game finances, (across all accounts); just testing it out, and flying a few fits. the only thing that makes these people cautious; is their personal killboards. their record. otherwise, it'd be just as suicidal as bfbc2. ever played suicide pvp? it stupid, annoying; and adheres to no normal rules of warfare. people charge into 30mm machine gun fire; just to get one more kill, and break the line. it's the worst pvp you'll find, playing fps; far more annoying, than having a crappy squad, or team."
"it's not them, it's joe 0.0 alliance member who uses plex to pay for his botting alts. yes, rmt can absorb sub costs (though not always, free trials and f2p games are a lot more infested with rmt than pure subs.) but say the goon who was busy running 7 accounts has to pay 100+ dollars for them, botting starts to look a lot less appealing."
"i have been giving the dread problem a bit of thought. it seems that for most things they have been replaced by sc'swhat if as a counter proposal. the damage out put when seiged was doubled, the stront and seige cycle time was cut in half. making it more viable to drop dreads for quick cycles and higher dps. it would kind of make up for the fact that dreads are stuck for 10 minutes while sc's can drop, quickly kill a target, and gtfo."
"that would be silly. dreads in siege do about half the dps of scs do with bombers, so they don't really need more damage. the big issue with dreads is that they are easy to instapop with drive by titans while stuck in siege, something scs aren't faced with. carriers don't have to triage to fight, so they too have the ability to escape if they are quick to jump when a titan shows up. titans had an ehp buff. sc had an ehp buff. dreads... haven't really changed since the day they were introduced to the game (other than a few nerfs along the way)."
"i support this proposal. i do believe dreads need a long overdue buff."
"dreadnoughts should always deal more dps to structures than supercarriers when they are in siege mode. that was supposed to be their niche: extended installation sieges."
"a dread can field more than 6000 dps vs. a target; and they're meant to be used on stationary structures. who the hell, flies them in small gangs; aside from lowsec, wardec ganksquad's; with too much time on their hands? go away."
"furthermore, mining alts of -10s and 0.0's can permanently stay in npc corps unaffected by war decs and the npc corp tax. and of course, they still do to avoid any risk so the only option left is suicide ganking. so yeah, in actuality, nothing was accomplished from this..."
"sadly, we do have a bunch of tax evasion corps; which is just a part of how people choose to play the game.sad too, is the fact that most people looking to join a corp these days; whine about even as little, as a 3-5% tax rate, and want the corp to supply ships for pvp, and give them isk for skills, toys, and the rest. try working for it.i say, we impose a minimum 10% tax on all corps from concord; and double that in npc corp's. possibly even add 5%; for npc corps like aliastra. npc corps gotta make isk too; and so does concord.i support my idea"
"if you want universal tax, why not just decrease bounties of all npc rats? the effect is the same.the whole tax concept is a silly one. there is already sales tax everyone is paying. most profits come from selling of stuff, not from bounties. so why tax them at all? makes no sense...as of corps, you know you need 1 (real) man corp to set up a pos to be able to invent anything (since all copy slots are taken for weeks ahead) so tax or not, alts corp is a requirement to play this game."
"have you already looked tax rate to all corps existing or that you cross every time you are connected ?you'll be surprised to see how much of those are over 11% tax, have no reimbursement plan for implants or ships, aask their members to fill cans with enough pi to fuel more pos than they have, give no retribution from mining op's, don't pay loan services (alike 0.0 or low systems), harvest moons and etc etc. the ceo has nice ships, the directors have nice ships, both have a very good wallet, but i don't see the point of your thread.the 1-2 men or alts corps are fine, if you would like to have them in your corp then maybe you should start by take a very close look to your own methods and goals, change your corps image and give people the will to join you instead of avoiding you by creating alt corps."
"sounds like a bad corp. can't imagine people would stick around when there are so many corps out there that don't screw over their members."
"reduce the cycle time of mining lasers and mining drones by -11% if your in an npc corp."
"considering you can actively dec those little 1-2 man corps, i'd say ccp accomplished a nice goal there.even if people jump from corp to corp to avoid decs, getting them out of the npc corps adds a breadth of immersion in all aspects of eve that some had previously been avoiding by cowering under the banner of taxless nubcorpness."
"what exactly have they accomplished? i don't think there's any great breadth of immersion to clicking \"apply to corporation\" each time you get wardec'd."
"would you vote to bring back the draft, in the us, or canada?some people don't want to fight in wars. this is why they drop corp; in the event of a wardec. so they can continue doing what they wish; without being subject to sactioned ganking, in high security space. what does that have to do with taxes anyhow?"
"we need more people to support this thread.customizable ship graphics, is way better, than 2800/400000=0.007% of the game population's opinion; that we need to fix 0.0 fleet battle lag, more than we have already. i mean really, isn't 3 years of dedicated development on nullsec enough? ..and they just keep whining.they get: sov systems (better isk farming; through better upgrades)titan redux (funny, how they're the only ones who can afford titan's; let alone, chew through them like ham on mashed potatoes)super cap's (note: only usable in 0.0, like titans)the best of incursion (ultimate in isk farming in 0.0; which is why they never beat an incursion)station's (also, only in 0.0; and now, they want to blow them up)ultimate moon mining (best moon's, available only in 0.0; and now they have enough isk, to say nerf 'em. ..or, more, and better means to make isk.)best of planetary interaction (everything is made better in 0.0, to appease the nullsec crowd; else, they'd have far mor to complain about*.) new server's, and much work on lag reduction. (oddly, this only really benefits 0.0 fleet battles; and nullsec's favorite highsec hangout: jita.)no rules, (save their own), no concord, bomb's, interdictor's, drone fighters and fighter bomber's, and mobile warp disruptors.no standings required for pos's; and no cost for faction charter's.the ability to secure space, and prevent unathorized entry; through greater force projection, jump gates, and titan bridges.every reason, to encourage player's; to join fleet's, corp's, and alliances in 0.0no standings required for jump clones; with them installable at player facilities.the ability to say, unequivocally; who gets access, to all these benefits.rentspace.no requirement for wardec's.more isk, through better ratting, exploration, and complexes.*the dev's sneak little things in for everybody; but have to make it better in null, to avoid getting flogged, lynched and burned at the stake."
"its because if you really think about it, nullsec space is what eve is truly about. ultimate freedom to do what ever you want, whenever you want. the legendary exploits of null alliances is what draws new players to eve, in the hope that someday they may be able to get in on the action.have a problem with our isk making capacity? come take our systems from us. i would truly laugh my ass off if i saw a fleet comprised of angry qq'ing carebears coming to take a single null system.you want those juicy 0.0 incursions? come get them, we sure as hell are not stopping you. hell, i bet if you rented the incursion systems from the alliance holding sov that they spawn in, during the time they are active, you would be able to do them as well. and, if you are so scared to make the trip, hire a merc corp to escort your incursion fleet there, and to man the gates for protection during your care bear time.i mean, sure, a obnoxious neon pink nyx with decals of human anatomy splashed all over it would get a few laughs, but it is hardly something worthwhile. hell, i honestly think incarna is a waste of time, and will be a flop. sure, ill try to walk around naked for a bit in my toon, but after five minutes of that, i doubt i will ever use it again.tl;dr - less qq, moar action."
"good idea on paper, but it wouldn't take long before we see a bunch of ***** logo's, goatse pics, and whatever else stupid people can think up to be charming."
"interesting idea. there are a number of issues that i would probably triage this somewhere after major game mechanics are addressed. i fully understand that not everyone is an inhabitant of null sec, but with our different structures, we ofcourse will have different priorities. this is still something that would be a great addition to the overall gameplay.supported..."
"fully customizable skins isn't an option due to 100% chance of eula violations such as graphic images.howeveras a link was shown earlier demonstrates, pre-set skins would be a good start. effectively layered skins - pattern, color 1, color 2, color 3, two layers, adjustable to 'zones' on ship.an example:rifters - they have 5 zones: two wings, one cockpit, and the two front pieces. each of these could be colored a certain way. want a 5 colored rifter? go for it. want striped wings (a preset pattern) with solid black cockpit and front? sure.there is one problem here: t1 vs t2 ships often have minimal, if any, hull difference. so two similar paint jobs render a t1 and t2 ship near identical. not that overview wouldn't tell you that's a wolf, not a rifter, but it is something to consider."
"support, with the caveat others have mentioned of not allowing users to provide images (or requiring image approval similar to alliance logos). i would suggest, too, that corps be able to define a roundel that could be used instead of a logo.i would also note that even if this is not implemented, t3s should be able to choose which color scheme they want to use; a ham legion, for instance, would look far better in the khanid colors it would logically have.with regards to cassus' comment: highsec players should definitely have some of the features available to nullsec players. let's start with adding destructible station services; you want to fit a ship in jita? you may need to rep up the fitting service first."
"to make you guys play even more bluelist bingo my splitting up into even more little pieces just to circumvent this limitation?lol, won<U+FFFD>t work in teletubby land.this one is the best...ships die in laggy fleetfights due to fire and side-effects and don<U+FFFD>t get reimbursed. this is not only a well known technical reality, but also an official statement on reimbursement.adapt or die. <= this is where the statement also fits."
"+1 agreed and supported"
"this is the only relevent piece of information in this thread."
"quote from another thread; that has equal, or greater, relevence here.stop whining. you've shed enough tears for a pool party; so why don't you go enjoy it."
"..and by the way, while you've all been whining about pretty character portraits; has it ever occured to you, that 3d modelling and animation, have absolutely 0, to do with coding, and lag fixing. with all the coder's working on fixes for lag, sov fixes and improvements, jump gates, and the rest; the 3d artists had nothing better to do, so it was either fire them, lay them off, or put them to work on something that didn't require much coding.bunch of dumbasses."
"give them a 'how to fix lag for dummies' book and set them to work pouring through code as well...... scratch that, ccp's coders are still waiting for their copies, amirite o/\oapocrypha"
"we don't want any shiny/bullcrap/distracting features until this aspect of the game is fixed!"
"i'am blog you might wanna readso you see, thy continiously work on that.however, i guarantee you, the lag will be there as long as the game mechanics stay as they are. and they will stay as they are as long people keep whining about the lag and not about the game mechanics that cause the lag but also make this groups so big and mighty."
"ya support checked off now."
"nuff said. ccp get your stuff sorted, or at least have the decency to give a proper reply."
"maybe, just maybe you are trying things the game isn't capable of doing, and won't ever be capable of doing.maybe the onus is on you to fix what your doing to break the game.when you drive too fast, and your car comes off the road, you can't complain to the car company.when you put a water bed on the 2nd floor of your house, and cause structural damage, you can't go after the waterbed company.you are breaking the game, you, not ccp.the argument of 'the sov structures have too many hp and need mega blobs' is a total lie, they die all around the game to groups smaller than yours, the battles everywhere but the north are playable, because of what you choose to do to the game.massive battles happen in eve, 7-800 players deep and the game functions just fine. you are exceeding what the hardware and code can take, and its not on ccp to fix that. if you don't like the conditions your playing in, change them, or quit, its not that hard.plus if you quit, we all know the lag will drop.you want less lag? dissolve your coalition."
"that would require the nc to actually think about developing a tactic other than cramming as many knuckle dragging mouth breathers as they can find into one system time and time again. i so do enjoy the nc crying like little babies over situations like this for which they are solely responsible for creating.try something different next time. idiots."
"**i like this guy."
"this is more or less what i meant, why the crap would you use an overly expensive hurricane with mediocre performance when a random cookie cutter drake outperforms it? your highly cherished passive shield regen has no purpose in blob fights either, alpha will wreck you no matter how ******edly high an amount of isk you've spent to max out your regen. likewise rr serves little purpose when you die in 10 seconds. certainly its pretty indestructable 1v1, but honestly most ships can be fit that way and nearly all of them are rendered useless that way as well.are you honestly implying blobbing up is thinking outside the box? i think we already knew blobbing is strong, a blob of 1000 velators would make for a pretty powerful force (and for cheaper!), but that doesn't make the velator any less awful as a viable ship, nor does it make it 'good' in a fleet. when you fit for passive regen and passive regen only, that's all you get, and no... it doesn't make up for everything else."
"your proposals really are in a bad need for better wording. talking about neutral repping or \"exploitation\" have zero sense in this context.while i may have some assumptions about what you - maybe - are trying to convey, i am not sure if i got that right at all."
"well, i'm fairly certain it's not my english skills; as i passed com 12 with over 91%. maybe you all need to brush up; or i'm missing lingo, that would make it sound cool, to you."
"i think cloaking in general is a perfectly valid tactic. however, i also think that there needs to be a better counter to it than waiting to get attacked.people tend to use the u-boat analogy a lot. but seem to forget that we had sonar, and depth charges and were able to hunt the other subs who attacked cargo transports at sea :pi would like to see one of a couple of things introduced. firstly some way to scan down cloaked ships.. make it really hard. make it require special skills that take forever to train and still be difficult enough that the majority of pilots in eve are not going to be good at scanning down cloakers. this would give the crew who love scanning/exploring a little bit more that they can do. it would also require that those who are cloaked either log out, or keep an eye out for probes. thus fixing the whole issue of people abusing the game mechanics by not being at the keyboard.another alternative, since the issue is not that someone is cloaked but rather that they are essentially playing the game while not being at the keyboard. introduce a simple timeout on the eve client. no mouse and/or keyboard movement within say an hour. ewarp and log the character out of the game.think of the resources saved on ccp's end in both cpu power and bandwidth. in fact it boggles my mind that ccp is so far behind the times that they do not currently have such a system in place :/i cannot think of a valid reason that anyone could have for needing to stay logged into the client without any input. there just is not any. of course people will create macro's that press the spacebar every 5 minutes. but it would be pretty easy for a gm to see that a character has been logged in 23/7 and take the same actions they often take against other players using 3rd party macros."
"you're absolutely correct...eve online, or any other game for that matter was not designed to be played while afk... it's not only an exploit of the game mechanics, it violates multiple terms and policies set forth by ccp.afk cloaking is in effect the same as botting. you're accomplishing a stategic, pvp goal using tactics that no mmo is designed for...there are a million ways to prevent afk game play... ccp just needs to get on the ball and actually acknowledge the issue and solve it. i would be happy to see any direct reaction from ccp on the issue no matter which side they're on."
"i have no problems with people being afk for all day. if they are sitting in an orca or rorqual providing bonus for hours or merely being afk but watching corp chat it is their prerogative. it's quite literally their money. plus how would ccp ever reach higher goals of xxxk people simultaneously online?i do emphatically agree with sorting out afk cloakers. i'm not sure about the proposal to scan them down but the time out would be better. say a cloak fuel bay to limit cloaking use to <2 hours and then you have to refill in a station or pos. or maybe some sort of timer on the module or cap usage so that you can only cloak for 20mins at a time and then you automatically decloak for several minutes. anything to discourage alts from shutting down systems for hours. no-one likes it ccp! change it!"
"a client timeout is a great idea. one i have brought up before as well. i don't think a full hour is short enough however. i would say 10 or 15 minutes tops. if you can't be at your keyboard to play within 10 minutes then you have no reason to be logged in. the primary concern of this issue isn't the fact that you can sit in system cloaked and disrupt all activity just by being there...but the fact that you can do this while afk for as long as you care to leave your pc on while you do whatever it is you are doing out of the game. a client incactivity timeout would fix that perfectly. i also agree with you on how is it possible that ccp is so far behind the industry to not have introduced this already. there is no reason for a player to be logged in afk except to cloak in a system.as for a method for scanning down a cloaked ship...i dunno...i am a little torn by that one. on the one hand the whole point of being cloaked is to be undetectable. on the other it feels like an exploit to sit in a system afk while cloaked. i am guilty of doing it myself on a few occaisions but i do not prefer to waste my time doing so. i can't really say if there should be a scanning method of cloaked ships...let alone suggest one.but yeah...inactivity timer...do it ccp."
"well imo being afk for any reason and effecting game play is the same effect as using macro's. it provides an advantage for some players without the need to actually play the game. i am a pvp pilot so my experiences with passing out fleet bonuses for mining are admittedly not the best. but most of the guys i've seen still carry on in corp/allinace chat and do other things in game while handing out the bonuses. i think if ccp were to introduce the timeout it would be fair to have a 15 minute warning and a sound that would alert those in that situation that they need to click stay online, or get disconnected. i was discussing with an alliance m8 that i thought ccp at one time had a timeout. we kind of figured that it was removed in order to inflate the number of online players to impress potential and existing shareholders :p it's just a theory."
"i keep hearing this fuel bay idea for cloaks, but thats just ******ed... that would literally kill a covops ships main intended use... sneak behind enemy lines and rip the hearts out of the carebears who support the war machine. that takes time. alot of time. your goal is to get as deep into enemy territory as you can while being able to pop a blackops cyno to bring your fleet in, but before you can really pop that cyno you have to wait until those same carebears stop hiding from you. i know all these nerf cloaks are coming from carebears who don't want to have to hide, but welcome to war.also, good tactic to deal with them is one guy in an arazu. they decloak to hit you, he decloaks and locks them down. you stop killing rats for the 30 seconds it takes for you to pop someone who can't run or lock. all for a small portion of your bounties(my guy gets a 3rd because i have a combat pilot and a noctis in the site)why is it so hard to ask a corpy to fly overwatch? makes everyone happy except the hostile edit: this works, been doing it for weeks in a system with a cloaked hostile ganking my alliance anytime they try, but for some reason he stays the hell away from me squishy little ishtar."
"your counter tactics are very valid, but only versus active pvp pilots. this thread concerns afk cloakers, and the inability to counter them."
"ok ccp, i have this sorted:its an infrastructure upgrade that randomly ( lets say every hour or so) deals 5 points of omni damage to every ship in the system. anything that's cloaked would get uncloaked and therefor scannable by combat probes. if you're on your toes and warping safe spots, you're probably fine. if you're afk cloaking, you're gonna die like the dog you are..."
"not supported.the thread is based on a emotional knee jerk whinge rather than real argument for this has to be \"fixed\"."
"i don't think the op had anything against people cloaking and actively seeking targets. but rather an idea to remove advantages to players who are gaming the system and to remove the added server load. it is an excellent idea and thus far the only argument against afk cloaking that has any logic/merit. i agree the fuel-bay solution is not workable because it hurts those who are at the keyboard hunting. the very small probable signature idea is a little more appealing because it actually adds a bit of cat and mouse to the game play which i think eve could use more of. but overall the timeout just makes sense and i cannot make any arguments against it."
"how?"
"yeah, what he said, show us the proof of where this is stated for eve online."
"can you find proof where ccp has stated that eve was designed to be played while afk? your argument is a weak one at best and offers nothing to the discussion. the argument against afk cloaking has always been \"what about people who arent afk?\" the op brings up a logical and workable solution for both sides of the issue and the best counter you can come up with is \"prove that ccp did not intend for players to play while afk\" seems a little bit childish to me. while looking over the terms of service there are several lines that could in fact cover this topic. \"(from the terms of service) you may not do anything that interferes with the ability of other eve online subscribers to enjoy the game or web site in accordance with its rules. this includes, but is not limited to, making inappropriate use of any public channels within the game and/or intentionally creating excessive latency (lag) by dumping cargo containers, corpses or other items in the game world.\"comes to mind. but this is not an issue about if cloaking in someones system is indeed griefing. in fact the op made that much pretty clear. the issue is that players are abusing game mechanics to achieve financial and strategic goals while not at the keyboard. there has yet to be one valid argument against implementing a server timeout put forth in this thread. only half-hearted attempts to derail the subject."
"which is do nothing. not to sound bitter but it is the truth. i really wish i was wrong here."
"what about the people that aren't in it for financial or strategic reasons? and w.r.t. the time-out, ccp don't want their pcu to drop to about 1/3 of its daily value."
"i did not make a claim that afk cloaking was an exploit and was in violation of the policies and rules of this game established by ccp. the op did, and he has to support his claim to support his proposal.i am not obligated to make any sort of input if i do not like the proposal, again it is the responsibility of the author of the proposal to sell it truthfully, to garner support.at this present time he/she/it has not shown any proof, and he/she/it is obligated to show such proof as to support his proposal. other wise this thread is much like your post, useless and an emotional whinge that has nothing to do with anything except your self centered nerd rage."
"the op has already stated valid reasons as to why an inactivity timeout should be implemented. who cares if it violates an eula or tos. you are just looking for lame excuses. you have not stepped forward and provided a valid argument as to why it should not be implemented. the op does not have to show proof to support this \"proposal\". you need to show proof of why his proposal would not work and is invalid if you are going to counter him like you did. you also chose a single line out of the entire post and attacked it with that...completely ignoring the other completely valid reasons to implement the idea.now that i go back and read through it...it wasn't even the op that suggested this but another poster who posted right after the op. so now you are attacking the op's idea over something said by somebody else in the thread."
"he used the statement to support his proposal to give it some credibility. in which case, puts his proposal in question.as of right now, i do not see it as broken. edit:until you can tell the difference from alts and the op. it looks to be all the same tripe and i do not take any of this crap seriously."
"i keep seeing this statement made: \"an afk cloaker shuts down a system.\"the only way this statement is true is with bots that are programmed to dock up when a new name enters local.in all other cases, business can continue as usual if so desired."
"it's called a sandbox for a reason.such as? keep in mind that this is relating to afk cloaking, not the macros u're so eager to compare it to.as for the op crying about server load, blame the blobs. in case u need help with simple math, 1000+ is gonna get a lot more server load than 1."
"no, stop being a pansythere's only one viable way to \"fix\" afk cloaking. -100% cap recharge when a cloak is active, and a cap cost for running the cloak. and no one wants it, except whiners who whine about whiney afk cloaking.whine."
"seriously scandal, that's some messed up ****, right there. you just un-nerfed the ham; and renerfed the hml. what's your priority; aside from longer flight times? now we can out run heavy missiles in a drake."
"sure, just as soon as we get some sort of missile counter module that doesn't suck ass like defenders. either a new midslot missile counter, or change tracking disruptors to somehow affect missiles as well."
"how have i un-nerfed the ham? if you feel that a module boosting range/explosion vel would op hams then the module could simply only apply boosts to guided missiles.how can you out run them? guided missile velocity is still the same only flight time has been reduced. with a mid slot module boosting flight time you still have the same range. please explain.@ possum:yes, defenders need to be fixed. making td's effect missiles could cause some balance issues to ships like the pilgrim/curse but i am not completely against it."
"you guys do know, that smartbomb's and defenders both kill missiles, right? smartbombs are by far, more effective; and can completely neutralize missile dps, if used right.i was exaggerating about the drake outrunning the missiles obviously. the ham's would get some range back, with your module; which is a good thing, in my opinion. ham's are nearly useless, on anything smaller than a shield tanked battlecruiser; and get out dps'd by hml's, when used on any fast moving, and/or low sig radius vessel. target painter's, and mod's to decrease explosion radius; will change the factor of that, of course. your mod., would increase their smaller/faster target dps a bit; with exception to the loss of velocity modifer's. this means your missiles will travel at player skill, and implant modified speeds; and i know from experience, that a merlin with an ab, can outrun hml dps from a missile tengu, traveling in a straight line.let's just accept, that you are either not considering all factor's; or, are intentionally attempting to mislead, to gain support. it's either one, or the other. as it is, i survived over 30 seconds of dps, from a hml tengu, (from above); and docked my merlin on station, with no more than one invuln., low sig., speed, and good shield skills, providing the defense. if that had been a loki; i'd have been fried.missiles mostly suck. hml range is good as is, and without it; level 4 missions, and sleeper sites would be almost undoable in a tengu. remove velocity modifiers, and you've got 0 dps for 5 seconds at 28 km; provided the missile is travelling at 5625 m/s with max. skills. turrets offer instant dps, in comparison; and you can lose shields as is, before your missiles hit the target.i'm not saying there are'nt advantages to your idea; but, you'll lose in other area's. anything travelling over 3750 m/s; would be immune to dps from hml's. additional time required to apply dps; would mean greater advantages to turret users. you could, effectively, be spacedust; before your first missile, hit the target. do they still exist; when you vaporize?it would also make it easier to time defender and smartbomb defense; making defenders more useful, and smartbomb's omnipotent. beats trying to track multiple volleys; traveling at +8750 m/s, when getting ready to cycle them. anyway.. back to the op.maybe the drake is a little overpowered in fleet; but alone, it's completely negotiable. in fact, alone, it's an extremely easy target; for anyone with any pvp experience."
"i'm sorry cassus but i'm still confused. maybe it's these new pain killers i'm on cause i am a bit spaced out.the only thing i am suggesting is that guided missile flight time, the length of time the missile flies for, not the velocity or the explosion radius or the explosion velocity, gets reduced by approximately 40-50%. (55km effective range lvl5 character without imps/ship bonuses). the introduction of a module(s) that acts very similarly to a tracking computer to increase missile flight time and explosion velocity or radius, which ever balances better, which can be scripted to do one or the other.unless this module is fitted the ability to hit fast moving targets with a small sig would remain the same and if this module is fitted you are sacrificing a mid slot for it.a worm hole hml tengu would still have >80km range without this new module. plenty.it takes 12 seconds for a heavy missile to travel 70km. a hml drake would (still) have more ehp (>12k) than any other bc in its class fitted to engage at this range with these changes. i believe this offsets the initial volley delay. it also has considerably more dps and (more than double) volley damage.i'm making an attempt to balance this ship out with others in it's class without gimping it when fitted for other roles or other ships that use this weapon system."
"you don't do c5's obviously. the targets are out to 160km, give or take; can hit you, at well over that, and the bs all move faster than if they had mwd. that being said, i'll re-read some of this thread; as i may be a little off, with my response"
"okay, i'm a little off. with all the crap i've been reading; i'm beginning to skim more, than actually read.there is still a problem. you reduce the flight time, and force a mod to increase it. great. drakes will just skip the mod. most pvp is done near gates, and stations; or at less than 30 km, and/or using mwd anyway. they don't need it. missile range for hml's is mostly purposeful; for missions, complexes, and sites anyway. it serves very little purpose in pvp. save one: hitting logi, recon, and similar craft; that sit out at 70km, give or take. these craft will now be immune to missile dps; while still have instant force projection of their own. why immune? because no pvp'er will fit the range mod's.why not just make missiles instantaneous time-to-target; and lose the lag generated by their flight time. sort of like fighter bombers. then we can talk about rebalancing."
"i am hanging in the same belt or anomaly with you. i am cloaked. i am trying to get closer to start an assault, or to hot drop, whatever. now, why i should get decloaked ? it destroys any purpose of a cloak, doesn't it ?not even going into any flamewars about afk cloaking, let's just say it is a good goal. but you just destroyed any \"legitimate\" cloaking."
"your idea is designed to catch probing vessels which reatian a cloak; as you know, it takes time to do what they do. warping about will only make it harder for them to do their job; and all you need, is a pos module, (perfectly safe), to do your job for you."
"i think cloaking in general is a perfectly valid tactic. however, i also think that there needs to be a better counter to it than waiting to get attacked. people tend to use the u-boat analogy a lot. but seem to forget that we had sonar, and depth charges and were able to hunt the other subs who attacked cargo transports at sea :pi would like to see one of a couple of things introduced. firstly some way to scan down cloaked ships.. make it really hard. make it require special skills that take forever to train and still be difficult enough that the majority of pilots in eve are not going to be good at scanning down cloakers. this would give the crew who love scanning/exploring a little bit more that they can do. it would also require that those who are cloaked either log out, or keep an eye out for probes. thus fixing the whole issue of people abusing the game mechanics by not being at the keyboard. another alternative, since the issue is not that someone is cloaked but rather that they are essentially playing the game while not being at the keyboard. introduce a simple timeout on the eve client. no mouse and/or keyboard movement within say an hour. ewarp and log the character out of the game. think of the resources saved on ccp's end in both cpu power and bandwidth. in fact it boggles my mind that ccp is so far behind the times that they do not currently have such a system in place :/i cannot think of a valid reason that anyone could have for needing to stay logged into the client without any input. there just is not any. of course people will create macro's that press the spacebar every 5 minutes. but it would be pretty easy for a gm to see that a character has been logged in 23/7 and take the same actions they often take against other players using 3rd party macros."
"1) just because you can't think of one, doesn't mean there isn't a reason2) gm's don't care if your logged in 23/7, they have other things to occupy their time with, and the macros are already logged in 23/7 doing things, you don't see them getting banned now so what makes you think anything would change.pro tip: eve has been out for about 7 years now.cloaking isn't going to change because its working as intended."
"how exactly does a cloaked vessel, logged in 23/7; relate to the use of botting, or other mechanics? if you're cloaked; all you can do is watch, and chat. if someone cloaks 23/7; chances are, they're actively trying to prevent botting. the fact that you would argue contrary to this; only suggests, that you have a problem with it because they are.don't assume gm's, ccp, and the rest of us are idiots."
"i liked the solution that was put up for afk cloakers.just put a timeout in place, if the dude is actually at his keyboard handing out bonuses.. awesome.. more power to him. but if he's out sexing up his lady in a hotel 5 miles away. he should get auto logged after awhile. i also agree unprobable is a bit crap.. but eve is a very broken game, and this is one of the broken mechanics, much like afk cloaking, that people seem to like.edit: i support anything that makes orcas and rorquals have to be on grid so i can kill them :)"
"ephemeron is ******ed, arguing with him is an exercise in futility, as you simply run in circles.my work is now done here."
"i have to ask: if i can scan down, and bookmark a light drone; why would i not be able to do the same for a ship. is it because the drone is stationary? ..or becase they are usually grouped in 3's? when i compare a drone to any ship; i have to admit, it seems a little odd.so making all ships probeable is cool; provided they are not cloaked. if a ship is jumping around, because it's warping between deadspace pockets, however; i do not see any reason, why it should be probeable, provided it has a relatively low sig. radius. if you're fast, or it's slow; then you might catch it anyway. i don't thinkl it should be easy to scan down a small ship; just that it shouldn't be impossible, if it's stationary. it just requires more time.that being said, with no experience, at not being able to scan down a ship; i can't exactly see where you are coming from, or that it is indeed broken. maybe you're just not doing it right."
"out of curiosity...you make a good point about aoe dmg being a method to break down blobs, but also if aoe is strong enough that's all anyone would use. so some strategy needs developing...anyways...isn't this why titans originally had aoe doomsday?food for thought."
"how about when fleet numbers get too high, jove griefers turn up and massacre everyone?that would be an acceptable alternative to providing the server infrastructure and code that supports the thousand-pilot fights the adverts promised, right?in all seriousness: 1.5 hour delays between client action and server response is not good enough.the problem really lies with the mechanics of fleet fights. your choices are:* blob until your eyes bleed, lag, then blob some more* don't, and get your teeth kicked in by someone who will.in fairness to pl and their ilk: yes, i know that you're exceptionally good at what you do, and have a lot of fun doing it, and blobbing you may turn out to be an expensive exercise in futility. but blobbing is always better than not-blobbing for us plebeans.the optimum solution would be for sweeping changes to the eve cluster and serverside code that would support the whole subscription base on a single grid in drakes spamming un-grouped missiles. i accept that this is a while off, and so provide some suboptimal suggestions:one solution is a hard cap to pilots in system. this is not a good idea for reasons i hold to be self evident and require no explanation.the best solution i've read so far was (essentially) that players chose the level of lag, and that the server should slow the entire system down to the 'lagged' speed, so there's less scope for 'lost' actions and the like.another solution (which i hadn't thought of) is the op's suggestion that in big fleet fights, all ships 'bleed' damage to discourage mass blobs. assuming that the 'bleed' impacts all ships on grid in the same way, this won't actually do much to reduce the size of blobs; blobs may even grow as a result, when alliances seek to finish battles as fast as possible by bringing even more pilots.my understanding is that carriers & sc's may have more than 5 drones out. if grid lag is related to the number of balls in the ballpark, maybe change the effect of drone control units to additional drone hp & damage instead of an extra drone out -- exactly like the change to the dominix drone mechanic a while back. this has the potential to reduce the number of entities on the grid by up to 5 per carrier/sc and be programmatically trivial. this means (in a battle with 10 carriers/side) 100 fewer npc scripts running for drones, and 100 fewer system inventory entries."
"as long as sov is based on controlling individual systems nothing you guys have said so far is going to work.my solution is to instead make sov based on the number of systems currently held in a region and vastly increase the number of gates to remove choke points. the blob wont be an advantage if it can only be in one system at a time when a dozen or more are under simultaneous attack and each one can be accessed from several different directions. it will force the defender to break up into smaller groups to meet the multiple system threat and it will force the attacker to split up in order to attack several systems at once. problem solved."
"i agree that tech is crazy. i dont understand ccp they nerf dyspro and prom only to offer even more moons and higher prices with tech.and venal as like 70 techs itself! its crazy that blocs control everything.my solution randomise moons on a monthly basis so there is a different minerals to moons every month. make alliances work for that moon gold! make them have a consequence to sending never ending mom fleets."
"@ darkness, thanks for your perspective. you make alot of good points, especially where you mention that loosing ships is not an issue anymore. a comment from an nc member regarding the valentine's day massacre comes to mind, just a day after it happened:"
"it is \"no biggie\" because the core areas of the various blocs have been static for ages so there is probably a surplus of supers .. at this point i am willing to bet the bottleneck is pilots moon mining = passive income = bad for eve.- remove all moon mining and replace with pi (even on moons). opens market wide and allows for actual competition in everything related to t2.- make the toll-booth in orbit destructible (until dust comes along (as if!)) so production can be interrupted."
"this is chest beating. it is the internet spaceships version of \"it is just a flesh wound\" while bleeding out. losing those titans hurt. a lot. we have lost more since. that hurt. a lot. for a good month, super caps weren't allowed in fights in the east. do you know how many different groups hold those moons?most people in eve want to fight with a numerical advantage. that's how the game is played. however, getting different parts of the nc to work together on any given day is crazy difficult. people don't see all the brokered deals that go on and see the nc as a single unit. within the nc is a lot of greed, just like any large coalition or alliance. they work together generally for common good, but many won't lift a finger unless you force them or give them a carrot.the biggest cost comes from defending them. tech moons provide a lot of income, but that also means everyone wants more, so alliances are constantly taking and losing them and losing ships in the process that are reimbursed from that income. like i said, the corps in the alliances hold most of the moons. when you take reimbursements and fuel out of the income from the couple moons a corp gets, you end up with somewhere around a billion a month in net income.new and upcoming forces don't stand a chance, but that requires explanation. if you add more moons, the existing powers will take them all. alliances collapse on a semi-regular basis. new ones form from connections and need. most corps have been in multiple alliance and have connections with other corps in other alliances. when a collection of corps your corp has good relations with (outside in-game standings) band together and make a new alliance, your corp might join that alliance. from time to time, a corp that grew in empire and became strong enough will join a null sec alliance, then work its way up, forming relationships, moving through alliances. point is, malcanis' law: whenever a mechanics change is proposed on behalf of \"new players\", that change is always to the overwhelming advantage of richer, older players.this is case for your proposal."
"how would you say malcanis' law applies to expanding on the alchemy system? seems that helped remove the other bottlenecks. what if with alchemy it was possible to go from pi -> high end moon products without doing any actual moon mining (though of course it would not be very efficient and still require pos reactions.) the moons value could settle in to a price reflective of their actual rarity (tech is not the rarest moon min out there.) pressure relief would be an option for everyone in the line including rookie pi producers to 1-man corps. of course the richer and more powerful would be able to take advantage of the pressure relief, but no more than anyone else."
"i think pos structures should be more user friendly, easier to use interfaces.maybe even high sec moon mining.i think a lot of new people find poses confusing and expensive.mooring points for large ships is a good idea, also maybe we could lock the arrays together so they can be accesed from 1 point,just a though what do you think."
"neutral repping from logistics is not the problem with neutral repping. it is the asshats like the op's associates that go to a 1v1 and then have their buddies warp in with rring battleships.and people wonder why i carry ecm drones on everything i fly."
"repairing someone who is aggressed should, also aggress the person applying the reps.supported."
"i support this topic.wonder how much support you can get before it actually is carried through? look at other threads with huge support (cough, dead horse, cough) and they are still around. so like i said...+1"
"..and no, i didn't even read you post. there's hundreds just like it; thousands even, from all you nullsec, 0.0 academy, primping, preening, flowchart wielding nerds."
"pathetic is the first word that comes to mind. the first three fourths of the article was fine, then you fill the last fourth with twisted truths to suit your bias view on things. but hey, i guess the mittani would not be the mittani without being deceitful in everything he does. oh well, none of this was at all surprising to be honest.good luck in trying to keep ccp from nerfing your precious golden jump bridge network. do try and keep in mind this is a pvp game at its core, not running sanctums or sucking on technetium moons 23/7."
"while some offered bribes, i was actually asked to give them out from my space riches. the requests i denied, not because am greedy, but out of principle."
"solid writing from someone with extensive knowledge of the working of eve's grand alliances. always a pleasure to read."
"he gets paid for the columns, so yes, impressions/page views do help him. blammo."
"yeah, that's what i said. his moustache-twirling way of pointing it can be rather amusing though."
"adjusted to reflect the reality."
"xhagen on twitter said the final tally is around 49k or ~14% of the eligible voters.this compares to 39,433 votes cast for csm5, which was 12.67% of eligible voters.more votes this time but not a significant improvement in the overall turnout."
"the tos refers to the player. singular. by their terms, fifty thousand mails to one player is certainly excessive, but one mail to one player? hardly. the number of players receiving that one mail is irrelevant."
"isnt this csm thing a scam to make us hope issues listed \"match questions\" ("
"welcome to politics.btw, those issues you listed.. that list was created by a private individual, and is on a private website. not ccp endorsed."
"facebook, eve online, march 9 : \"want to ride the wave of internet democracy, but don't have time to wax your board?"
"i got my plex too, top man."
"its irrelevant whether its a scam or not. offering an in-game item (ie a plex) for an out of game reward or service (ie your vote) is a violation of the rules of conduct and the eula. this makes his candidacy invalid, and exposes him to the ban hammer ...good luck mate"
"that's a crap interpretation, and services such as killboards and eoh poker point to it being worth nothing more than crap."
"6 you may not market, sell, advertise, promote, solicit or otherwise arrange for the exchange or transfer of anything in the game or other game services unless it is for in-game sales of in-game services or items. otherwise arrange for the exchange or transfer of anything in the game or other game services unless it is for in-game sales of in-game services or items.anything in the game or other game services unless it is for in-game sales of in-game services or items.is for in-game sales of in-game services or items.in-game services or items.in-game election is in game, thus your opinion is null. i am just trying to be like han solo from star trek, a vagabond and smuggler."
"\"han solo from star trek\" ... ****ing lol, even on comms, its still funny darius, <3 u.at least the votes are put to use rather than unused. better results for ccp graphical charts yes? :o"
"can someone please crank up the originality in this thread, this guy has used the same line twice in this thread alone and god knows how many times on teamspeak.also, back to the point, you sir want to gain an out of game service by advertising an in game service (trip to iceland vs plex). tell me how you're any different from the people that sell isk on e-bay or on isk-bank.ru.and for god's sake don't fall into the nc philosophy and blob us to death with the same ending line mr. han solo."
"better to have unused votes than votes given away for other reasons than the candidate's agenda.once again ccp shows me how full of crap they are."
"welcome to evescamming is part of the game"
"scaming is part of the game and i do like it.however, i wasnt aware that scaming is part of the way ccp handles gameplay changes/issue fixing.allowing scamed votes = dont giving a beep about real players decisions.on plex for good: japan, ccp says:ccp regards any scamming attempts surrounding this effort to be morally reprehensible and they will be met with swiftest actionso, it is possible, even though scaming is, like you say, \"part of the game\".so, ccp doesnt think that stealing csm votes would be \"morally reprehensible\".so, why i shouldnt say \"bu||sh|t\" when i read things like: \"eves most valuable person, the player.\" in the devblogs ?i only ask to treat scaming as part of the game.you scam elections, you're caught and dont denie it?good, you're out.sounds like a pretty good game concept to me."
"doplanet, perhaps i can assure you. knowing darius, i know he will take csm position seriously. i agree what scamming to get votes is very questionable, at best, lame and ccp should respond on this issue since a csm represents the eve players. and really, i don't like cheaters either.then again, to you, generally a csm is \"honest\", \"kind natured\", and take things \"seriously\". do darius fit those description if he's elected csm? to my opinion, yes, along that he may (or maybe will ...) troll, so maybe not so serious. :o scamming, suicide ganking, is just a hobby thing for him, but he's not a liar. if he is, i wouldn't respect him as much as i respect scooter1.sure, he finds loopholes within ccp policy/rules. but he doesn't hides them like those guys in mag wormhole and exploiting with the negative bonus for gunnery systems or pl using the delayed local exploit. he ask gms if its allowable or not to be sure. station contract scamming is one of them. if that doesn't make him honest, i don't know what.tbh, i don't know when exactly he started trolling/scamming and stuffs, but i noticed he's doing that since half a year ago. an evolved pokemon darius iii since taking over geminate. he was only the nice and fun guy to hang out with to just suicide gank people. probably he's taking the fun factor to another level."
"almost thought darius got booted from csmggrrrr trolllage"
"and i hope for 0.0's sake that the ideas ccp come up with will not be wow-dungeonesque (or if they are, that they're shot down in flames). fights that involve less than 1000 (on properly reinforced nodes) were fine the last i was in one, as long as supercaps weren't involved. death to all supercaps.i also hope to god that if they're going to make just two changes for the next expansion, they'll do further changes to the supercarriers, and for ****'s sake fix the ****ing sov system. i'm not expecting you to agree with me on this, but given my experience in fleet fights the last 12 months i believe these two things to be the major parts of the game mechanics that need updating for 0.0.as for you, as i'm assuming you're going to get on, if they're coming to you and saying that \"good news guys, we haven't changed the pos (in particular reaction setup), pi (in particular the setup), invention or manufacturing ui\", kick them in the nuts. while i know that things are supposed to require effort, it shouldn't have to still be eyestabbingly bad."
"you're reading things i haven't written. i am simply saying that a mechanism that promotes smaller fleets sizes, whatever it is, will mean a greater focus on the contribution made by each fleet member. i'm not advocating any specific fleet size; the ideal fleet size for this kind of proposal would probably be something like \"49% of what a normal node can handle\" so that when 2 of them fight, we always get good performance.in any case, i'm on record as saying that it's essentially a king canute act to try and force small-gang mechanisms on the mighty star-empires of sov-space. as i already said (and you unaccountably forgot to notice in your reply), no matter what magic change is worked in sov mechanisms, more numbers > less numbers one way or the other. therefore norm the noob's 4xspr drake will still find a place in fleet somewhere. i believe your own dear alliance standardised (with good effect) on arty maels. good choice btw, allowing pilots to bring the correct ship with a relatively low sp investment. but still implicitly saying that there is a \"worse\" and a \"better\" ship to bring. it's not exactly a secret that correct ship types & fleet composition is a force multiplier. you are reading a snobbery that doesn't exist into the simple statement of an accepted fact. it's not sexist to say that men generally have greater upper body strength than women, by way of analogy.the point is that there aren't any \"small to mid sized goals\" in sov space now. anything you try and do with sov immediately involves at least one of the 3 main blocs. the only \"small to mid size\" things that can be done are roaming gangs, cloaky harrassment, and maybe the odd jf getting nynced. its futile to try and balance sov mechanisms against small alliances because the game has inevitably developed politically to the point where there are no small alliances settled in sov 0.0 space who aren't part of a bloc. we might as well try and shape our environmental policies around the needs of the irish elk or the passenger pigeon"
"there's a difference between \"more numbers > less numbers\" and \"there's a magic limit to how many other people you can see (say, 100 closest people to you)\", at which point joe random newbie in his rifter will actually be a detriment to your fleet as he's taking up a slot which could be used by someone else with mroe skillpoints and a \"better\" ship.i think you're the one that's not quite getting what i and yeep are saying. there will always be a \"worse\" and a \"better\" ship to bring, but it's when you start putting hard limits on how many you can bring that the snobbery starts. that's why we tell newbies to bring tackle-frigates, because they can still be useful (they can still tackle the odd ship, get on a kill mail and get enthused about \"oh god i helped kill a ship that's much more expensive than me i want more\"). and those rifters can help turn the tide by keeping more enemies locked down as they move about tactically on the battlefield. this is good.and don't start your yammering about \"filling up systems till they crash/everyone doesn't load\", because i haven't had that in a long time.i'm not saying that numbers should automatically win, pl didn't win over manny etc in their numerous drakes because they \"outblobbed the drakes\", but if manny etc had brought enough, then that would've been one possible counter to high efficiency ships and high sp pilots. not a very efficient counter, to be sure, but a possible counter.so, what are you getting at? we should just give up? everything is hopeless? or start talking with other 300 men alliances to build another bloc to try to carve out a niche where other smaller blocs haven't gotten a foothold yet (because the map isn't just nc/drf)?"
"well, the polls have closed, and now we wait to find out what the results are.i'd like to thank everyone who voted in the elections for participating; the increased turnout sends an important message to ccp.but i'd like to particularly thank everyone who voted for me, of course! finally, if you participated in this thread and are at fanfest, look me up and i'll give you one of my beer tickets."
"no, all i was \"getting at\" were some of the inevitable implications of implementing (or trying to implement) some \"magic solution\" to the tendency to form ever huger fleets. this, in context of the thread, is desirable because as we are all painfully aware, there are limits to the maximum size of fight the game can gracefully support. the only way to do that is to provide some positive benefit to not exceeding some given fleet size. whether it be multiple simultaneous objectives, some kind of \"stacking penalty\" to fleet size or whatever else.but the point i was making is that whatever the solution is, it will always have the effect of: \"in either case, what you're going to end up with is that newbies are going to be told to **** off because they'll be a liability (instead of an asset like they are in goonswarm). tight fleet compositions are going to end up being even more key than they are now, and smaller and less skillpoint-intensive alliances will have even less of a chance to break into 0.0 than before that change was added. this is why this is a bad idea.\"in other words, your objection to trebor's solution was actually an objection to an inevitable result of solving the problem, not one that's specific to his solution."
"why is it inevitable? see what i was saying earlier about hidden motives? you've found a solution to laggy fights which coincidentally enforces your 'make alliances smaller' and your obvious disdain for low sp pilots. never mind how bad it is for the rest of the game, or that better, less restrictive solutions might exist, this one is the best and we should do it now."
"um, no. his solution (again, i haven't heard anything otherwise) would essentially be a \"hard cap\". my assumed solution of fixing the sov system (or whatever it is they end up doing) so that if you absolutely want to, you can go all in on one system, whether that be defense or attack.one system would mean that skillpoints (and more importantly, flying the right ships (tm)) would be paramount. the other system would still this would mean that your opponent will have the opportunity to pool just enough people in the most strategic systems to defeat your attack, possibly sacrificing others, while at the same time counterattacking in some of your systems, it's up to everyone involved. and if some newbee in a rifter wants to come along, he'll be more than welcome, because there wouldn't be an artificial limit.at least it'd be vastly better and more dynamic than today's system. i almost get depressed at thinking of how easy it is to defend up to 6 systems simultaneously by just, say, parking the entire titan/supercarrier fleet in one system, reset the timer, move on to the next system and defend it the next day or two, and so on and so on until you come full circle. and, again, it still has sov in large parts of delve and querious. they died a month ago. vov"
"um, ok? what? what was \"my solution\"? where is my \"disdain\"? you seem to be replying to the posts you imagine someone like the person you imagine me to be would make. i'm not even sure that there can be a solution, at least not one that doesn't run counter to the whole \"sandbox\" thing."
"a multiple objective mechanism doesn't prevent superblobbing.either you have to attack/defend all the objectives simultaneously, in which case you just bring 6 blobs, or sequentially in which case you just blob the first one, or you only need to attack one of the 6 in which case you just blob the one most convenient to you. in any case, there's still no disadvantage to bringing a huge blob fleet.in my opinion the only way you're going to get non superblob fights is to attack the root cause of superblobs, which are the vast coalitions that support them."
"i love how you insist on using the words \"blob\" and \"superblob\".the thing about proper strategy is that while yes, technically, you can \"superblob\" one system, it would also mean that the defender, if he had proper intelligence on what the attacker did, could launch a counterattack while keeping a mock fleet (if bothering to do that even), potentially trading multiple systems for the cost of a single system.but since apparently this won't work, what will then? space-dungeons? removing jbs? removing jumpdrives from capships?"
"but my mains did vote for selene.only a few hours left. if you haven't voted.... well don't complain that csm doesn't represent you."
"lol i need coffee! wrong thread, good luck anyway!"
"+3 from mego issler, allways the best choice"
"app would be awesome for direct char sheet or mail.it isn't rly hard for me to log in via phone and get to those sections i can see and list char sheet,and i can list all mails i received and i can reply i just cant wrote or edit text when i try pop-out screen wrote that my mobile browser security settings aren't set right.so it could be few settings away or updating op of the phone i didn't do mine for an while.oh yea windows phone user here."
"i pretty much agree with prom there : no and no. ccp are already doing a lot to delay the graphics upgrade, and make sure people receive plenty of warnings, etc. i'm more wondering why they did not do that sooner. remember, ccp has to allocate some development time specifically to those with antique computers. time the devs can't spend on improving the game.in other words : buy a new cg, stop crippling my game !about the csm, no, and because the public has very little visibility on that."
"thank you to everyone who participated in the process of selecting csm6!thank you in particular to everyone who took time out of their eve online time to vote, ask questions, and debate the issues. no matter who wins, your input to the winning candidates will be really valuable as they (and maybe me? ) represent us on the csm internal forums and in iceland.thanks also to all the bloggers and podcasters that took an interest in the process, and encouraged their subscribers to do the same.now, let's see who won."
"was a tough run :-)we'll see if i'll manage to \"conjure votes from the ether\" as i was recently described to usually do ;-)"
"i tag along and want to thank those of you who voted for me :)gl to the csm 6 ppl.bruce blacky"
"we figure you have the +1000 votes perk that ccp gives people they actually like and want to see."
"you mean like they announced roc's twitter hashtag on their newsletter?"
"indeed! couldn't believe they went for that rather than my #windy4win one. never mind, didn't hold me back and i an pleased to announce that i secured at least 16 votes! see you in iceland, baby."
"i too crave attention on the internet"
"i dunno windy i think you're in tbh. you caused all the alarmist pubbies to take up arms against an imaginary threat. and given that test is unable to organize the wiping of their own buttes, i'm fairly sure i won't make the cut.it's been a hard, uphill battle and it's been fun."
"all your ballots are belong to us...ooops , wrong game! :)"
"would be nice to think so, but not sure that my vote will be enough for him :dbest of british windy - gl man (i tried)"
"i dont think white tree would get in, then again numbers is all that matters, so even though he made a dull, depressing and safe campaign he will probably get in because :numbers: hmmmittani has been begging the eve gods to become a chair, not sure if he wants to be sat on or if he wants to become the chair of the csm, i think if he isnt chair (and trebor is) then mittani will have a breakdown again, you should hear it, its like darius johnson mk ii except darius was funny, mittani is stale like a hmm oh right stale like a chair hahaha"
"i honestly can't understand why it takes ccp a week to count all the votes and announce the winners. the whole thing is electronic, so results should be instantaneous."
"i blogged about this.short version: you're not a csm delegate until you sign and return the nda. the winners will probably learn they're potential delegates tomorrow, via e-mail. but the e-mail will almost certainly have the nda as an attachment, plus a way to return the signed version to ccp.bet you that's what takes a week."
"my guess is : there is fanfest between, where the former csm is still in service. you don't announce the new representatives before they finished their term."
"didn't though about that, for those too lazy too check ; new csm will know before the public, and will have to sign nda. before being made official csmi suppose there's here some legal issue in case of one would refuse to sign ...even if when it wouldn't happen, but well, if they say it's x and x don't sign... you need y to take his place, and better doing that before it's public."
"you are wrong. the nda has nothing to do with it. generally the successful candidates get about 36 hours notice that they have a seat before the public announcement goes live. alternates are notified about a day later (still before the official reveal though). ndas are attached to those notification emails and you cannot take part in any meetings or have access to the internal forum before it has been signed.there has always been about a week to ten days between the end of voting and the results announcement even when there hasn't been a fanfest in that intervening period."
"the winners have not been announced. when they are announced you will see official communication from ccp."
"confirming my vote went to you./me twiddles thumbs."
"i don't vote for the french"
"well, thanks to all those who gave me their votes. now we just have to wait i believe. i don't think the results will be announced during fanfest, ccp stated that they'd reveal the results the 30th. but who knows.until then, don't hold your breath ! (it's a long time !)"
"more eve videos i have done, hope you enjoy! good season fellow candidates!!!caldari drakedrake youtube 720pcaldari ravenraven ahnold plays eve onlinearnold schwarzenegger plays eve onlineenjoy!"
"a noob speaks and we all lol"
"kick durr"
"primary target is durrhurrdurr in the myrmidon."
"shoot the durrmidon."
"i didn't vote for you, in part because of this: if you had anything written about your \"so important to roc\" subject of rp, it was not easy enough to find.but since you're still my second (and only other) choice, i still hope you'll get elected."
"i just have a bad feeling about all those \"wreck\" stations and not being able to put up another one there and ending up having a bunch of dead ones around some \"busy\" areas. this is why if we would try and implement this ( and it isnt a bad idea ), i would hope to see ccp lift the ban on one outpost per system and allow maybe 2 at least."
"no matter what the outcome it has been a fun run . . . mike azariah"
"supported."
"to me this is the big breaking point. part of subscribing to eve was to get involved in factions (my fav thus far being swg pre-cu/nge), but i've been holding off here thus far; from training a faction character. 4am my time is no time to log-in for me. needs to be a system that is the best points from old swg and old planetside imo (mostly regarding bases/plexes), but this is simply broken here. needs to be taken care of before incarna is released. thought ccp was serious about pvp until i researched the faction system. i'm just turning into another highsec carebear for the most part :( and that's no life. almost worse than being a highsec wardec carebear corp."
"if standings are not getting deleted and a name history in employment history tab i wouldn't see a problem. would be even better to avoid scammers than just selling your old scammer and buying a new character of the character bazaar, which clear everything about your history.approved."
"yes please, to bigger (especially) and more readable font options."
"yes"
"i dont see why it should be an issue, we can already change our portraits why not race or bloodline as well? and with this new portrait system i don't like amarr as i used to. anyway, i'm doing a second post because if forgot to support it.cya!"
"i propose that a ship lands at the cyno when the cyno is still there, and the jump is denied when the cyno is destroyed. a.k.a. simply fixing this bug.there is no problem with self-destructing while lighting a cyno. the problem lies with jumping to a cyno that's disappearing. i suspect it's simply a race condition between checking if a jump can be done, and actually performing the jump."
"supported, though i'm not sure how technically feasible it is (but i'd love to read a really long, totally geeked out dev blog discussing the possibility)."
"iteration means the act of repeating a process usually with the aim of approaching a desired goal or target or result. each repetition of the process is also called an \"iteration,\" and the results of one iteration are used as the starting point for the next iteration. (had to double check wikipedia, havent done any programming in a few years since i left uni)ccp tuxford rebalanced the tech level 1 ships a few years back (the original balancing process), (cant remember exact dates). they have not been revisited since. that sounds like a lack of iteration to me."
"you should be more specific about what iteration you refer to then since that was impossible to glean from your post."
"check the edit"
"right, anyway, doesn't change the fact that tuxford didn't dump the tier system and it still needs to be axed."
"that's a lot of bravado coming from an alt sitting in an npc corp."
"got my count"
"6000 dps that is useless in real combat.most dreads will have a long range fit so they can change between long and close range however they can only do 3000 to 1000 dps like this.the issue is that dreads are not being used as they are intended as old game mechanics have been surpassed by newer ones.granted the fix to the range of short range weapons so that you can hit outside of 5km was a welcome fix but they really need to work on it some more.i actually think if they released t2 dread weapons (range and damage) and a t2 seige (50% less time but requires the skill to level 5) they would become a benefit to eve combat."
"supporting his wholeheartedly, no ship should be so good that you cannot lose it to a ship not fit for that exact purpose. ******s failfitting it and losing to rifters don't make it balanced, a failfit mega piloted by a complete ****** will also lose to a rifter..."
"take a look at some big known corps/alliances, no need to look at small ones. so imo it's a false statement when someone comes with another thread about npc tax.this kind of misunderstanding will continue until ccp grows some balls and clearly states rules you can't avoid in players corps and some ideas like:-tax lower than npc corps by 25% (automatic, you shouldn't be able to avoid this)-replacement wallets with automatic operations between those-automatic reimbursement when you loose stuff etc (some % oc like insurance and your standing in the crop)-split benefits automatic to all members (with some rules where fc's or ceo's have the possibility to agree the % in relation to players investment etc)now: players have the entire ability to use/abuse/over abuse with no control possibilities for corpies other than get their own 2man corp or get in npc corp.the problem comes from players corps and how they deal their corpies, not the npc ones."
"fix game breaking lag for everyone's sake"
"typical pl answer. anticipated from my initial post. unfortunately our enemies cram even more into the fight than we do. so if we don't match them, we lose the battle. and also lose sov. this is not an option in 0.0 warfare.unlike pl, we stay and fight for our territory. our borders are vast and our enemies are significant in size.it would be a different story if we just attacked smaller alliances that were easy to beat and didn't require our entire force to defeat.your argument is weak. the growing number of player in eve, means that there is a need for the server to handle the growing number accordingly.don't come here and crap on about your insignificant small fights that have no lag and blame us because the game doesnt support teams of our size in combat. the fact that small fights don't lag, has nothing to do with the fact that big fights do."
"let me say it again so maybe you'll read it this time:its not ever going to happen.it doesn't happen in any other game. its never been possible in this game.the game is seven years old, they haven't made it happen in that time, its not ever going to happen.the servers can't handle it, the code can't handle it and the only thing ccp is going to do for the remainder of this game is bolt on extra parts to entice new fresh subscriptions to play so that the old jaded players who quit can be replaced.i mean, are you actually silly enough to believe that after seven years ccp is going to up and re write the base code of the game to do away with the bad communication between the client and the clustere?you basically have 3 choices: 1)go find a game that can support the type of game play you want.2)find a way to play within the means of the code of this game.3)keep staring at black screens.edit: its simple really, ccp is determined to let you do whatever in your sand box, but they have flat out told you that \"when you have huge fleet battles, we're not responsible for what goes wrong\". it can't get any simpler than that. they are outright telling you the game can't handle what your doing, and that they won't be responsible for fixing any weird things that are a result of you over taxing the system. to me, that also says that the system isn't going to be changed any time soon.edit edit: this is also a bold faced lie. they may have more than you in certain fights, but thats usually a day or two after they hand you your ass. no other entity in game fields as many players in a fight as the nc, and i'm sure you can browse our forum mirror, to see your alliances forums where crashing a node with bodies is a tactic in common usage that is encouraged at every level of your leadership."
"nice troll.back to the point.a ccp response to improve the issue of lag and bugs in large fleet battles is much needed, and would be much appreciated by many players. responses from pl members laughable, but not much appreciated, thankyou :)"
"here is the solution:every entity in game set everybody but nc on its blue list. the new coalition destroys the nc and breaks it apart. afterward, the bues tanding will be resetet. and the lag will be gone...p.s: it might be necessary to do the same with drf afterwards..."
"what about my post is a troll?i have been 100% completely honest with you.ccp will not and can not flat out tell you this because its a business, they aren't your friends, they are a company, who needs to generate business for the remainder of this project.i challenge you to point out anything you consider a troll in my statement, because its nothing but the truth that you refuse to acknowledge."
"currently there is no race specializing skill required for t2 sentries. one could theoretically not train any race drone specialization at all and be able to use every race t2 sentry drone.not only is this not skill intensive enough to field them like t2 heavy drones, but it also leaves t2 sentries without the bonus of training racial drone specialization. the skill adds +2% to drone damage for each level of drones requiring the skill.i propose that the drone racial specialization skill be added at a prerequisite to t2 drones.minimum level being four, just like their cousin the t2 heavy drone. this would bring it more in line training wise, and allow for a potential of up to +10% more damage.i am sure it has been brought up again but i believe the proposal is locked due to the 90 day rule. drones need some serious love and this is one of several steps of love towards drone lovers like myself."
"sentry drones are fine just the way they are."
"it would make sense. yeah why not."
"any roaming or pvp group will be familiar with this incredibly annoying and old problem. people in stations when invaded by roaming gangs often undock their carriers and if they're in a cyno jammed system literally have little to no risk of ever dying. even more ridiculous than their own invulnerability is the fact that they can make smaller ships such as well tanked cruiser to battleship sized ships also invulnerable through remote repair (this action doesn't even count as aggro for the carrier so they can dock instantly if danger approaches). my proposal is two fold. first, change remote rep into aggression, both in empire and 0.0. too long have empire corps used 10052352 logistics ships not even in their corp to rep their mains, concord should really show these alts to their pods. secondly i would like the aggro timer on capital sized ships only to be extended to 5-15 minutes. this would give roaming entities the opportunity to either bump off or set a trap for these capitals who have for too long known complete safety.regards"
"."
"brilliant idea!"
"not supported. they do it because your blob is bigger. change it and they won't undock at all. it accomplishes nothing. want a fight? form smaller blobs and accept your chance of wiping, and the fight will come to you. form huge blobs that they stand no chance against, and they'll play undocking games or not undock at all."
"actually that's not entirely true, i've had guys whip out a carrier because my solo maelstrom was solo owning their little station hugging pirate gang. in any case this proposal blows. all that's needed is for rr to count towards the 60 second aggression timer. that's plenty of time to ram them off station or dread/sc bomb them. it shouldn't be limited to capitals either, i'm tired of sitting there watching guardians rr someone on a gate, jump the instant they get shot and come right back 30s later. and there isn't a damn thing you can do about it unless you can alpha them. 60s aggro timer just like shooting someone would fix that little problem."
"i too like eliminating logistics ships from roaming gangs. gotta love getting that gate aggro for chaining cap! -liang"
"the last 3 posters are all slightly ******ed.cap transfer is not remote rep, so i'm not sure what the guy above me was.60 seconds requires you to have something in the neighborhood of 5-6 max skilled nyxes to kill a thanny, more if its an archon, so the guy above him is also wrong.the guy above that blaming it on blobs is also mentally ******ed. this happens in systems where there are 90 alliance members who won't undock to fight a 10 man roaming gang, and instead choose to sit a single carrier and some ridiculous ship like a geddon on the undock, tanking out the geddon like a boss because there is no danger to the carrier at all."
"grath, you're a moron and you shame your corp and alliance by even posting.-liang"
"i'm a moron and you had to edit your post once to get this one liner out?"
"i'm not sure what me editing a post has to do with you being a moron. -liang"
"well at least you got that one line out without having to edit that one, so i guess you're a work in progress.what exactly is it in my original post that makes me a moron? i mean, if you'd like to refute something i said, feel free, but simply slinging insults makes you look like an angry hungry baby."
"just a guess, but it might be that you don't understand the core concepts of remote repair.-liang"
"you said cap transfer, which is not remote repair.although currently cap transfer bounces criminal flagging through the fleet of guardians or bassi's already. what the op suggests is that simply remote repairing gives aggression, there is nothing wrong with that idea, and it would level the playing field for neutral repping in empire, and carrier repping on stations. this is the point where you started calling me names and saying i don't understand the 'core mechanics' of repping.well here's your chance sport, why don't you explain the 'core mechanics' to me, or what about that idea is flawed or wrongedit: just to be clear, right now it looks like you either participate in carrier station games, or you rely on neutral repping in empire for your game play. its cool to be mad about that, i was pretty ****ed when they nerfed my nano ships, but the game turned out better for it in the long run."
"see, the craziest thing is that cap chaining is actually a form of remote repair. thus, 2 basilisks sitting on a gate will never, ever, ever be able to deagress. that is a major problem with the idea.actually, i participate in \"flying logistics in low sec\" and don't appreciate holding my gang up for a couple minutes every time we go through a gate. i'm also firmly of the opinion that \"gate games\" as described by rothgar are trivially counterable (even my 4 man corp does on a regular basis).as i've always said in these threads: if station games are ****ing your day up, fix station games... but gate aggression is fine as things stand."
"see how hard was that, no insults, no asshatery, just your take on the situation, and while i disagree with it, its still valid as that happens to be your area of operation (low sec gates) where i normally don't operate.the only thing i see is that station aggro mechanics are unfortunately going to adversely have an impact on gate mechanics, mainly due to ccp's ham fisted approach to bolting things on to their code."
"seeing as how you started the conversation off with insults, i'm not sure where you get off lecturing.-liang"
"yea, its one of the great mysteries of the universe, like the pyramids, only, smaller."
"the problem is that we don't understand exactly why do you suggest such a thing...the main point of your argumentation seems to be that neutral repping point, but what you asked won't solve it, that's why we are asking you to rephrase it. maybe then we will be able to post some constructive contents.(by the way, i got my toeic with 95% and nobody care about that . being able to speak english using well-constructed sentences doesn't make you more easily understandable if you don't take some time to explain your points in details...)"
"simply put, add a 10 second delay to local.-creates a nice isk sink by allowing pvp'ers to have a chance at catching ratters. -diligent ratters that pay attention to d-scan will have a chance to survive-if the pvp'er is slow, the ratter will see the local change after 10 seconds and get safe. -plus many more cool things like more fights. always good to have more fights."
"brilliant idea! lets make ratters have to relentlessly click on the d-scan in order to survive all so you can have an easier time catching said ratters to get easy kills. /sarcasmit is already easy enough to catch ratters if you know what you are doing. the game does not need to change just because of your shortcomings. also...why don't you try killing stuff that can fight back? or do you just so unskilled that you can only go for the easy kills with no risk of you losing?"
"as always, the only acceptable local is a delayed mode local.but ccp needs to invent something that can work as a replacement before nerfing it."
"isk sink does not mean what you think it means. it is an isk sourceyou mean macros?if by fights you mean completely one-sided ganks and more blobbing, yes."
"this is not caod. just a simple reason why you do or dont like the idea would suffice. if you feel like you must troll go to that forum."
"change to/lack of local doesn't give fights it gives ganks.. if anything it may stop some fights if gangs pass each other and don't realize it.blobbing? no.. having 10 dudes gank your ratting raven is not being blobbed.. its just a dumb gank."
"well i never saw why 10 vs 1 pve ship wouldnt be blobbing but 100 vs 10 pvp ships would be. but it is more that i meant one sided ganks by 10 vs 1 pve'er and blobs because there is less reason not to blob if there is no warning when a huge blob is incoming against a small gang."
"so, you are telling me that since you are a pve'r, and i have 10 mates in violence boats....popping your ship and podding you is wrong?really?"
"i call your troll and raise you one \"there should be concord in 0.0.\" your move."
"always hard to say if people are trolling or genuinely stupid. but ill be nice and go for the latter option for now.what i am telling (you could have found that out by reading btw), is that 10 pvp ships vs 1 pve ship is at least as much blobbing as 100 pvp ships vs 10 pvp ships. if that is wrong or not is your choice to make, but they are either both wrong or both fine. now imo they arent really wrong, but at the same time it also doesnt need to be encouraged, which would this do, it definately would not increase the ~good fights~."
"simply put, this proposal is without merit. the author wants to have the developers implement more stealth for his stealth bomber so he has a better chance of catching someone alone. there is more to 0.0 than hunting ravens in a stealth bomber. the author overlooks every other effect that this sort of change would have on the game in the name of upping his gank count.with a 10-second delay, an entire battleship fleet could move through a solar system or two without being seen or reported by the locals if they're not hanging out at the gates (the only place they'd be seen in this scenario, and there are many gates in 0.0 that are less than 1au apart)... this fleet could move into a outpost system and no one would know about it until they had formed on and began destroying a cynosural jammer, with a capital fleet landing as soon as they finish. sov structures tend to be expensive and represent a significant investment of time+materials for those who put them up... should we really make it even easier for them to be destroyed before the owners can form a proper response all so that you can gank a few more ratters?lastly, wormhole space already exists. there is no automatic appearance in local chat there. if this is what you want, you can go there and live out the rest of your days in happiness. no need to change the rest of the game."
"...lol reading comprehension ftl...."
"no support.it will help only botters to go on with their buisness. making isk without be on key. and fraud all other players how have to spend much time to make isk to buy a new ship for pvp.and sometimes i am watching a system several hours on a second client. to see if the bots will start to ignore me and come out or just a hostile jb til something jumps in to get hotdropped.so this client is running 4-7hrs sometimes without beeing touched. because their is nothing to do in this system only watching it."
"tl;dr while you can no doubt get some support from spineless cowards and people prone to emotional knee jerking, that doesn't change the fact that your idea is crap and there is no real issue that needs fixing. this is such a load of bs. people who manufacture, mine, afk rat, afk mission run, do research, trade, use pi, gather datacores, ect. all essentially play the game while not actively being at the keyboard. it boggles the mind that people are too stupid to see that eve is full of afk activities that directly impact the universe, but complain about the one afk activity that doesn't allow you to do anything. it's affect is based entirely on the psychological effect it has on some people and ccp shouldn't start to nerf things just because they make people feel insecure.your pinging solution wouldn't actually solve anything for the simple reason people move while cloaked and they can fly unscannable fits without cloaks. since it would need to be hard, it needs to take time and player skill, so by the time you get a hit the warp in point is going to be useless. basicly you couldn't catch the cloaker anyway and you are still left with the psychological terror of ships in local you can't catch. this is basicly a huge load of work for ccp to implement and balance for the benefit of ****ing of loads of players and solving nothing.simple timeout as a \"solution\" hasn't worked in any game for the simple reason that people aren't actually afk that much and you can easily force automatic input. again a change that would **** of some players who just want to stay logged in and keep an eye on things for whatever reason while mainly doing something else or playing on another account, while at the same time solving nothing. you suggestion to waste gm time on hunting down players who just want to stay logged in to the game is laughable at best and at worst will increase macro use dramatically and creaste a lot of white noise that makes finding actual macro players much harder. this game has people with real issues to fix and solve, so wasting valuable and limited resources in to an effort to prevent people from doing nothing is insane waste of limited resources. from ccp's tech blogs it also seems pretty clear that it's macros, active players and combat in particular that causes the vast majority of server strain. if you have proof that afk players are a significant drain on server resources feel free to post it here. otherwise i'll just assume you don't have any backing to your claim and are just trying to appeal to people's emotions to get support for your idea.as for not needing to stay logged without input. it is a huge convenience having the ability to stay logged. i can do things in the house or work at the computer while still being ble to monitor if anything in the game warrants my attention. these things usually are intel channels, local and other chat channels. it seems like a good design, that in an mmo you have in-game mechanisms players can use to stay in touch while not actively playing. sometimes nothing is happening so there is no point being active, but that could change at any moment and staying in contact even while not playing strengthens those social ties to other players, that are what keeps people playing year after year.it's also worth pointing out that inactivity timers are often used, since in many games being inactive can directly harm other peoples gameplay(any arena type games) or their ability to play at all(hardcaps on how many players can connect to the server). in eve neither is the case and inactivity doesn't prevent anyone else of doing things, so there is no real need for it.not supported."
"i stopped right there. all of that which you posted was just a bunch of ignorant blathering and i am sure the rest of your post is no different. ratting, mining, pi, trade, datacores, missioning...all require you to be at the keyboard unless you are using the assistance of a macro which, as already stated, is not what this thread is about. your blind ignorance prevents you from seeing what the issue is. so let me break it down into baby talk for you.a miner who is afk can be killed by a pirate, as can a ratter or any character running trade and pi as well as missions and retrieving datacores. an afk cloaker is completely 99.99999999999% invincible in accomplishing his goals of shutting down a system for ratters and miners and various other activities. that tiny remaining percentage is in the random off chance of a player actually bumping into said afk cloaker. it doesn't matter how spineless you think people are. the largest fleet in eve can't catch most afk cloakers and stop them from doing what they do. most miners and ratters arent braindead enough to rat or mine with an expensive and defenseless ship just so some \"coward\" in a cloaky bomber can wait until he can one shot said defenseless ratter because he is too spineless to fight in any real pvp where the other player can fight back.see what i did there?i seriously doubt that will get through your thick skull anyway."
"thats right, but what everyone is failing to realize is that if you have countered an active cloaker, the you have also countered an afk cloaker. after all, the whole fear is that the afk cloaker will go active, therefor treat him as active always. i fly with the same overwatch even when no one is in system but me and my corp, because its a good habit to be in and rewards the pure pvpers as well(or in my corps case, because we have a few noobish people, gives the noobs isk to practice staying on their toes).tl;dr treat em all as actives, and the afkers aren't a concern"
"i personally believe the fuel usage is the correct way to go ... its actually makes the most sense .. ships that have a cloak activated would require either heavy water or liq. ozone to fuel the cloak module. fuel required would be based on ship size, so a cruiser cloaking would take more fuel then a frigate. specialized ships that are built for recon would not only get a ship bonus for reduction in fuel consumption, but also a small fuel bay that only holds the fuel required for cloaking. with actually covops ships you might still get afk camped all day, but atleast at some point that person will have to go back to friendly space and refuel.. my opinion is that with full cargohold and fuel bay , any covops specialized ship should be able to maintain a cloak for 15-20 hrs.. anything not covops would last considerably less, maybe 3-5 hrs, depending on ship size.."
"like the same way an afk cloaker still has to be at the keyboard get through the 0.0 camps to the chosen system...manually. just because u accuse someone else of being ignorant, doesn't mean u're not one of them. 1. an afk cloaker can also be killed at any bubble camp that actually has tacklers...while active. funny how u left that out.2. it's your own fault as well as your entire alliance for letting 1 harmless person \"shut down\" the system so in actuality, u and your alliance r spineless ones and most likely using the same macros everyone else is complaining about. no wait, even more spineless than anyone in high sec because u want 0.0, with it's rewards, to be even safer than high sec.3. and naturally, u want to resort to your same old concord-imitation blobbing to help solve your problems like u do with everything else in 0.0 u don't know how to handle otherwise.4. don't want to lose something expensive? don't fly what u can't afford to lose. if anyone's ignorant here, it's u.5. if he bombs u, that would mean...*gasp* he's not afk! more ignorance ftl. see what i did there? tl;dr u call 1 harmless afk pilot spineless yet a. all of u put together r still scared of him b. u go straight to your crutch of blobbing because that's how many u and your alliance needs to fight 1 defenseless person and c. u want 0.0 to be even safer than high sec with all reward and no risk.who's more \"spineless\"? the 1 harmless afk pilot or the blob of 1000+ who r scared of him? yep, it took a short while, but this is what this thread is really about--tears over not having 100% concord-level safety and 0 risk for easy 0.0 rewards.but plz continue--i really love to hear it."
"an hour client timer is okay, a 15 min client timer would nerf afk mining too - cargo extended ice exhumers will not fill in that time.please consider unintended consequences of your proposals."
"drake trains in 0.0 engage at ~70km. i think the big whine is that the drake is so appealing in this role because it vastly outperforms everything else when fitted to engage in this role. so every man and his dog uses it. which causes big lag (missiles ate my internet hamster) hence trying to bring it in line. making other ships more appealing in this role.i've only ever done up to c4 worm holes. didn't think a tengu would be able to tank a c5. especially now with the neuting. can't you approach the ships out at 160km or are they webbing you too?(sleepers are gits for that i know!) maybe have a raven there to help?anyway, does the fact that a tengu can punch out to that range and tank which none of the other t3's can do not set alarm bells ringing?"
"no alarm bells, no; because it only tanks on rr, and resists. the dps is infernally slow, if effective; and only makes it, because you have the time. 4-5 tengu's on a c5 guardian, takes a bit of time; and the rr better be on the ball, or someones losing a ship. we use large tech ii shield transporters; but 3-4 on one tengu; just barely holds the ship up, under full onslaught.edit for typo"
"wrong, the whine is that it performs several levels above all the other bc at all ranges over 30km or so without fitting for it .. it is a bog-standard fit with zero sacrifices.try fitting a harbinger or hurricane to engage at 50km+ and you'll see what the whine is about .. if it actually did significantly less damage than other weapons beyond medium range then the 'problem' could be tanked/ignored but it out-dps' both beams and artillery.the only logistics i have ever seen not clustered with its charges is scimitars zooming around the edges .. being of minnie design it is rather near-sighted so a single damp removes it quite handily."
"isn't that what i just said and have been saying this whole thread? a hml drake doesn't need range boosting modules to achieve >70km range. all other bc's do which sacrifices a lot of slots which the drake fills with tank/gank.would 6 or 7 ravens not be a better choice or does the low sig offer a lot of damage reduction?i can get a proteus to perform similarly to your tengu's but uses drones which are painfully slow to move to the target. i think you can use drones pretty effectively these days too (after incursion expansion) as i have seen the sleepers tend to leave them alone. aside from the frigates which still like to shoot them, but not so much anymore."
"just fix the damn thing."
"switch the 5% shield resist bonus to 5% shield amount. still just as viable for solo and pve without massively outclassing the other battlecruisers (and arguably some battleships) when logistic support is present.yes, a couple of other bcs do have resist bonuses but without the superb slots and fitting that the drake has. to have tanks even close (but still inferior) their dps is much lower than even the drake's."
"i'm not sure of what you're stating but with 160m radius, over 850m/s and lower resist around 75% maybe your guy is doing something wrong (in fact full t2 fit i get between 84 to 93% with my skills not perfect). these numbers are for a t2 fit and no implants, so these can get bigger if you consider that missile and shield or radius/speed implants are out there.knowing that base shield resists in a tengu are stronger than the drake, knowing the 5% resists per lvl is available to the tengu, knowing that the drake gets over 400m radius while the tengu only 160. your guy is doing something wrong for sure."
"if we are ignoring weapon problems the ferox actually gets tank and dps pretty much on par with the ham drake"
"i don't see a problem with them to be honest. a few years ago, if you brought a drake to a small gang or fleet a lot of fc's told you to pi*s off. now you got people telling you to bring drakes. they are in fashion, and like people have said before, lots of people can fly them. i don't see a problem with the range of heavy missiles, the other bc's can shoot out to around 70km the issue is they have to sacrifice tank/dmg mods to do it, while the drake does not. if there was a drake nerf it should be to its overall shield hit points maybe a -5% to shield hit points."
"that's a pretty massive problem to ignore anyway the ferox still has one less mid but tank is only really on par if drake uses the same number of mid slots for it that the ferox does.a few years ago you didn't have medium rigs. 3x extender drakes were a much bigger asset to risk. a few years ago logistics pilots and cruisers were far less commonly seen. resist bonused ships were thus not as favoured.nerfing shield hit points by 5% would do absolutely nothing balance-wise. change resist bonus to hp bonus."
"actually imo the reason drakes are so popular is the fact that shield rigs and especially resistsance rigs are ridiculously cheap and their penalty is insignificant (it's a passive tank on a big bc with shield externders you don't care about sig nothing was going to miss you anyway) whereas any armor rig has a painful penalty and costs a lot.also obviously there's just a huge number of caldari pilots around."
"i was comparing a point/web drake with a scram ferox. so three mid slot shield tanks on both.still funny the drake isnt that much better than the other battlecruisers, its better but not by a huge amount.i can almost agree with them not having to sacrifice anything for the range they get on heavy missiles but that isnt a drake issue thats a heavy missile issue"
"i'll be honest, i'm not entirely sure if what i'm proposing is possible or if it would work. basically, the idea is that as it stands, once you get a certain amount of drones out there, it creates staggering lag. i'm guessing this is due to having too many models on screen at one time, along with accompanying animations and the like.why not just remove the drone models after a certain number of drones comes on screen? i'll be honest, even when i'm doing missions, i don't bother watching drones close enough to even see a model and i can't imagine anyone else does that in fleet battles either. any time i've seen a fleet battle on bewbtube, its always so far zoomed out that the only models you can see at all are supercaps. like i said, i'm not sure if its possible or would even have any impact on the lag, but please discuss or even enlighten me if you have that knowledge."
"you haven't noticed the drone models checkbox in eve's graphics options?"
"i didn't. well, crap, so much for that. then what the hell is actually causing all that lag during large battles? is it just so many connections?"
"i can answer this one.it's not just 1 thing, it's a combination of several things.1. while drones may not be rendered they still process commands for firing at a ship. so in some place like 020 with a super cap battle, you have some 2000 people on the field and lets just say on average about 750 are capitals. so you have 1250 people * 5 drones per person + 750 capitals * 10 drones per person (obviouly averaged between carriers dreads and titans)so you are looking at 6250 + 7500 = 13,750 firing calls in 1 system on the node. assuming all turrets are grouped as 1.so ok 13750 object calls by players alone then dont forget pos guns, then gate jumps, armor rep cycles, smart bomb explosions, ewar checks ie ecm bursts etc.by the time you get done with it, you are going to be averaging about 100,000 calls to the server per minute on a huge fleet fight such as o2o. our fleet battles escalate faster than hardward and software can keep up."
"so it is simple, the server cannot handle the current fleet sizes, and if the server is improved the fleet sizes will increase. that is not because we are such horribly pvp'ers (well maybe a little), but it is because in current sov mechanics the only effective way to defend (or attack) is to pile as many people as possible on one grid, 4 times in a row. aditionally smaller independent alliances have no chance, again because the larger ones just pile more people on one grid than the smaller ones, and then it doesnt matter if the larger one has 100 systems and the small one has one system, since it doesnt actually become harder to hold a system if you already got a ****load of systems. irl what fixes that is that your forces are spread thin and you cant jb (at least that is what they want you to believe :tinfoil:). now we can nerf jbs, but tbh that makes it just more boring since you cannot make it take a few weeks to move your army a few regions.so why not make sovereighnity activity based? so not the group who blobs the system 4 times gets sov, but the ones who actually live there. please take into account this is nothing specific and open to discussion, but for example what counts towards sov would be:npc killsore minedstuff manufactured (limitted influence, filling production slots of a station should not guarantee sov)gate jumps, cyno jumps, etc (obviously also limitted influence)player kills/losses maybe, maybe not. first you also got them indirectly (a killed ratter is not ratting). however the larger problem is if you let kills play a role is that you get people who just jump in a carrier with fully insured t1 ships, and you start killing some random neut alt to get your kills up. this would work if the reward is not too large, and i am in favour of that, but it needs to be balanced.player losses imo should not count for sov, already enough k:d *****s, no need that that cute noobie gets flamed because he lost a ship when trying to fight solo against a random other player who doesnt want you sov.so this would achieve that if you want a system you need to live there, small gang combat is highly useful for taking sov, more systems = harder to defend, it would be trivial to take sov in a system with only bots running (since they dont actually run when others are in local), so win-win-win situation?well some things:treaties would need to be implemented first (which support nrds also as viable option), so me ratting in friendlies systems does not hurt their sov, but helps it.aditionally there are apparently actually people who enjoy lagfests and are interested in 1000vs1000, and ccp advertises with them (minus the lag), so they should still happen, and well there would be large fights about csaas and tech moons, but not on the scale we have now. however the sharp reader (so none of you) will have noticed up till now i ignored station ownership. what i would do with stations:station count towards sov, again needs to be balanced so just owning the station does not guarantee you never lose sov and we are back to the current situations. besides that we can just practically keep the current situation: attacking a station where someone else has sov just gives the normal two reinforcement timers (no ihub reinforcement stuff). just no more sbu'ing first since sbu's are gay. meanwhile if you do not have sov but you do have the station, everyone can directly take it by shooting through all its hp (which imo might be decreased, but that is something else). maybe give it a mini-reinforcement timer of a couple of hours, so the owners still have time to defend it without that being bypassed like ehp by just dropping enough supers.so you can still have large fights about stations, either to make it easier to flip a system to your side or just to ruin the day for everyone of the enemy who doesnt evac his stuff in time, but in the end if you want to hold sov it is activity based."
"and nop i dont expect ccp will do anything like this, or hell anything at all with sov the coming years since it would be admitting they horribly failed, but one can hope.in the end if this would be done people can obviously still blob the crap out of everyone else if they want, if a small alliance lives somewhere they can bring the entire kitchensink to lock down the system and take the station. the difference with now is they just got to do it 4 times now, after which they install a horrible pet. in this system they would still take the sov, and lose it directly afterwards if they leave the horrible pet behind."
"hey, it took ccp what 7 or 8 years to yank the learning skills they admittedly said was wrong. so you have about 5 or so yet to go.enjoy."
"good stuff!"
"you'd be shocked what you can learn about an alliance by doing this."
"no.stop complaining about cloaking."
"no local... no cloakers... simple"
"who needs illegal buy isk when:-your corp/alliance has bots and makes billions with no effort-your corp/alliance does over 5 billions/month/moon with moon harvestingthere is a lot more shiny stuff like this, so who needs to buy a t3 char for some billions just to afk cloak (buffing his fleet)? - can you seriously find an example and a real one.scanning players is already a 5 years old game difficulty so leave improbable t3's alone and change your tactics, change to another system, change your game or from this game, play with people join some alliance etc etc."
"the most stupid game mechanic is being able to scan down every thing but t3's with special setups in less than 15sec.what's the point? -gate camps aren't enough?now i entirely agree that fleet boosts should be on grid, but it's another discussion.you can cloak any command ship or battlecruiser yet you are asking for t3 ships to be nerfed, i can't agree with this.you can also make any battlecruiser or command ship become improbable without cloaking device if you use more than 0.0001% of your brains.so i'm asking again, what's your point? (@op)"
"oh wow. your sig really sets your post off nicely. -liang"
"thanks to everyone for the support.we will be drawing the winners of everything on the 2nd of april in the \"www.seriousinternetpolitician.com\" ingame chat channel.:)yours, serious."
"so we have to wait almost a year? or were you going for the 2nd of april?"
"2nd of april :pthx"
"it's a kitty station on the look out."
"this is my pic for serious poloraid ^^"
"for serious poloraidspace. kitty poloraid"
"is windy about to start crying cause other than in eve-o forums no one likes him, cares about him, or even knows of him?"
"i would hope so.but knowing windy as well as i do, i guess he is grabbing another beer and phl at you lot posting here :)"
"voting is over windy you can stop altposting"
"always a toss up when you read something like this. either a delusion, a delusional sycophant, one of the mits alts or a troll.-windjammer"
"okay, i have to admit to a certain amount of admiration here. the guy writes a blatant self promotion containing at least one really big omission and he gets paid for it? wow.thats like taking out an ad in a newspaper and having the newspaper pay you for your ad as well as throwing truth in journalism out the window.lets all write letters to the editor(s) of tentonhammer and see just how much they care about the credibility or integrity of their publication.-windjammer"
"if any significant number of people complained then they would just publish an article about it because controversy means more page impressions which means more ad money basically tth can't lose"
"of course, but they might also take greater care in who they allow to write for them and what is written. hey, maybe even tell the mits his services are no longer required. also, i believe if i were ccp i'd be a little miffed about the prejudice in mits article as well as the glaring omission. ccp takes out advertising with tth, don't they?-windjammer"
"oh boy, living in your fantasy world must be great"
"the funny part is this is far less self-congratulatory and preening than usual you wretched filth are in for a blood-boiling year"
"fine, mr. picky. throwing more truth in journalism out the window than is customary and doing it in an obvious way. that better for you?most publications will at least pretend to have some integrity and like people to believe they have credibility. the mits blog journalism in tentonhammers publication isnt even pretending. -windjammer"
"give me a minute to chug a few beers and catch up to you. your post might make more sense to me if were both in the same condition. either that or you could get a friend to ghost for you. you seem to have something to say, but darned if i can figure out what it is.-windjammer"
"are you that concerned that people won't be able to see the text to the left of your post and wonder who made it"
"who is this mysterious stranger making these posts, if only i knew his name"
"im beginning to realize this isnt a beer related problem. if one of you gooners could loan me your weaselior to english dictionary, id be grateful. or maybe you could just translate.-windjammer"
"are you a fox news viewer?"
"given the usual goon rhetoric, isnt that a clear case of the kettle calling the mirror black?no. fox news is a waste of bandwidth for the same reason the mits articles are and murdock is an even larger ass. at least mits does it for fun. for the record i think the same of msnbc. im npr, bbc and cnn all the way, though the last is obviously not so great anymore if it ever was.-windjammer"
"if you had trouble with that you don't need a translator you need a first grade english book"
"see? i knew you could do it. good boy. you succeeded in writing something that made sense. that having been said, your fu is seriously lacking some kung.also, your previous posts still require a rewrite and/or explanation to be understood. of course thats entirely up to you. perhaps you just wanted to be vaguely ominous and cryptic. were you going for inscrutable? cause that would be cool.-windjammer"
"for those who wish to complain to tentonhammer about the mittanis article, the address is support@tentonhammer.comregards,windjammer"
"who the heck complains cause someone writes and self congradulatory article?no fan of goons but wow...you people need to get out more. agree it was a terrible writen article but some of his stuff is decent to read...really you think this i worth complaining over? or that they will care or find something disagreable?"
"quoting for prosperity"
"so finnally there were simplu more people voting early this year, and that's all... too bad :/"
"@ccp....please poast stats !that is allkeep up the good posting !"
"ankhsemptampkah spammed mission hubs saying to vote for her to keep level 4s in empire. darius is doing more or less the same thing."
"sootnia is a witch !burn her!"
"while it is understandable you would want a defence, ccp has never given any indication that the csm was \"in game\". in fact, the demand that participants have to provide their real name, sign an agreement that effects the player and not the avatar (see larkonis gate) and pretty much all communication from ccp strongly indicates that the csm has nothing to do with \"in game\" at all.of course, if you or anybody else are breaking the eula is up to ccp to decide."
"d3 should be king of the csm as he can dibble a basketball with either hand...cos he's amphibious!"
"if your enemy has 6 blobs, then your problem isn't blobbing, it's that you suck at diplomacy so much that many people turned up to kill you"
"bloody pirate! :]"
"windows phone 7 user as well... would be a great app to have in the marketplace!"
"please please please please please add a recall option i promise goonswarm won't abuse it really"
"i see no downside to this (specially now that ccp is updating the database servers)"
"they've fixed half of it. plexes respawn immediately after they are capped - if that plex respawns in a system with same occupancy. otherwise it waits until after dt to respawn.ex: gallente defensive plex respawns in gallente held system - respawns right away.ex: gallente defensive plex respawns in caldari held system - respawns after dt."
"you could always just make it; so the first year, auto-linking the old name, leads you to the same person. keep it on a yearly system; names shouldn't be that easy to change. they should be changeable, however.as for black-listing people, and that sort of thing; i really couldn't care less. sure, a corp thief should be watched; but really, they should be able to get away too. no reason someone should have a noose hanging around their neck, for that long; or that amount of time, until the incident is forgotten. sometimes never.vendetta's are generally stupid, and childish; quite often, the fault of the person who pursues it. sometimes, completely imagined; and possibly, even outright slander. something, which a lot of players in eve, should think about; next time, they choose to listen to someone, regarding anothers character. i hate the idea of having some anonymous, unknown slander following me around; not knowing even, what it is, or who is spreading it. yet, it would affect all my interactions in game, with people who had 'heard'; and i wouldn't be able to argue, or even defend myself regarding it. that sort of thing happens in real life too.more than 10% of the population, are psychopath's who never choose to kill people; because they find it much more satisfying, to ruin their relationships, employability, and ability to live a normal life. - study by a professor; at the university of british columbia.black-listing by employer's, is illegal in canada; regardless, it still happens, and affects many peoples lives.that aside.. i do support this idea; and think real currency is the way to go."
"yes please!this is actually the main reason that i might have to stop playing eve..."
"i recently noticed that \"&\" has some lookalike issues as well."
"i support this ccp has been ingoing the blaster/rail guns problem for far to long.....fix it now"
"for the love of god, please fix hybrids!"
"thanks for the support."
"yep, i can dig that.however, i would support the idea only if it were to be taken even further.hell, as it is, i do not even remotely consider fof missiles, be it in pve or pvp. i think they could use a significant boost so as to offset the lack of being able to focus on a target. either a plain ol' damage or rof bonus, or a way that, say, a fleet commander could direct the missiles to a target. some sort of missile-oriented target painter (not the tp module as we know it.)"
"all good ideas in principle, but i'm going to make a very general suggestion, which applies far more broadly than this single thread:ccp pays people to think of this stuff. those people play the game too. anytime you have a bright idea that has seemed obvious for years but was never implemented, there's very likely to be an extremely good and well thought-out reason for that.so, why hasn't this been implemented? well, off the top of my head there's a balancing act going on here between pvp and pve. lots of pvp happens in relatively open space, where the vast majority of objects are ships. pve on the other hand tends to happen in very crowded bubbles of lcos. i put forward that this is by design.fof missiles are used (not often but they are used) in pvp where lots of ecm is going on, and they do provide at least some dps to the enemy while your alternative is to sit there doing nothing. fof missiles are not used at all in pve because they're useless in pve, and they're meant to be.the reason why is obvious. bots. any change that makes fof missiles at all useful in pve is more help to bots than to anyone else.this doesn't just go for fof missiles by the way. there are all sorts of elements of eve that could stand for vast improvement, but cannot be implemented without making mission botting easier. and anything that accomplishes that, even tangentially, is a non-starter. i can only conclude therefore that ccp has decided that the current implementation of fof missiles is the best of a bad situation. pvpers can use them, and pveers can't.just think of what could be accomplished in improvements to eve online if we didn't have to worry about bots and rtmers... they truly are our worst enemy."
"also, they should be named faf missiles, which are in reality a type of missile still used today, but it's older tech from before the days of laser-guidance. old-style heat-seeking missiles are faf. launch, and it seeks out the hottest target around.fire and forgetsometimes those would come back to bite you in the rear too."
"not necessarily. by experience, some features can just never make it into software because of lack of time and/or higher-priority stuff piling up on top. funny as it sounds, several hundred people can and will fail to think of a particular thing. case in point, the very, very famous goonswarm station-flip story.although, they can find some use in fights against sleepers or incursive sansha since those provide a more pvp-like experience, and therefore fof missiles might be a potentially fair tradeoff. the actual problem, i believe, stems from said missiles being very situational - too much for them to be worth carrying. in a gang battle, i won't care much if i am jammed since my fleetmates will still be targeting and pounding the enemy away. aoe jammer or lock-bombs? now we're talking - but i don't think it happens often enough to give fofs a chance to shine. the crux at hand is finding them a good niche and placing them into it. somewhere i can think \"is it worth it to take missiles that don't need targeting, at the expense of not being able to choose where they head?\" that was why i was suggesting for a module that could maybe guide them somewhere, some way to de-fof them a little bit at the expense of turning your target-man into a single point of failure. ideas to kick around.ummmmmmmmmm, no. since people are so utterly convinced that every nullsec alliance ever is a buncha bots, what's it gonna change to make them not need to target anything anymore? oh great, we gave an automatic transmission to a robot that could already drive manual, whoop-dee-doo."
"you're missing the fact that people make decisions based on perception, which is not necessarily always well-grounded in reality."
"the thing is though, i would actually be happy with some kind of reduced attribute to compensate for more intelligent target selection (damage is of course the obvious candidate, but rof is another to consider). let me give an example, which is true for me, in the use of fof missiles;as an intrepid capsuleer i love exploration, and regularly carry fof hydras with me in my tenguas well as being an intrepid capsuleer, i am also incredibly lazy to that end, i fit the good ol' launchers with fof missiles in readiness for the mass of frigs and cruisers that populate high/low sec sitesthe (to me, lazy remember) ability for the launchers to automatically decimate these tiny rats with reduced damage (compared to regular scourge) is a more than fair trade. true, i do a significantly smaller amount of damage compared to the regular missiles. but it's saved me having to bloody target millions of red crosses(talking here about selecting rats, not about the us military bombing friendly/neutral forces/ngos etc lol) as i think i mentioned before, i don't want to be seen to be forcing this issue just for my own benefit lol...i'm more than happy to accept a trade off :)"
"i support this but it's not likely to happen....ccp is making to much money having people pay for multi accounts. most anyone who has been playing eve for a while can pay for one account with plexes. the whole idea don't really make much logical sense to me because you still need two (or more) accounts to use more then one character in game, you cant use two characters on the one account at the one time. all this will do is hurt character for isk sales how ever if ccp changed the client so that only 2x toons were aloud on the one account (instead of 3) and then allow them to train at the same time may not be as bad. i like the idea but it just don't make any sense to me."
"this skill i think is one of those problem skills that can't be fixed without removing it.the idea of the skill is that you can buy things without having the full amount of isk right away.however this leaves a problem what happens if you dont have the isk when the item is being sold to you?well you cant get a negative balance as this would be exploited to hell and back.so the other thing is to remove the buy order which seems simple enough.however far to many people do not use it as intended and use it for very very pointless scams that might work sometimes but all they do is mess with the market as they combine this with the minimum buy amount and try to scam people.i know this could be fixed by removing the buy amount, however some people use it for legitimate reasons.so i believe the skill should be removed as it's just pointless, you need the total amount of isk to buy x item then you should have it up front.so i say remove this useless skill.----------------------------------------------------posted ideas:show how many items buy can afford out of his requested amount.fine the margin skill itself for each force cancelled ordered."
"no.ed: i'll be diplomatic."
"supported. don't have the cash? don't trade. bringing in consequences of irl into eve (jail) would be unrealistic, therefore bringing marginal trading into eve is unrealistic. get rid of it."
"there is actually a pretty simple way to 'fix' it:buy orders are only shown when the buyers wallet is able to make the trade for the asked minimum amount."
"i've just been reading the eve24 reports on the null sec discussion and what is apparent is the ccp are trying to dictate how the game should be played. a classic example of this is:13:27dev: why be blue to everyone around you?really what has that got to do with anyone else? it's a sandbox, least that's what you keep telling us. over and over again why ccp trying to dictate a particular style of game play, sorry that's not your job. the players are complaining about game mechanics while ccp seem obsessed with player behaviour, ccp start listening to your customers and stop listening to your whiny devs.if you want to improve access to 0.0, provide more npc regions like venal around the rest of 0.0 (npc delve is laughably small and i don't think drones the largest area has any. make them logistically reachable too again like venal."
"it seems to be a real problem in ccp's developer culture and one that will have to be addressed before a tipping point is reached. hopefully this csm will have a proper makeup that they'll be able to smack ccp on the nose with a rolled up newspaper and tell them to stop chewing on our slippers. it's an absurdity to run a sandbox game and then tell the playerbase that they're sandboxing wrong. ccp needs to decide if they're really committed to the concept they started with, of player-created, player-driven content in a sandbox environment. if they are, then their own job is to make sure that game mechanics are functioning as intended, and not that they're getting the 'desired' (or stopping non-desired) political behavior in game. if it's a sandbox, then it's up to players whether they'll fight solo or with a buddy, or ten buddies or eight hundred dudes they've never met, who are in turn friends with/enemies with whoever the **** they want. ccp advertises its game with massive fleet battles and talk of the 'butterfly effect'. if that's true, they need to keep their damn hands off eve's political landscape. if not, just divide the server up into shards, assign alliances to \"alliance\" or \"horde\" and start instanced space dungeons to decide sov conflicts/pos bashing/whatever."
"i understand how you guys feel and all, but ccp has to retain some control over what happens in eve or else the *******s will run rampant and unbalance everything, sandbox or not."
"the problem is that without parents to watch and protect the sandbox, children will **** in it."
"the problem with eve's sandbox is the same with anything else that let's thousands of players coagulate and fester. bigger blobs make people do progressively dumber things... like make bigger blobs.i can understand why ccp would want to tackle napfesting. 0.0 isn't supposed to be peaceful."
"you are both so foolish.having consequences to napping a bunch of people is not only fair but it is completely 100% leaving the choice in your hands.but i think your issue isnt that you wont have a choice. its that other people will, and they wont choose to play your stupid game and youll be left alone, bitter and defeated.htfu, ccps stated goal in 0.0 now is to make it more action packed and enjoyable. only a fool or someone blinded by bias would post this much fear mongering."
"ccp have to consider the wider sandbox, not just nullsec. 0.0 stagnation has the potential to bork the entire economy. it's entirely within their remit to try and prevent such a situation from occurring."
"because huge blobs fights are harmful to the server. there is no point in ccp fighting lag if blobs will expand to occupy all available space in a system until the game becomes unplayable again.they want to find a more permanent solution to the problem. feel free to sandbox any way you want as long as you play with the sand not break the box."
"if they want to \"fix\" blobs, they need to give an incentive not to blob...a good start would be, perhaps, re-introducing the old-school doomsday device... but perhaps with a catch - it takes out the titan with it, but can pop even a poorly tanked carrier? essentially, if you are on grid with that titan, and it self destructs, you die."
"you can not fight human nature or mathematics. you simply can not. and no, the sever is not \"harmed\", situational server performance is degraded in specific environments. but claiming server \"harm\" is absurd.if you have a target i want to attack, or i have an asset i want to defend, being able to put more firepower on the able will mean i most likely win. better sov objectives is a very good start, but it won't eliminate the fact that 10 ships provide more dps than one. people will cooperate if they think it increases their chances at victory. it's hypocritical to claim otherwise unless you never fly anything but solo. player-created, player-driven political content isn't \"supposed\" to be anything but what the players decide. and please, the \"no combat\" canard has been beaten to death. even if that was true and everybody in 0.0 tomorrow decided that they hated pvp and wanted to mine veldspar until their eyes bleed, ccp would have no grounds interfering. none, at all. your position is also more than a little disingenuous. what if, tomorrow, ccp decided that rather than letting players engage in sandbox gameplay, that only large scale combat should be allowed and small scale combat should simply be removed as a viable possibility. those of us arguing honestly and rationally would be able to point out \"it's a sandbox game and small-gang pvpers should be able to play it however they want, leave the game unchanged.\" you'd have to accept their changes, since you've already accepted that ccp has the right to break sandbox play if they don't like how people are sandboxing. it's the old joke:a man walks up to a woman in a bar and offers her 50 million dollars if she'll sleep with him, and she say yes. then he offers her five dollars, and she says \"you bastard, what kind of a woman do you think i am?\" he responds \"madam, we already know what kind of a woman you are, now we're just haggling about the price.\" no, not true. any political formation that occurs without cheating is, by definition, \"balanced\" because that's what people have created in the sandbox. if tomorrow everybody ganged up and decided to blue each other, except people whose characters' names started with the latter \"a\", ccp would have absolutely nothing to say about that. it's not up to ccp to determine in-game politics in a game where political content is player-crated and player-driven.balanced doesn't mean \"fair\". i'm sure to people with a name that starts with \"a\", they'd hate being hunted by the rest of eve. but it's a sandbox, and we get to determine how play goes. 1. this is eve, a game where scamming, treachery, betrayal, unfair fights and generally being a bastard are not only allowed, they're encouraged. saying that we need to be protected from the nature of the game is less than compelling. 2. your analogy is telling. we're the ones who are supposed to be creating the content in this game about player-created content. rather obviously. wanting someone to serve as our mommy and daddy somewhat misses the point. one does not \"consider the sandbox\" by breaking sandbox play. what if 0.0 play was the same but empire dwellers didn't feel like being industrialists anymore. why, that has the potential to bork the game. ccp should force all empire residents to spent no less than 75% of their time on industrial production, then, right? or just 50%?"
"strawman.it isn't about ccp 'forcing' players to act in certain ways, but changing the incentives. to go with your analogy ccp could then increase the availability of manufacturing slots, change the number of active jobs per character, reduce corporation fees or the standings needed to negate them. none of that is 'forcing' a fundamental change in player activities, simply encouraging it. same idea with differentiating areas of nullsec in the hopes of increasing conflict and the consequent economic activity. they can't force alliances to fight each other but simply encourage it."
"fyp"
"no, it's not. honestly, people here like to use that word without knowing what it means, and it's just silly. \"ccp discovers that empire residents no longer want to perform industrial work, and they decide that they're sandboxing wrong, so they remove all missions from empire and all asteroids and all exploration sites, and prohibit anybody trading on the market too unless they've built at least one module for every item they're selling.\" semantic gaming. \"i'm not forcing you to act differently i'm compelling you. i'm not compelling you i'm punishing noncompliance and rewarding acceptance. i'm not punishing you if you don't do what i want and rewarding you if you do, i'm providing incentives and disincentives. i'm not setting up incentives and disincentives to make you play the game the way i want, i'm altering the game to coerce a desired outcome. i'm not trying to weight game mechanics in order to coerce your player-created politics, i'm altering game mechanics so that they are more likely to channel people into the 'player-created' path i want them in. i'm not channeling allegedly player-created content into dev-approved politics, i'm corralling the wild and chaotic nature of individual agents and providing for a unified nullsec experience governed by my desires. i'm not corralling your play stale so as to create a nullsec experience for you that's governed by my desire for what player-created content you should want to create, i'm...\" the fact remains, either the game is a sandbox, or it's not. if it is, you (the devs) set up mechanics so that they're working the way you intend, then you let people do whatever you want with them. if, for example, you set up the ability to put corp/alliance tickers on the overview, and people are able to do that, then the game is working as intended. if people do that and refuse to shoot at pilots with certain tickers because they're cooperating with them, and you don't like that, then the game is still working as intended and you keep your damn hands off it. same with sov or anything else. if the system itself is broken, sure, fix it asap. if the system is working as intended but people are \"sandboxing wrong\", then ffs go get a beer and smoke a cigarette and play some pool, and then get back to fixing broken code in eve online after you've forgotten that you had the desire to break sandbox play. look, the simple fact is that no matter what people want nullsec to be, it will be whatever its residents make it. because the whole point of a sandbox game like eve is that it's player-created and player-driven content that provides the context and the drive for events in nullsec. you can't get around that. arguments that \"i like small/medium/large fleet combat, so that's the style that ccp should encourage while discouraging all others\" is simply absurd. if people were being honest about this they'd realize that, as there's functionally no difference between \"i like large fleet battles, so ccp should do everything they can to provide incentives for that kind of play and disincentives for its opposite and make players migrate to large, sov holding coalitions\" and \"i like small gang combat, so ccp should do everything they can to provide incentives for that kind of play and disincentives for its opposite and make players migrate away from large, sov holding coalitions.\" we're back to haggling over price, and people have lost any leg to stand on once they admit that they just want to alter game mechanics to boost their subjective game preferences."
"you should have read it yourself before giving a tldr that is essentially but i want to run sanctums forever in my dreamland!expected consequences some alliances will immediately start wanting to look for better space in the longer run, there'll be more conflicts going on, with more localized goals newer alliances will have an easier time getting a foothold in nullsec coalitions will be marginally less stable alliances will have to choose more carefully what space they develop, where their staging systems are, and so on (low truesec systems generally tend to be in strategically inconvenient places)"
"*facepalms*i did read the whole thing - if you'd have actually read my post, you'd have realized i said, and i quote:the bread and butter of my point is two fold:1) the number of systems even worth claiming is going to drop dramatically.2) the larger alliances are going to swoop into regions with those few systems, kick everyone else out, and settle in.long story short... this change does nothing to help new alliances (unless they are willing to settle for space that quite frankly sucks, which there is already plenty of), and in fact hurts more established alliances that had to work for their space. additionally, it helps botters as, hey, take a guess, they're already on 23/7... they don't really notice a change like this as all it does is mean they have to run an extra account. however, for people like myself (who runs one primary account and one as a simple stuff-moving toon) with limited playtime, it's a kick to the face.it makes rift look all the more enticing to be honest... and i've played eve for years (started back in 2005)"
"how many people, ccp, do you think can share one system?if you knew what you were saying you wouldnt have asked this."
"running sanctums in gangs can be pretty lucrative iirc, on a corp or alliance scale certainly far more so than one individual per anom and in fact it gives better isk than soloing unless the loner has a well-pimped set-up."
"ccp went full ******, especially on those intended consequences, if this was posted at 1 april it would have been funny..."
"apparently you are having some comprehension issues here... so let me clarify.how many people do you think live in 0.0 space? a few thousand? for the sake of argument, lets say it's a flat 5,000 people total. lets assume a flat 1,000 unique people (so 5 accounts per person).if they make this change, instead of each system in 0.0 being able to have a haven or sanctum given the upgrades, only a handful will... so assume 100 systems total.that means you must put 10 people in each of those systems, spread across space.that means 50 accounts in each system.and i believe it's safe to say i'm seriously low-balling the number of people..."
"i added this to the first post, but anyway:make it so that you can improve the tru-sec status (as in, lower it) with constant work - how you do this, i don't know. maybe make it so that it's based on the military standing of a system (each level subtracts .1 so with level 5 military your space gets a bonus -.5 true-sec status).something to make it so you can upgrade your space (which, iirc, was the initial plan) would work..."
"i really can't imagine why they want to implement this change. it is going to cause a lot of problems for a lot of groups and probably no problem at all for certain large, established groups."
"im confused.this seems to me like 1 step forward 2 steps back.the whole point of system upgrades was to increase the use/population of less used systems and not to be do dependant on the actual security rating of the system.with this new nerf you are now going back to the old system and making it alot harder to make isk unless your lucky enough to be in an alliance big enough to hold/control these low sec systems.it seems to me every time a new ccp member comes into this game they re-look at this and invent there own method as they seem fit.its about time ccp listen to there member base and stop messing with system`s.i for one have played this game almost everyday for the last 8yrs so can speak slightly from experience when i say, leave it the way it is. if you remove sanctums/havens from the system weve all been upgrading then i can honestly say ccp has gone to far again.i wonder how long it will take until a new member of staff decides to change it again.give with one hand and then take from the other = ccp mentalitykrool..."
"well, not just that... but all that isk that was spent upgrading systems now means nothing simply because of true-sec status..."
"i'm p. sure it'll have mostly been recouped by now, certainly by individual players if not by taxes."
"oh, no doubt, but that isn't the point now is it - the point is that all that work is essentially being undone."
"what my bet is what will happen when 0.0 cant support the number of people in it (sanctums only are like 10% better than highsec level 4's btw). they will invade a nearby lowsec system that has level 5 missions and keep it blobbed to **** then run level 5's to make isk and when a tech moon comes under attack form up and titan bridge or what ever to the moon and blob the attacker.so blobs and naps will stay but null will be very empty and its holders only interested in the good truesec systems/moon systems/industry systems and will blob anyone who tries to take sov near them, but who would when you can make better isk in highsec for less risk.ps:we in test went to low sec for about a month a few months ago to fight in curse and after a week our lowsec staging system was very blue. so clearing out low isnt hard.fake edit: i think level 5's may be more profitanle than sanctums so why dont we invade lowsec yet has me confused. i guss grinding standing doesnt appeal to most when you can just jump right in and run sanctums if you got the tank and dps. also in low you dont have bubbles so getting t****d on a non kickout station is unlikely, and you just have to keep an eye on d-scan for combate probes and of course keep an eye on intel."
"as if people needed more reasons to bot their way through terrible pve"
"i hope that this blog is a bad joke.while the idea is not wrong, the implementation is simply stupid.what will happen?since havens and sanctums are the only anos that give you a bit more money than l4 missions, no one will live in space with bad true sec. not even the small alliances you try to support. the people will simply farm l4 missions instead. the rest of 0.0 population will be squeezed in fewer systems so that blobbing becomes even easier. how it would work!leave the sanctums/havens as they are for systems with 0.0 to -0.2 and improve them for systems with lower true sec."
"in all fairness and despite my enjoyment of the bitter tears from the naplanders, the minimum should be at least 1 haven."
"there are a lot of tears in this thread..... i personally think this is a great idea!!! upgrades made all null-sec extremely profitable. i spent lots of time running sanctums and havens, and dear god did that rake in the isk. but realistically, it really did pacify many aspects of null sec, because the grass was about the same on both sides of the fence, and only moons made a difference (which are typically corp/alliance controlled, and don't motivate individual members soo much.) now, dynamic agent quality will reduce hi-sec mission rewards, sov upgrades will be highly altered by system truesec.... sounds to me like low-sec and select null-sec will become the isk-makers, bringing a bit more conflict back to our world!!! hell, i bet cva will be given provi back after this change!!"
"you do understand that everything below haven is not more profitable or even less profitable than lvl 4 missions?so why should someone move to let's say provi if missionruning in sasoutikh in high sec is more profitable and safer + you don't need to pay for sov? 0.0 with bad true sec will simply become the new low sec where no one lives."
"and i bet cva says thanks, but no thanks. the income of provi pre-dominion, with sov costs of post-dominion? how would they pay for that?"
"hardly any tears, and if you think this is a good idea then you must have no idea about life in eve in general.as i said, i've been here for nearly 6 years now... 0.0, if this goes into effect, will be empty save for a select few spots which will have a constant blob in them... pvp is difficult enough due to lag and blob warfare. this will just make it that much worse."
"its called belt ratting.we all did it."
"why should i belt rat in provi, cloud ring and so on? lvl 4 missions are more pofitable and safer..."
"steps will be taken to break up the blob.stepswillbetaken."
"using that kind of argument, you can more or less justify anything that has ever been."
"obviously expecting people to live in useless 0.0 systems that pay 3x time less than hi-sec missions is a total fail."
"cva built and funded an outpost in half the systems in provi before dominion, despite its crappy true-sec. even with these changes, while the upgrades won't be the isk-faucet it is now, it will still allow for many income increasing activities.... more sigs, constant anomalies (albeit lower quality), more wh's, etc.... you people are acting like the sky is falling because you can't have an endless stream of havens and sanctums in every system. but you'll still have an endless stream of hubs and ports even in your lowest truesec. they don't pay the 60-100m/hr of sanctums, but they can still earn you 10-20m/hr (comparable to mission running), and you get to be close to home, where you can pew pew, build caps, pi, moon-mine, and the countless other activities that bring you to null sec. most null-sec players aren't there to maximize their isk/hour! and while this change will reduce their income, it won't be so dramatic that they'll flee back to high-sec mission running. additionally, it will create systems coveted for more than just their moongoo!"
"my support."
"botting is sure a problem, however i never seen any gm act when a bot is around. all bots i seen, are still out there! worse yet, trying to kill the bots yourself ends in getting concorded. meaning you cant do anything about them nor anything is done to get them out of eve. i suggest ccp should start banning the main accounts of those that use any bot, may it be 1 now and then, or using many bots all the time. i dont care, just ban the main accounts!"
"/signed"
"thanks to gk for giving this thread the attention, it needs, and a thumbs up from me, too.some things are not right and never were:- ppl get killed hours after their 15 min aggression timer is gone while logged off, but the logs show nothing. this is not a rare bug. it happens pretty often. - on very rare occasions even pvp petitions got a positive answer in the past, if a gm in good mood took his time to investigate: ship back, then i asked: and what is with the clone upgrade and the implants? you just acknowledge something went wrong on server side. gm: we do not reimburse this. the list could be continued this is bad costomer support. everybody knows this. nobody cares, what you write in your reimbursement policy or petition answers, if it is nonsense and lame excuses."
"ccp please reimburse my ship that i have lost because of lag even though i had a disconnect or logged. yes i knew that jumping in a system with 2000 players can cause such mailfunctions and that you don't reimburse such losses but you say in ads that such fights are possible so they should be lag free and my loss reimbursed.ccp please reimburse my ship becaue i've lost it in a gate camp even though i had warp stabs fitted. yes i knew this could happen, but the description of the module says that it prevents others from warp scrambling you.raise if your see any similarities..."
"maybe no one asked them this before:ccp, is the lag even fixable?or are you running scared around the office trying to figure out something before the eggers realize it isn't?"
"no, the lag is not fixable for the situation. 1000+ players on a node and the calls made back to the server are just too damn much, especially when augmented with drone and missile calls.it cannot be fixed, will not be fixed and complaining will only waste your own time. the pl guy is right. change your tactics to fit the situation if you can't get the situation to fit your tactics.the driving analogy is correct. you can't petition the state to straiten out a curvy road because you want to drive faster. the road is going to stay curvy so if you don't want to fly off the road and crash, slow the **** down."
"you sir, are a wise man!"
"+1completely unacceptable. fix it or make the game free to play."
"heh. i thought only the likes of fcon and own alliance bragged about holding sov amidst a blue list of 20 alliances. i suppose it's contagious."
"this is in regards to the latest dev blog, about how systems will be losing their sanctums and havens and such. you can read the blog here:dev blogmy proposal is pretty simple: why not make it so active corporations that hold sovereignty can lower the true-sec of their systems over time? this would allow for better spawn, both in belts and via scanned anomalies. maybe cap the maximum change at, say .25? so you can take a 0.0 true-sec system to -0.25, and a -0.5 to a -.75, so on and so forth. obviously the max of -1.0 remains the max.now, the catch - if someone comes in and kicks you out and claims your space, they get your upgrades. they still have to maintain them, but they do not have to start from scratch.this accomplishes a few things:1) active space becomes more valuable2) inactive space becomes less valuable3) this would entice alliances to fight over the less-valuable space as now they can make it more valuable.4) the truly crap 0.0 systems now can be made semi-valuable.5) upgraded/improved systems now become giant targets for hostiles to come take over.boom, more conflict and better 0.0 - everyone is happy!edit - yes, i do realize this would also affect faction and officer spawns and (potentially) even the ore that spawns in the belts. that is the point. now, i'm not saying this should be a simple 2 or 3 day process for these upgrades - make them take weeks or even months per level (or make them take longer at each level even). i wouldn't be opposed to it taking over a year to get to the 5th level upgrades - makes them all that much more valuable and worth taking over edit2 - edited in the new values and made a few changes."
"i like it. all space should have value."
"i'm all for it! the whole idea behind the dominion sov changes was to get more ppl, corps and alliances to igrate to nullsec. with proposed changes, a whole lot of alliances will retreat to highsec again.i second the idea that hard work should make up for the bad realsec of the systems!sham"
"1 and 2, totally agree.i only fear great lag battles as it is these days with more than ...well, not many...in systems when fighting. but i like the idea, thumbs up."
"not supported. you should have to fight for better space, not turtle up with your 50k friends and wait for your space to improve to avoid conflict."
"i think your suggestion is way overboard!!! a 0.5 change borders on ridiculous, and eventually negates the desired effect of making some space more valuable than other space. why would your suggestion create conflict? if you can turn a -.2 system into a -.7 system, almost all of nullsec becomes highly profitable."
"thumbs up for this idea."
"it actually revert to the same point ccp is trying change . all equal space that is upgraded over time.just not gonna happen"
"yeah, making them harder to use counts as love. not supported."
"nonsense. 5%/lvl and require drone spec to 5. :)-liang"
"sentry drone dps is fine. so reduce sentry drone dps by 9.1% and add 2% damage/level of spec skill. result - no change in sentry dps upon training racial drone spec v."
"you can beat him. just takes a cepter or two. we nailed one off of docking radius and he died in a few moments as reinforcements showed up because he was dumb and thought it would be fun to assign fighters to ***** mails. the moment we got a damage note from the fighter hitting us we all warped to the station from where we were aggressing his friends on gate."
"confirming that grath is a moron."
"you are all morons.supported, great idea!"
"wouldn't a better fix be to simply make it so that undocking carriers have a pseudo-mwd effect on them? greatly increased speed, thrust and mass for a short period. meaning the carrier effectively kicked out of re-docking range, ideally by 10km+. the upside is that a solution like this doesn't **** over logistics cruisers."
"don't really see how my proposal screws over logistics ships. i merely want logistics ships to be committed to the fight like any other ship involved in the fight. logistics cruisers when repping should have to be in corp/alliance with the pilot its repping in empire and it should also have a 60 second aggro timer like other ships involved in the fighting do.i merely commented on this fact because particularly in empire wars which have all but died you have people with several neutral logistics cruisers in newb corps there to rep themselves essentially making them invulnerable."
"i think ccp needs to shelve incarna and start concentrating on really fixing all the various things which are rough or broken. lag for large space battles, whatever that entails, needs to be eliminated. t3 ships need to be expanded. all the little things like fonts, interface issues, ect. should be addressed in the next expansion to make the game work better.at some point we need them to take ownership of what they've already accomplished and make it all work better, because i don't feel its really worth the subscription price right now. i certainly don't feel that way when i sit in a system for 2 hours and nothing cycles. use the opportunity to add more pretty things too, like formations and some ship redesigns."
"/supportedbut it's not going to happen as we all know ccp's position regarding new features vs. polished quality."
"not supported, as we already know assigning more people to do the same task does not get the task accomplished any faster or better once you've already optimized the process."
"are we down to 12 months yet?"
"stop being reasonable..."
"you saw the \"troll\" topic about unity on general ?"
"half supporting the op.on the one hand i greatly appreciate on how ccp started to make more smaller hotfixes which improved the gameplay. you dont need to wait 6 month to see some change and probably get disappointed when youre desired fix is not among the changes. deleting waypoints while in space is such a change.on the other hand game design implementations like introducing new ships should remain for expansions. in short stuff which was introduced with an expansion must be continued and implemented regulary with hotfixes. new stuff can be introduced with an actual expansion.the important thing is, that ccp must plan resources for the hotfixes and not only for the next expansion and then \"cry\" we have no people for that right now."
"well, being as the idea seems to be somewhat difficult to grasp; i've been spending some time fleshing it out, and actually constructing the system. that's really ccp's job, but i figure it's the only way; i'll be able to properly represent it, and get some feedback."
"bump. this is a great idea. i also feel it should be expanded to all pos structures. i run 13 poses (10 with reactions) at the moment, and to be honest it all needs an overhaul. i would settle for this little fix for now though. i would also like to see what is in my corp hangars at the pos through corp assets, but that may be asking to much."
"thanks for the bump guys. been a while since this was at the top."
"lately i have been lagging a lot. i think you are clearly being lazy and not upgrading the servers!!!! can you please do this so that i can bring even more people? i dont see anything wrong with this! do you????:???if you can not do this. please make the game free to play. because it is not fun unless i can keep pouring limitless numbers of people into the same grid.thank you."
"obvious troll is obvious?"
"more fiber, stronger coffee, makes you poop.relieves lag."
"if its so ****ing obvious how stupid your exact opinions are, why do you keep them?"
"wtb your bs fleets.edit: wh space, live there.really is it such a bad thing? a 10 second delay would do a fair bit to combat isk farming ops from macro programs. or are that many people using these programs that makes this a terrible idea? yeah it is setting up for a gank, but it actually makes 0.0 somewhat dangerous to live in again.to be fair, it realistically does provide a chance for creating fights. ever tackle a carrier running an anomaly? chances are unless your gang is stupid big, you will get a response fleet that will attempt to put together a fleet to save it, that probably wouldn't have formed up otherwise (hide and dock!). 10 seconds really isn't that long, it just changes from hitting \"warp to pos\" to having to align out and doing it then."
"i already do edit: bring back the old d-scanner ccp!"
"best way would be that covert ops ships do not appear in local at all until they decloak, and give that a 2 second delay to allow for transition from gate cloak.surprise strikes need to be a valid tactic.as far as ganking ratters goes, why would you even need delayed local for that? just get an alt in a random alliance and roam the area that is occupied by them and their blues. can only recommend this approach, it is hilariously easy to get the alt in and they have no chance to see it coming."
"so now not only do you get to afk cloak, no one gets to know that you even entered system to afk cloak. how bout when you jump though a gate a lil pop up box shows up and asks if you want a hulk or equivalent isk value pve bs km just added by the game. when you click one your weapons disable permanently for your stay in system and there is no no thanks option. not answering triggers unstoppable self destruct."
"duh... if you don't see a cloakyship in local to begin with, u dont have to worry about them afk cloakers now would u ?"
"you would have to worry all of the time. as it stands right now i at least get to go \"theres a neut in system\" and press d-scan, if nothing shows up that's out of place, i live in a system where all celestials are within 14.5 i know that hes a cloaky. if the method i'm speaking against gets implemented you could put together a 100 man bomber gang, and pop everything in system simultaneously. some how i see even pvp people complaining about that one. all it would take is 1 cyno, a titan and boom. spike the 020 battles going on with a couple hundred bombers that the reds don't get to have any idea are there until they light up the sbu or whatever. fc's would not have any defense i can think of against this.if you want to implement a system like that fine. but then implement a counter such as a mod for the hub that makes you always visible, or one that disables cloaks for non alliance. you don't get to be invincible."
"i think that's the point. you are not in hisec. there is supposed to be a constant element of danger. if there isn't, then the whole risk vs. reward argument goes out the window."
"a 5-10s delay allows a scout to load system and do a quick scan to find a target before they have a chance to initiate warp. it won't cloak a fleet, as the 30s session change timer will ensure everyone appears in local. an aligned ratter will still be more than able to warp away to safety if an enemy lands on grid, so you don't need to spam d-scan all the time. you just need to align! also, if you warp into the belts and anomalies at range, it'll be a lot harder for an enemy to tackle you! this is not game breaking. at the same time, i'm not sure it will solve much, accept punish the lazy ratters. bots will employ the methods i just suggested and will typically stay safe."
"i havent been playing long, but wanted to know has there been a khanid\amarr civil war in the game. mostly i want to know because i tend to fly the khanid ships when possible preferring the armor resists and rockets\ham\torpedo ships. it just seemed that a civil war would be a great way to introduce new ships and tech and all of the major factions would be involved. the caldari dont want to lose an ally to the other two factions and minmartar and the gallante would welcome the opportunity for a new friend. also i would love it if they introduced a laser that would push out therm as primary and em as secondary damage, with the crystal only modifying the damage output."
"stopped reading right there, have you taken the time to read any of the backstory chronicles?"
"first off, this is the wrong forum to post this in.second, there is a crystal that does that. here's an idea, look at all the modules and ammo and weapons and whatnot through the market, show info on each one, then get back to the forums."
"1: wrong forum.2: i'm an amarrian pilot as well and even i'm insulted by this post beyond all reason. a laser that pushes therm and em? are you joking? i mean seriously? you really don't know?"
"yes i am aware that crystals do both, but if you read carfuly you will find i reverced the order of damage, and yes the con*** does do even therm and em. the idea that this is the incorrect forum for this is valid how ever and i apologize for that."
"you're certainly something, but more akin i fear to something i find on the sole of my shoe and try to sc**** off with a twig"
"itt, people attempt to pass on their opinions as fact.lolin' hard. so, who will be the first to call the op a troll today?"
"supported"
"not supported.afk cloaking is a good strategic tactic for keeping your enemies on their toes, denying them the simple pleasures of ratting, mining, etcit is also a good tactic for pee'ing of war targets.@ fantakraut: \"another alternative, since the issue is not that someone is cloaked but rather that they are essentially playing the game while not being at the keyboard. introduce a simple timeout on the eve client. no mouse and/or keyboard movement within say an hour. ewarp and log the character out of the game.\"are you mad? who the fk is going to pay for a game that logs them out after being afk for an hour?"
"i could be wrong as i don't play it. but doesn't wow kick after like 30 minutes? and that has 10 million paid accounts.....not as if that matters anyways because they are still in system anyways. and a cov ops cloaker can just mash the cloak button the second they come out of login black screen. so there is no way to catch them there either. your only shot really is to do all of the stuff you do in system in the hidden belts and anoms, so you can maybe catch them while they are dropping probes if you are lucky and they are dumb not to check d'scan or just don't care as its a tad difficult to probe something that small that fast. plus if they put themselves on a ballistic path if you do scan them when they see you leaving warp in their area they are just going to cloak and revector or warp.i'm fine with that bit, they are supposed to be hard to catch and i'm sure most of the forums will agree with me there. it's when they are impossible to catch is the issue at hand.another way to fix this. would to be to give the hulks and what not a decent chance against cov ops stuff. as it stands there is no way short of having to burn a third account to fight this one. i already pretty much have to have a main in a hulk and an alt in a hauler for it to be viable.take the arazu example. now you want me to burn another 375 million or so per month, 2-3 months of inactivity while the third guy trains, and 5-7 times the isk per ship just to try and ward off your lil frigate? even then if you have the chance to pop my 200 million isk hulk if it takes trading a 30 million isk bomber you are going to do it so that argument is invalid.also, since people like to maybe mine more then one belt at a time. you are asking that per belt you realize, as if i happen to have an arazu the guy the next belt over does not, you are just going to go pop him because he isn't blowing 375 per month too. he will be dead before my arazu could respond when you uncloak 30 km away, bomb and two volley.so if my corp / alliance has 3 belts going to defend against you we are dropping 1.25 billion per month or 41.6 million per day. aka more then it cost me to cynojam, jumpbridge, cynogen, and supercapital construct a systems i-hub by 8.6 million per day as they cost 20, 10, 2, and 1 mil per day as i have no way of doing a pay by minute plan or anything like that to ccp. suddenly the i-hub mod to turn off cloaking doesn't seem that bad to people i bet when we take a non nerf option and look at it from an isk standpoint."
"you greedy little bears, get some proper defence...work together and grow some balls.and stop making afk cloaky whining threads ffs/me cloaks up again and goes back to work"
"1. wow is also divided into hundreds of \"realms\" separate from each other because it wasn't designed to handle 10,000+ active players on one server.2. wow is designed to be played while active because if u afk in a bg, u get kicked. same with an instance.3. wow =/= eve.4. if u're gonna compare it to wow like u think it's so much better, actually know what u're talking about first, or better yet, go to wow if u like it so much.1. kinda hard to be doing all that while they're afk so...maybe they're not?2. it's not impossible--u just don't wanna try because u think u're entitled to 100% safety...in 0.0...the 100% safety that doesn't even exist in high sec.don't fly what u can't afford to lose. this is 0.0 after all.wow--lemme get this straight--u lost your hulk to only one bomber? that's your fault because even the hulks hiding in high sec can take more damage than what's inflicted by a bomb. so your argument is invalid because u assumed 0.0 is 100% safe.yes, it's called picking your targets, much like how your fc calls primaries. i'm surprised u're not familiar with that by now. in a fleet fight, r u gonna shoot the drake that no one else is shooting and can out-recharge your damage completely or r u gonna focus fire on your fleet's primary target? get some perspective before u post 'cause news flash--it's not all about u."
"continued from last post...omg, 0.0 expenses with 0.0 rewards? blasphemy! seriously, htfu--a blob shouldn't the end-all to everything because it encourages the stupidity and laziness that u're exhibiting right now. u still have your structures, u're still cranking out 0.0-level isk, and i'm sure u're blobbing your way up the killboards, risk-free too, like any other alliance. your issues r 1. u think 0.0 should be 100% safe when u're hiding behind your blob 2. u can't handle 1 loss and 3. someone else actually fighting back and winning and unlike u, that someone uses his brain so he doesn't have to hide behind 100+ to accomplish something. deal with it and if u can't handle 0.0, then gtfo."
"i'm not going to post your kill board as it will probably get snipped, but for people watching this thread suffice to say she has 88 exhumers racked up. 22 battleship losses caused by concord, and a whole 8 kills in 0.0 all of which were on gates like p3n, ecp, and m-o. this player lives in high sec and doesn't know what shes talking about. her experience with blob warfare comes from \"omg i jumped into a gate camp.\"my killboard i don't pvp that much. i build things for my corp. oh and if you are a sov holder your people blob too, oh wait you're not. your alliance has 19 members and according to your kb you have a whole 8 kills in 0.0 where you went into the camped high / low sec gate systems trying to get lucky. come talk when you want to use your 0.0 main.to the part about wow: i know how their server works. that wasn't the point i was making. he said who would pay for a game that has afk kicks. i said 10 million people and gave an example.to not flying what i cant afford to lose and the damage remark: insurance payout on those bs must be nice to have t1 platinum. its not that i can't afford to lose the hulk. its more that should i have to pick up a third account to protect myself as the gankers say i should. my argument is that i can not possibly stand a chance in a hulk, so to belay you killing me i have to train another account and pay 375 mil for a plex or 15 bucks per month?my hulk with all level five skills can lock at 28.5 km and at most can get a 13k tank on it and still fit strip miners. and that is with using a 50 million isk pithi b type boosteryour bomber can bomb from thirty and shoot t2 damage torps from 54 for 600+ dps. the correct bomb will hit me for 8000 minus sig damage reduction which you have me target painted to avoid. volley damage is 5164 from the torps, so after the first shot you have done 13164 damage against my 13043 tank. since you can be invisible while lining this up you warp in. align to a celestial that i am between you and it, and you get a worry free 200 mil isk kill. the risk factor drops even more if you do this in a cloaky interdiction nullified tengu or other t3.to the fc comment: even with the small kb i posted ive been around the block and know how it works. your solution is invalid since you are not picking say me at one side of a belt or the other hulk same belt 100 km away that i can respond to and switch targets when the mining director says to. your argument is akin to a real pvp player going \"i'm not going to that system where i might die. i'm going to this other system where there can be no response to my action.not all players have the structures in 0.0, they are mostly controlled by the alliance leads to do things like pay out when a titan goes boom and things like that. all i have is my mining laser, the isk i make, and the knowledge that my corp or alliance will pay out my loss when i protect it in a fleet fight."
"yet most of my kills, especially the 0.0 ones, were solo and as such, took more time and effort (even the ones that led to grinding sec status), than any of your blob kills. so exactly what gives u credibility to discredit my, or anyone else's killboard when 1. u hide behind 50-100 on their kills and 2. u're a self-proclaimed nullbear? nothing--u're just trying to hide the fact that without everyone around u, u couldn't accomplish anything, especially your blob kills, 'cause u're incapable of doing so u can drop the \"tough\" act--no one's falling for it. an example u knew nothing about yet u tried to pass it off as a valid one when it's not. ignorance ftl.1. yes it is because t2 ships have risk to their added rewards. if u can't handle that risk, then don't use them.2. or u can use own head for once and come up with your own solution instead of being an idiot by listening to the ones killing u.yes 'cause risking a t3 drops the risk even further right? and how's this any different than any blob gate camp that your alliance is more than capable of doing? well other than the fact that he's going into the heart of enemy territory alone just for one target while your blob just sits at the gate and shoot fish in a barrel at everything that comes through? oh right 'cause a blob should always win 100% of the time, is that what u're getting at?1. actually, u don't know how it works because with pvp, u're gonna take a loss sooner or later--deal with it. 2. and how's that quote any different than how u and your alliance functions? u're scared of taking one loss so u blob up so to minimize the chance of a response against u. in case u didn't notice, u've just summed up yourself and your alliance in a nutshell."
"and yet u talk smack like u're an actual pvper instead of the nullbear that u r and u think that 100 vs 1 is pvp yet 1 vs 1 is not. now u're just mad 'cause your hulk that u knew full well u were risking in 0.0 got blown up because u're under this ridiculous notion that a blob would and should guarantee 100% safety in 0.0. so no, u don't know anything about what u're doing, especially as a nullbear--u just take your 0.0 rewards for granted as if u were back in high sec and assume that your blob is your concord. guess what? they're not. risk vs reward--if u can't handle 0.0 even with 100+ babysitting u 23/7, then gtfo."
"i missed the bit about how they achieve this. i am in a low sec corp, and do l5s there regularly. there are afk cloakers there, and guess what they do. not a ****ing thing, apart from cloak, and be afk. oh, and get killed when they do start something (which is rare, i might add). if you're too scared to do stuff because someone is not even at their keyboard, maybe low sec, or 0.0 isnt for you."
"and i've successfully reduced the troll to a twelve year old's posting ability. i'm not really talking smack here. i'm just pointing out that i live in 0.0, you live in high sec and to come talk when you know what its like. i don't do the big blobs unless i have to. which is why i'm averaging about 2 kills a month. the system that i mine in has maybe 15 people in it at any given time and guess what. they are mining too. the only times you see big 100 person groups is when someone comes to attack our sovereignty such as what is happening in 020- in geminate. your style of 1 v 1 is battleship vs hulk, which is really 1 v 0 from a pvp perspective. it would be the same thing if i had our titan (now dead because of 020-) cloak outside the belt and wait for you. then when you decloak he does too and doomsday's you. i can take about as much damage in a anything vs my hulk fight as you can take the three million damage golden beam of pain and live though it.even if i have 100 guys sitting in the belt with me. if you were to do it right with your bomber, we could not catch you yet you could kill me. ive actually seen this happen in those 100 v whatever blob fights you are saying. not with hulks but against little things like interdictors that have approx the same amount of health.thanks for the tears, and when you want to argue about what goes on in big boy land. maybe go live there for a while instead of believing everything you read here."
"1. and yet this whole time, u have the listening skills of said 12-year old.2. u're pointing out that 0.0 should be safer than even high sec just for u just because u \"live\" in it as a carebear.3. all of your kills were with blobs (besides the pods but under your logic, they don't count anyway) so yeah, it's obvious u pretty much have to blob all the time.first one is \"1vs0\" and u said it's the same thing as a titan doomsday kill. translation: they're both still pvp. ignorance and stupidity ftl.oh right 'cause 100+ = 100% winning right? but go ahead, keep crying about how your blob isn't the concord crutch u can always fall back on when u actually face the slightest amount of risk in 0.0.1. who wants 100% safety in \"big boy land\"? u do.2. who's crying about losses in \"big boy land\"? u r.3. who's crying because his expensive carebear ship was touched by a violence boat in \"big boy land\"? u r.4. who needs to spend tons of isk just so he wouldn't be touched again in \"big boy land\"? u do.5. who wants his blob to protect him in \"big boy land\" in the same way concord does in high sec? u do.6. so in actuality, while u carebear it up in \"big boy land\", u want high sec brought to u.7. translation: u don't wanna \"feed the troll\" anymore 'cause u've lost. but hey, if hiding behind everyone else makes u feel big then go ahead. just watch out for the soloers--we can really kick the crap out of your epeen but i'm sure u know that already. but plz continue with the tears though--i'd really love to hear it."
"in 0.0 people tend to spread out. the lack of missions make it so we cant all ball into one system and have the profit margin be there like you guys can. vale of the silent 24 hour npc kills if you look at the third and bottom half of the second quadrant of that map is majesta space. there are 2700 people in which like any alliance probably 1/2 are alts. so you have maybe 1500 actual members spread across about 45 utilized systems. for a population density of 33 per system. the alliance is about 60 / 40 euro to us. which gives about 17 logged in in the morning and 15 or so in the evening. this works as that's about all that you can support between sanctums, havens, and normal belt running. the bigger difference though is ship fittings. i don't know about now but when i ran level 5's you had to pretty much pvp fit with logi support because of the plethora of neut batteries. this isn't the case with 0.0 stuff. miners will tend to fit a racial tank to fit the rats that are going to try to kill them while ratters will do the same thing, but trade the strong tank you have for more dps.so already our ships are weak. like i explained above a hulk can be one volleyed by a bomber unless that bomber is the same type as the racial rat in the area. and i know in gurista space the rats love to sensor jam and warp scramble. so if you follow mr. solo battleship around and wait until you see a couple rats with 3 word names attacking him there's a good chance he can not run away and can not attack you back when you pounce. we are not fit for pvp in those ships. its the equivalent of a level 4 mission runner fit for the most part optimized because we know that the rats will always do the same damage types.oh and bubbles in 0.0 happen on regular basis's in 3 places, on the low sec gates which tend to be camped so people can't get in, in big fights, or on gates where we use them to give the hulks time to bail to station / pos if a fleet comes after them. this is only done at the end where there is 1 door in."
"who is we...exactly?"
"i'm not saying that it should be safer. i'm saying that cloaky guys only ever maul ships that cant fight back. if you want to come visit in the dominixes you use to kill the guys in high sec to fight my hulk i assure you my alt will kill you single handedly, and not even in a titan. my kills were made in fleet fights against fleets of the same size for the most part. so my blob was met with another equal blob. this idea of blob vs 1 you and a lot of other high sec care bears have is conceited.is a 1 v 0 fight pvp? when i cant possibly win or even force a draw it's the same thing as running a mission where you cant die. there's never 100 in a system cept for sov fights and the alliance staging system. figure 10 - 30 tops.oh and if you are going to say that i lost a hulk in 0.0, you might want to make sure that i've actually lost a hulk in 0.0, the only one i've lost was in ibura. a .5, before i ever went to 0.0. people doing anom running in ships that aren't capital sized."
"wtf was all that about. all you had to do is answer the question, simple.and as far as all the knee jerk over defensive diatribe, wow, just wow."
"translation: \"come here and face me alone in this ship i can blob u with everyone else too 'cause i'm too lazy\".actually, it's sending the 0.0 and -10 alts back to where they belong. as for your losses, they were from small gangs and sometimes solo pilots. so yeah, might tone down that \"tough\" act 'cause face it, u're anything but. yes it is, especially since u compared it to doomsday kills. it's just like any pve ship blown up anywhere and in any way, doomsday, gate camp, blob, suicide gank. it's player versus player. derp.my point still stands. u're still incapable of dealing with a loss and therefore, want 0.0 to be safer than high sec and u're crying about it on an afk cloaking thread when your problem has nothing to do with afk cloaking.then why r u crying so much about something that's never happened to u? 'cause this thread's about afk cloaking, not active cloaking. oh wait, i know--u lost them on an alt--u just wanna save face and not look even worse than u do right now by not posting with him hahaha"
"so long as i have some way, any way to potentially flush out and chase a cloaker, i'm in.approval, go!"
"really dumb suggestion. the drake is balanced enough, that you dont know how to fit something, doesnt mean its overpowered or not balanced enough."
"how to balance the drake:1. remove all med slots but one, they need to have a mwd2. remove all low slotsfixed"
"nerf all tier 2 bcs. they all have too many slots, too much ehp and they're too easy to fit. they step on the toes of bs and cruisers too much, while obsoleting close-range hacs and tier 1 bcs. they're too good at too many things."
"drones generate very little load on the servers. aside from being launched/recovered/destroyed they generate no inventory calls, they merely need an orbit vector while cycle firing, which requires no server calls from the client that need be processed; even if you should attempt to command your drones in an effort to cause calls to the server, since when do drones ever listen? i wouldn't be surprised if in terms of load on the server a drone were equivalent to about a single missle."
"well perhaps what we need to work out here are ingenious ways to lessen this load.then again, we could always just remove drones from the game altogether. imagine that **** storm."
"blob will grow until lag is again achieved. kill blob with aoe."
"so...erm...forgive me if i'm being stupid, but to take a system you'd have to warp in and rat? (**** mining)you'd have nowhere to dock, nowhere to rearm and repair, nowhere to drop off any loot and absolutely no reason to actually fight?"
"posting to confirm holding unlimited sov with a single fleet is stupid.fix? who knows."
"i agree with some of your points; primarily, the main one. the sovereignity system, as it stands; is somewhat useless, and overpowered. i'm not saying sbu's have too much ehp; as i've already disagreed on that point already. use fleets and dreadnoughts as intended; and they will go down fast. 1-1/2 hours is fast. what is overpowered about sov, is the mechanics that hold it in place; the simplicity, with which, it is maintained. this guarantee's, all large alliances; have the ability to dominate sovereignity. the fact that they maintain sov, in more systems than they have the fleets to maintain; only supports this, and accentuates the point. so, activity based is good.here's a solution, using your op as a basic foundation; which i am quickly formulating, as i post.rather than remove sbu's from the game, make them smaller and more easily deployed; while changing the impact they have, on taking down sovereignity systems. system activity by the sovereignity holding alliance, would generate a point system; which would be used as a timer against the sbu's attempt at over-riding system control. the more point's generated by the sovereignity holders alliance; the longer it will take for the sbu's to break the sov. in an inactive system, the sovereignity holder; has less time to deploy forces, to take down the sbu's. in this case, sbu's should be reduced in ehp; and made destructible, by a small fleet in a short time.previously suggested changes to allow for sov renting contracts; would be employed, and affect the point system, similar to treaties. a treaty system, would be developed as well; and friendly neighbour's, could help you develop and maintain sov. rent holder's, would generate less points than the sov holder; and treaty holder's, would generate even less, than the renter's.upgraded systems, would generate slightly more points, with regard to the bonuses applied; though, they would be required to be fully upgraded, to generate as much as a 10% bonus. system's with station's, would only recieve the benefit of generating points; strictly related to the sov holder's, (or renter's/treaty holder's) use of the stations facilities.point's generated would be for, (as suggested); completing complexes/sites, ratting, and similar activities. every downtime, a check would be made for point's generated that day; the lack of which, would cause the system to drop a certain percentage of point's. point's generated by a renter, or treaty holder; could be used, to contest the sov holder's claim. they would apply against currently generated points; including their own.an example of a point generation system, for ratting; would be bounty claimed by xplayer of xalliance; is flagged, and generates 1 point of sov maintenance. every point, is assigned an attribute; for xplayer of xalliance, with multiple points stacking. spawning a site, would generate a point; as would despawning it, through completion. each asteroid mined, would also generate a point; as it despawns, for xplayer of xalliance. individual's without alliances, or rental contracts; do not generate points, one way or another. treaty's can only be applied to alliances; which limit's their use for sov system exploitation.sov, renter, and treaty holder kills against sov holder enemy alliances, (similar to treaty system); would also generate point's, for the holding of sovereignity. to prevent sov takeover exploitation, using this system; only the sov holder's executor corp director's, and ceo; will be able to see, the point system attributes.enemy alliances, their renter's, and friendly treaty holder's; will be able to generate point's against sov, through use of an enemy system. the sov holder's renter's and treaty holder's; can apply their generated point's, by becoming enemies. they may then also generate additional points, as enemies; to help take down the current sov holder's claim.supported, with revisions, and suggestions"
"read again...if you want to take sov you can just move in with pvp'ers, deny them ratting (which causes fights if they want to keep the system, but arround the clock instead of only at some timers where the goal is to bring biggest blob) and take over their station. if they cant do anything, you get a bunch of pvp kills, you fly arround in their space, and got the station, you get sov. but if you just move out again they can get it back quite easy, you can still attack sov by pooring in your blob, but you cannot defend it by blobbing 4 timers."
"additions, would be:fee's applied, on the declaration of enemy alliances, and treaties; which would be a monthly maintenance fee, and require continual upkeep. they would also have a 24 hour timer; to take effect, or to be dissolved. point's cannot be generated to counter sov; without declaring the sov holder an enemy. this would help, small sov holding alliances. sbu's may be utilized to counter sov, without declaring the sov holder an enemy; but, the point's lost, would not affect the attacker's ability to claim sov. they would also be greatly reduced in effect.sbu's would effectively kick in the 24-hour cycle early; and cycle it every 5 minutes for an enemy, or every 20 minutes, for a neutral attacker. for the sake of the sov holder, point's will be generated; when aggressing the attackers corp, or alliance, in system. again, prevent exploitation. each kill, would generate point's; to counter the loss generated by the sbu's. this would cause the sbu's to become ineffective; by preventing the cycling from reducing points. point's generated would be minimal.this would affect enemy attempts to counter sov claims on a system; however, the enemy attacker, and treaty/renter allies, would reduce the sov, by killing sov holder, and allies ships in combat. point's would be calculated every 24 hour's; awarding sov, to the alliance with the highest point's. should the sov claim change, the sbu's would come down; providing, they have not already been destroyed in a battle. sbu's would also gain immunity to damage; while sov is being actively contested. this means, that in a battle where sov is contested; there is no need to deploy forces to defend them.example: alliance a, (sov holder w/6000 points), lost 4500 point's to sbu's, and 1500 points to ship losses in battle; while gaining 1250 point's, through enemy kills in the same battle, retains sovereignity with 1250 points at downtime. the following day, he, or she, encourages his alliance members to run sites to regenerate sov claim in that system; during the day, they manage to generate 1200 sov points through ratting, mining, and other means. later in the day, alliance b, (the attacker), returns and redeploy's sbu's; while simultaneously destroying alliance a's mining fleet, and gaining an additional 150 points. alliance a's ratting forces regroup, and provide intel on the enemy fleet; allowing alliance a to respond with an appropriate force, of equal measure. the ensuing battle causes the loss of 1600 points, by alliance a; and 1830 points, in kills, against alliance b. the sbu's were allowed to cycle for 20 minutes, however; while the alliance b's fleet prevented sov maintenance, prior to battle. maintenance prevention, was done through the following means: alliance b's fleet, deployed gangs in all the belt's and anomalies in system; preventing ratting, mining, or other activities for that time; while gaining 130 point's, through ratting, and despawning sites, in the process. alliances a's remaining forces in system; were not strong enough to counter this, and simply watched and assessed for the duration. two of their ships were caught, in the process; and alliance b, generated another 5 points, to counter sov with.currently, that leaves alliance a, with 1395 point's; not counting losses, to the sbu's cycling 4 times. each cycle, by an enemy sbu without contest; causes the loss, of 300 sovereignity claim points. this means alliance a; has only 195 points remaining.alliance a, proceeds to redistribute their forces to belts and anomalies; while setting up defensive gate camps, on all point's of entry. this takes 5 minutes, more or less; and is followed by 15 minutes of ratting; generating 85 points for alliance a. they now have 280 points.alliance b's allies, who were supposed to show up in the last battle, (also enemies); have decided to wait, and contest sov, for themselves. the ensuing battle, and downtime; grants them sovereignity."
"have sov be dynamic like incursions/faction warfare.major objective will still be ihub/tcu/outposts, but sov must be weakened by exploiting sites in nearby systems first. chip away with many small gangs, then coup de grace with cap fleets."
"you are not being stupid. you just haven't lived out of a pos yet most likely. if you trust your corp you can pretty easily live out of a pos. ours in scalding pass (i was in cosmic vaccuum cleaners) had 1 lab, 2 ship maintence arrays, a hangar array, and a ammo assembly array, just off hauler spawns we could make all the ammo we ever needed. we had 1 jump freighter to move loot when the cha got full and the corp had like 20 carriers out of 35 pilots. so it was never hard to find someone to move a ship down if you needed. the corp even paid for the fuel with the taxes.you still would have to fight for the system as another alliance would want it. what op is more proposing is that if say each system needed sustained mil 4 or something with a grace period of a few days for issues like wars to go help a friend or something the huge alliances such as razor, or solar fleet would not be able to control as much space as they can now, allowing little guys to come in and fill the voids instead of being forced to join a mega alliance or go home.there would have to be something like the old capital system system in play though if we were only going to give a few days grace from dropped levels, solely so this doesn't accidentally nerf super construction.problem with this is the defender will just wait for you to bring the cap fleet to the final battle and knock you out with supers if you are a small group trying to take a system from a big one."
"sorry, this is overkill trebor. let..it..die!by the way.. this is your second thread on the subject; and may be considered stalking.you got your history change, and a few other clicky features; to bad, i noticed less than 3 days after, rmt chat bots were in local again.you're a programmer aren't you? what is it, exactly; that you do?"
"\o/ more internetnetpolitican pic'sserious poloraid:"
"so when do we get the result ? i'm not generally known for my patience :p"
"windypops has taken the realisation that nobody likes him pretty bad."
"if you really want to mass mail them, you need a form letter. no, i don't require any thanks, i'm just helpful like that. (check those that apply)"
"ah! here's the cheese to go with all the whine posts! thank you mittani."
"your character needs to be recustomized..."
"so when do we get the results? the csm section of the eve-o site is useless as ever..."
"i believe that this goon toon is the best csm candidate. that is kind of painful since i believe his morale and the morale he speak to his goon fellows are far bellow my own. still, if one raises above these things and realize that this bad morale only relates to in-game issues, and not game issues, giving him my vote was the only reasonable thing to do. we need csm's to look at what the problems are with eve-online today and not play style. this mittani toon seems like he got a very good idea on what really needs to be fixed with this game, or rather, what the horrible ideas that will ruin it is."
"and that is why babelfish will never replace human translators."
"minigin, trolling? poorly? i'm shocked. shocked!well... not that shocked."
"they hired our last ceo"
"your retorts are pretty much exactly like my experience with blobbing, repetative and not that great to begin with."
"ok, voted, but when you get in, i really expect you'll to light that fire under ccp's arse to fix the faction dilemma. just don't spend too much time interviewing the \"i faction for easy mission runnings\" peeps for ideas ;)getting them to fix the plex server-down problem would be one of the good places to start :) (suggestion)lucks"
"i for one believe there should be more than 3-4 tactics that work in this great game. vile rat gets my vote."
"supported for graphics change.on a side note, this effect could be better achieved by adding a jerk and perhaps a snap constant (3rd and 4th order differentiation of position) rather than changing the acceleration constant of warp."
"look ccp!!! a simple, easy way to gloss over your incompetence and lack of knowledge of what players want :)"
"totally supported..."
"i'm a drone guy simply becuase both blasters and hybrids in general have terrible tracking and terrible damage.hybrids really need some love/re-balancing, as i don't believe its fair to cross train between races just to avoid your own races gun type."
"bumping for justice, caldari missile ***** reporting for duty."
"supported"
"gallente needs some lovin."
"this i like actually but still it needs a fix"
"this is silly and would destroy an important skill for 'legitimate'* traders. if you want to nerf the margin trading scam, change the way escrow is handled such that even if the order is half-filled, it remains backed by escrow to 23% of its value, at which point the 'problem' will become self-policing.*not that scamming is illegitimate, but you know what i mean"
"its even more simple. force fulfill the order and let the buyer go into negative figures if necessary. no other orders can be set up, while the wallet isnt balanced out. a legit trader want to have money on his account-wallet under every circumstance. just have more liquid money to trade with, not to go into negative figures."
"sigh. two main issues with what you suggest. first, if your balance is in the negative you can't liquidate anything to cover the bill. market actions have a cost, so you would have to rely on alts, charity, selling gtcs or direct trading to gain money. basicly you would **** up the game for people using margin trading in order to protect a few ******s from a clever scam where they even get to keep the item they are trying to sell.second, if you force negative values you allow the creation of money from nothing. people have alts and friends and you can buy a new account by a plex, so your idea is just a huge exploit waiting to happen that can seriously unbalance the entire eve economy. even if you don't allow biomassing of characters with negative wallet, that is still 3 characters that i can use to exploit this and if i manage to create anything above the price of a plex i can keep doing it indefinitely in ever increasing amounts. the funniest part of your solution is, that knee-jerkers like you are willing to risk ruining the entire economy and the fluid working of the market as a solution to a minor issue in the trading system that doesn't propably even have a measurable effect on the market as a whole.i'm actually supportive of a reasonable measure that would fix this side-effect of the skill, but your and op's solutions are just god awfully bad ones. if i had to choose between them and keeping things as they are, i'd keep things as they are and throw both of your horrible ideas to the garbage.not supported."
"not supported. the skill is fine, you just need to play smarter."
"funny how people who use stuff like - sigh. - and \"re-tards\" behave in a manner which brings the same keywords or pictures to my mind about them. thats the whole intention next to the intention not to screw the market prices with values which arent reflect real market prices. nope you cant. biomassing would be doable only with a wallet of at least 0 isk. gosh, how old are you? 14? you are definately not mature if you use vocabulary like this. have you been beaten alot on school breaks? looks like it. i am really feeling sorry for you. at least you are admit that it is an issue. go on - proof me and the readers wrong. show us you are capeable of something constructive instead of behaving like a wow player.show us your solution, to the issue that the skill is for scamming. if you dont have one, i'd suggest you go somewhere deep null instead of ing that you would loose your scamming abilities."
"highly not supported. i use long running buy orders a lot, and i don't like to have the isk all tied up, and with the skill i can work with the capital before it is actually required."
"look, everyone loves a sandbox, but the fact is, like all places with sand, cats will poop in it and bullies will kick it in your face. also, i'll get it in my butt crack even though i never actually sat down in the bloody stuff.****ing sand.we should have had a playdough box instead.seriously though, if you want blob control, just adapt some of those system wide incursion protocols to fleet battles. above a certain number of ships in a system, start reducing the resistances and dps of all ships until numbers begin to hurt the battle instead of help."
"what he said."
"just so that it's clear, you're saying that people playing eve and making their own political in-game decisions are \"children\" and ccp is mommy and daddy and has to stop them from making the 'wrong' in-game political decisions. do you really not see anything wrong with that?"
"couple of things. ccp is a business. theyre in business to make money. turning control of their business over to customers is just about the most stupid idea ive ever heard. of course ccp thinks they control the game. they do. and within certain parameters, they should. its the only way to prevent the game from becoming an unbalanced mess. it literally is ccps job to do this.the csms function is to act as a liaison between players and ccp. if ccp sees a csm weighted with a certain type of player, theyre not going to forget about the other players and what those other players want. those players who arent represented by the csm and many of whom dont even come to these forums. you know, the people who just want to play the game instead of getting into politics.some are predicting csm6 will be heavily weighted with northern coalition candidates. this would obviously be an unbalanced representation of the player base. ccp would have to be crazy to take the perspective of such a group and give no thought to the majority of their player base.as far as such a csm snapping a paper over the nose of ccp? if i were a ccp staffer, id be indulgently smiling. or just plain laughing my keester off. any csm delegate who goes to iceland with that attitude had better take antacids with them. its gonna be a bumpy ride.-windjammer"
"as the sole purveyor of the sandbox it is well within their rights, abilities and responsibilities to exchange the sand with gravel if they believe the users experience will improve by such change.null is broken, vast majority realises this. the status quo has failed in just about everything so something has to change."
"i've been watching the replies and i'm not surprised by them. i am surprised that nobody has picked up on the lack of viable npc null sec with the exception of venal and stains.not to surprising most nap complaint are made against the nc which currently controls 5 to 6 regions and is occupied by 10 sov holding alliances. in contrast the drone russians control 14 regions with around 11 sov holding alliances. it would be interesting to see which regions have the highest player occupancy, after all didn't ccp want to get more people into null sec.pl have been able to successfully fight the major alliances with a far smaller alliance, so it is naps that are the issue or is it game mechanics. since the introduction of the new sov mechanics offensive warfare has become a nightmare. the huge node breaking battles are a result of the sov system not naps. whereas before ever moon in a system (or in the case of sov 4, constellation) had to be contested now it's a case of attacker:reinforce ihub (shield) wait 24hrs +reinforce ihub (armour) wait 24hrs +defenders blot out the sun for the final reinforcement, attacker can jump in dies to lag.a bit simplistic perhaps but that's the new sov system and it's the problem not naps, it's all or nothing in one big battle, so to the dev that said \"why be blue to everyone around you\" i say join a null sec alliance and see the results of your sov system.a couple of final points which others will probably disagree with. there needs to be more viable npc nullsec all eve not just stains and venal.finally \"remote repping including carriers\" yes it can allows a smaller gang to fight a larger gang but it's also why the lag doesn't clear because nothing dies, personally i'd like to see it gone and ships dying in flames and local clearing. after a few battles of annihilation blobs won't be a problem."
"no. sov mechanics are broken. but come on, let's not play games here. what people are really objecting to are not game mechanics, but the meta-game whereby certain people decide to cooperate with certain other people. that can't be \"fixed\" because it's not broken, that can't be \"balanced\" because it's not unbalanced. that's the game you're playing, in which players can create whatever political alliances and oppositions they'd like within the game. or as ccp puts it, eve is not the game for you if you can't deal with that fact. well, that's an interesting claim. let's see what ccp has to say about it? oh... ccp says you're wrong, sorry. they also say that eve isn't the game for you. sorry about that. would you perhaps like to queue up to farm some epic purple loot?"
"baw! the rules and tools interfere with my adventure! ccp need fix plox!!!!!1111"
"you're selling marketing from people you don't trust, finn. you'll have to try harder."
"what was that? i couldn't hear ccp's official description of what its game is designed to be over all the hand waving."
"0.0 is not a sandbox atm. if you build a sandcastle it gets harder the larger/higher you build it right? well, considering there are 2(.5) gigantic sandcastles owning almost all of 0.0 atm it clearly isn't that way. the difficulty should be exponential ideally, when you're having a 50 000 man coalition it should be \"10 000 times harder\" or atleast a lot harder (how you would measure difficulty is another question) than having a 500 or 5000 alliance/coalition not the other way around. this is the issue with 0.0. ccp not wanting all of 0.0 to be divided by 2 blobs is not the issue as you seem to believe."
"gl in wow to all the nc folks planning to ragequit over this.i hear mal'ganis is a good server with a huge stagnant population too. they even have their own goons! you'll be right at home."
"rather obviously it is. players are allowed to enter or leave 0.0 as they see fit, and to work with or against whoever they want while they're there. ... please tell me that you didn't just compare sandbox gameplay in an mmo with physically building a structure made out of crushed rocks? and if you think it's not harder to manage a coalition of tens of thousands rather than a small corp, you're simply not aware of what it takes to run an empire. which is the problem right there. either it's a sandbox and ccp sets up the rules and then players play the game the way they see fit and cooperate with who they want and fight who they want, or it's a themepark game and ccp decides what the rides are supposed to be. ccp can't have it both ways, and neither can we. this is simply an absurdity. you might as well drag out the canard where you deliberately misstate what 'risk/reward' means and then state that having more people in your fleet is better than having fewer, so risk/reward is being violated. your claim is also arbitrary and subjective. there's no actual reason why it should be, game mechanics wise, harder for 5 people to cooperate than 3. or 100 than 10. or 50,000 than 5,000. i think we all get it. some people in the game prefer small fleets, small alliances, small combat engagements. that's cool, do whatever makes you happy. we also understand that some of those people who prefer small things not only hate large things, but want to alter game mechanics to stop people sandboxing and choosing to go towards the \"large fleets, large engagements, large alliances\" side of the spectrum. but as ccp has pointed out, eve is not the game for them. there are some lovely instanced dungeons in some other games. they even have elves."
"ccp makes the rules. and they want the rules to be: have your coalition, but its gonna be a little harder than cake."
"i think it's cute you don't see the :smug: pouring out of that statement (or if you do, that you have the ******* to type it anyhow).ccp is interjecting because coalitions are deciding what the rides are supposed to be.regadless of how you use analogy to describe the \"sandbox,\" they (ccp) obviously don't like the way things are going and as developers it's their prerogative to take whatever action they see fit to alter the game's course."
"i can't help but notice that all the complainer are either none null sec players or alts unwilling to post on their mains.large alliances and coalitions built null sec, without them their would be nothing in null sec to fight over those outposts didn't build themselves and small alliance would not have had the resources or the kahunas to do so; too much risk. there have been huge changes in null sec over the last few years, alliance rise and alliances fall coalition form and dissolve but the whining goes on. when one group does it better than another, instead of learning to play the game better they ask for the rules to be changed. i wonder how many of the people lobbying for these changes are actually ccp employees."
"i havnt seen tinfoil like this for a long time. thank you."
"yes, that's right. everyone who disagrees with you works for ccp.you point out that your opposition in this thread are all posting on alts. i'll point out that anyone in favor of your point is nc. amid the ramblings, i think, (though i'm not sure) you're talking about endgame. you want ccp to ramp up performance to enable you to roflstomp, or allow to live, the rest of null/low sec as you see fit, effectively replacing ccp's sandbox with nc's sandbox.if that's the case, and again i'm not sure, i for one would rather ccp run my game than you."
"blahhh blaah blaahhh whine and complain. if op bothered to read earlier blogs, he would have seen the mention that ccp is adding 5/10, 6/10, 7/10, 8/10, 9/10s and more to 0.0 space so while you might not be able to have your static farm sites, you are getting a whole new list of other stuff to go carebear in.so...... quit yer *****ing they are giving you more than they are taking away."
"meh. i moved my post to the feedback thread."
"i'll believe it when i see it... i mean, drones and hybrids have only been broken, what, 2, 3 years now?"
"heres a list of blaster/drone boats.drone:myrmishtarcursesentinaldramielrattlesnakeblaster:megahypevindivigilantdiemosbrutixtaranisddboth:domiishkurand these are the ships you think need a buff?????? what else are you wrong about?????????"
"good change imo. maybe you can fight for one of those good systems?? hmm...looking at your alliance i guess not."
"oh man. i don't have the heart to tell this guy. anyone want to bring him up to speed on the upcoming changes to agents?"
"hardly think those ships need a buff... what needs fixed is the following:drone ai is simply ******ed. you ever try using them? half the time they don't want to attack the target you tell them to, and swap to a random enemy. even better, they still refuse to mwd to and from targets most of the time, and even worse is that they slowboat 3/4 of the way there, then mwd to and around and around the target, making them unable to land a blow.i am, and always have been, a dominix fanboy. the last few problems with drones have made them terrible though... they require more micro-management than your average starcraft game!as for hybrids... rails have a better dps than arty/beams... until you realize that their faster rof means ****-all in high-lag situations. they have less range, less alpha, and their damage type is almost always tanked (what ship has a kin/therm hole, really?) and yet they use more cap than arty (which uses none) and track worse than beams. then you have blasters... large blasters are, mostly, okay. medium and small? they're a joke... take an enyo for example - throw some t2 neutrons on there. now, orbit a cruiser under it's guns at your \"optimal\" range (of roughly 1km) and see the tracking issues crop up. god help you if your target is moving! the bigger issue with blasters is even more blatant - the ships they are mounted on are some of the slowest in the game (aside from, i believe, caldari ships), and with scrams disabling mwd's, using blasters is just asking to fail horribly. not to mention they are totally useless in large-scale warfare because, again, their high rof is totally mitigated by \"lag shield\"(tm).before you try to open your pie hole and say they are fine, please, for the love of all that is intelligent, consider all the angles and all the reasons why something might be borked to all hell... oh, and i'm sure you'll claim they're good for pve... no, they aren't. i don't know of a single worthwhile npc that orbits within blaster range... and guess what, some of the better npc's web you... good luck ever getting into range. now, yes, you could use a kronos and have a 40km blaster range... but i don't think a single ship should have to carry an entire weapon system. especially when you consider that pulse lasers do nearly equal dps, get dps on target faster, hit more accurately, and at far better ranges... and autocannons, while having slightly less dps, hit far further and are cap free!so, no, hybrids are definitely not okay atm... when arty-mega's are more common than rail-mega's... that's a problem."
"it seems like we have been asking ccp to mix things up. they just decided to throw an \"act of nature\" into the mix. unpredictable and sure to shake things up a bit.it will be interesting to see how this changes things. upsetting the current balance is the usual outcome from my experience with natural disasters.we asked them to \"stop ignoring nullsec\" and it looks like they kinda heard us..."
"i literally cant believe you just said the enyo has tracking issues.do you actually want people to take you seriously???????hey guys, im having trouble fitting a good passive tank on my drake! whats the deal?????drones are easy to use you are just used to hitting the one button while playing and buffing blasters would **** up ship ballance beyond anything youve ever seen before.the greatest irony is you are here complaining about something which is ballanced and fair, you just cant figure out how to use it, then you cry your eyes out that people say encouraging coalition warefare by removing consequences for massive napfests stagnates the game.you have no idea of the contadictions cropping up here do you?"
"its not blasters themselves that need the major buff (well, rebalance is a better word), but the gallente ships, specifically in the speed/agility area."
"bump because we can all dream for hope"
"as i recently stated in another thread, perhaps what they need to do is give a discouragement to having too many players on the field. to fit this into the driving analogy, if you can't start slowing down the asshats driving on your curvy road, start adding road bumps to make them slow down or ruin their driving experience.make it so that once a certain amount of players are on the field, certain system wide effects begin to occur such as lowering of dps. so say, every 100 players above 500, you take away 10% of dps from all vessels. its not a game breaker and it doesn't keep blobs from occurring but it does make it so that too large of numbers can become detrimental to the fight above and beyond just simple lag."
"bump!increasing the amount of players that can be functional in a system at the same time should be of highest priority!"
"if the eve forever video is to be believed - thread mission accomplished."
"better than making 0.0 virtually devoid of life..."
"um...ok...i think this is a good idea but i am not sure if you made a mistake in your post or not.-1.0 is as low as it goes. to allow upgrades to change sec status by as much as -0.5 is just too much. i am thinking you maybe meant -0.05 since you said \"and so on\" after -1.0.i think its a decent idea but maybe it should be more like a max change of -0.1 sec status. make it so that anything 0.0 - 0.1 spawn no sanctums or havens but using the max upgrade of the sec status could make those systems spawn 1 sanctum and 1 haven and go up from there by 1 for each sanct and haven for each -0.1 sec status. if a system has a truesec status of -1.0 as a few do make that system spawn a max of 11 fully upgraded as a bonus.heck i would say for each level of military make a sec status change of -0.05 for a total of -0.25 in sec status change. this would give a system of -0.01 the sec status to have the 2 sancts and 2 havens."
"obviously it would cap at -1.0 :) however, re-thinking things, i'm thinking the maximum change should be .25, which would be .05 / level, yes,"
"in that case...supported!oh and please support my \"no boobies left behind\" initiative. in my sig... =p."
"*nods* first post edited to reflect changed values :)"
"i dont understand how the most basic tenants of economics can escape you...supply and demand.pricing is sometimes determined by intersecting supply and demand on a pretty simple graph. it looks something like an x.what this means is that the \"price\" or what people are ready to do for it, is dependant both on how much of it there is and how many people want it.if everyone wants it, the price will go up, but if literally everywhere has it the \"price\" will drop.the most horrifying thing about your ridiculous argument is you think sanctums are yours by right. well they friggin arnt. sanctums are such a stupid mechanic to begin with, and theres other ways to make isk. like oh... say... belt ratting. which people have entirely stopped doing since sanctums popped up.grow up and realise the game is not yours to say whats fair and what isnt. or tomorrow i will post a longwinded post about how i should be given a ship that can grind 400m isk an hour anywhere any time, with literally no risk to me at all ever...wait. what is it you asked for again?"
"you are obviously completely missing the point. if it wasn't 1 in the morning i would explain to you how you know a lot less about economics and supply and demand than you think you do. as it is...i am too tired and i just want to sleep so i can wake up and see the backlash of this dev blog during the fanfest tomorrow."
"horrible idea. there should be some unchangeable \"geographical\" traits which give reason for place x to be better than place y, not matter what you do. this causes conflicts.however, the way they're trying to achieve this in dev blog does not work, and most likely even hurts the small alliances more than helps.there is certain threshold of income you need to achieve to make some territory worth of living in. the way they're nerfing anomalies makes just some places worthless for those who rely on anomalies for income. it's better to move to hi sec and do level 4's in raven etc.if there's large power blocks in eve it isn't because of anomalies. they existed before them, like blob warfare."
"sounds like you want all space to be bot space, what else would be able to keep up activity to maintain such a massive boost in potential income?better to introduce an advanced plex-generator to allow for spawning based on next security band.downside could be that it interferes with bridges and jammers so holder has to choose."
"dear wikipedia,what happens when the supply curve shifts?well im glad you asked minigin!!!supply curve shiftsmain article: supply (economics)an outward (rightward) shift in supply reduces the equilibrium price but increases the equilibrium quantityplease visit your user settings to re-enable images.when the suppliers' unit input costs change, or when technological progress occurs, the supply curve shifts. for example, assume that someone invents a better way of growing wheat so that the cost of growing a given quantity of wheat decreases. otherwise stated, producers will be willing to supply more wheat at every price and this shifts the supply curve s1 outward, to s2an increase in supply. this increase in supply causes the equilibrium price to decrease from p1 to p2. the equilibrium quantity increases from q1 to q2 as consumers move along the demand curve to the new lower price. as a result of a supply curve shift, the price and the quantity move in opposite directions.if the quantity supplied decreases, the opposite happens. if the supply curve starts at s2, and shifts leftward to s1, the equilibrium price will increase and the equilibrium quantity will decrease as consumers move along the demand curve to the new higher price and associated lower quantity demanded. the quantity demanded at each price is the same as before the supply shift, reflecting the fact that the demand curve has not shifted. but due to the change (shift) in supply, the equilibrium quantity and price have changed.the movement of the supply curve in response to a change in a non-price determinant of supply is caused by a change in the y-intercept, the constant term of the supply equation. the supply curve shifts up and down the y axis as non-price determinants of demand change.but what does that mean if im ******ed????well you see, this means that if ccp made it more rare to find space with sanctums, the equilibrium price will go up. this means the people ready to do more will have to as opposed to pay the current equilibrium price. this will create the conflict desired in 0.0.so go, rest your head on your pillow, and wait for backlash by the little children who refused to take their meds."
"supported, ccp wth were you thinking when you announced this blog? it already takes long enough to get the money to pvp with. unless this was a way for you to boost plex sales the idea was not well thought out."
"supported 100%. ccp wtf?"
"well i'm all for things being different across space but - i agree completely with this assessment. the only problem is that ccp is very hypocritical on their \"different space is better argument\"example: when ccp nerfed bombing hordes. they say different space is okay. so the players there made their space better with game mechanics in place. by ccp's argument in the latest dev blog other alliances would go \"wow d.r. is worth more now - we should try and take that space\" instead people complained that they were able to make more isk/hour (not that much more honestly) therefore ccp nerfed it... making space the worse than anyone else. so in reality this is ccp motto on this.....\"we like to make space unequal and we get to pick and choose whom's space is worth less\"i really have a problem with the statement of essentially worthless space will give new alliances a foothold? a foothold into space they cannot afford to hold?ccp seems to have problems with the mega alliances controlling much of 0.0. - fair enough. if they wanted to fix that they would make it so you can upgrade awesome things because of sov... example gate guns ... guns for outposts... and then make having sov in system really damn expensive. then huge alliances could not and would not survive. that simple. but in reality they don t want to get rid of the big alliances - thats why they dont do that - because most of their base of game fans are in those alliances."
"i'm afraid your logic is a little skewed. why don't you go to a nullsec chart/map of alliance control; then add up all the numbers, as shown in-game, for each alliance membership. now compare those numbers; against the total players in game.unfortunately, this does not allow for alternate highsec accounts; so multiply the original number by 3.5, and check again.i think i might do this myself; given i'm curious about the actual numbers.just because an alliance blobs 3500 ships; doesn't make it the largest playerbase. nullsec is virtually empty, and mostly unused; save for travel purposes, to and from valuable systems."
"here's the problem with the \"supply and demand\" theory mini...if your space is worth, say, 1 billion isk a week... and it ends up costing you 6 billion isk a month in overall costs (replacing pvp ships and fittings, fuel costs, sov costs, et al), would you bother to keep that space?long answer short - hell no.short answer long - oh god no.in other words - if they make 0.0 less profitable than high-sec missions, where are people going to go?answer - high sec missions.the \"demand\" for good 0.0 is fine as it is... that's why so many people fight over it already... and why so many people group up to defend it."
"despite the tedious nature of the process; i did, somehow, manage to get through it, without having a stroke. ..well.. maybe one.currently, there are 38 alliances; which control the vast majority of nullsec. these alliances, have 73198 total members; of which, most of us know from experience, roughly 50-70% are alt's. that aside, let's assume, these are all different players, on active accounts. ..yea rightwe'll take my original number, and modify it somewhat; as the number of player's to have more than 3 accounts; is rather less, than those who will have 1 or 2. so, we'll make it 2.5; which is more realistic. our calculation: 73198*2.5 = 182995this means that, at most; nullsec'rs account for 182995 active players in eve. i'm not sure of current numbers; but, i would assume, that's somewhat less than 50%now, when we account for the fact that 50-70% of alliance members, are likely alternate character's, on same or different accounts; then we realize our true number, is closer to this: (73198*0.43)*2.5 = 78687.85, or 78788 actual accounts; or, roughly, 31475 actual players.still impressive, but not nearly; the number of people, we'd like to see playing eve."
"*nods* sadly i know a few people with 8+ accounts... 0_o yeah..."
"as a spacefaring corp/alliance in eve, you want your logo to be representative of you and your group of fellow pilots. as it stands, the corp logo creator is pretty crappy, and the system for sumbitting alliance logos is absolutely terrible. we should be able to create and upload our own corp/alliance logo via a ingame or evegate based interface, obviously with some limits as to picture and file size. we can already create dynamic and 3d looking characters on the fly and the game saves all those portraits, how hard could it be to implement a system for corp/alliance logos? the entire idea of submitting an alliance logo to ccp's art department and waiting for the next patch to come out to get your logo in (if its approved, which is a whole nother story) is something i expect from a browser based game with one developer who makes the game in his spare time, not a multinational corporation like ccp.i can see some issues that people might bring up already such as:q: \"what if someone uploads something inappropriate?\"a: people are already allowed to make thier own bios, i dont see why the same system cannot be applied. if you find a corporation or alliances logo to be inappropriate, raise a petition to ccp, if ccp agrees, then the corp/alliance must change thier logo, if they upload something else inappropriate then they lose the right to have a custom logo.q: \"lag is bad enough, wont this make it worse?\"a: no, keep in mind that there are hundreds of thousands of players in eve. when you jump into a system with people in it, the eve client already has to load everyones character portrait, and in most cases most of those characters will be in the same corp/alliance. if youre already loading 100+ images, whats 10 more? even if it is a major issue, they could wait to load the corp/alliance logo until you hit show info on someone.ill post any other questions anyone raises and my answer to that here.anyway, thats my rant over, hopefully this gets fixed (hint: this is a pretty easy fix)."
"pushing back to the front page, please read the edit in the op."
"you don't need to cap xfer without rr liang, you know that. it would pose a very minor inconvenience for roaming gcc gangs but tbh i don't have a problem with that. go a few jumps, park at a planet/safe for a minute to rep everyone up, continue on. it's no big deal. it's only a problem for those who want to sit on a gate at 0, rr everyone, jump out if they get shot and then jump right back in. sure you can put tackle on the far side but you aren't going to stop them from crashing the gate, which is exactly what they planned to do even if you weren't there."
"i would agree, but cap transfer is so much cooler than just repping something that it shouldn't give aggro tbh."
"i am enjoying every single one!i would like more dev blogs that cause more of these tears. not only are they delicious, but exposes who are the super lazy players who want to be in null sec and not have to put forth any effort.more please!"
"i am supporting marconus orions position on this!thumbs up!"
"yeah and being part of one of the blocks as a grunt, not to even mention having any role is almost as easy as sitting in empire cause one of the blocks ****d your pathetic ass and ****posting on forums.i am waiting for you to grow up and exit puberty in order for us to have constructive discussions."
"no, but it's kind of sad that something that awesome is considered a troll..."
"in fairness, we've been getting quite a few very welcome \"polish\" patches these last few months. team bff has really been delivering.i'd rather see the job of smoothing out those little rough edges be an on-going process than a single, one-off expansion.as for the bigger things that have long cried out for iteration, like faction warfare, w-space, drone space... yeah. an update to those 3 alone would constitute an excellent expansion. it would even fit nicely into the 3-stage expansion model ccp seem to have adopted lately."
"bump to the topthe breakdown of intended changes; can be found in the features and idea's forum, here:"
"here's a suggestion: all ship/implant/skill mods be displayed in the information windows. small example: when a bcu is installed, the rof is changed in the launcher infomation window, but in the charge window, the dmg is not. having to go shoot a structure to figure out what your dmg is is silly. i understand that if a missile has 350 kinetic dmg, that if i hit a player character, that's prob not the dmg it will inflict (resists and other external modifications to the dmg). i am thinking all internal changes to all modifications be displayed."
"why not have the ability to rent out slots in your pos? this could help pay for fuel, and ease the shortage of slots in stations."
"i support the renaming of corp hangers and sma's, the r'click>fittigs would be nice but is no where near as desperatly needed.really this post doesn't go far enough, pos's need some love! i'm confident that anyone who's ever lived out of one or run a reaction chain/reseached/refined/moonmined/anything to do with pos's really will agree."
"and i agree with you that more is needed. what i'm hoping for here is that by getting the ball rolling on any change to them, ccp will start incorporating other changes we've been asking for at the same time."
"i always loved the fact; that pos's take 8-10 hours to set up. i think it should stay that way; so we can always be tired of eve, and irritable for two weeks after. /sarcasm.i think i've supported/suggested this before. the first part anyway."
"your english, my good sir, it needs updated."
"yep."
"/troll food"
"literally all ive done here is crosspost your coalitions last 4-5 threads here. ive literally not added anything you havnt said pretty much word for word.perhaps it is not my english that \"needs updated\" bro."
"thread is locked for being off topic."
"simply changing all local to delayed, even if only for a few seconds would be a terrible idea imo. though the idea of more delayed local areas in the game is a good one, perhaps a few new 0.0 areas that are unclaimable or, less work, make all unclaimed space into delayed local, having an area were the forces are hidden could add a new layer to the strategic game. if nothing else it would force all the droneland macro botters to actually spend isk claiming the sov."
"so basically, this is yet one more idea that would make it easier for one group to do their thing while making it harder for another group to do theirs.i'm sorry, did i miss the part where pvp'rs were suddenly paying more for their eve subscriptions than pve players? no? then you don't get any damned help from ccp to make your playtime easier than anyone else.if you want to make suggestions, try making suggestions that benefit the entire player base and not just the sub group you belong to."
"except for 23/7 cloakies. they shouldn't have to face danger all of the time like the rest of us. that wouldn't be fair to them."
"i was going to vote for you but it seems its too late now.oh well its the thought that counts."
"i support this product and or service"
"entire minigin is pleased."
"i hope so this time. well, i like some of them. but goonies? please. and mittani is a guy who doesn't play eve much anyway from what i have read after i googled his real name. he is a forum troll and a \"spymaster\" who admits to not playing much. yeah, we need a guy who doesn't even play eve much to be in the csm much less lead it! lol."
"itt: lol pubbies."
"goonies? what a publord"
"who are these goonies you are talking about? they sound scary."
":siren: pro click zone"
"the new csm is composed of 6 nullsec players. two of which are goons. out of the remaining two, there is a rooks & kings member, so i suppose that speaks for lowsec.i, however, want to bring up the point that fw has received no attention by fanfest or the recent csm candidates. over 20,000 people play fw right now. ccp spent all this development time on incursions; why couldn't they make a similar mechanic for factional warfare?anyway, i request to the new csm that you take into the count this considerable section of the playerbase, by passing on concerns of fw to ccp. perhaps it could be a nullsec-lite in terms of territory control? make occupancy matter?all the same stuff that has been said since june 2008 when it was first introduced. it is still 1.0cheers."
"for the most part we're aware that faction warfare is basically terrible, and lowsec generally needs a lot of work. i'd love to see some changes made that would make lowsec more profitable for smaller alliances and corporations, and making pvp easier to do in lowsec."
"i believe everyone will find that nullsec players are far more interested in the balance and long term health of lowsec then anyone else is, as we have a much greater investment in the health of the entire game. faction warfare is broken, but there aren't many solutions to the problem that aren't exploitable. ccp won't incentivize people to blow each other up because it's easy to farm. i agree with your assessment that occupancy must matter. turn this idea over in your head:consider if ccp created a new belt resource used for something important (new t3 stuff?) that is:a. only extractable from fw system belts.b. specific to each faction based on system control.c. only extractable by fw participants.the second point being important, that the success of one faction has an impact on the supply of the other faction's resource. whichever faction controls the system determines what spawns. the market price of the resources encourages more people to participate in one faction's side."
"im with ya mate.. i think factional warfare had the potential to be a great game mechanic but it was left to rot like so many.. personally i think the incursion ai and mechanics should have been wrapped up and put out as a type of fw2, along with some sort of low sec sov mechanics that resembled 0.0 stuff.. obviously adjusted for proper use in low sec. too much pve, not enough pvp, and no real point. holding space in fw doesn't appear to mean anything.im not a fw person and can not represent it 100% from personal exp, but def willing to take feedback and present it during any relevant conversations."
"dear general windypops,sorry nobody voted for you.the greater eve community"
"one vote can change the world.that is unless one vote is all you got."
"gloatpost"
"word to vote ratio: 1000:1"
"comrade chairman mittani sends his regards."
"come on people. were mad as heck and were not to take it anymore. send your complaints about the article to support@tentonhammer.comit couldnt hurt and it might just give tentonhammer some much needed feedback from people who arent goons. why else would it get the goons and those with goon goo on their noses excited?-windjammer"
"yes, and please feel free to use the form letter i've provided. it saves time."
"see what i mean? an excited troll.thats complaints about the mittanis article to support@tentonhammer.com let them know what you think.-windjammer"
"you're excited? admittedly i'm a bit confused as pointing out the logical flaws in your letter writing campaign isn't trolling, so i'll assume you're excited. unless that's a rabbit in your pocket."
"grats on the alt spot. hopefully you'll end up being able to use it."
"i got my plex ... and i didn't wind up voting for darius iii ... reverse scam"
"thanks again. it was your vote and votes like yours that put me over the top. you been had."
"private contracts?"
"a little bit closer, but a voice will still be heard~watch this space for upcoming blogs, :words:, and other cool things about being csm's best loser."
"well run, elise."
"congratulations on getting through again, my 5 votes went your way :)i appreciated you taking the time and effort to mail me and the offer of one to one any time. shows initiative and commitment to the election."
"and then it ****ed you sideways and left you bleeding and raw"
"no, then i left the nc and started enjoying the game.the problem is you have convinsed yourselves that you matter. that you have a profound impact on peoples game that is not your own. sorry to break it to you, but you dont. blobs exist. you didnt create them and if you arnt in them they will still be there.all you do is waste your own time."
"sooo .. you got the chair huh. try not to ruin everything."
"not man enough to post on your main, eh windy?"
"lol, i'm from over in md :p this is my forum warrior character. nobody famous/dufus/related to csm."
"wait, does this mean that mingin admits he's been trolling all along about how horrible the nc is and how ccp needs to take steps to break up coalitions since, evidently, they don't actually matter or impact other people's games?or does this mean minigin will keep trolling as he's been doing all along?...do i really need to ask? and congrats mittens. you can deliver the tribune's filthy, filthy lucre at the prearranged dead drop."
"yes to all."
"i can be annoying too!!"
"this is the guy that all my accounts voted for. i really hope he makes it into the csm.-windjammer"
"pity you didn't make it. however, i don't think my vote for you got wasted.better luck next time."
"shot taken by missions collideplease visit your user settings to re-enable images.original linkedit:dev blogtl:drdelegates5,365 the mittani3,813 seleene3,320 uaxdeath3,306 trebor daehdoow2,925 killer22,539 white tree2,240 vile rat2,086 meissa anunthiel1,986 draco llasaalts1,747 elise randolph1,341 prometheus exenthal1,090 krutoj956 two step921 darius iii"
"level 4 missions will be immediately placed in nullsec and removed from hisec."
"the mittani came first? there's a real shocker.congrats to everyone."
"congrats all. hopefully no drama will come of this csm."
"it's about time! level 2&3 missions should be moved to lowsec while you're at it."
"you really dont get it, do you."
"also gateguns in 0.0."
"hahaha all that spamming and windy isn't even an alternate"
"clearly you don't get it.(i was joking)"
"first point of order: i'd like to propose jump bridges be given twice the jump range. also all outposts will be armed with doomsday guns."
"disgraceful. this kind of stacked result is what you get from bloc voting. how is such a csm meant to be representative of the playerbase as a whole? seriously, only two europeans?"
"i think this is the perfect mixture for some nice ol'drama."
"supported.no disagreements registered so far. it is done."
"congrats to all!"
"at least you got your pubbie candidate in amirite? brb i'm gonna go shove glass in my eyes while i do this level 4 for the fed navy. again."
"as with any democracy, the results are representative of the number of people who bother to vote.guess what! these results are perfectly representative of the people who bothered to vote!"
"but so many dirty yanks :("
"congrats to the delegates and alts!"
"slippin on those jackboots of democracy"
"mah chairman"
"the pubbie tears must flow...."
"good to see people who actually give a **** about the game got in. also, mah chairman"
"go get them mittens lolz xxxxx"
"gratz to all that won . . . .this is gonna be a fun set of csm's to watch, one way or anotherm"
"**** you, i want this csm to be nothing but drama! it's the sole reason i voted for mittens."
"now goons, be useful and start trolling people out of the csm"
"lookit dem gunes gettin' chairman"
"you forgot the fighter bomber swarms on each gate... sheesh.dont worry i will take care of that"
"who ever said it's supposed to be? the csm is the representative of those who vote."
"well, maybe if ccp bothered to do some more promotion on the csm more ppl would vote. look at the csm section on the eve-o site, it's terrible."
"they did alot more than they normally do.finn is right, atleast the goons took the time to vote."
":toot:"
"z"
"0.0"
"r"
"what's that? large groups of people working together in an effort to make the game they play better?i also remember an ad at the eve login screen for about two weeks, several eve news websites advertising the need to vote, and various devblogs and notices on the eve website telling me to vote, as well as large numbers of characters flying through empire constantly spamming their campaign details. i too am completely blind."
"man, i was sure the whole no policies and saying that i didn't actually care if people voted for me thing was going to be a winner. who knew?said right from the start that we'd end up with an nc/goon block vote stitch up, and i only predicted two names incorrectly.good luck to trebor, meissa and seleene as the only genuine candidates, who didn't bribe or block vote their way in. impressive stuff from the nc campaign organisation - would have been a miracle if i won against your isk and tactical voting, but i had a blast.i recorded this, as it's only through song i can express how much i hurt. (no i'm not actually black irl)."
"this csm term is gonna be great , it's a comedy show in the making.pity windy didn't get in it,he would have been the cherry on the csm comedy cake."
"typical loser attitude to move the goalposts"
"goons: so desperate to see tears; imagining jokes are serious.keep trucking, beep beep."
"holy crap, i just logged on to no less than 32 emails from goons / testie players - chill lads, 'tis just a game."
"perhaps if ccp added some sort of splash image when your client loads."
"it's about time that nullsec gets some proper representation. congrats to to the new csm members and alternates, condolences to the empire ******s who failed to win."
"good luck to trebor, meissa & seleene. i am afraid you may need it."
"mah comrade chairman!"
"pretty sure trebor paid pubbies to advertise for him, might as well be bribery."
"something along the lines of a 6bil prize, if i recall."
"lol yea.. only if.. guys.. ccp marketed this csm more than any other.. multiple dev blogs, motd, and adverts in the login page of the client for everyone to see (multiple times).. could they have done more? sure, but more can always be done.. they did a lot.."
"\"14% of votes cast by 30-day old accounts \"so enforced block voting, plex scamming and defrauding the results by new account creation?grats nc / goons i guess"
"and tormenting your tiny paranoia-ravaged psyche is the best part of that game"
"i'm actually really interested in the broken down demographic of this to see who all the 30-day old account votes went to. i've not spoken to anyone who has spoke of making accounts just to make more votes for our candidates, so maybe it didn't all go to us?or i could be wrong, wouldn't be the first time."
"csm6: 30 7200 14.67%csm5: 30 8598 21.80%csm4: 30 4824 22.80%try harder."
"thanks to everyone who voted for me. i will work hard to live up to your expectations on csm 6. i am very gratified that thanks to your support, i more than doubled my previous vote total, moved from 8th to 4th, and increased my % of the vote.the billions of ballots lottery results!as i received 3,306 votes, the grand prize was 3,306,000,000 isk.the lottery drawing was supervised by ccp navigator at the fanfest poker table (i made the final table, ended up 6th). a card was drawn from a shuffled deck, then the rnd key on my iphone calculator was pressed the number of times indicated by the card denomination (9 in this case). the random number between 0 and 1 was then multiplied by the number of entries (1344) and truncated, resulting in a number from 0 to 1343; in this case 1116. a randomized list of entries (ranked 0..1343) was consulted, and the winning entry was:ratacide vagranthowever, the rules specified that the winning entry had to be a character eligible to vote in the election, and ratacide vagrant was a noob who was ineligible to vote. whoops! therefore, the next character on the list, in position 1117, was selected as the winner.the lucky winner, now 3.3b richer, is draco cephus. congratulations!"
"if you had put as much thought into your message as you did into that block of :words: maybe you would have done better then fourth."
"ignore the jealous sniping (3-rd grade insults? really?) and congrats trebor!"
"well, you got all of mine. i understand development, and i think it's critical to have you on. for someone to have worked at ccp, then come back as a former employee, then still want to be involved, speaks a lot to your love of the game."
"congratulations. you got second seat and with a good number of votes. make us proud."
"your deimos and subsequent gallente vessels have already been fixed. i work fast, faster than you can realistically imagine. hybrids are now also completely viable as a weapon, i expect to see gallente fleets roaming in my home(fountain) immediately. we won, gallente pilots... we won. but seriously, i'd like to thank everyone for their support. i look forward to working alongside you and ccp to deliver your concerns to the doorstep of the company, and to work tirelessly hand in hand with them to get results.couldn't have done it without the support of the eve community. <3"
"what about in bed?"
"white tree best tree."
"i fat as hell and i smoke so i'm basically sexually impotent."
"you're still planning on changing the eve font to comic sans, right?"
"the new font will be times new roman, double spaced, size 36."
"i demand a recount!"
"just kidding its helvetica :swoon:"
"thank you all for your support."
"dewey beats truman."
"tears go below this post."
":toot:"
"please visit your user settings to re-enable images.trebor didn't get chair, windypops didn't get on at all, mittens got the high seat...the only way this could be any better would be if krutoj had got on."
"yeah, i hope krutoj is at least an alternate.edit: he is!"
"you mean standing for nothing other than hating the nc wasn't enough to get him on the csm? i'm shocked..."
"gratz to the csm delegates and alternates. try to have less ppl resigning/getting kicked than the previous one"
"this. and also, few bonus tears coming from my corner. additionally i will gank someone in jita in an hour or two for the first time as \"official csm delegate (alternate)\" as per my election promise to c & p. many thanks to supporters who got me 400 votes and haters who got me 500 more. i had fun running and now are serious internet video game full council member (alternate) on eve online. i will be just like han solo from star trek in eve now....."
"5,365 the mittani3,813 seleene3,320 uaxdeath3,306 trebor daehdoow2,925 killer22,539 white tree2,240 vile rat2,086 meissa anunthiel1,986 draco llasacongratulations to all csm delegates. and as only one of our endorsed candidates didn't end up on the list of full delegates or alternates, i think it all went pretty well. on to progress."
"and i am announced as.....who knows, but thanks to everyone!isslerfriend to everyone in eve! someone host a toast for eve for me at fanfest"
"just saw this floating in a mission site.please visit your user settings to re-enable images.where do i buy one?that's a caldari tower, with 4x assembly arrays -attached-"
"rage/i support this even thou it will never happen..../rage end"
"you wish. and so do i. almost completely 0.0 csm? chance in hell this might happen in the next 10 years just went up alot..."
"any words on fanfest about bo?"
"had my redeemer for 4 months and have never used it in combat. why would i?no advantage to do it. buff em make em usefull for other than a support platform. and so i don't have to fit it with cargo expanders to get some distance with a gang."
"im glad you like some of the ideas posted. the issue i take with scanning is not really all that important but i do think it slows the pvp action down a bit. also having to scan for them all does not make sense.the fw complexes are not just npc ships. they are compounds and bases that you enter through an acceleration gate. inside there are npcs that spawn apparently from nothingness. but the compounds do not move at least not for 24 hours. that is why its actually odd to be in the amarr militia and have to go warping around scanning looking for *our own* military compounds, so we can defend them. who lost the map?as for the *enemy* compounds it is possible we would have to go looking for them. but it would seem equally possible that someone else in the militia would have located an enemy outpost and simply let us know so that we can go capture it."
"errr...no"
"i had no idea you could do this, as you can't sd with cyno up. its really annoying sitting there for 10 mins waiting to be blown up.thanks op!! not supported sorry, although i do like some of the other ideas in this thread.ps: if your biggest problem with this mechanic is that people are getting supers into level v missions, there is something seriously wrong."
"that would be great!"
"i think i commented on this before but; that could put them in a bad situation, which i think would be great. or it could put them out of harms way which would be rewarding them for the cyno guy dying. this i think would be bad. i think odds are that if there is a fight going on, most pilots will be in the destination that the cyno guy was in, or at least in the adjacent system. so unless they land in one of those systems, they would be in a safe system. odds are if it was random it would be in a safe system for them.could be other penalties involved, like if you don't compete the trip, landing on grid with the cyno ship alive, all of your cap is put to zero, no matter if you were at 100% when you jumped.anyhow, if the cyno ship dies before you load system, it should put you in a bad situation of some kind. either way, i am still for the self destruct canceling the moment the ship lights a cyno."
"i'm amarr, but fly caldari, excellent idea"
"in short:in a democratic election (such as the csm election), the number of votes for each candidate can be transferred into actual seats in the council in many different ways. the current voting system in eve is by no means the only possibility - many alternatives exists! no voting system is withouts its faults and problems. however, i will argue, that the current voting system for the csm is a particularly poor one, and a better choice would be to change the voting system for the csm into the \"single transferable vote\".what is the problems with the current system:1) the current system is not proportional: the proportion of votes for each candidate doesnt reflect on their proportion of the seats. e.g. in the recent csm6 election, the mittani got 5365 votes (10,9%), while draco llasa got 1986 votes (4,0%). both got one seat on the council. many other candidates got slightly fewer votes than draco llaso, but these got zero seats on the council.2) many votes are wasted on candidates who are either sure winners or sure loosers: in the csm6 election the mittani was a sure winner - in other words he got 1552 votes more than seleene in 2nd place for csm chairmanship. those last 1551 people who cast their vote on the mittani were effectively wasting their vote - the impact their vote had on the final result was effectively zero. on the other hand 21516 votes (43,8%) were cast on candidates who never got elected in the csm6 election. thats 21516 votes who translates into effectively zero influence in the csm council, and this is by far the biggest problem with the current voting system.3) the current system generates uncertainty and encourages tactical voting while discouraging honest voting:this follows from point 2 above. wether you are a member of a large alliance or a solo player you do not want to waste your vote on a sure winner or a sure looser. this discourages honest voting - that is: voting for the candidate you genuinely prefer in the csm. if such a candidate turns out to be a sure winner or sure looser, then you have wasted your vote. instead all voters have to consider wether a vote for a given candidate is a viable tactical choice - if they want to maximize the impact of their vote that is.to counter (at least partially) some of these issues, i propose a change of voting system to the single transferable vote (stv).how does stv work:first you calculate the number of votes required to win a seat in the election. this is calculated as ( total votes / ( number of seats + 1 ) ) + 1.in the csm6 election this turns out to be: (49096 / ( 9 + 1 ) ) + 1 = 4910,6 this is the value of a seat on the csm council in this election.each voter has only a single vote. but rather than choosing just a single candidate, each voter instead chooses a limited number of candidates (for instance 3 or 5) and ranks them in his order of preference (first choice, second choice, third choice, etc). the votes of all voters are then distributed to the candidates based on their most prefered candidate (first choice). - any candidate that reaches the required number of votes (4910,6) are declared elected. and all \"excess\" votes on this candidate are redistributed based on the second choice of the voters.- the candidate with fewest votes are eliminated. all votes for this candidate are redistributed based on the second choice of the voters.this process continues (using second choice, third choice etc.) until only nine candidates remain. these are the elected candidates.why is the single transferable vote a better system for the csm election:1) the system is proportional - in the sense that the value of votes used to aquire a seat is the same for all elected candidates.2) the system minimizes the ammount of votes wasted on sure winners or loosers. 3) the system encourages honest voting and reduces incentives to tactical voting.[...]"
"[continued...]what are the potential drawback to the stv system:the mechanics behind the actual transfer of votes are a bit complicated. however, for the individual the voter the system is intuitively understandable: you simply rank your most prefered candidates from highest to lowest. and then the voting system \"works behind the scene\" to ensure that each voter gets maximum influence out of his single vote.other issues:implementing this system will probably change the distribution of seats in the csm slightly, because it reduces the advantage gained by large block tactical voting (but there will allways be an advantage over unorganized voters). large alliances and coalitions will get a number of seats that corresponds more proportional to their number of voters support (where they are somewhat overrepresented in the current system). i state this as a matter of fact - not to start any discussion about highsec vs. 0.0. on the other hand large alliances will no longer have to fine tune tactical voting or make guesses about how many votes should be distributed so and so. instead they can simply encourage their members to rank certain candidates in a certain order.you can read more about the finer details of stv here.please no trolling - this suggestion is about improving democracy in eve - please support it!"
"supported.... no npc banks, no npc credit... either have the cold hard cash available, or you don't get your buy orders up."
"not supported. this skill is incredibly useful for the legitimate trader. for example i may put up a buy order for 100 ruptures and i know it won't fill in a single transaction or in most cases a single day. this skill allows me to keep moving assets around eve instead of tying up all ~500 mil while i wait for an order to be filled. protip: in the buyers section there is a \"min volume\" column for a reason if it looks too good to be true its cause it is."
"don't remove the skill, remove the buy orders that don't have enough isk to back them, or allow people to sell to different buy orders than the top one"
"supported."
"if you remove the buy orders that don't have the money to back them that is a more roundabout way to just remove margin trading. a fyi thing, if you try to fill an order that doesn't have the isk to back it the order disappears and no money/goods are traded. i.e. you may get stuck holding some worthless t2 rigs or whatever but if you bought them specifically to fullfill an outragious buy order thats your fault. honestly it is super easy to spot this scam and not fall victim to it. like in real life if it looks too good to be true it probably is.however, i would support a proposal similar to if your margin trades get nullified more than x times a month you get your margin trading priviladges revoked for the following amount of time or you have to pay an increased market tax/penalty to make new margin orders temporarily."
"omg yes and the annoying mail notifications insurance bla bla bla i dont need any more ibis please ccp!!!sorry, it had caps in my head too."
"yep, that."
"i'm glad you mention that because it's exactly why this thread is so ironic. traditionally the have-nots came to complain. now it's the other way around. i've longed for the day i saw nc members crying about something this much. it's clearly going to force a lot of very comfortable alliances to htfu and that is a good thing.more conflict, more localized conflict, fewer revenue streams to fun super-cap inflation, all wins for most of us."
"yeah, that's not true either. i get it. some people really just don't like eve. they don't understand that, in a sandbox, 10 people can decide to gang up on one person (should gm's step in there, too?) and that's no more a valid spot for the devs to intervene than 10,000 ganging up on 100. some people just don't like a sandbox game. they need 'fairness', evenness, equal numbers, etc... they'd be very happy in a game that has instanced dungeons where the participants are kept at equal numbers for each side and equal degree of power. no \"blobs\", no being met with capital ships when you have cruisers. luckily there's already a game just like that. it even has elves. you don't. that's the whole point. it's telling that people need to resort to the fallacy of false analogy simply because of the name of the gaming style. sandboxing means that you set up the rules and the items, and then you let players use them any way they want to within the rules. this means that any result is allowed, from everybody for themselves to everybody against little petey, because they think he smells to everybody mining veldspar and singing kumbaya. yes, if they want to ruin the game, violate what they themselves set out to do and put paid to all their public announcements of what the game is, sure. otherwise, not so much. my wager would be that you're only supportive of it because you see them being in accord with your personal in-game politics. if, instead, they made it impossible for your playstyle, all of a sudden you'd notice that it's supposed to be a sandbox game and ccp should just set up the rules and then let you play the game however you want. want to bet on how many of the \"grrr, ccp must crush coalitions!\" bandwagon would still support the same logic if tomorrow ccp decided that really they wanted large fleet battles and more of them, and so anybody with who wasn't in a fleet of at least 100 people not only didn't get fleet bonuses, but couldn't do fleet warps or warp to other fleet members? ccp also has, in their prerogative, to take a fire axe to their servers, grind up the bits and then eat them with lucky charms cereal. that doesn't make it a good idea."
"i really think your inflated sense of importance to this game is getting in the way here. they understand that in a sandbox a majority of the players can heap all the sand up in one place for themselves if they like. they are taking steps to limit such gameplay because it negatively effects the experience of other players. nothing about this change makes eve anything like wow and that insinuation is really just tired and overplayed.you did, and you just did it again above. like most labels used to describe very large social systems (governments for example) a generalization like \"sandbox,\" or \"democracy,\" is often misleading. a pure democracy is simply irrational mob rule. a pure sandbox is simply a reward to players who are currently in positions of power. after all, it's purely player driven, so why shouldn't they essentially dictate how everyone else can play?the abiding ruleset that outlines the theme of this game will change over time as ccp realizes the long-term impacts therein. they see a long-term issue with the way nullsec currently operates and they are making changes to the game to head it off. for someone who champions the sandbox term, you've got a funny way of clinging to your playstyle. everyone eats a nerf now and again, but this time it's somehow diffirent? i don't know how to tell you this but, your playstyle is not that important. this change is for the good of the majority and i'm sure if you stick around to htfu, you'll be ok."
"trolling, in my eve forums???as for taking steps to break the sandbox because people playing their game \"negatively effects the experience of other players\", as you're posting on a blatantly obvious 1 day old alt troll, i assume you don't know much about the game. every time you suicide gank someone, gank a ratter, scam someone, etc... you're negatively impacting their game. those are all not only allowed, but encouraged. lying, in my eve forums???not only did i not use the fallacy of false analogy, that you'd even claim i did is laughable. and you are again demonstrating that you don't really understand eve. if you think that the coalitions can \"essentially dictate how everyone else can play\" then you either don't play eve or don't play in nullsec. you are allowed to play the game however you want. what you are not free to do is play the game anyway you want, anywhere you want, without opposition. this is the basic fallacy that, generally, very young children cannot comprehend, that is, choice does not obviate consequences. and again, should ccp break the sandbox you'd be hoisted by your own petard should they then decide that they don't like how you're playing the game. the only logical defense in a sandbox game is that players create content as they see fit, and fight along side or against whoever with they. if your own personal style of gaming (or running missions, or whatever) goes on the chopping block next, well, you've already argued for why ccp should do that and you don't have a leg to stand on. i'm not sure if you're playing games or not, but assuming that you're not: of course this is different. there's a massive difference between \"rockets seem to be under-performing, so we'll fix them\" and \"we noticed that a bunch of folks we don't like are using rockets, so let's break them.\" breaking sandbox play via game mechanics is a hell of a lot different than altering game mechanics for their own sake. i love it when you make things up. by the way, one of the two of us is fine playing a sandbox game where players are free to cooperate with or oppose whoever they want, and understands that sometimes this means he'll fight outnumbered and outgunned, and that's just life. the other wants ccp to save him from that. give you one guess which person actually needs to htfu. (hint: it's the one who needs dev support)p.s. talking about me \"sticking around\" when you're posting on a day old alt troll is amusing. post with your main."
"i'll skip the silly semantics and get to the point.problem #1: you're obviously viewing this as a personal attack on your coalition by the devs. i haven't the foggiest idea why you'd think they are interested in ruining your internet spacesip game for no possible gains, but if that's your take on this... i don't know what to tell you. it makes no logical sense and i have absolutely no idea why you would think that was the case. breaking sandbox play via game mechanics is a hell of a lot different than altering game mechanics for their own sake. there you go again with the sandbox, i'll just leave that alone. anyhow, it's really cute of you to mention out-numbered and out-gunned since well... you are famous for outnumbering and outgunning everyone else, to the point that the server crashes most places you go.ccp has spoken, greyscale has said the changes are coming down negative feedback or not. if you're still under the illusion that this somehow won't happen simply because it's not your idea of a sandbox, you're clearly mistaken.so once again, htfu, and deal with the changes. alternatively, just vote with your sub(s) and quit the game now. either way, i'll continue to enjoy living in 0.0 and posting with an alt."
"your main, post with it. if by \"obviously\" you mean \"not\" then yes. otherwise, not so much. breaking sandbox play in order to alter player-created politics is wrong no matter who is targeted. you know that's my actual argument, because i've pointed out to you, twice now, that other playstyles are equally vulnerable to preferential changes. you also know that you're arguing nonsense, since i've pointed out the basic problem is breaking sandbox play to force player-created politics to follow dev-approved patterns, not that any specific coalition is targeted. in other words, the thing you made up that you know isn't true and has nothing to do with what i've actually said... that thing doesn't make sense. i wonder why? you mean you won't pretend, again, that it's an analogy rather than a name for a certain type of gaming? okay, if you insist. ah, and this nonsense. believe it or not, being in razor, or the nc for that matter, doesn't ensure that you never fight outnumbered. it happens. and believe it or not, i don't feel the need to alter game mechanics every time it does. shocking but true. yet again, one of us can play the game and doesn't need the devs to save them, the other wants the devs to save him. the one who needs to htfu is not, in fact, the one who's okay playing the game. who'd a thunk it?right. your alt troll account is really from a well-traveled 0.0 player. that's why you're not posting with your main, because it really does exist."
"did i miss the part where ccp said they are putting are hard cap on the number of blues you can have?"
"ccp dissed the mittani, even they think he has too much blues"
"nonononono my point was that a sandbox is a ****ing sandbox, its full of sand which while being something you can have alot of fun with is not an infinite resource, occasionally the parents need to tell their children to stfu and stop asking to turn the entire yard into a giant sandbox.put simply, htfu and stop *****ing."
"and a two and a half month alt in a noob corp.go figure."
"alt posting, best posting"
"you should really post with your main before calling people out about alts."
"yeah, its all so clear now. i appreciate that. ccp provides the rules and makes all the tools that can be used, but its really the players who control the game. why didnt i see that before?-its the players who design and implement the game mechanicsoh, waitthats ccp. bad example.-its the players who dictate what ships look like and what they can do.dang, that would be ccp again. guess thats another bad example.-is it the players who create and release the updates? ccp again. this is annoying.-i know, its the players who decide where the resources are. no, thats ccp again.-ohhhhh..i knowyoull love this one, zero. it was the players who decided to increase the penalties for suicide ganking. hey, werent you against that, zero? well darned if that wasnt ccp again. who do these guys think they are? the owners of the game or something?well now you can tell your masters on the balanced csm what you think about that. as theyre going to snap a paper over ccps naughty nose, theyll be glad to include your requests for aid to griefers. that all should work out real well.looking to the futurejump bridges. wonder what will happen there? who will make the final decision? ccp? the csm? forum trolls such as yourself? man, im gonna get me some popcorn. this is gonna be good.-windjammer"
"seeing as how i am, i'll just point out, with my main, that you're awful at trolling. notice, you're still wrong. ccp does not control the political content, they only control the mechanics. which is why you've worked at aggressively missing the point.obviously, game mechanics are mechanics and not political content. ship models are not political content. updates are not politicla content. resources are not political content. how concord deals with players in empire space (as opposed to player-controlled space), also not political content. rather obviously, as you're trolling, you've ignored that i just quoted the bits where ccp said that they only provide the tools and rules, but that within that framework players create the content. that means that, rather obviously, unless they've decided that they're no longer a sandbox game, they can't deliberately alter game mechanics in order to stop players from creating player-created content as the player see fit, let alone force them into oxymoronic \"dev created player-created content\". mmmm hmmm. while trolling about \"masters\", it's somewhat less than impressive for you to talk nonsense about how pointing out your factual and logical errors is somehow bad. i'd ask how that works, but as \"in a sandbox game, the devs don't determine the political content in player-created content space\" is something you don't grok, i'm not sure it's a profitable endeavor for me."
"jump bridges are not political content, neither are maximum jump range, cyno mechanics, or other means of restricting force projection. sanctums are not political content, neither are the abilities of pilots flying certain ships to provide leadership boosts or assign drones to off-grid fleet mates.i am certainly uncomfortable with the size that certain coalitions have reached, but there are no possible game mechanics that would force you to fight each other, without breaking the sandbox and/or providing easily exploitable loopholes.there are game mechanics that can be introduced to impede the ability of any force to act all over the map in one day.there are also mechanisms that are being deployed to cut down on cheating such as sharing accounts containing valuable pilots, using bots to generate the vast resources required to build hordes of supercaps, and otherwise gain an unfair advantage over other players.none of these is breaking the sandbox, just changing the texture of the sand. none of these is an example of ccp controlling the political landscape.i look forward to the goon csm working productively to address the issues of broken sov, faction warfare and unshakeable empire sovereignty. more \"good fights\" and fewer features left to rot!"
"bah."
"obviously they aren't political content. but changing them in order to change political content is what's at issue. do you really not understand that? guns are also not political content, but if ccp decided that your guns simply do not work unless you're in a fleet with 101 members, would you still be using the same argument? the problems with this are multifold. -first, the actual impact of jump bridges is vastly overstated by their opponents. even going somewhere like the eastern tip of nc space to fountain core during the purging of it, you were saved something like 15 minutes. during the invasion of the drone regions jb's weren't even used on one entire front of the war, as alliances set up forward staging bases in/around uemon. -nor are jb's some magic \"i-win\" button. coalitions with jb's have been defeated while fighting at home. during the recent nc invasion of the drone regions, we also saw that jb's were insufficient to allow the nc to fight both the drf and pandemic, despite claims that they allow coalitions to do exactly that. -there have been large coalitions and large fleets before jb's (etc), there will be them afterwards. and when it comes to rallying people to get together and get a fight, an extra half hour getting there will not significantly stop force projection. it'll just mean that people need to rally up earlier and/or form caravans to get people home after they log out in/around the target system when they get tired."
"what you are failing to realise is that the game has not always been this way. there were not always jumpbridges and mass titan bridges.what this means is there used to be consequences for mass napping people - being inability to get far away quickly, harder to keep people interested drowning in a sea of blues, consequently harder to blob a 50 man corp with 400 guys at the drop of a hat. i dont think ccp at all intended for the changes they introduced to remove these consequences nor to diminish the number of managable engagements the server can handle, yet that has been the result.should ccp decide to rectify those mistakes, it should not be upsetting, but something to rejoice about. whether you chose to admit it or not, ccps every action influences \"political\" decisions in eve.you might think you are being more clever than everyone else and adjusting to the changes, but realistically you are abusing a sniper rifle that spams like a shotgun with super accuracy at range on cod, and you dont want that to be nerfed so that the ballance of the game can be restored."
"\"but changing them in order to change political content is what's at issue.\"any change could be interpretted as a political one, notice that nc stacks a certain type of ship and it gets nerfed? political shenanigans!fact is that null-sec is a boring blob fest, you know it, ccp knows it, hell even your mothers dog knows it (he plays eve y'know) but instead of letting people atleast try to make it fun you are determined to **** in everyone elses sandbox for the sake of preserving your own power instead of fighting for it, do what you claim every high-sec player should do and htfu"
"this is not a matter of interpretation. this is a matter of the devs talking about changes specifically in the context of causing friction within coalitions, boosting small alliances and making them independent, and opposing entities with more blues than they'd like. facts have to be true. that, aint. are a lot of fights, particularly sov fights, fights that draw a lot of participants? sure they are. sure are attacks on csaa's and such. can those be a hell of a lot of fun? sure can. is there also medium sized fleet action going on? yep. how about gate camping? yep. how about roaming gangs? yep. how about ultra-small gank gangs? yep. how about.... again, if your problem is that people are playing the game the way they like, then that's certainly something you can be annoyed about but not something you have a right to demand change on. at least, not any more than the coalitions should demand that small fleets that camp their stations burn eden style or camp their jump bridges or roam their space, or whatever, should be nerfed. that's the whole point of sandbox play. everybody chooses how they play, and as long as they don't break the rules of the game, it's all part of sandbox play. conspiracy theories are not worth the electrons they're written with online. they're just not. i have an intellectually honest position and would oppose nerfs specifically made to hurt small gangs. you have an intellectually dishonest position and could not honestly oppose nerfs specifically made to hurt small gangs, because all you could say would be \"well, i don't like it, but i've already said that ccp can break sandbox play when they want to.\" and if you think that the coalitions haven't fought to get where they are, you're rather obviously quite new to eve. post with your main. again, one person thinks that the course of in-game politics should be decided by people flying ships and shooting at each other. the other thinks that the course of in-game politics should be decided by the developers. the person who needs to htfu is not the one who is happy to fight to determine the political order."
"but you don't want a sandbox, you want a private club where you hold all the keys.i'll level with you, my main is in a renter alliance down in catchi have no problem with people \"playing how they want\" i've got problems when people demand ccp make changes to accomodate them \"wahh bigger servers to accomodate our infinitely expanding supercarrier force\" fact is that it's their sandbox and we have to live with the changes. we are guests, we hold no ownership here and if you stop finding it fun leave. don't get me wrong i would love a hybrid fix, but thats clearly not happening and has been broken longer than sov. and even if they nerf jbs, etc if your coalitions are half as strong as you claim to be in caod all day (lots of ****-posting) you will ride out the changes with barely any damage."
"actually, just one what i want is a thread free of alt trolls. of course i want a sandbox. people go to 0.0. people choose who to fly along side, and who to fly against. people do that. sandbox.this is not complicated. it'll be annoying. but there were coalitions before jb's, and there will be coalitions after jb's. that, of course, isn't a reason to remove them. the easiest example for things that have zero effect on in-game mechanics but are still a bad idea would be, say, allowing five years olds to replace all ship models with crayon drawings. there's also the fact that even if removing jb's wasn't a bad idea, and it is, doing it specifically to alter in-game politics is a bad, bad decision. breaking sandbox is not a good idea if eve is going to continue as the kind of game it is. now, maybe it won't. maybe it'll be world of evecraft. but that's not what's best for the game (it would be what's best for ccp's bottom line, of course, but one would hope that they have some integrity on that front)."
"the problem suffered by you devoted null-sec types is that you can't see past your own position. regardless of what you say is \"better for the game\" you really mean whats better for your current alliance, and yourself and know nothing about the actual health of eve. and the only reason i'm alt-posting is so my own alliance chums don't get butthurt that i'm supporting their precious sov getting nerfed and forcing us to fight people instead of blue-ing everyone around us and creating unholy coalitions of boredom. (i **** you not the most combat we get is the occasional neut trying to run our ratting space)personally on the jb issue i want them to stay i just want them limited to alliance/corp only, having an unholy set of blue nullsec highways which are open to a multi-region spanning empire sorta reduces the size of null for me."
"i love your belligerant shiptoasting.the only on here who needs to htfu is you. ccp does not care about your prescious political order."
"no. it's without a doubt better for the health of the game for ccp to maintain a hands-off policy as long as the rules aren't being violated, and to allow players to work with or against whoever they want and to establish any sort of political order they'd like. this would be the case if everybody decided to mine veldspar in 0.0 or if nobody would join a corp with more than 3 members and alliances were all empty. the position of the \"let people play the game how they want, it's a sandbox game after all\" is intellectually consistent. the position of the \"people should only play the game the way i like, and we should alter game mechanics to ensure that\" is not. that you're saying that on a two day old alt troll account, while people who are demanding that the devs save them from in-game politics and i'm simply responding, just sweetens the irony."
"so you would prefer if ccp stopped developing and supporting the game/servers because thats a \"hands-off\" policy..."
"if 0.0 was an actual sandbox that went both ways with regards to kicking over sandcastles, you would still be in this thread whining about something.protip - it's hard to call it a sandbox if the sand castles only fall when people don't care enough to pay their sov bills and defend their space."
"ccp should not change supercaps or sov systems, because that will inevitably have consequences politically?you cant admit you are wrong now though, so by all means. make up some new ******ed argument that proves your point."
"you haven't got a leg to stand on there. first off, the age of my alt has absolutely nothing to do with the points we're debating, but that's a cute accusation. secondly, you are the only making demands of the devs here. you. they have an agenda that you disagree with. you are demanding the devs save your prescious politics and empire.irony indeed."
"yet again, the problem isn't changes to game mechanics or what have you. the problem is making those changes specifically in order to compel a political format from allegedly player-created and player-driven political content. ah, i see, refuting your claims with facts and logic is bad. must be whining. those who are saying that they want the devs to save them from players creating player-created content, that's taciturn and virile. i guess. 1. you're lying. space changes hands, even these days. 2. even if people are able to build up sufficient force that they can defend against anything but equal or greater numbers, it's still a sandbox, sorry. that's just factual. imagine we have a fps game where we dump 100 people into a map and say \"cooperate with and kill whoever you want.\" 99 dudes decide to hunt one other guy because, i don't know, he's got red hair or something. they simply can not be beaten unless something outrageously weird happens. it's still sandbox play. this is basic and leads to a question of why you don't grok it. 3. the char you're posting with has been in a noob corp for 1 year, has never been used for pve and appears to have no kills or losses, anywhere. post with your main not an alt troll. no, i do. you're an obvious alt troll and, more to the point, you're obviously trolling. some people are complaining that the devs need to save them from players creating player-created content and telling those who want to actually have that content created by combat, not by devs, to \"htfu\". you then trolled me about how i was being 'belligerent'. yes, it's this obvious trolling that i'm talking about. i've made no such demands, you are lying. what i have said is that if the devs break sandbox play to encourage/discourage the players creating player-created politics, they will have ruined what makes eve unique among games and it will set a very bad precedent. but you knew that."
"the problem isn't the changes... it's the changes to... see that's just halarious when you read it back to yourself. stop right now and laugh at what you just typed. you are so ****ing hypocritical. not your sandbox anymore. ccp is taking it back."
"actually, more likely than not the problem is the blatant trolling from an obvious two day old alt troll account. you're now actually reduced to trolling about how people taking and holding space based on fighting for it is \"arrogance\" and that ccp \"taking back\" control of 0.0 politics can, in any way shape or form, leave the the game a sandbox game.you're providing some really awful trolling, and it's obvious that you can't address the actual arguments. post with your main."
"ar<U+FFFD>ro<U+FFFD>gance   [ar-uh-guhns] noun offensive display of superiority or self-importance; overbearing pride.yeah that seems to fit you pretty well. your entire line of reasoning is that ccp should say out of your beloved sandbox. you loose sir. good day."
"your main. post with it. yes, thank you for demonstrating, again, that you're simply trolling. anybody can take and hold space and numbers help them to do that, that fact, in your trolling, means that someone has a sense of \"superiority\" and \"overbearing pride\".your trolling really is awful."
"i don't see any others here defending their rule of sov. space against ccp's will to change their own game.you want to keep this up?"
"at this point you both are trolling to see who can shout the loudest.of course... that usually happens when someone argues with finn."
"nope. i'm arguing the facts and logic and he's trolling. you mean, people can't rebut the actual arguments, as they're, ya know, correct... so we see lots and lots of alt trolls? yes, that does generally happen."
"at this point finn, all you are arguing is that the other person is an alt troll (which may or may not be true, i don't care).which, since it has no relation to the original topic, nor has any purpose other than stroking your sense of self importance, it is trolling.though... by that equity, what i'm doing now is trolling. hmmm."
"nope. post 62: rebutted people's arguments and pointed out that some were misstating mine. post 64: pointed out what my argument actually was and that an alt-troll was deliberately misstating it in order to troll. post 66: pointed out that my argument was being characterized and was actually egalitarian, and it was being distorted by an alt troll in order to troll. post 68: then i only pointed out that the alt troll was simply trolling. and he is. that he's an alt is obvious and beyond dispute, it's a two day old character in a noob corp. that he's trolling is clear from, well, the fact that he's trolling. pointing out what my actual argument is, that's not trolling. pointing out that someone is being dishonest, that's not trolling. pointing out that someone is trolling, that too isn't trolling.claiming that factual refutations or objecting to someone trolling is just \"stroking your self importance\"? seriously, what do you even hope to accomplish with that bit of bull? i argue the fact and point out dishonest conduct from others, so you say that's about \"self importance\". what corner of troll-logic even makes that even begin to make sense? but, on edit, you did notice the irony inherent in your last two posts now which have done nothing other than complain about alleged trolling... while you say that complaining about trolling is, in and of itself, trolling. it's somewhat amusing."
"and anyone who is arguing with you must be a alt-posting empire pubbie troll amirite?post with a main that doesn't have scrubtastic kill stats...owai- do you even read or do you type up a generic answer when you see that someone disagrees with your terrible views? i bolded the part that you seemed to have trouble with to make it easier for you. somalis v. rangers, who wins? oh, right.too bad you can't have similar results without fighting fcon-level baddies or using a gimmick like a triage archon. this is a tired old broken record we keep hearing from you. it's pretty adorable when you think you are so sure of your pro 1800 kills. too bad you can't even break #20,000 on battle clinic bro. next time try to kill the merlin without 50 drakes."
"kindly stop trolling on an obvious alt while complaining about alt-posting trolling. do you even read or do you type up a generic answeryour lack of comprehension isn't my lack of elaboration. my answer wasn't generic, either. space changes hands even when it's being defended. even these days, as the last major failure due to not paying sov was some time ago. your claim is false. the point is not that 99 people don't have an advantage over 1. i stated, very very clearly, that they do. the point is that despite people having an advantage, it's still a sandbox game. you misspelled \"you're right finn, there sure are a lot of obvious alt trolls in here. i wonder why that is?\"easy typo, could happen to anybody. naturally you then go on to troll about the number of kills i've gotten. rather obviously, that's not at issue, and you know it (that's why you're trolling about it). the fact that you're using an alt to troll is, naturally, different from how many kills you have. ah, the \"u mad\" bit, played without any artistry at all. no, i'm not upset, let alone really upset. i recognize that lots of people can't actually deal with my arguments and so they're reduced to trolling on alts. yes, i know, they're trolling and not debating honestly. i was pretty clear when i pointed that out. that some people are, you claim, still butthurt over factual claims i made about ank a year ago is, well, that's awesome."
"i tried gallente bss a while ago, over a year ago. at the time i had same skills in minmatar and gallente ships and large guns. no matter which gallente bs i tried, my turret dps was 1/3 - 1/4 of minmatars (going by visual cues, in pve. how much dmg was done on npcs. this was against guristas or serpentis.). first of all, long range hybrids don't hit for much and if npcs were in any way off the optimal range, guns just couldn't track them. just no way. hitting for \"sheet\" dmg at 45km, anything comes closer than that? can't hit.i understand why people fly domis mostly, anything else is like throwing rocks at a wall."
"how are you guys having trouble with drone boats, all you do is launch drones, press f, select new target, press f again until it's all dead"
"it is called bugs. nothing we can do about them. drones attacking different targets even though \"focus fire\" is ticked. and more."
"if they want null sec to be uneven, boast the better true secs with more signatures, (which don't have the reduced bounty anoms have)if the current idea is implemented, the jewel systems are going to the most established alliances, along with moons, and the rest will be a worthless desert that no one cares about. new upstart corps/alliances are not going to get the one or two good systems that would permit any tangible reward with any chance in hell."
"my favorite drone bug is where you tell them to attack a target and then they just decide to all go attack someone else instead. i've tried ordering a decimation, but even after the four of them are standing over the corpse of their dead compatriot, they don't get the message."
"that is not a bug, you just havnt figured out drone aggression yet. unsurprising."
"naturally, minigin is trolling, again. i'd say i'm surprised, but i'm not. i'll be surprised when minigin provides a post that isn't trolling."
"no, there is no \"more\". only that problem. exaggerating to get your point through might work in kindergarten but the moment you resort to obvious lies to make your argument it all falls apart. even the valid part.besides, no other weapon system in eve* auto-switch onto a new target when the previous is dead so it would be completely fair to require a button press to have drones attacking something too.on topic: i am in full support of ccp changes to the anomaly system. where is the option to give this thread the thump down?*: except the \"wonderful\" fof missiles."
"sounds very reasonable. supported."
"this + the fighter bombers can't kill structures. then yes"
"i'm just going to point out that tcu's don't have a reinforce mode and silently move away from this thread."
"when did you sell your character vlade, this doesn't sound like you at all buddy.if you don't like looking at black screens, try something else, it's not a secret that 2000 people in the same system causes lag.what happened to you dude, don't you remember those nice little dog fights with 10 in gang?"
"i have to be versatile in my position. i still run 10 - 20 man gangs all the time, but at the moment we are contesting space with a larger number of pilots. i'm simply raising the issue that there is a need for \"more power\" from the server. someone suggested not sending so many pilots. in any battle, you need to send an amount of troops that is relative to what the enemy has. you all speak like its a ridiculous suggestion, however ccp has raised the amount of players a system can hold and manage several times in the past. so it's quite logical that this number would increase further.i'm simply saying, now is a good time :)and, if you think otherwise... i think you are lucky that you don't have to experience such lag and bugs."
"the pl guy is most likely right that it will never happen, less lag = we put more people in system (although multicore support might help). however blaming us for it is easy, but the actual problem is with ccps mechanics. sure we can put 300 people in a system, then we got drf owning our space within a month. we have no choice for sov warfare besides cramming as many people as possible on a grid."
"the mechanics thread got bumped so i figured, wtf."
"these allow you to kill people in high sec space without concord intervention.what are \"wardecs\" alex?correctthe rapists for $200 alex"
"thank you, i'll have to look that one up. i assume that it's something new at fanfest, or is it something old that i missed?"
"ah, nice... i worry that that bit at the end was just window dressing. but if not, that'd be ****ing awesome."
"the whole thing was eye candy. there'll be no server connection between dust and tq from what i heard in the panels."
"they mean no direct interaction. they've always planned it as one universe, though. those planetary mercs are going to be fighting around our planet installations, after all. and they've said in the past we'll be hiring them and communicating with them. but they're never gonna be face to face with us, and we're never gonna be on the ground."
"never is too long to plan out. lets take one step at the time and see where it gets us."
"i drink regular coke and pepsi, so if the price of regular coke and pepsi rose past the price i am willing to pay, i would then buy no frills soft drink.other people would still buy coke and pepsi and even tear out each others eyes for them. sure not everyone will buy no frills, but the fact that you dont want to, does not mean economics does not work."
"i approve of the op as of this post. it will still encourage conflict without making all the time people spend on things not wasted when taken over etc etc"
"this.it's really cute the nc believe it has a right to reign over most of 0.0 and that any game changes to dispute that rule are retarted, but this whole idea of everyone getting valuable space is exactly what ccp wants to get rid of.if you aren't living in 0.0 for conflict (and by that i don't mean grid-loading 1000man blobs) over resources, you've completely missed the memo on what 0.0 was all about. get back to highsec where you can pile up isk all day long if that's your goal. the rest of us in 0.0 just want good fights with fewer blobs and that's exactly what ccp is trying to deliver by breaking up your little girls club."
"supported. while the corp logos i think don't need a completely custom approach, having more options that what we have would be nice.alliance logos otoh need to be easier to submit and have accepted. as is, the art dept does not tell you what is wrong with your logo if they decline it. they simply say 'it's not in the spirit of eve or some such nonsense' and are not held accountable enough to tell you why this is so.some rather sensible ones, imo, have been rejected, and yet huzzah federation (pot leaf) and cult of war's (a cow) got approved?"
"one of the major displays at fanfest was how cool all the new stuff getting put into eve looks. while graphics can be a major selling point for a game, the game still needs to be accessible to people using older hardware.one of the primary issues with any mmo is retaining a playerbase, and by constantly increasing the system requirements ccp is essentially saying that you require a cutting-edge system to run our game at a visually pleasurable framerate. this is not right. additionally, many things in eve require people to run multiple instances of the game, and increasing requirements for running a single instance prevents this for many people. by constantly increasing the system requirements on eve, ccp is effectively alienating people who don't want to/can't afford to upgrade to newer systems, and preventing new players from starting if their system can't run it. what i'm asking the csm to do is to confront ccp about the ever increasing minimum system requirements in order to play their game. while i know nothing will come out of it due to the fact that ccp has already decided on a direction, it would be nice to at least get acknowledgement that this is a serious issue."
"what a load of crap. if you can't afford to upgrade your system once every 10 or so years then you can't afford to play eve. i have a pc i built 5 years ago for $300 that still runs eve perfectly. i also have a $2500 gaming rig. the point is the requirements for eve are minimal at best. incarna might change that but that is your problem. the number of players running eve on less than satisfactory gaming rigs is very few. there is no reason for ccp to destroy themselves by falling behind the times graphically just because of the few that are too cheap to upgrade. if ccp wants to stay relavant they have to keep improving the game in both graphics and gameplay. to do that you will have to upgrade. why should everybody else suffer because you can't buy a new pc?and if you come back saying \"graphics aren't everything and it's all about gameplay\". you are wrong. if that were true we would still be playing mud's and eve would still look like **** and likely would not have the player base it does now and would not be making much money."
"you do realize that a new computer (ignoring hard drive (and os), case, and monitor) that could play eve on nearly full settings is less than $300."
"looking forward to the day when the minimum requirement is sm 5.0 / dx11"
"my proposal:prevent stagnation!keep people moving, exploring and fighting!depletiondepletionanddepletionpirate factions get sick of being vaporized so they move to areas where less npc killing happens. true-sec changes accordingly. make 1 haven the bare minimum. (??)moons have more then one kind of goo and what ever you harvest should deplete and move to other moons so that the amount of any given moon product remains static but the location changes based on a depletion system. this would make it more difficult to constantly control the static moons and would mean that more exploring for good moons is required.belts and mining sites deplete similarly. heavily mined areas will have less high end ores and more low end ores.still always some high ends available but not so nice. drug clouds? should still be regional maybe no change required.leave planets alone the local depletion mechanic is fine and sets pi apart.true-sec status in null should be dynamic as pirate factions move to greener pastures.why?because the least utilized space will become the most valued space. the most crowded and built up areas will deplete, people will have to move around. it's unlikely that an equilibrium will ever be reached because people will always prefer to consume resources in defensible pockets.this creates a constant demand for moon scans it means that the little guy has a chance to sit on a good moon undetected for a while. then epic politics would happen when someone does a moon scan and finds out what you are sitting on etc etc.another implication is that each type of 0.0 resource (moon goo minerals pirates etc) would be unrelated to each other so that in a system where nobody does anything but rat there is a good chance that mining will become more profitable and so on.specific can be changed, tl;dr point is that a depletion mechanic or set of mechanics would keep 0.0 interesting."
"umm...but...what about my powerblock *sniff* and tech moons *sniff* and not having to move *sniff*. for real's though, this pretty much fixes eve but the sheer simplicity of it makes me assume theres some inherent problem with it and because of that the dev's refuse to implement it."
"agreed, some form of depletion mechanic for all resources would actually stand a chance of achieving the goals that greyscales blog posited."
"at present, the only way to get information about what wars another corporation or alliance is involved in is to go to neocom > corporation > wars > other wars. this is a somewhat illogical place to put it (from the point of view of new players) since most of the corporation window is about your corporation and your alliance (if you're in an alliance).i do not propose removing this information from the corporation window. however, i do propose adding a wars tab to the show info window for a corporation or alliance. also, add a function to the api to call up war status (who decced whom, when, and is it in warmup, cooldown, fully active, or fully inactive). this way, corps and alliances can (if they want to) add war status to their web pages."
"yes."
"eminently sensible, not something you expect from this subforum."
"lets say a frigate ship, which can fit a covert and normal cynosaural fieldhas a bigger cargo hold, cynos are 50% shorter than normally, and the consumption levels decrese per level of spec'"
"you are aware that recons are already specialized cyno ships ?"
"would be nice to have a t1 option with reduced cycle time, blasted recons are very specialised and come rather late.slap recon cyno bonuses on the probing frigates (probe, magnate, imicus and heron). reason for using them is that they are eggshells so begin with so would never be viable as combat cynos but merely serve as a light time saver for day-to-day jumping."
"but for cyno charactors you dont really wanna spend the 50 days to get one"
"this is how i would do it (maybe balance at level 4, but *shrug*). the description for each spec. skill does not limit itself to particular varieties of drones. making things like this consistent across drone sizes/types makes things a lot more intuitive, and less like it was thrown together in a rush without proofreading."
"forcing people to choose a racial drone spec is stupid. changing which race of drone you are using is akin to changing the ammo in your guns/launchers. there is no reason to nerf drones."
"seeing as how you aren't a pirate, i'm going to ignore your claim that it's a \"very minor inconvenience\". the truth is that it would be a really ****ing annoying inconvenience - to the point that i think we'd simply stop using logistics. but i guess that's your goal eh? you've said it plenty of times... you're tired of seeing all those flashy pirate logistics! -lianged: like i've said before - fix station games if you want to. don't care. but the way gate aggression works is fine. it has counters, they're still in space, there are other aggression issues to contend with, and frankly my 4 man corp handles it fine so your 50 man fw blob can too."
"ive never really had big problems dealing with things like this, it just adds another dimension to the game, you need to be that much more clever than those who own the space. perhaps if this was true in all npc systems and not sov space? either way im not that fussed but i could see the change not having a game breaking effect either way so thumbs up."
"first i propose getting rid of moon mining as we know it. to do it up like pi, every moon in high, low and nullsec you can moon mine on, installations like pi. multiple people per moon. but still only 1 pos per moon. have the fuel for the new moon mining bases run off of ice, help that market out as well since ice prices have plumeted. most of the best / good moons are controlled by a few alliances / power blocks and they make a lot of isk off of it and with that isk comes resources they have to sustain and super long war that newer alliances that not have that isk flow from the moons just can't sustain, the large alliances can just hire mercs or have 1000's of ship waiting in a corp hangar for a srp for the war. them losing the monopoly on the moons would make the field more even. 2nd idea is a way to get rid of some extra isk in the game, a way for people to buy double training time, say 250 million isk to buy 1 weeks wrth of double training time. vet players don't really need it, new players can't afford it (unless they buy a lot of plexes) or can just have it where you need a said number of sp before you can buy any of them. biggest group it benefits in the middle sp players. help them catch up more to the vet players and get into better grade ships / caps for that pvp. but to me that would get rid of a lot of extra isk in the game that can straight to ccp and be destroyed. just my 2 cents on it."
"wow you're an idiot. this is amazingly stupid.the value of moons used to be fairly good. then dominion hit.i get it, it really sucks that you don't get 7 billion a month because some big mean alliance won't let you have a technetium moon. this is the way the game is supposed to work. the playing field should in no way be equal for some small lowsec/empire alliance with a major 0.0 alliance. if you think your alliance is strong enough go take some moon from someone else go and do it. most of the point of having a big, strong alliance is so you can make money. i understand it isn't fair because your ****ty alliance sucks. deal wiz it.the real issue with moons is that they need to be rebalanced because the dominion nerf was a complete ****up. instead of reducing the value of all moons a new system emerged with one regional r32 being worth more money than any other moon had ever been. technetium is responsible for a lot of issues with the 0.0 game right now, and the reality of the dominion changes is that alliances still depend on moons for money, it's just that any alliance without significant technetium holdings has serious money issues.the additional issue with reducing the value of all moons is that small alliances can no longer take an r16 or r32 in lowsec and get enough isk off of a few of those to pay for alliance operations. if all moons were more valuable it would be better for 0.0 alliances and small lowsec corps/alliances.in regards to your other point, paying for increased training speed would probably be something just just helps the richest players in the game. it's stupid. one option already available is purchasing a new character, this costs about 200 isk/sp, and you can probably find a character that fits what you want."
"well that is your opinion, which of course i don't agree with it, but i'm not going to resort to name calling to try to make a point. the moons is what gives a few big alliances / coalitions a lot of power. take that away and you make the playing field more even and more will be willing to take them on in big wars. more big wars = a lot better for the market and economy of the game. the idea of keeping them rich cause they can is just ludicrous. i know some that have bought toons, mainly as a utility toon, to help out their main toon(s). a lot want to see there main toon(s) progress thru the game, not want to spend year(s) on a toon just to buy another and shelf your original toon. but that can help close the gap between middle players and vet players while getting rid of extra isk from the game."
"don't make moon goon into farmville. it's bad enough that pi is all sorts of messed up."
"no alliance has power because of their moon mining empire, they have power because of effective leadership and an active membership. money is not the primary driver behind the strength of an alliance, it's the playerbase. the money is just a bonus.your primary issue is that assuming by removing moons you will make more wars happen. wars won't happen. 0.0 space already has a ****load of issues, the major one being that level 4 missions offer comparable income in a completely safe environment. immensely valuable assets have to exist so that there is a motivator to take space and have fights. ****loads of fights happen over moons because they are something valuable that people want, if there's no prize people won't fight.also, just get a new main character. go no the character bazaar, buy a new character, sell your old one. oh man, your new main has 15mil more sp than your old character? congratulations, your new main has progressed a year ahead of your old one."
"supercaps would tend to disagree with that statement."
"while supercaps are a determining factor in alliance power and capability, they aren't magically spewed out from moons. even though some alliances fund supercaps with moongoo others, such as pl, have funded a large fleet through alliance tournament wins and mercenary contracts. also, many supercaps are personal assets that have been obtained by wealthy individual players with no alliance help, many players now have over 12 digits worth of assets thanks to the utter joke that was the implementation of tyrannis."
"i'm not even weighing in on the moon subject, simply stating that money is very important in the sov game right now. it might seem less important simply because the major powers are just ****ing it out left and right, but it is very important."
"an alliance that can replace lost super caps / caps and tons of bs's etc with no problem will always have a big advantage over an alliance that when they lose big, takes a lot to replace them lost ships. the said alliance that can replace them ships easily and fast will always have a big advantage over an alliance that can't. the few alliances that control the moongoo can fight a prolonged war without really worrying about running out of isk compared to an alliance that now control any moons. i know for me and a lot of others, our toons are like a extension of ourselves. we want to progess our own toons further in the game, not buy someone elses toon and make it our own. plus is a way to get at least hundreds of billions if not a lot more out of the game every month. as i'm sure a lot would use that new service."
"@op: throw in the ability to disrupt/hijack mining operations on a moon/planet and you have a plan.@omgmycashcow: passive isk generation is bad, no matter how you spin it.pi may not be the optimal solution, but suppose such a step was taken and appropriat"
"well have to think, with still only 1 pos per moon, have to be friendly to that pos owner or depending on what the setting are at, a armed pos would kill non friendlies. plus i could see a lot more pos bashing / wars over who has a pos at a said moon in a lot of places just for that. and on a side note, maybe to be able to put a pos at a planet as well, then any ships coming to and from said planet or moon would have to be friendly to that pos or the pos would blow up your ship. make it more interesting in running both then. and once a installation goes inactive so a set period of time, you can attack it and destroy it to make room for another of your choosing. but also keep it simple, kinda like pos's, have to set it up, fuel it and empty the silo's, should be about as difficult for any facility on a moon, without 1000000 clicks to get something done."
"the upcoming patch to nullsec won't help anyone, it will make it harder for smaller alliances to compete in the nullsec arena, and caters very well to the big alliances with lots of ships to attack and control systems, don't implement the sec status changes it will only hurt the health of eve!-tehroot"
"nc alt detected.seriously, if the nerf affects your area of space, stop paying nc rent and there is your lost profit."
"don't think of it as nerfing but more like a doctor's prescribed exercise plan.null has become excessively obese and lazy. isk has never been easier to acquire than now which is a far greater health issue for eve.unlimited isk means no risk assessment will ever be needed and the thrill of achieving anything evaporates be it killing a faction ship or conquering space."
"i'm not in nc, and it's not easy for an alliance to go out and claim more ratting space, when it only has 7 systems, and 99% of the systems are claimed by huge alliances."
"low sec status holder detected."
"this thread is not relevant to the assembly hall.locked."
"given that some moons have abundance levels higher than 1, i would like to propose tech 2 moon harvestors be released to take advantage of these abundance levels. i know they were originally planned but never released, not sure why."
"good. i posted this elsewhere and i'll post it here as well.look, the fact is that while the goons and nc may be ruthless bastards, they actually do care about and have time and money invested in eve. they want this game to be polished and fixed because that benefits them and in turn, it benefits us.personally, i think they'll use this opportunity to gain some respect from the eve playerbase for their ability to get things done and be unified while doing it. these people may be some of the most evil players in eve, but in real life many of them are responsible and highly intelligent individuals. they play the game like *******s because thats is the game. however, what they do in the csm is not the game, its the technical workings of the game and i think that they'll bring to the table, not the ******* characters they play, but the truly intelligent and responsible people they are in real life since that is what they'll need if they wish to get things accomplished.you want to call me names because i support them, fine, we shall see. don't judge a real life book by its in game cover you bunch of whiners. give them a chance to do what the other csm's couldn't, which is do more than blow hot air....and if they do screw us all, well, that will be fun too so suck it up, this isn't wow after all."
"agreed. just because a lot of them are in the nc (uaxdeath as a full member and krutoj as an alternate in the drf even) doesn't mean they're going to try and tailor the game towards them, as many sensationalists think that they will do. with a combined front also shared by seleene, meissa and trebor, i think this csm will be the most productive one ever."
"who's controlling your game now, molle?"
"i say we wait until they've achieved something to begin lauding their achievements. after 5 csm's, the only rational thing to expect is not much.the biggest question on my mind is, should that again happen, will they blame their inability to work together and accomplish anything on evil ccp being evil, like certain members of all those other csms have done; or will they concede incompetence and unwillingness to compromise?"
"i think you guys will be pleasantly surprised."
"dev: \"why be blue to everyone around you?\"mittani: \"because friendship trumps the desire to fight.\" this doesn't inspire a lot of confidence for us 0.0 players who want pvp and want it to be fun where skills,tactics and thinking out the box can come into play.not boring massive blobs in the one single focal point with just point,click (llllaaaaagggg) shoot primary ! i want to be proven wrong but just now i just can't see you all leaving the in-game politics at the door and going into csm as eve customers like us who want to improve the game play for everyone.i fully suspect you'll all be having 'coalition meetings' outside of normal csm ones to work out the changes that will affect your coalition not the player base as a whole,since you'll have prior advance notice ahead of the rest of us.will you really push for things that balance the game but are bad for your coalition ? but like i said i do want to be wrong and if you do a great job i'll be the first to vote for you next time.......well not you as west brits should be banned from any and all politics tbh"
"i am sorry that you hate friendships, having experienced many friendships in my life, i thoroughly recommend you have a jolly good go at it! but an act of intervention to create social barriers that don't exist or have been broken down would contradict much of the sort of ideology that is set down in ccp's white papers. however, that doesn't mean there shouldn't be real and genuine conflict drivers. i have personal suggestions i've yet to write down (but i assure you they're in my head) and i need to sit down and flesh it out with other csm's and get feedback, so that we can operate and influence structures and ideas within our field of control/influence."
"you think we like the massive laggy blobs?the only reason they are used is because they are the best tool for the job. the job being smashing a multimillion ehp brick wall (tcu/ihub/station) before the enemies bash down your ehp brick wall (sbu) or vice versa.if there were small gang objectives that couldn't be done any faster with a large blob, they blobs wouldn't need to exist."
"under current game mechanics there is nothing your alliance can do in period basis to stand against an attack by any serious block. alliances like yours are the one that have the most to gain by having 'serious business internet space-ship pilots' at the csm table.how do you think that vera cruz alliance would do in period basis with no beacons, no jump bridges and no local channel? that is just some of the stuff that 'stupid people' have suggest for fixing 0.0 space.ohh, and skills get you nowhere in eve online. you have 2 things that work. supercaps / carriers / hic's & dic's or, loads of logistic ships and enough firepower to kill 1 primary every 30 or so seconds. those are the only 2 versions that work."
"strictly speaking, this is not exaaaaactly true. improving sov objectives would reduce the need for massive fleets, but there will still be points of conflict that call for them. if, for instance, you are badguy alliance a and i am white hat alliance b, and i decide to reinforce six of your csaa pos's, when it comes time to knock them down i'm probably going to throw the kitchen sink at you and you're probably going to bring everything you have to defend. the core problem is simply an issue of both mathematics and human nature. people like winning. they don't like losing. 10 dps is more than 2 dps. a defender who ship has 100 dps will die more quickly to 10 dps than to 2 dps. that will, in turn, take dps off the fleet that's attacking him. we'll always see fleets large enough to grant an advance. quantity, after all, has a quality all its own."
"this is the kinda reponce i suspected and it just confirms my current thoughts on the csm.nowhere in my post did i say i was against coalitions (friends as you call them) in fact i think we need coalitions to a certain degree,to have the end game situation of two big groups of people fighting eachother.what i don't like is the way the game drags people into one focal point.i would love to see battle lines getting drawn up where there could be some sort of 'war front' where you could have multipul objectives with multipul battles all alone the war front.where things like guerrilla warfare behind enemy lines can come into play,big battles that are really decoys for one side or the other to do another objective etc,etc and if you really do think we should just go about wearing flowers in our hair and making loads of love buddies in 0.0 and not fight like mittani seems to want,are you lot really the best people for the csm ?"
"i wholeheartedly agree with you. there should be dramatic conflict drivers which may bring the desire to invade up to the same level as the desire to befriend. but as for a means to accomplish that goal right this second, i'm keeping my cards close to my chest with my suggestions.(because i haven't discussed them with my fellow csms!)(actual reason: i am very insecure)"
"you were so much more chill when we rented free trade zone space to you."
"i have always wanted to see both minigin and vuk lau on csm, that would have been more entertaining, having some sociopath and bacteria on the csm this term is a little mehbut yeh like you said, thankfully ccp wont listen to csm, you should have heard mittani in his \"lets once again talk about how i obsess about molle\" vid, when talking about the disband he goes \"well we decided to disband bob sacrifice 10 regions and invade delve\".hahaha oh and the best part is, goons agreedanyway eventually ccp will nerf number warfare, like they said \"it is sooner than you think\", once that happens nc will implode"
"ayieee!"
"i do not hang out with the blob-fleets much, instead i sit back and take part in plexing. i've done this since september 2009 and thus have extensive experience in it, that i can share in depth with you at some point, but i'll do a quick ramble about it here.plexing is a fantastic method for small-group or solo pvp. i've had the best fights ever in these plexes, it's basically the same as belts; no station docks, no gate jumping, no escape. with gallente npcs (the blaster range of which suck, making them non-existent), you literally have this open area of space to shoot around in and manuever. really fantastic fights that demand a lot of skill that i cannot stress enough. this is the one good thing about the fw mechanic i can point out.but then, these plexes mean nothing other than kudos. take caldari npcs. they jam. so you can't have these fantastic fights in caldari plexes; you have to warp out (moreover, you have to fit for pve!). i also hear minmatar web, and amarr tracking disrupt; all this form of ewar makes plexfighting a lot more difficult compared to gallente's weak damping.with tyrannis, ccp missed an opportunity to integrate planetary interaction with factional warfare. i, as a gallente, can go build pins on new caldari prime. i can build it on worlds in caldari lowsec. apparently in nullsec, you can't build pins in planets you don't have sov in? why does this not apply to fw?ccp could have, in the interim of providing a fw 2.0, altered the npcs exclusively used for fw. remove ewar for all factions, for example. they did not, however.i will pose one thing i would like to take you to ccp; will dust and fw be connected? imo, it has to be. there is no way around this in terms of creating their \"believable\" universe. what is the point of the minmatar controlling an amarr system, if the planets are all controlled by non-aligned mercenaries?thanks for showing interest! quick edit - ccp has also stated they want players to affect the storyline, by talking about live events and incursions. fw did this with the gallente and caldari during 2009-10. so why are they ignoring it now?"
"i hope that's just meant to be a troll and not a sample of a typical nullsec player's understanding of fw because jesus christ the militia dosen't need belt miners. there are enough stealth bomber mission runners that avoid all pvp as it is (did we mention faction warfare is just fine isk incentive-wise and you can make a fortune out of fw lps).what occupancy should give is something like system-wide bonuses to one faction's ships or another's or even having fw militia stations change sides to the occupying force (e.g. a tlf station becomes a 24th crusade station on amarr occupancy and it now gives missions for that faction instead and the standings adjust accordingly).in addition they need to fix the plexes already so t2 and the new faction ships are in the same plex size and dramiels don't **** on every newbie's plexing fun. having plexes spawn at other times except downtime would be nice as well.btw there's been one small fw iteration back in 2009 (devblog) which was pretty decent actually. but their promise of that being \"the first step of many to put its implementation back into the original vision that was ours during the empyrean age release\" never materialised (surprise).if any of you csm people is actually seriously interested about representing fw warfare you should probably contact the leaders of some of the major fw corps (don't listen to me, i just poke around every once in a while, but there's plenty of bitter fw vets) rather than do the same thing you accused the previous csm of doing and thinking you can give feedback based on what you imagine fw might be like."
"i actually did talk about this in my election campaign.notwithstanding the alt spies that are rampant in caldari militia, would love to see some type of bonus other than standing for fw.whatcha say there csm? fly safe guys!butch"
"both lowsec and factionwarfare desperately need iteration, according to elvenlord (who i'm having coffee with in this reyk cafe) there's a pile of fw-related items languishing in the backlog already from past csms. that backlog, in general, is the primary issue confronting the whole playerbase."
"+1 faction warfare needs a hug!"
"i don't think anyone disagrees that fw needs love.the problem is that there are so many areas of the game that need love, and the challenge for csm is making the best possible representations to ccp about where they are going to get the most bang for the buck with their limited development resources.i personally would like to see some work done on fw and lowsec -- but i also think that \"fixing\" lowsec, in particular with regard to making piracy less marginal as an occupation, is probably the hardest game design challenge in eve.with respect to getting fw love in the short term, probably the most likely way to do it is to identify a menu of small changes to the current system that would eliminate the biggest problems, so that they could be attacked in whole or in part by a group like team bff."
"that's easy.1. there is no compelling economic reason for people to be there.2. there aren't many economic incentives ccp can grant for activity in lowsec that aren't:2a. easily exploited (pvp kill rewards).or2b. at risk of being monopolized by nullsec alliances.there is a compelling socioeconomic reason which compels nullsec alliances. our space is literally ours, we own the stations and can build them where we will, we decide who gets to dock and use services, we decide what systems we connect with bridges, we control the income from our moons. none of this is the case in lowsec. there is no really apparent gain or loss in controlling or losing space for your faction.the faction warfare players fight for their respective empire \"alliances\" but they receive absolutely none of the benefits that they would be afforded as \"par for the course\" in anything but own alliance. the paltry faction lp rewards are hilariously pitiful compared to the ship reimbursement programs offered by every serious spaceholding entity. if i lose a drake or a maelstrom in a system i've been told to be in on a sanctioned op, i get a new drake or maelstrom. that simple, end of story, because i was present when my alliance needed numbers in location x at time t.if a faction warfare player loses his ship in a faction warfare system, what does he get for his troubles?an ibis and 1 unit of tritanium."
"space communism is about to take over new eden"
"windy for the win~"
"thats a nice icon you got there"
"well i guess i wont be needing these alts anymore ?"
"weak sauce and not even a passing acquaintance with logic. he knows the words, but lacks any comprehension of the meaning. zero doesnt actually have to act confused, hes in that state perpetually. now dont stare too much at the little troll, folks, its not good manners.support@tentonhammer.com write them and let them know the level of journalism you want to read. who wants to read slanted bigotry? lets see if we cant convince them to have some better talent from their contributors. do they really want their site used as a platform for a self-serving hack?-windjammer"
"you are now actually accusing an internet paper of condoning \"bigotry\" because they ran a column about an internet spaceship election. your trolling is so awful that if it was in school, it would have to stay late after class just to fail. bigotry. for an election article about internet spaceships on an internet newspaper. bigotry. seriously. yet again, let's see if windy can spot the massive logical and procedural fail in this letter writing campaign, eh?"
"you aren't as witty as you think you are."
"you know your own, kalle. :v:"
"it would be nice to see how much votes all other candidates got"
"lets see with the current council:delegates5,365 the mittani3,813 seleene3,320 uaxdeath3,306 trebor daehdoow2,925 killer22,539 white tree2,240 vile rat2,086 meissa anunthiel1,986 draco llasameissa and trebor in csm6 by continuation optionthe mittani, seleene, uaxdeath, killer2 by vote results3 'others' picked by jurythis would had result in a probably better balance of the council.but time will tell"
"candidates eliminated by method of thunderdome!no more bloc stacking and nullsec advantage (we all know that nullseccers can't solo worth a ****, blobtastic is all they know)"
"calm down. have some dip."
"without chip? are you mad woman!"
"i propose selection is made via russian roulette played with an an automatic pistol."
"candidate a places firearm to headclickcandidate b places firearm to headclickcandidate c (mittani), picks up firearm, loads each chamber and ensures total victory.csm is dead long live the csm.although playing russian roulette with an automatic pistol isn't exciting. (yes i saw what you did there)."
"bahh who really cares, ccp dont listen to what the csm say anyway, this term would be no different, it just is a shame all the drama and fun is over, last few weeks were pretty entertaining, now this forum will turn into a graveyard with the occasional \"i am obsessed with molle\" thread, oh wait mittani usually does that on caod."
"i can understand your disappointment as the csm should be about putting in-game politics aside and joining together as a customer base to make the game better for all of us.what we have now is a little clique who's only interest is to change the game to suit themselves ! sadly because of this the csm will never be given any real kind of power,making it more a show case for ccp and a free holiday for some.instead of a proper way for us to be heard and improve the game in all it's different aspects and styles of game play. as a 0.0 player i'm even more let down after seeing some of the comments at the recent 0.0 round table at fanfest...dev: \"why be blue to everyone around you?\"mittani: \"because friendship trumps the desire to fight.\" and this is the fool who was voted chair !"
"link vid, you know since ccp are aware of this nap protection, it will change making it useless to nap, lets see if they stay friends when naping is pointless"
"of course everything russian in eve has to be automated."
"pre-election: \"we have to band together to stop the evil nullsec block from ruining our game!\"post-election: \"didn't want that csm anyway.\"quality stuff.what you guys don't seem to understand is that the nullsec candidates are far more concerned about the overall health of the game than even you are. of course they are. they have far more invested in it's continuance and preservation. i heard an interview on one of the eve podcasts with a ccp employee (i don't remember which one) and he described the csm as \"a group of expert users.\" thats absolutely the correct way to look at them. they're users who are familiar with every aspect of the game. that describes the new csm lineup very well. the sky is not actually falling. you can relax."
"i have to disagree with ya jonathan.based on what is splattered all over the place i am of the opinion that null sec players only give a rats ass about null sec. while i do not live in high sec i will use high sec as an example. it appears that most null sec dwellers despise high sec. especially anyone who pvp's in high sec. but the whining about the dev blog throwing out some future changes to 0.0 sure has said null sec dwellers whailing like little girls about \"nerf high sec lvl 4 missions\". concluding, when any other day of the week is ffffffuu high sec then there should be no *****ing or say about high sec anything by null players. if it's so horribad any other time then stfu about the missions there.there should be a change to the voting for csm. null blocks can completely control the csm every year if they want to. that leaves out a lot of the players not being represented. this is why in the u.s. popular vote is not used. all the smaller populated places between the coasts would have absolutely no voice as the large metro areas would pack the gov. with their candidates. there has to be a line somewhere."
"you do realise that this is democracy in action. turns out that a large proportion of the game is in 0.0, and a large proportion of them vote.who would of thunk it.the csm is elected based on the general concencus of the playerbase, if that concencus is 0.0 based then we're going to have a 0.0 based csm.its fair, there is no fairer way. if you want a concencus thats not 0.0 based then get support for low-sec and high-sec matters and next year get people to vote more for them."
"to address the second point first, there are far more people in empire than in 0.0. the idea that we should change the voting system because a majority decided to abstain is ridiculous. it was important to me that people who knew what the **** was going on got on the csm. so i voted for them. no one has been victimized here. people just didn't participate. im not going to put words in someone else's mouth, but the contempt for empire dwellers seems, at least from my perspective, to stem from the fact that people in empire are knowingly and willingly taking advantage of the skewed risk/reward ratio available there. im sure the argument will be made that same imbalance is present in northern 0.0, but (a) it's not (420 loose ratting carriers errday), and even if it were, people in northern 0.0 are safe because we've built that safety ourselves with home defense fleets, gate camps, et cetera. as opposed to being safe by virtue of artificial rules the developers put into place."
"will you guys stop serious'ing up my troll thread, there is one option and i stick by it, thunderdome if eve is everyone vs everyone online, then surely the best way to decide our representatives would be a battle royale it makes sense! politics have nothing to do with shooty spaceships!"
"go here for a serious attack of seriousness!and now back to battle royale!crash! boom! zang!"
"damn"
"congratulations :smug:"
"make methnaught real, thx."
"so mittens, gonna put the chair position up for election?"
"21516 votes equals zero influence in the csm! we can do better!please support this proposal for a better voting system in future csm elections.this is not about grief or tears regarding the current election - i wish the newly elected csm all the best. but it is a fact, that the current voting system is flawed:1) the current system is not proportional.2) many votes are wasted on candidates who are either sure winners or sure loosers.3) the current system generates uncertainty and encourages tactical voting while discouraging honest voting.do you want to know more?"
"i'm not sure if its against the rules to create a 3rd party exit poll. you can do that if you really wanted to track how the count is going? but you'd need to work hard to get it out there and get it used. :)"
"sorry?id obviously have to run faster than santa if i were making an exit poll ;)im basing my numbers on this dev blog.49096 votes were cast.the nine elected csm members represents a total of 27580 votes (56,2%) and these get 100% of the influence.the remaining 21516 votes (43,8%) translates into zero influence...this is the democratic problem. in a presidential election it is obvious that there will be a lot of wasted votes, but in a election to a multiple member council like the csm, this number is much higher than it need to be. please read my thread in the assembly hall - and support it :)---oh - and congratulations on your election white tree :)"
"exit polls are used to measure the votes for candidates by asking the person after they've voted who they voted for. this can happen during the voting process.e: thankyou.ee: :eng101: effectively what you're referring too is a system of primaries. but you'd prefer the player-base had more influence the csm primaries? i think that would basically be forcing subgroups to poke around in each-others subgroups. however you can already do this non-intrusively by discussing the viewpoints of the csm candidates in this very forum and lobbying either for or against them. if you want to imitate real democracy, you effectively allow everyone to pick their desired representatives and hash it out in whatever way you can. and traditionally (for thousands of years in human history believe it or not) we've used a forum system. this is how democracies work, groups of people come together to form parties whose concerns are similar and they've used their collective might to ensure their chosen candidates are elected.can you truly state that the voters of last years csm elections weren't entirely capable rationalizing their votes by voting for their own interests? and why would they have to think about trying to rationalize it, no one has questioned it until now? and no one has really questioned it for a long time because its a functional part of a democratic process and, for the most part, it works."
"no. my proposal has nothing to do with primaries.and this is exactly what isn<U+FFFD>t supported in the current voting system which has absolutely no incentives to forming a party, since votes cannot be transferred between two different candidates. basically you can solve the problem of vote wasting and proportionality in two ways: a) by allowing parties to transfer votes between party candidates (this is what you find in multiparty systems)b) or by allowing voters to transfer their single vote between different candidates they prefer (and this is what i propose in my post in the assembly hall).both options would be a huge improvement to the current voting system.if eve were a \"real democracy\" with \"real issues\" at stake, i would allways argue for option a, since such a system encurages the formation of political parties and some meassure of political stability.option b on the other hand, is ideal to the \"player democracy\" of eve, since it leaves room for individual candidates with a fresh idea, and since \"political stability\" is really not an issue of much concern in this setting :).im stating no such thing. but id like people to be able to vote for the candidate they genuinely prefer - without having to take tactical considerations into account."
"tactical voting occurs everywhere. its stunning how often it occurs. i'm neither endorsing nor frowning upon its use, but what i'm saying is that it may be an inherent part of the system."
"and im not frowning upon tactical voting either. as you say it is an inherent part of the system. im merely proposing a voting system that will reduce (but not eliminate) the impact of tactical voting, and allow more voters to have a real impact on the composition of the csm.if there is no support for the idea i can live it just as well - but as a real life student of electoral systems and their de facto political consequences i just thought id let you know that there are in fact better alternatives than the current voting system for the csm.and now ill go and blow up some ships! yaarrg!"
"thisstill by far the best choice that was presented. i hope you keep blogging and run again. think recognizability hurt you as well as being both jester and rippard.really glad you ran and really hope the csm tap you as a valuable resource."
"hope you will run again in the future rip."
"ended up being 3.3b or so, apparently. vov"
"now who's controlling your game ?"
"sir molle"
"i giggled, because its true"
"sheeit this csm will surely make the game better (enable coalitions ingame, add +9000 internets for making all 0.0 a single coalition)"
"results were obvious, surprised to not see krutoj on there but the biggest lmfao was @ that imigo guy not getting in, even nc hate him hahaha.minus those two everyone else as expected was in, shame only one of the people i voted for got in.ah well now that the fun is over, back to caod for me, oh and dont think your status means anything, jump bridges are getting nerfed, your supercarriers wont be powerful and level 4s will remain as they are.but do enjoy the free trip and csm ticker, have fun and dont forget to break the nda ;)"
"when i saw mittens get chair it was exactly the same feeling as what i felt when ankh managed to get in on csm."
"congratulations to the csm winners!ok, back to fw! see you out there!"
"congratulations to the new csm and good luck in the coming year. looks like there'll be a lot of work to do and it will be very different from what many of you will expect."
"will it become the muppetshow or a working council?that's the question!we'll be watching :)"
"haha...look at kalle dumbos thinking goons care about level 4 missions."
"lol the troll got trolled"
"even if they did, their communication is still terrible. it's not that hard to make a consistent website about the csm, yet after all those years there still isn't any...."
"ad only showed once here. most ppl don't bother reading anything out of game. i do, but i for instance could not even find when the polls would close without wading through the news archives.think about it for a minute: there is an election ongoing and there is no fast way to look up when it closes. something simple like that should be listed at the csm section of the main eve-o page, but that section (much like large other parts of the site) is a complete joke."
"congratulations to the new csm and alternates!nice campaign effort from many candidates this time - its good to see how the status of the csm has improved during the last few years. kudos to csm 5 for all their hard work. the new team will have their work cut out for them... :)"
"grats to all.tbh i think the alarmism is a little bit over the top.i am happy that 0.0 decided to 'represent' and is now represented, although i do not really beleive that this will have such a huge impact on the csm activity as most seem to think it will.work hard, work smart and use the time you have to help ccp make this better for us all.p.s - i really am not an alt of windypoop, we just have the same colour hair! i just found his campaign the most amusing, and games are for fun right !?"
"thank you for your endorsement of my elite game-design skills."
"the above is pretty standard technique in programming, something anyone with a couple of classes in computer science should know by heart."
"congrats on csm seat"
"grats. good luck fighting the nc."
"thank you very much, everyone. i was surprised to see where i came out in the standings and i'm looking forward to the next year. i will write up a proper post-campaign dev blog and fanfest review when i get home from iceland on tuesday."
"congratulations sel, you will do us proud!"
"congrats :)if you could give a summary of the points they though about changing, and on which order, that were imposisble to read on the free stream... would be cool :)"
"i think you should be able to buy clones for your fish as well, but kelly would work too."
"wingdings it has to be please for one day only - it'll be cryptic but just as intelligible local rants as before so carry on.failing that how about a little programme that randomizes the key output when ever an alphanumerical key is pressed. if anyone has a programme that will do that let me know as that would seriously mess up a few peoples head and would be a right laugh.for a few minutes."
"i'm offended by white tree, what about black trees?always keeping the brother tree down."
"if you want to do fw occupancy you are by far best served by being online right after downtime. if you can't be online at that time you will have a very limited effect compared to those who can."
"question, how would this effect hybrid pos batteries ?"
"wy do you even use those? -for some extra power get laser ones, no ammo needed and they hit/dps fine."
"yes indeed"
"boast hybrids, helps caldari and gallente ships that use them that are underpowered.make sig radius close to that of other races for same class ship"
"abso-bloody-lutely!"
"would love to see the missile silos on my scorp actually used."
"i just want them to hit enemy targets, not the npc convoy ship i needed to protect during a mission because it happened to be the closest in range i mean what use is the distinction of a friend or foe missile when it can't even distinguish friend from foe?"
"other than that, i didn't read your proposal at all."
"due to the size of csm and the fact theres actually limited seating not based on the number of voters for a given district...stv is a horrid choice for the csm elections~poli-sci tinfoil hat~"
"honestly, i'd say that the election should be related to geography (in the game ). each region gets to vote for their delegate. what constitutes regional habitation is of course debatable since many players move around often. but the same method should be used for whose vote gets counted for which region's own election.this way the representation is relatively fair between 0.0 and empire.if this would lead to too many people on the csm, maybe group the regions together and have several share the election. like domain could be grouped into the amarr empire district, and cloud ring into the ore district.i never liked the popularity contest style of the csm."
"the main problem is that there is too few (or better said, none) accessible information about the candidates. there are their electional topics in the forum but you need to read them all entirely to get a slight idea about the candidate, and even if you do read them you will probably miss some important thing about the candidate that other posters already know, for example which \"party\" of players the candidate belongs to.to get a really good idea you need to actually dig into the candidate's posts which is tremendous work.and again, there are too many candidates. sure, some people know that this candidate is actually electable, that one is some guy who nobody knows about and stuff like that. but if the mere player, who has no insight into eve politics and does not spend 50% of time in the forums, comes to vote, he chooses based on the text each candidate presents in the candidates page, and that text says absolutely nothing important about him!therefore 40% of all votes get wasted.so i think the op's idea is good, but not enough, since even if a random person chooses a few candidates with acceptable electoral message, chances are that all the choices are not electable anyway.so i think, maybe there should be a two rounds in the voting. like, take some number of candidates that gained the most votes in the first round and only present them in the second... this way at least laymen can choose the one candidate that represents his interest best and has any chances to win. of course, the minorities won't like this idea since this will make the real views of majority of eve players represented, and the majorities are what they particularly hate in this game. yes, i am talking about \"carebears\"."
"would you care to elaborate on this point?"
"i agree - this is a major issue. but lets just imagine that a voter actually finds two candidates that he likes - we could call them a and b... (just to be creative) so, our voter is left with the choice of candidate a and b - he likes both of them, so which should he vote for? he<U+FFFD>s got a sense that candidate a is quite popular and b is sligtly less popular. this is where the election turns into tactical voting, speculation and pure lottery!if he votes for a, and a allready has enough support, then he wastes his vote. but if all potential voters for a think like this, then a is not elected at all.if he votes for b, and b doesnt get enough support, then he allso wastes his vote.our voter will have to speculate about the final support for the candidates...---now lets imagine that the election ends up with candidate a having 1000 excess votes to get elected, while b lacks 500 votes to get elected. if the csm election allowed candidates to run as a political party - then candidate a could transfer enough of his surplus votes to b to get him elected as well.or if we used stv in the election voters who prefer to have both a and b on the council wouldnt have to speculate which they should vote for. with stv they could get both candidates elected.---no mather how you put it, the current voting system is very much a gamble - and less about transfering voter preferences into actual seats on the csm council."
"if there is no specified number of preferances you have to have, it won't make voting any harder for those that don't want to have to think about preferances.they just vote 1 for one person, then their vote counts as per now.if abstain is alowed as a preferance, it would be interesting to see how may votes end up there."
"i think your vote system needs some more workredistribution of unused votes sounds intresting, but i see some problems with your implementation.you make no allowances for how the unused votes are to be redistributed, and especially if there is more than 2 preferences this becomes more and more complex.if the redistribution is not based on the original distribution of the secondairy choises, but uses some other arbitrairy redistribution protocol, then any preferred result can be atained simply by influencing what votes progress to their secondary choises and wich ones remain sticky with their first choise.so perhaps it would be better if all votes on a candidate with excess votes progressed to the next cadidate, but as a fractional vote (calculated on the number of votes in excess of the required amount)but even this becomes quickly complex as people may have secondairy votes on an already elected candidate causing even more fractional votes to be redistributed.in all it still sounds intresting though."
"a change to make the csm as diverse as possible is very much order, a uniform board is of absolutely no use to players or ccp.not based on blocs though as they (in the perfect world) should shift continuously but on occupation/location.empire (low/high)/null, pvp/misc./carebear.- have candidates declare their primary focus/occupation and location when applying.- divide them into the six pools and aim at getting one from each at least with overflow votes being distributed within pool.- remaining seats are filled by most votes regardless of pool.- subterfuge during application process to be treated as breach of nda (kick from council and game).is it democratic? doesn't matter. humanity is too damn ******ed to make that system work anyway and \"forced representation\" is used more often than not in the real world .. especially in fledgling states (iraq, afghanistan etc.)"
"just for the record, it isnt my voting system, and different variations of stv are being used in elections around the world. my rough sketch of the stv system above doesnt cover all the finer details (but i thought my post was long and technical enough as it was... )i believe that your description on how to redistribute a fraction of all votes is known as the gregory method - and this is also the way i would prefer to do it.as other have stated, the inner workings of the stv system is very complex - however the complexity is hidden behind the scenes, and not really something the voters have to worry about when they state their preferences. this contrasts with our current system for the csm election which is very simple to understand, but gives the voters a lot to worry about ;)"
"ahahahahaha this thread"
"the gregory method only calculates fractions once and deals differently with subsequent votes for candidates with an elect status.i think i would prefer the wright method (intresting link btw), if multible preferences were an option for this election.but i do not see the need for such a complex voting system in an election that only has a 14% participation. perhaps this becomes importand once we pass 30%?"
"or... index war dec cost to the corp standing, make standings actually mean something"
"i've always said it was too cheap to war-dec.but then the other side of the coin can get quite alot of isk to do a war-dec anyway.cost change won't be enough i figure."
"this thread just sounds like another, \"carebears unite\" whine thread. this has always and will always be a pvp game. problem solving any issue that may arrise, in corp, opposing corp or griefer corp, is the very charm of this game... i understand people just want to be in their own little eve universe, but alas, you're in a great big sand box and things can and will happen beyond your control. i do admit that a proper \"surrender\" terms should always be an option. as stated above, terms of surrender should be provided from the war dec initiator in contract form of isk or items paid that would enforce \"peace\" for a certain (set in terms by the initiator) length of time. of course, ceos should be able to have a negotiation table to further adjust/accept/decline terms. cooldown could then be set to \"immediate\" or a standard 24 hours. peace time could be 1 month min to a year or indefinite. this feature would enhance gameplay from the \"helpless\" feeling of a \"griefed\" corp and also assure the surrendering corp that the aggressor won't pull a fast one and continue killing anyways. plus, the aggressing corp can validly claim victory for their purpose. this would also help reduce the need for corp jumping. of course, there can't always be an agreement on terms, but at least there should be a legitimate option."
"love the idea, supported"
"partially supported, for this much money they should also allow logging in of that much characters at the same time. i would not pay extra $15 for only training, i'd rather have another account which i can also login."
"throw a couple of plex's on a character so i can refine it's skills without pausing my main? awesome!"
"get negative on 3 chars, make new account, rinse and repeat."
"no, this means free mineral if you reprocess the free ship, you already get the 1 free tritanium. also, shuttles are a kind of a business nowadays, judging from the sales histories.as of the proposal - the only thing this is needed is for total newbies who can't use the market or some obscure button they won't find. i think this should work while any of the tutorials are active or maybe during the first month of playing."
"this all started with your troll post: like it or not, ccp confirmed that they dislikes the way you stacked the sandbox in your favor. they have stated expressed interest in changing mechanics to end this playstyle. regardless of what you think ccp advertised, regardless of what you desire personally, and regardless of what you post here: it's going to happen."
"i say, we all just stop replying to finn's multi-quote responses; and just let this silly little thread die. back to the op, briefly.your dev quote was phrased as a question. as a question, it was phrased; i fail to see how you respond to it as a statement.the way the lot of you respond, like someones out to antagonize you; is entirely, all to paranoid, and completely without reason. you narrow minded, silly fools; don't have any thought, outside your selfish little bubbles. when you say 'sandbox'; you think that means a game, where you dictate the rules. 10% of the game population, determining how everybody else should play; is more than a little silly, and frankly, a waste of my time. if it was your game, i wouldn't play it; and neither would 70% of the rest of the players. i don't want 23/7 conflict and pvp, and if i did; i'd play bfbc2 all the time, or until i got sick of hackers. usually, that takes about 15 minutes to an hour; which is why i don't play bfbc2 much. jerk-offs that use hacks, bots, and macro's; ruin games for everybody, just like rmt's.why be blue to everyone around you? good question. because then, you won't have to worry so much; about losing sov, or having to fight battles close to home. as a result, you'll have virtual immunity to any loss of sov; under the current system, and can be carebears, with better than empire isk/hour. which is what you all really want. lots of isk, with no one to contest it, or get it before you do; so you can do whatever you want, and never worry about losing ships, including titans. it's easy to pay for, isn't it' with all that free isk, out in secure 0.0.sure, it's a sandbox, and you should be able to make youer own decisions; but, if that's how it works, all space should be equal. isk/hour, should be the same everywhere, shouldn't it?the dev's don't want to take away the sandbox; they're simply trying to find a way to make it work. it's not working right now; as anyone with eyes can see.morsus mihi sucks btw. bunch of e-uni alt's and graduates. what e-uni really does; and why i don't like it. freely recruit, using alt's, in rookie chat; and direct new players, to live under nullsec alliance rule. specifically, their nullsec alliance. if i had to guess, who the alt's leading e-uni really were; i'd have to say, it was the leaders of morsus mihi, or a combination of alliances. the whole graduate thing, is realy just a test; to see if players can function, as a member of one of their large alliances. the result of this, is of course; that e-uni gets the majority of newer players, indoctinating them, and making them alliance pet's, to do their bidding.ever asked yourself why ubercado; happens to own a 40 billion isk mimir? before pandemic legion started selling them? if e-uni doesn't make isk, and uses all it's wealth to pay for training; how does a director, manage to pull that off? highsec mission running? not likely. they're full of it, and are completely pulling the wool over peoples eyes; pretending to be some super group of philanthropic tutors and nice guys. they far from nice; in fact, they're complete jerks. irdalth delrar for example; is scamming new and graduate students; out of their hard-earned isk, with his plex a month because i'm a poor immigrant crap. i read his multiple posts regarding his life 'sob' story in the e-uni forums; and i saw all the helpful responses, and helpful handouts. reading all the threads; i found they lack consistency. it's a big lie; that's assisted by e-uni directors. philathropists? yeah right. bunch of scam artists; running a dictatorship.morsus mihi. the white gloves of nullsec? i feel somewhat similar, with regards to that; having experienced your anti-pirate method's first hand. gank anyone; is what you really do. the whole lot of you, lack integrity; and rationalize your method's, with \"it's eve\", and \"..experience.\"personally, i hope the dev's take your isk. e-uni is run by rmt"
"who has a count of how many different people zero has called a troll in this thread alone.-windjammer"
"echo chambers are much more efficacious without pesky facts getting in the way... yeah, that's not what's happening. but you are right, eve is not a game for everybody. it would just be best if, for those who don't like eve, they left instead of trying to ruin it. non sequitor. also nonsensical, as having different areas that differ in value is an essential conflict-driver. it's working perfectly right now. it's dishonest to claim that the metric for it working is getting a political arrangement that you personally like. already covered, ccp says you're wrong and they only provide the tools and rules but don't control game content beyond that. yes, but truth is no defense for your lying and trolling about my \"masters\". just like it's no defense for your trolling about \"brown nosing\".go figure. a much more interesting count is the number of people who have been trolling. i understand why that would be less sanguine with you, of course."
"apparently, the guy doesn't recognize sarcasm."
"funny how the same person will flip flop depending the argument.\"dont nerf sanctums because then there will be no point in claiming sov!\" - the most important part they want you to pay attention to being 'it's all about the isk' as the reason to go into null sec.\"the fact you don't even own space automatically means you don't know what your talking about and should be ignored.\" - the most important part being 'owning space' as the reason to go into null sec.so why are you in null sec? you say that it is more profitable to run high sec level 4 missions already, yet there you are. in null sec. is it possibly because owning space is your drive factor? some are there for the isk and some are there for the glory of planting a flag and having their ticket show on the map.so your argument that with the anomaly change, space that cant support sanctums andhavens, will be empty is total and utter bull****. true you won't be there because you were there for the isk, but the moment you leave, someone will replace you who will be there for the sov ticker on the map.your just bitter because you want your sov and sanctums too. this is still possible. you might have to take it from someone else first though."
"the lastest dev blog about sov changes shows that ccp doesnt have a desire to the fix the number one problem. instead stall as long as they can and put shiney things up to say they are improving things. at this point i dont want to see anymore changes. none. not until the main issue with this game is fixed. fix the stupid lag!!!!!! this effects small gang warfare and large gang warefare. this seems to be a move to try to drop down these numbers so theres not so many lag issues. the problem with this is there is no counter to a mass super fleet without sub cap numbers. if you get the numbers system lags down. people get knocked offline and cant log back in. reinforcing nods is fail. i want to see a 2000 people in local battle that actually runs like the game intended. no cycling guns no black screen. this even happens with smaller fights. people are leaving the game. its getting boring. dumb down the graphics if you have too. but fix it. you can't even use the tatics of bonuses right in game or logi's cause it lags out. spend the money now to fix the game before you talk about dust, walking in stations, changing spawns, etc. im truely tired of seeing tatics based off lag, instead of actually fighting. give us a reason to jump into that system with tons of people and lose our ships. not jump in, get disconnected and cant log in for 7 hours and get some lame duck excuse. give us the reason to fight those caps. give us the reason to hot drop that carebear. give us a reason to continue to log in everyday...... before there is no reason anymore. fdix the basic game plan before you do anything else... fix the stupid lag!!!!!!! give us back our sandbox!!!"
"im betting its just about as many as the number of people who are persistently and accurately telling him he doesnt know what hes talking about on this subject.-windjammer"
"ccp controls its own game. its really that simple. zeros inability to see this simple fact has even driven him to have the delusional impression that his masters are going to go to iceland, smack ccp on the nose with a rolled up newspaper and tell ccp how to run its own game. he actually believes this approach has a chance of success. personally, if such a thing comes to pass, id love to see the video of it.unfortunately, i do not believe zeros heroes are going to do something that unbelievably stupid. the results would be hilarious.ccp has a vested interest in pleasing the entire player base. not just a noisy minority. if they have to reform the games framework to protect their financial interest, they will do it. no forum campaign and no player special interest group can or will stop them from doing whatever they want to do. and what ccp can do is change the foundations of the game in such a way as to change what players do in the game.to argue that ccp does not control the eve environment at its very roots, is absurd. players play within what the foundation and framework allow. nothing more.-windjammer"
"so why does it matter if people post with alts?because we don't know about their vested intereststhey could actually all be the same personthey could be multiple players but from the same allianceso why are people paranoid about ccp's motivation?well experience i'm afraid, ccp does not have a very clean record. contrary to some earlier post the csm was not set-up to provide player feedback but to provide independent scrutiny after some highly dubious gm activities.if you needed proof of the need for the original csm you might like to know that o2o station was on it's last timer and this time was changed by a gm so that the station came out early (dt i think). the first we knew of this was when we started forming to kill it and found it had come out and been repped. so yes i'm a little paranoid perhaps but with good cause, it should be noted that the core of the old \"band of developers\" have now joined the isk bank alliance.it was said that \"bob\" kept null sec interesting, i'll challenge that view without the nc null sec would be very boring. when bob launched the max campaigns they fought the nc. drf wiped atlas out and looked like they would do the same to aaa who stopped them the nc. if it wasn't for the nc everyone in null sec would be renting from isk bank by now.how many other alliances have nurtured new alliances and players into null sec and then allowed themselves to find their own path. the nc are the eve uni of null sec but of cause the elitists don't want to share null sec do they.and yet nobody in the thread has been willing to discuss genuine issues like sov mechanics and null sec structures i wonder why is it because they really don't care about the game?"
"employing people not schooled in psychiatry and sociology says nothing about motivation .. unless that is the primary field one works in.gm's are regular people and can be manipulated just as easily as the clerk at the hardware store, i wouldn't be surprised if the hard-core has made a list of preferred gm's and their approximate work schedules (i would if i gave a crap)as for nc being oh so good for eve: wasn't the whole moon exploit thing primarily done by northerners/in the north?sure the majority might have been out of the loop, but the ill-gotten gains most likely benefited them."
"actual no it wasn't it was bob and their allies if i remember correctly.edit: checked and it was ev0ke who were banned, they were allied with bob at the time, but to be fair i can't find any reference to other alliances being involved, although i thinks it's likely as players move around the game."
"yes, you proceed to provide a fine example of that:just as synonyms often have similar meanings rather than identical so your chain of rewording the original statement until you get the meaning you want is fallacious. no matter the sophistry you employ it is a fact that 'encouragement' of a behaviour is fundamentally different from 'forcing' a behaviour. an in-game example is that incursion ship penalties do not force you to fight an inconvenient incursion (despite what some mouth-breathers have claimed), instead of trying to remove them one can temporarily relocate or change one's activities for the duration. if one is mission-running in a pimped enough ship you could even ignore the penalties completely and continue, even if they are more difficult and less lucrative while the incursion is present. the point is ccp tend to make adjustments that don't force a change in sandbox play but change the cost-benefit of different activities. since players aren't machines cost-benefit is always weighed with personal preferences in mind, people don't all play 'optimally' constantly. because it is a sandbox any balanced change ccp do make will have diluted consequences on behaviour.if ccp do introduce changes making nullsec conflict a bit more attractive and being blue with too many others a bit less attractive it won't turn brother against brother, but it may cause some ropey marriages of convenience to finally fall apart in bitter acrimony. except different types of gameplay are interlinked and have far reaching consequences which can come back to the originator. nullsec wars have historically been a major mineral sink and source of demand and as such are hugely important to have the economy work. like i said, you're focusing on your one corner of the sandbox, ccp have to watch over the entire game.oh and before you hurf and blurf your analogy about industry again i'll say that it's far easier to tweak the supply-side mechanics without any consequence on player behaviour than it is to fix shortfalls in demand."
"lol!!!too funny!seriously though. how many times will nc dig up the dead horse that is t20 and blame it for every mistake they make? a dead alliance is still pwning you even now.also my favorite part is how you go out of your way and claim that nc is responsible for young alliances ability to grow and out in the cold, cruel environment that is null sec. all of this is totally not possible without nc's guiding hand.awww.... they care so much. *tear*oh yeah. and apparently if your not part of the nc it means your a cheating dev who does rmt with russians. v0v"
"actually none of that matters. the points and arguments made are what matter, not the mouth or mouth-piece they come from. otherwise it's just ad hominem."
"well i mentioned that ccp devs are still behaving inappropriately, it true so what is wrong with that.as for support new players and alliances into nul sec did i say it would not happen without the nc or did i say the nc had a positive influence?did i say that if you weren't part of the nc you were a rmt'er no, but i did warn that if it wasn't for the nc you might find the servers dominated in that way as is currently the case in china."
"actually it does matter, because there is very little being said by these people. further if for arguments sack they were all one player with multiple alts it might appear as if there was an issue rather than one player with an axe to grind.so sorry i tend to pay scant regard to alt posters."
"to the alt's why aren't you supporting the idea of more npc regions of a viable size similar to venal all over eve to allow pvp corps and alliance to raid or launch attacks against established alliances?"
"it's telling that you can only troll about the facts and call them a rant. equally obvious is that even when i provide ccp's own words showing that you're wrong, you'll still argue dishonestly to try to claim you're right. yet again, ccp creates the rules and the tools and players control how the nullsec game actually evolves. you are using the fallacy of composition to pretend that because ccp controls certain aspects of the game, they control it in toto. you are using the fallacy of division to work from that fallacious conclusion, to a claim about ccp controlling player-created content. you are also using the fallacy of equivocation to shift a discussion from controlling game mechanics themselves to controlling what players do within the constraints of those game mechanics. it's interesting that certain posters are either unwilling or actually unable to make their own points without trolling. windy's fascination with a master/servant dynamic is somewhat odd, as well. not that there's anything wrong with the bdsm crowd, of course, it's just odd to see internet spaceship politics cast in that perceptual mold. and the fallacy of equivocation again. saying that ccp controls how the game is played is a little bit like saying that because car manufacturers can choose to include cruise control or not, that they can control whether you go for a leisurely drive or plow your suv into a crowd of people. and, of course, it ignores the fact that by ccp's own statement, they've designed the game so that players create the actual content in player-controlled space. windy's rationalization that the bottom line is all important is more than a bit self-serving, obviously. who thinks that the argument would be the same from him if ccp decided it could build revenue by selling his personal details to every data-mining, information-collection and advertising firm on the planet? no, you were engaged in semantic gaming (and tried to claim that looking at the logical implications of your argument was a strawman, too). okay, seriously, please learn the terms you're using. there were neither any logical or rhetorical fallacies present, even if you like the sound of the word \"fallacious\". and yes, that is forcing someone. just like if someone puts a gun to your head and says \"do what i tell you\" they're 'just providing incentives and disincentives', etc. and breaking sandbox play so you can effect the entirety of eve doesn't change matters. again, players are free to, for instance, all go into nullsec together, sing hippy songs, and mine veldspar in peace and brotherhood. that's part of sandbox gameplay. ccp would not then be justified in saying that the economy has to move along a certain way, and teleporting random pilots to jove space where they have to thunderdome it to the death or both pilots lose their ships."
"no, that's an ultimatum not an incentive. you're (deliberately?) confusing the two. there is some overlap with extreme incentives but they are not the same thing.how about an example? i'm sure you'll forgive my use of ad absurdum, you've used it enough yourself.let's say ccp for some reason want people to run lvl 4 missions more and nullsec sanctums less. they decide to do this by nerfing sanctum bounties and increasing lvl 4 rat bounties.is this an ultimatum, forcing you to run missions instead? what if they change both sets of bounties by 1%? is that forcing you to change your behaviour, breaking the sandbox? according to some statements you've made in this thread, perhaps it is. most would disagree, even you would if you were being honest rather than conflating two different terms to try and make a point. what about 3%? 15%?the other major factor to take into account when weighing the two options is risk, an area where personal preference is very important. some are very averse to risk, some prefer it, most are in between. so for a risk averse player perhaps a 3% change in the bounties is enough to make them abandon sanctums and turn to empire missions. for someone who's happy to take a bit of risk perhaps it'd be 8%. for those who much prefer to be ratting with a bit of danger to keep things interesting and to be operating in their sovereign space maybe a 15% change in bounties is still acceptable, even if not ideal.i think everyone would agree that a change of say 80% is so extreme a difference in incentives that it's essentially an ultimatum, forcing players to act differently. the problem with your position is that you have been decrying any \"interference\" out of principle no matter the magnitude.one final note; i am also rather skeptical of the that you would object so strenuously to ccp 'interfering in the sandbox' based on principle if it was a change you liked. say, halving the fuel costs of jbs, implementing a treaty system or further buffing the isk fountain that are anoms. perhaps it's alright if ccp change the sandbox to increase the incentive for players to operate in nullsec as opposed to empire..?"
"more semantic gaming. \"i'm just providing you an incentive for compliance, you get to keep on breathing. now, the disincentive for disobedience...\" by denotation, an ultimatum is an enforced disincentive.you're also now confusing the issue of being able to force a change in behavior with trying to force a change in behavior. just because an attempt isn't successful doesn't mean it's not an attempt. that's not a problem, that's intellectual consistency. ah well."
"so it is a specific sub-type of 'incentivisation'. i'm glad we agree.most mechanics ccp implement have non-enforced incentives, i point you again to the example of incursions. not at all. i was showing that not all players will make the same decision when re-evaluating their activities after ccp make changes. we aren't a hive-mind after all. here it is both."
"im a drake and i agree that npc 0.0 is too difficult to access.i too understand that even if there was more reasonable step from low sec to npc 0.0, warp bubbles combined with blobs are real problem there.i've many times suggested making npc 0.0 more like low sec so it's easier to move around without having alt to scout every gate etc. and give easier access to more profitable npc 0.0 like stain/venal/fountain/delve. also npc 0.0 areas are too small. (well, at least those which are actually interesting)"
"how is it possible to tell the alts from non-alts? within this context corporate tags mean little. in fact corporate tags may be used to obscure the nature of the poster. say you have a guy that has alts in multiple corps/alliances or has multiple alts in one corp/alliance? vested interests abound and are denied in the face of obvious and clear evidence to the contrary. the reasoning must be examined in each case and the reasoning is the measure by which you can judge the merit of the position that is taken. you must also examine who the position will benefit, not who appears to be supporting the position.-windjammer"
"ccps primary motivation is to stay in business and make money. real life money, not in game money. all other issues overridden by the primary motivation. indiscretions have been committed by ccp staff and, if i recall correctly, the guilty parties have universally met with dismissal. at least in the case of the most prominent indiscretions. there is not a company or government in the world that can 100% guard against such things.for the record the catalyst for the original concept of the csm was not solely gm indiscretion. the primary catalyst was due to a developer indiscretion. by comparison, the gm problem was mild, though still something that needed to be dealt with.the csm was originally conceived as a player based oversight committee with limited investigative powers. it was never established or set-up as such. after considering the problems, ccp decided to form their own internal investigation and security division. this group of people have far more mobility and investigative power within the ccp organization than could ever be sanely given to an outside group. additionally, ccp is better able to handle serious indiscretions quietly and quickly and therefore minimize damage to ccp, the company, and eve, the game. in the end its a better solution than the original concept for the csm.at the same time ccp saw that the csm could be used in a slightly different way by players and ccp itself. thus the finalized concept of the csm was that of a player based lobby and advisory group privy to some details within ccp that arent dispensed to the general public.-windjammer"
"the reasons people post with alts-they are banned on their mains-they are being paid to (tehehe damn right. waddup)-they are in a \"serious buisness alliance\" that fines them for posting \"stupidly\" in other words their opinions rather than what their alliance wants them to think (most of these being blob alliances btw)-they are highsec carebears who want to destroy 0.0 for youi mean really... which of these is the likely answer...it is already obvious to anyone who finished highschool that the real vested interest here comes from coalition grunts. trying to turn that back on anyone who supports these changes and ccps new stance is completely absurd.ccp: hi guys we want to make the game more funplayer 1: **** yessfellraven: you are god damned bias wanna wreck our game post with your main you biassed ***got!"
"the ignorance, hypocrisy and dishonesty of this troller are amazing. he knows the names of a variety of logical fallacies and thats it. he knows the names. he has little understanding of them other than that. he simply injects them into his rationalized post in hopes of convincing someone he has a level of intelligence he does not and probably never will possess. at the same time he accuses others of not understanding the terms they very clearly do understand.its amazing to watch him commit the same logical fallacy that hes inaccurately accusing someone else of making and all in the same paragraph. he does this not just to me, but to everyone and not just in this thread, but in virtually every thread he posts in. what else is there to do except laugh at his incompetence. hes built so many straw men to argue against that he could easily afford to spare enough to feed the horses on a moderately sized ranch.environment drives the formation of social dynamics, political or otherwise. the very universe of eve is controlled by ccp. the freedom players have within the framework of that universe is completely at ccps discretion. through use of rules and tools and changes to these ccp has the ability to exert pressures which change the way players play. change the framework and the player interaction changes. change the framework in the right way and you obtain a modification to player interaction that you may desire.arguing to the contrary is illogical, irrational, dishonest and the very picture of sticking your head in the sand to make a reality youre not happy with go away.-windjammer"
"quoting awesome"
"the whole point of nullsec is very easy....it's called risk vs reward. high sec carebears should not be making more isk running their level 4 missions. there is no risk to running missions in high sec and running around to the neighboring systems. low sec has more risk, so you earn more per mission as opposed to running high sec missions.so the next obvious statemment would be this. the risk in nullsec is much higher then either lowsec or highsec. drag bubbles, dic/hics, passing through controlled systems full of jb networks. making nullsec's rewards below that of highsec/lowsec mission running means people won't go into nullsec. not all of us keep a neutral alt in highsec running lvl 4's all day while we pvp in nullsec."
"i've made it fairly clear in the past; that i don't really trust csm members. there are two reasons for this.1. csm have access to dev information, and nda stuff; which makes it easier for them, to exploit the game system. effectively, a csm with programming experience, can encourage changes; that make it easier, for him/her, to program invisible hacks, bots, and macro's, to exploit the game. it also gives the opportunity, for them to be forewarned about changes; that would make it easier to catch botter's, hackers, and rmt's.2. csm members account for a very small percentage of the playerbase; and generally pursue their own goals, and seldom care about the rest of the communities opinion. any one of us, might agree with csm on some points; but really, do we agree with any, on all points? no, i don't believe that's possible; and those that do, are likely just following.playerbase voting centers in game, with the coming incarna features; would be a far better mean s to poll the community on upcoming changes. dock at any station, unpod, and walk into the voting center; a brief interaction with the agent there, and you recieve a poll sheet to fill out. news of new votes being cast; could be relayed on billboards, and in the login screen.i think this would be far more comprehensive; and return greater results, than bouncing idea's off a handful of people.keep the csm, if you want; but limit their access. use them only, as an addition to the playerbase polling; while presenting them with majority votes, as received through that venue. this would be more practical, and achieve greater results; from which to determine the best course, for future development.also, remove the assembly hall + speakers corner, or limit it. make it so players can only click support in speakers corner; and limit new topics, to one post per week, per player, in assembly hall. limit assembly hall responses, to 2 supports per day; and remove posting responses.leave that to the idea's forum."
"*hands cassus his tinfoil hatdude really? ok..first of all we are not ebil creatures out to ruin your internet spaceships, we are actual here to make it better. csm represents the player base that voted. i m sure most of us would def not be using this (huge overlaod of work) to just get dev hax or exploit. we care about this community and game enough to dedicate a minimum of 1 year to this council and what it means.now to your actual point on opening things up to player votes. ccp cant effectively run if they had to turn every discussion point into polls. each one would be its own circus with half the population not voting and powerblocs rallying votes in an even more skewed way to influence outcomes. believe it or not, while many of the csm delegates represent large groups it doesn't mean we don't want to try and make everything better for everyone."
"hey charlie sheen, i think the op found your missing coke.anyway, tbh this is the first time in the 7 (almost 8 years) that i have any confidence in anything that ccp does. also the first time ever that i have even taken an interest in the csm. i have spent the last 4 years fighting mittens and his riff raff in this game. it is the only thing that gives me pleasure really in this game and i have done everything this game has to offer. except dev.this game is severely broken, i am almoast always on the edge of selling everything and doing something incredibly dumb yet exciting, like buying that rev bpc and gate camping in it till it dies. kinda be a cyvok in my own right :)but for now i am going to hold on and play instead of joining the ranks of bitter vets. so sincerely thanks mittens and co.for some reason mittens gives me a bit of hope that some attention will be given to this game and the broken parts of it.time will tell but i for one will be watching this csm closely and with interest."
"direct democracy is a terrible idea."
"dude.. that's original. ccp can't function if a playerbase polling system is introduced? really? what is so difficult about asking the playerbase a question? red hat's, or blue? i imagine, it's far more trouble; to gather csm, and put the questions out that way.i voted, but i don't hold much confidence in those i voted for. i live in a 'democratic' country; and recognize how much bull**** it is. democracy by proxy; is absolute garbage.powerbloc's rallying votes from the playerbase? what would you call the last voting session for csm then? right. powerbloc's manipulating votes; by pushing their alliance members to vote for them. all what's in an individuals best interests, isn't it. and you all get a free trip to iceland too. nice.so, please explain to me, how the powerbloc's, are going to persuade; and manipulate votes, out of the vast majority of eve players? free chewtoys. i know some of them are rabid; but, i expect they can find their own.see how impressed i am; with your being csm. shows the respect you've all earned, doesn't it?here's the truth. since csm has been implemented, the vast majority of eve; has become disatisfied with changes made to the game. pure success right there. in the last 3-4 years alone; the game has been in a downward spiral. this is what happens, when you rely on ten people; to provide opinions for over 400'000.i won't say some of you don't care; as, i know that is not true. some do, in every election; and some of those, may actually chair, in a csm. the fact is i find most of your business, utter nonsense; and can't believe, we're all relying on you, to provide our voice to ccp.i am by the way; quite convinced, that access to that material, is of interest to some. let's face it; we're talking about real money here. by your logic; rmt, don't even exist. yet, they do. and what better way to refine ones code; than accessing, ccp's very own codebase. seem's pretty simple to me. i think you're wearing a tinfoil hat; which is to say, you're entirely blind to reality. it must be nice to live under the delusion; that everything is tea and cupcakes, and people are only bad in a game. the world doesn't work that way.sure, maybe i'm wrong about trebor; and i've considered the alternative: he's really just a giddy little kid; who can't keep his hands out of the butter. he loves butter. butter is the most important thing in the world.maybe i'm wrong about e-uni too; but, i am entitled to my opinion, and suspicion. even if i'm wrong about that; it doesn't change the fact that they are utter, reprehensible jerks. i haven't found anybody, who wasn't a lapdog; that disagreed with me on that point at all. everybody agree's on this though: don't challenge them; and leave them alone. they have the ability to completely screw up your game; and make it so it's not even worth playing anymore. why is that?i could speculate, and have. isd's, gm's, etc.. better for who?"
"so ccp can directly ignore all the players directly? sure, why not.it would save on a few flights to iceland that we have to pay for to be ignored."
"my god! the horror! please, please, please stop butchering the english language! learn how to type properly for all our sakes.; should only be used when you wish to continue a sentence that naturally should be split into two! and you don't need a comma after every 3 words!as for the crap between the bad grammar, stop being so paranoid. csm actually has brought about some good changes. they bring the best of our ideas to ccp."
"because you still need someone online for that. with the method i described you don't need anyone online, you can just open a screen and click a button to copy them."
"yes and no.it is a good idea to have a system to share bookmarks like we can share fittings, but if it is \"on-the-fly\" then scouting requirements actually becomes diminished a lot.now: probe enemy, warp-to, position, fleet warps at x km.then: probe enemy, bookmark location .. whole fleet warps-in.solution: make the repository require a station interface."
"makes sense."
"supported!and for crying out loud... wth is the problem with not being able to link alliances?"
"it's available to be found (without having to do the math per corp) so it should be more convenient. supported."
"there are any number of mechanics that could be enabled to allow situational murder."
"well, the way the video presents it is kinda neat. you have troops working on the ground to do the bidding of capsuleers in space and fleets fighting it out to prevent orbital bombardments going on against planets, and pod pilots assassinating each other in stations over conflicts going on on the ground. that'd be cool."
"i support ganking in stations if i can gun down the mittani"
"horrible idea. why bother going to take someone else's good sector when you can just defend your own and wait for it to upgrade at much lower cost in lost ships? this would remove intensives to fight over territory, not increase them. your logic is flawed."
"no.people active in a nul sec system should have a civilising affect on it.popping all those rats and installing order should improve the sec to high sec status (safe space).it certainly is not any riskier.basically, fight for good spots. crap space should remain crap space in relation to good space. otherwise people have zero incentive to move and seek out better systems."
"supported."
"we're going to see an endless array of these **** threads from nc authors, supported mostly by nc sycophants. why? because the truesec in the north is not so great. you nc pilots have been up to your armpits in the richest moons in the game for a long time now and you've been fine with this monopoly on t2 construction materials throughout. your new found egalitarianism is so much transparent tripe."
"i admit i'm fairly ignorant of nullsec, but wouldn't the op's suggestion mean that the larger power blocs would just eat up systems after other people did the work to upgrade them? otoh, if the sec status was reset, surely there'd be no value in taking them, which would keep things pretty stagnant?"
"to those saying \"no because there would be no incentive to take better space\"... *******s.this would allow you to make bad space okay, okay space good, and good space great. however, great space can't get any better.now, why are you wrong? simple - on the whole, there is, simply put, not enough great space in eve to fit the playerbase that is willing to fight for it. skirmishes and invasions are great - they keep gameplay interesting. however, if it's physically impossible for you to take and hold an area of space because a larger population wants it than can physically fit in it, well, then you have an area of \"dead\" space that cannot be utilized.additionally, this would help smaller alliances out - they can take some less-than-prime space and make it worth their while, where as now they're simply stuck either renting or being a pet, or in empire.finally, this makes upgraded areas an area of potentially greater conflict - what would be better than seeing someone spend time and effort upgrading space, only to get fat and lazy, and kicked out by a smaller, more organized group? as it is, there are some areas of space that are simply not worth fighting over..."
"all im hearing is \"poor me... the only way i know how to make isk is farming sanctums in a carrier in a cyno jammed system\""
"#1 i hope i have found the right spot. that being said i would like to ask any art is on player side. if this is the case, then why can we not use logo's or even paint our own ships?"
"+"
"supported, if only because ccp failed to provide adequate notice of the last 2 changes.no notice at all for requiring sse2, and less than a month's notice for requiring sm3.their upgrade offer with evga was then a kick in the teeth for players on agp motherboards or laptops.ccp, your customers deserve better."
"no notice on the sse2, since no one uses computers that don't have the capability, so naturally the normal testing didn't encounter the problem. seriously, the whineage about that was non-existant for a good reason.on the sm3 you are right, if by \"less than a month's notice\" you mean over 2 years notice. devblog1 laying out the plan>followup explaining why it wasn't adopted as planned. another blog warning about the changes that was going to come in the second quarter of 2011. the latest blog was only to remind people about it and to announce the exact date of the change. the fact that you don't read devblogs and it became as a surprise to you can hardly be considered a failing of ccp."
"welcome to the 21st century, enjoy your stay."
"the minimum specs are already old old technology - i have a 5 year old laptop that can run things easily (on low settings).new rigs are not expensive (compare how often you use it to get an average cost)if people are unwilling or unable to upgrade such old technology - well, you have bigger issues to worry about.eve is supposed to be a \"premier\" online game. it therefore needs to keep with modern technology."
"ccp showed off a dx10 incarna client. i can't wait, my 6870 will love it.i have several pieces of hardware here and even the low end on-board hd3300 can run eve on low. while i understand some people are poor and poverty is only getting worse and worse, there is a limit to how much developers should and can limit themselves. at some point in time they have to move forward.if you really don't have the money you don't even need to buy new. a second hand motherboard, cpu and video card that can run eve doesn't cost much.if you can't afford that you shouldn't be playing eve, you should stop grazing and go out on the streets and demonstrate against the corporatocracy who're bleeding us dry and turning humanity into their slaves.1. ggo to thezeitgeistmovement.com2. learn about the venus project and educate yourself3. ???4. profit (prepare for the inevitability of martial law, yes, it's coming)"
"killing bot users one system at a time. i approve of cutting out support for ancient systems."
"if they don't want to upgrade, they obviously don't want to play the game either.if they can't afford to upgrade to technology that's already four or five years old, then they need to take a hard look at their finances - a change of priorities may be in order.as for new players, they fall into one of the above categories - they will either choose to upgrade and play, or not. and as ccp's subscriber count keeps climbing, i'd say they're falling into the \"will upgrade\" category."
"let's not forget ccp wants customers to have multiple accounts and people want to run them on a single system. there are not many other mmo's where someone would want to run 3-5 clients so ccp needs to maintain a very lean client. take away the ability to run multiple clients because of a bloated client could hurt ccp's business."
"while i agree with the \"consensus\" i do have to say this much.ccp is making a terrible mistake in making such moves.there's been an ever increasing \"bloatware\" affect when it comes to their client(s).used to be i could run this game easily on my macbook pro.... now the damn thing pushes the core temps to 90c (wtf?).... used to never crack 75!!!!on the pc i should be able to run 2 clients without flinching... well... should being the key word.with these \"new and awesome changes\" that changed once again.as proof in the pudding... i accidentally left eve online up and was playing other games and didn't even notice the hesitation in the slightest.when i launched 2 clients... the system nearly crashed.something's missing here!i'll say this much... while everyone assumes its easy to shell out 2 to 500 bucks for upgrades... i say eff you people.seriously...i have bills to pay.... and a large stack of games to get too... eve is not the center of my world... and i well not buy a single pc/mac unit to just play eve online.they need to slow the progression down... and i mean way down.it's time they start concentrating on fixing the game glitches and bugs and less on improving things such as graphics.again... i agree with the majority... the actual advancements have been forewarned and pre-announced.but i will not just sit here and call it par for the course when i can see very easily what the handwriting on the wall really says.i love the game... but not enough to be forced into a major hardware upgrade.no thanks... i'll pass on that one.my biggest pet peeve today is ccp favors the new accounts and the new subscribers... all the while completely ignoring us 2 to 5 year pilots.their \"retention\" focus is completely and utterly trashed these days.hope they have enough money to advertise like hell... cause we are their advertisers... and we are the ones bringing people to the game.it's getting to the point where i have to nod and grin when talking about this game... i feel like i'm the one fooling myself here anymore."
"do you really think that sov holding alliances care about sanctums and havens? they have just been introduced, they managed damn well without them before. these are just goodies for the players to make isk, that is all. alliances do not depend one single bit on these.infact the care that much that they rent almost all systems out at even more silly prices! and they will continue to do so, even if they get a little nerfed.alliances do not fight over true sec of systems, never have never will.they fight over moons! yes thats it moons! and this is where all the money comes from for alliances mainly. you have to nerf moongold not bloody anomolies thats for 0.0 players to make isk, for ships and stuff.also do you not realise that doing this, doesnt help small alliances or corps? you have done absolutley nothing to help small alliances get into 0.0 at all. the large entities still hold the region and the stations! small alliances cannot hold sov, because the larger alliances with thier 200 super cap fleet comes in and removes them in an instant. they cannot form logistics, because they cant get through 0.0 without getting slaughtered and they cant make jbs cos they cant get sov. seriously do you have even a little clue?unless you drastically change how 0.0 works, small alliances will never have the chance in 0.0 ever! without either paying stupid amounts of rent, or getting killed constantly.so onto moongold, you have to do something about this! and one solution is randomise the moons on a monthly basis. stop having constant flow of moongold! every month the minerals change, so the powerblocs dont just have massive income and become invincible, where they can build super after super after super, and lose without any consquence! its ridiculous.this means that they will have to go out and search for those moons, and of course this will cause more of the pvp you want in 0.0, because everyone will want to find those moons! even smaller alliances will then have a chance to make some isk for at least a month!you have to remove/change the constant isk making machine that is moons!the same alliances have controlled eve 0.0 for years now, and will continue to do so for ever, because they have a massive advantage over all others. i see eve just becoming a chinese server again, i mean its pretty much russian server as it is!!and yes some alliances have died, but only to other big alliances, or fail cascade, but the same old people just get recycled into the other big alliances anyway.you must do something about this constant isk making machine! that is moons!ps : make supers uninsureable..eek!"
"the rebalance of nullsec anomalies is about reducing isk faucets.moon goo is not an isk faucet.closing some isk faucets will help stem the tide of super carrier proliferation, increasing the possibility of meaningful conflict over the static point source incomes of moons."
"/signed this is the true problem with the game at the moment. static sources of income are not good for eve anymore, they were in the beginning of the game but we need to move past this and evolve a new era of eve.remove-moon miners-static anom's upgrades-beltsadd-t2 dynamic mineral moons that can be scanned with a ships on board scanner and mined with mining ships.-boost anom's with normal rats and make them spawn on a lvl that belt rats spawn now. -more ded belts in every system in the game. that would fix most of eves current problems over night imo."
"yeah, could make things interesting."
"truesec should absolutely be dynamic. and if depeletion is good for pi, it's good for moons."
"while i do enjoy what we have now, this would be a much better approach then the current drive ccp seems to be going for./supported"
"agreed"
"the more ratting being done the higher the sec status should goso after a couple months of turbo ratting sanctums etc the system should loose spawns significantly and the alliance will have to move on and will eventually be forced to fight over new better territory"
"i support a dynamic security status system.supported."
"/signed. i want to have your babes now....."
"not supported. here's a better idea, how about concord, the navy etc respond quicker and stronger based on the attacked players standing to what ever faction of space you are in?, it would make your standings worth something other than bragging rights."
"i've been trying to analyze combat logs today and have run into the problem of how hard they are to work with to collect data.my proposal is to adjust the way combat logs are written so they can be easily imported into a spreadsheet as comma delineated txt files.i know, not an exciting proposal, but it would make post-combat analysis feasible and make combat logs useful instead of just e-peen."
"supported"
"i like this."
"a highly useful feature."
"good idea.not the api stuff though, people can bloody well log-in before logging off for the week"
"good point."
"useful, not hard to implement.supported."
"yes...supported."
"aye"
"since the data is already completely public, agreed that it should be easier to access. supported."
"this has been an issue for ages and seriously needs sorting out, because its annoying as hell.really should i be stuck on an asteroid when i am nowhere near it? really? i can look to be at least 20km from a roid and still get bounced around. should i ever get stuck on a station? really? is that even possible. there is a serious clipping issue in eve which needs addressing."
"agreed...it is rather annoying to be stuck on a roid that is just nowhere near you."
"please"
"in its current state fof missiles are beyond unreliable. i took out my rattlesnake and loaded it up with hunters. to test them out i went on a quest to check up on a colony and protect a convoy ship or something.lots of enemies around me, so i let it rip!!!! ...only to find out that all my missiles happily zoned in on the non-hostile npc convoy ship i needed to protect; just because it was the closest 'target' in range while the 8+ enemy ships were banging away at my shields asking for free sugar so if anything, i hope it gets fixed so these fof missiles actually work as they are supposed to (ie. engage hostile targets)"
"i agree with removing their tendency to attack friendly logistics.but i honestly do not mind them attacking npc structures.fof misiles are curretly ment to be used when you are being jammed.having them prefer targets that are projecting ecm seems reasoneble, but having them ignore structures completely would just lead to even more afk mission running.also a more complex targeting formula would be much more difficult to predict for the user than closest hostile first (besides possibly leading to drone like targeting misbehaviour).so all things said and done, i think i disagree with your proposal."
"dig it, eveside need a way for a dawg to be not a dawg what another dawgs can shot. maybe a thing what a top dawg diplomant can click, or a thin what a dawg can put on he ship, so a dawg can be all about safe recyclien in they space, dig.now wit a dawgs idea a dawg be safe when him be recyclien, no dawg can even shot him! if him wit a posse or gang whats been given immunity from by another posse or gang. better for reconomics kuz now a dawg dont get busted when him got a cart of sweet rock, recyclien or recovery goods to in him trunk, but not agains a dawg what dont got no diplomancy goin on dig.it only works on like 1 or 2 dawgs, so a dawg get painted red but aint gettin no targets by no dawg and aint gettin no shots.word?be safe"
"uh could you please speak english?"
"no, he never does. it's amusing in c&p. in the assembly hall, it's asinine if you expect people to take your seriously.which i am pretty sure he doesn't so no harm done."
"no."
"you do realize that any stealth bomber frigate can fit cyno or covert cynos right?"
"by that thinking then all race drone specializations should be removed so there is less skill involved in launching t2 drones.are you serious?"
"except that drones have different tracking, speed, optimal and fall off depending on race. its akin to completely swapping your weapon systems."
"you can always spot the drake pilot as soon as he opens his mouth."
"it's not rocket science guys."
"if you honestly think this is a drone nerf, you're ******ed. anyone that's spent the time to train sentries has already gotten the racial drone specialization skills up to at least three.it's a nice, appropriate buff for a class of ships that needs a moderate boost. supported."
"this, otherwise i support this topic."
"you're a roaming gang lawful. if people play docking games roam elsewhere and find other kills. as is there is nothing wrong with people playing station games. you came to them asking for a fight . . . they didn't come to you so you play by their rules not the other way around. stop whining and move on to other targets."
"absolutely not. it is literally impossible for logistics ships to survive for an entire aggression timer without receiving reps. a battleship can deaggress because he can rely upon logistics ships to keep him up while he's not shooting. a logistics ship cannot simply halt cap transfer on his partner for 30 seconds. they'll both get blown out of the sky.until you've actually flown a logistics ship, keep your nose out of aggression mechanics. you obviously don't understand them.oh, and by the way? blue pill cyclone/maelstrom/vargur with an x-large shield booster say there's no difference between cap and shield transfer. you cannot make that distinction.not supported, and i hope the csm is smart enough to know it's a stupid idea too."
"^ this is how.nerf carrier undock games if you like, but in some way that doesn't have stupid knock-on effects, as i suggested."
"if you had paid attention to what was talked about at fanfest, you would realise that what your talking about is part of what dust 514 ( having forces that can infiltrate, fight for/capture opponents instalations, presently only planetary, but maybe long term pos's giving more important life to the enemy from within senario that ccp likes so much) & incarna is going to be about in the long term. eventually being able to walk in stations, ships and pos's, giving one the ability to covertly wheel and deal and plot to their hearts content, possibly bring down a corp or alliance along the way. however your problem is still with moons and how they havent been balanced. some have suggested that this be fixed by having a depletion mechanic tied into it, but this would also require reduction changes to the mechanics of pos's & their modules regard anchoring & unanchoring times to compensate for the constant need to be more mobile. perhaps a better solution is to tie r16 & r24 moons more into the requirements for ship production (not just for t2 production), inconjuction with minerals. this would give a wider spread of valuable moons across the board & stop technium moons from being the sole moons of any great value. hence even small alliances or corps would also be able to get a slice of the isk pie."
"your ideas suck.-the only thing you kinda hit on that everyone knows is an issue is tech moon vs. other moons need to be rebalanced.- your idea regarding paying isk for double training is horribad. 1st people with a ton of isk would just create toons and basically fastforward them to supers in half the time it takes to currently train them. it would also get rid of the feeling of accomplishment currently enjoyed after months/years of skilling in real-time toward max skills in one ship or another. go back to wow and your double xp weekends and i'm a baby carebear fairness routines."
"which is why i also stated that people with certain amount of sp can do it, say 20 mill sp to use the double sp. so people can't do just that and exploit it. and on a side note, i never played wow and never will"
"itt: nerds copy pasting a phrase for free isk. op left butthurt & out of pocket after not being elected."
"i'm just glad that this csm doesn't appear to have any interpersonal issues."
"yet."
"i would like to point out that really what you have is:3 - goons/test (nc bffs)2 - nc1 - drf3 - non powerbloci will agree that the csm is power bloc heavy, but is not nc controlled, but yes nc/goon/test is 5/9 of the seats.additionally i think the op is right in the gist of the message. you may not like our in game position, but those of us who are here, are not hear to screw everyone else.. we are here to make the game we love better for all.. i do hope we get the chance to do so properly together as 1 team."
"death does get along better with mittens then with the nc as a whole."
"nc's idea of \"better for everyone\" is maintaining the status quo and eventually changing the server name from tranquility to trammel."
"[citation needed]"
"look, we've been given got paranoia, smears and fallacies. on top of you want cites, too? have you no shame?!?"
"what a load of bull****. goons and test fall right under the nc dictated standings and have been for a while now. so please stop trying to spin it like they are not part of the nc.5 - nc1 - drf3 - non powerblocthat is the list."
"culturally, the clusterf*ck coalition and the nc are very different. resources and manpower are also managed differently."
"what we really have is:5 - cheeseburger inhaling yanks1 - milk bagger1 - dropbear farmer1 - chocolatier 1 - upstanding individual from a glorious countryi worry."
"you can't expect peoples respect when you have any for others and the only opinion that counts it's yours, this is a fact.maybe start by avoiding pubbie and gay pride comments in a game forum it should be a good start. and this is for all the starting block goonies waiting posts like mine to add \"not english native\", i answer \"thank god i'm not\""
"the nc basically consists of a dozen alliances that constantly snipe moons from each other at every opportunity. they are not 'friends' in the sense that gsf and test are."
"i was unaware goons and test had reset the rest of the nc. apologies then.when did you reset your standings with them? how does it feel to be independent and able to stand on your own for once without the other alliances in nc to prop you up?"
"it surprises me more that people still think that the csm will have some kind of major influence on ccp's goals, or currently lack of.the only thing that i want this csm to do, is place spycams around the ccp headquarters so that we can see that ccp is usually just busy sticking their fingers up their asses pretending to know what actually goes on in this game and i would like to get a backdoor into their logging system, because i would really love to see those non-showing logs!"
"don't say i've never done nuthin' for ya."
"hey finn, we can add \"racist\" to your list now!wow. he mad."
"fat-cats, whose sole interest is in maintaining the flawed status quo, can \"blob\" the few common sense votes on the council.it will be the first csm cycle where the council has absolutely no impact on the game (csm1 doesn't count because it was a media stunt ).one can only hope it is too little too late and that ccp already has an outline for sov mk.iii in place, plus the balls to flip the fingers-in-ear csm the bird.being glad for not being a native english speaker is not racist, it is very rational indeed. western world has eaten itself to death and is drowning in its own refuse and corruption.long live the east!"
"it sounds like to me that you have issues separating real life from fantasy. the characters that the goons and nc play in eve are not who they are in real life and its the real life people who are going to be manning this csm. they have a large stake in both repairing and maintaining integrity in eve.get your heads out of your asses people and wake up/grow up. for once we have a csm comprised of members who really play this game for all its worth and very much want to see this game succeed. let them try and give them some damn encouragement. i for one will laugh out ****ing loud when its the nc that finally succeeds where all others have failed and i'll be laughing at the nay sayers."
"thank god you all didn't vote that guy with aspergers onto the csm. that is the last thing we need."
"being blue and being friends are far from the same thing.your alliance claims they trolled own out of the nc? or something??? i dont even know. when i was in the nc the constant excuse given to us for being blue to goons was \"we hate goons but we hate bob more\". now days most people dont \"know\" most of their \"friends\" and most likely never will.so tell us again, why would you be blue to everyone around you? and if you can do that, why would you be blue to everyone around you in free pvp area of eve?i have a feeling this isnt about singing songs by a campfire.although: i do look forward to your suggestions for conflict drivers and how to manage the lagfests occuring through sheer numbers atm."
"hahaha you are literally a 14 year old who has just discovered rage against the machine and the communist manifesto.keep on fighting the good fight against your parents for not letting you grow your hair long or paint your room black i guess."
"forty plus. both parent deceased decades ago. pet shop boys, pj harvey and nick cave/grinderman.you almost got it right though ps: might want to tone down the personal attack paradigm, going to get yourself banned at the rate you are going."
"can you please start posting song lyrics again, those were more interesting than these posts of yours"
"step 1 in forging an effective csm: create a monoculture that can trivially be sidelined and dismissed by ccp as being unrepresentative of the playerbase as a whole and useless as a source of unbiased feedback."
"most of us expect epic failure. you've got one year to valiantly prove us wrong; do not waste it."
"generally, people try not to be so brazen about their utter lack of understanding. but i guess we all have to have something to be proud of."
"yeah, first when i saw the csm voting results, i was like \"wtf? goons and nc control the csm? it's time to ragequit\" but then i was like \"who cares? ccp isn't listening to csm anyway\"i thus wish nice vacations in iceland to all the new csm delegates. send me a post card... btw: may i still petition mittani for insulting me in local?"
"just wondering how seleene/messie, mature and responsible guys, will deal with their new csm pubbie's anyway..."
"that's precious."
"please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"i, too, am angry about the current state of affairs within our internet spaceships game."
"gt:dr"
"*prints it out to hand to his students*"
"sup chairman maottani"
"if youre tired of seeing articles of the type the mittani wrote, if you want to see something better, write support@tentonhammer.com give them your honest opinion of the mittanis article. theyll appreciate the input.-windjammer"
"how witty do you think i think i am? please provide examples and show your work.-windjammer"
"just wondering, but have you considered not trolling? maybe just as a change of pace to switch things up a bit? do you, perhaps, have some sort of fetish about \"masters\" that you're trying to work out on the internet? you seem quite fixated on the master/servant dynamic... you are aware that there are some private clubs that cater to that sort of thing, yes? do you, perhaps, really not understand the points i made beyond the fact that they were mordant? here, since sarcasm and logic seem not to get the point throughthis presupposes that either you are a reader of tentonhammer, which will make them question why someone was so dense as to read their site for an extended period of time and not realize than an opinion column was an opinion column and will then change their editorial standards for such brain donors, or that you're not a reader and they particularly care what random folks on the internet who aren't even giving them traffic, think. these are both deeply flawed assumptions. likewise, if you are not a reader and you tell them 'i don't like you having opinions in your opinion columns!', they have no reason to take you seriously. if you are a reader, they have even less reason to take you seriously. however, if you aren't even a reader the hollowness of your threats becomes even more apparent: after all, if you're not a reader, how do you know what vibe and tone they're going for? random, uninformed angry people are dime a dozen on the internet, why would they take you seriously? you're not helping them attract advertisers, you're not helping them build their site's statistics, and most of all they have no reason to believe an uninformed angry internet person is really going to read their site if the reason that angry internet person is writing in is, obviously, because they've been greatly upset by an internet spaceship editorial. :i don't read your site, never have, and i obviously don't get it... but if you change how you do things i'll totally read it. scout's honor.\" and in either case, you are helping spread word of mouth and attract readers to see the controversy, since nothing attracts a crowd like a crowd. you are, quite frankly, irrelevant at worst and a source of comedy to their editorial staff at best. that's the only \"appreciating\" they'll do. or, as pointed out in fewer words:"
"support@tentonhammer.com write them and give them your opinion of the mittanis article. its as easy as posting on the forums. you have nothing to lose. publications who let their writers hand out misinformation do not, as a rule, retain a following.-windjammer"
"so that's a no then, you refuse to stop trolling. and, i suppose as an addendum, you refuse to get any better at it. hint, one of the two of us is emotional and irrational: -one of us is pointing out the facts and logical errors inherent in and angry internet letter writing campaign. -one of us is hoping to organize an angry internet letter writing campaign in order to get an online publication to fire one of its writers, because he wrote an internet spaceship opinion piece that he didn't like. three guesses as to who is who."
"one of us is disproportionately worried. guess which.write to support@tentonhammer.com help tentonhammer become a better site. an opinionated article is one thing. intentional omissions designed to lie to the reader are another. stop the misinformation. give tentonhammer the gift of your opinion.-windjammer"
"well, seeing as how i'm pointing out that your angry internet letter writing campaign is ineffectual, i'd have to say it's not me. is there something worrying you, windy? would you like to talk about it?"
"just to make you that much more upset, windy...they *pay* him for that column"
"windjammer appears to be that rare brand of aspie literally too dumb to troll it's like trolling a brick"
"if you believe the so called campaign is ineffectual, why are you wasting your time trying to convince people not to pursue it? i.e. if theres nothing to worry about, why are you worried?thats support@tentonhammer.com theyre waiting to hear from you. your opinion matters.-windjammer"
"im aware of that. dang. youre doing it again. the words are there and i understand them all, but youve put them together in way as to create minor gibberish. its like youre using a translation program to translate from another language and then posting the result. or like one of those nigerian phishing letters. please work on this problem. i sense and see hints of an intellect that deserves to be properly expressed.-windjammer"
"they'll pay him more because of the extra traffic generated by your angry email writing campaign.i'm supposed to put a :twisted: here somewhere i guess."
"i've tried sarcasm, logic, and beating him over the head with this. it all appears to have no effect at all.good lord... i'm not trying to convince people, i've been mocking your absurd campaign of angry email 'net justice. then i tried to use facts and reason since obviously the rest was going over your head. as for your \"u r so skerred!!\", an analogy. \"hey, i'm going to start eating dirt, i think that'd be a good idea.\"\"dude, that's pretty stupid.\"\"no, i'm going to eat dirt, and it'll give me super powers.\"\"...did you ever see superman eat a whole plate of mud before he tried to fly?\"\"no.\"\"okay. did batman ever gobble up tufts of grass before he fought crime?\"\"no.\"\"so...\"\"what are you so scared of, why are you so worried?!?\""
"this will never work.goons would just enter in 500 people in the elections, test 300, razor a few hundred and so on. with a carrier blob of 500 carriers it would be doable to keep the titans alive long enough to have the blob of super carriers chew through the opposition until there where no hostiles left, at witch time everyone but the once they agreed upon getting a seat was left on the grid.this would have granted the nc and a couple of other pilots (like seleene) all the seats"
"based on the campaign info posted and the vote-match questionnaire, none of the elected csm6 share my views very closely. a few, the ones with the most votes unfortunately, have opposing viewpoints to mine in most areas.are you going to rise up to the position and represent the playerbase regardless of your personal beliefs for eve? or will you press forward your own agendas, thinking the election validated your positions?i'm not a n00b, i've been playing as long as any of you. i've sampled pretty much everything eve can offer so telling me i don't \"get it\" or lack experience won't fly. but clearly most of you will disagree with what i think eve needs, just as i disagree with what you think.but you've been elected to represent me. will you?"
"that very likely depends on what you want. if you have a rational understanding of what you think is wrong and what should be done about it then likely yes.if you're in the windypops\" hurf nerf bridges to stick it to nullsec\" crowd, this is not a rational platform and unlikely to get much of a response. i say rational. not necessarily fair. the bridge idea that united nullsec wasn't unfair, it flat out did not connect with the reason that was given to explain it. rational ideas will find an audience even if they're unfair."
"no."
"so what are the 3 most important changes you want explained with maximum 217 words?"
"john, can you show us how many votes all candidates have gotten please?in my case ms pacman but then still i would like to see the complete chart./x"
"the guy i voted for won. i'm happy."
"mittini dawg congratulationon a dawgs succes in da electionyou be presdent #1 in eveda power of da word, da power of beleiveyou earn it dawg, kuz y'all be truan dig it, k-dawg beleive in youy'all be chillin in victoryin iceland?, y'all be rollin in riches,makin history and crowded wit ****esy'all be drinkin brew in reykjav<U+FFFD>k,a dressed in style, a dawgs hair slick.aight a dawg outta rhymsmostly kuz a dawgs outta tims.dawg you been aroun califonia, i hook a dawg up wit sweet hotdawgs jus for bein dig, freash of the grizzle. mad awesome workbe safe remember da recyclien posse later on aight, we been pullin y'all!"
"if you had ran for csm, you would have made it in.your part of the delve war are epic"
"dear mittani. i like what you have done with <thing>. in fact i really want <thing> for myself, however i do not want to put in the years of work you and your friends have contributed to building <thing>. if you look at my skills in <unrelated_thing> you will see that i am clearly a superior player of eve online and therefore deserve to be handed <thing> on a silver platter. you should also take <thing> away from the people who already have it because they are not as good as me at <unrelated_thing> and therefore shouldn't have <thing> despite the work they put in."
"thanks to everyone that showed support, depending on what happens in the coming year i may decide to run again next term with a more elaborate campaign. let it be sure however that the current csm lacks 'independent' candidates :)"
"maybe you and they should have voted for someone who had chance."
"stv doesn't really suffer from tactical voting issues, i think."
"those votes were not wasted. those people still picked who they thought would be a good choice (or they may not have, you never know)."
"are you asking for proportional representation? because that won't work with a system where each representative has to be flown to iceland twice a year."
"the only \"wasted\" votes are those in excess of what was needed to win, with the exception of any candidate who blows away the field - then having excessive votes provides an argument of having a mandate. just because your candidate didn't win doesn't mean that you wasted your vote. sometimes voting for a candidate you suspect will lose can provide leverage for the policies they supported."
"alternates have often played a role in the csm process and post on the internal forums and stuff so you should include those votes.and anyway, the issue with your system is that people barely know one person they want to vote for. if you force them to vote for 3 or even 5 (half of csm, really ?), than a lot of those choices will be random and people would get undeserved votes when they got no real support."
"this is exactly my point. the csm election is more about tactical voting - selecting a candidate who is likely to get elected (but not too likely, cause then you<U+FFFD>ll be wasting your vote on a sure winner) - than it is about honest voting - selecting the candidate you actually prefer to have on the council.you might want to take a look at this post."
"in multiparty elections the percentage of wasted votes is very rarely above 10% (due to the transfer of votes among party candidates).with single transferable vote the percentage of wasted votes would also be considerably less than the current 43% in the recent election.my main issue with the current system is thus that it performs very poorly (it wastes many votes) with regards to tranfer voter preferences into actual seats on the council."
"i am not asking for an expansion of the number of seats on the csm, if that is what you are asking?i am lobbying for proportional representation in the sense, that each seat on the council will be worth the same amount of votes.please read my post in the assembly hall for the finer details .and thanks for the feedback everybody! my proposal isnt the only way to solve the issues with our current voting system, but i think that it is a relevant issue for the csm to consider prior to the election next year."
"exactly, that's why we need 2 rounds of voting. first to check which candidates have any support at all (elect 2x-3x the amount of csm delegates), then choose among them the actual delegates based on the principle of lesser evil.currently there is no way for non-alliance player to know which candidate has any chances of winning since most are voted by closed groups so the information about certain candidate's electability is essentially closed to the general public."
"i have to admit, your proposed voting system seems a little complicated.i don't believe any vote is wasted as in every election there are always going to be clear winners and clear losers. the fact that official results aren't published until after voting is closed means that a single vote has the potential to be a swing vote between a csm seat and an alternate seat, or an alternate seat and no seat at all."
"what you actually need is preferential voting."
"the votes weren't wasted.they were blood for the blood god.khorne is pleased."
"youre right that the inner workings of the single transferable voting system are very complex indeed. but for the individual voter it isnt difficult to rank a few candidates in order of preference. then the system works behind the scenes to ensure that every voters gets maximum influence for their vote.in contrast our current system for csm election is very easy to understand, but it gives the voters a lot to worry about, and turns the election into a pokergame.so do you want a complicated system that is good at transferring preferences for all voters into seats, or do you want a simple system that ignores the input of nearly half the voters?"
"and this is actually what i propose! the single transferable vote is a form of preferential voting."
"well, you really need to take into account the votes given to alternates. you can bet ur sweet arse they are going to be needed again."
"this."
"hi,i would like to thank you all for your support. even though i didn't make it on the board, i've learned alot and will definitely try again for next term! ~cyerus"
"two thumbs, two big toes and a pinky up for this. been saying it for years... good to see it on the csm list at long last."
"hell no!"
"absolutely supported! in fact, incarna what?"
"supported"
"supported - eye strain is not fun"
"100% agree, the old effect is way better then this new one.i never thought i'd agree with with a goon but ya the old one was better"
"/signed"
"re-signing please bring this back.just watched a video and am sad that this was taken out."
"all 3 of my accounts i made.. nightcyn , clainanightcyn , and silentcyn i choose amarr/amarr race/bloodline for all 3 because i liked it best and was more \"me\"i did not buy my characters. and when i made them they did not look like this. your assumptions are ridiculespeople who rp and not effected by people who don't making a bloodline change.. they can choose to continue on with whatever they please."
"1.0"
"/supported. i wanna change my characters to something more unique since everything has been changed so drastically."
"supported"
"+1 please make it so csm.."
"good grief, even the sleepers agree on how underpowered gal boats are in comparison. sleepers target the greatest perceived threat.when our fleet moves into a c5 combat site i run one of our logistics boats in support. i spend a lot of effort repping other racial bs's. i occasionally have to energy rep the gallente boats.... and yes, the gallente pilots have comparable skills to the pilots in the other ships....."
"1.0"
"yes, obviously."
"fix please"
"for those saying the vindicator is great therefor blasters are fine are missing the point... the vindicator is what a blaster ship should look like. no other race needs to get up to a two race skill pirate battle ship to function like its supposed to.ccp may be right in saying that blasters are just how they want them, but gallente ships are not suited for useing them."
"supported"
"totally supported, dear lord but we so badly need this"
"supported, a 4th to enhance whatever niche it has in combat."
"i am of the opinion that any kind of boosting whether it be armour, shield, eccm etc etc should be classed as an act of aggression.if people want to boost ships, then they should be in the same gang/corp/alliance what ever.the primary use case for using a neutral to boost is to give the booster an element of immunity, and for this reason it is simply trying to push the game mechanics beyond what was intended in my opinion. i cannot see any use case where you would need to have a neutral boost you, where you could not do this with a gang/corp or alliance member other than trying to exploit the mechanics of boosting.so i support this, but actually think this does not go far enough, and i would prefer to see it classed as an act of aggression!"
"supported... better damage, better tracking, a touch better range and add some speed to blaster boats gall>cald>amarr. minnies always have speed/agility advantage"
"1.0"
"supported"
"as i was watching fanfest feed one of devs said they will go for it. they will (not soon, but in a long run) try to implement something like this."
"supported.wanted to say how cool this idea is, but others said it already"
"genius.+1"
"bump"
"exactly! your heart just sinks when you realise that this is the best technology that the 23rd millenium can offer i think that the lack of somehow differentiating targets would be of help; you can understand them targeting lcos and whatnot (though you may seethe inwardly), but attacking 'friendly' npcs and logisitic drones? no way!"
"why would this ever be implemented?if you can only run one account on your pos rig (sup) at a time, having a second set of credentials doesn't really hamper you. and ccp woulden't be in their right mind to provide a feature to train all three characters on one account for merely double the subscription cost.in fact, the only iteration of this function that might be considered to simply increase the the number of characters on an account by 3 and number trainable by one, but this limits the flexability of alts and altogether seems pointless.now if eve supported running multiple accounts from one instance of the client that the player could easily switch between, then the resulting client would run more efficiently and the client might even queue data better. multi-threading each client instance would be pretty awesome, too. the question that the developers would then face is: is it worth the extra labour when players can simply run two instances of the client?but i think ccp would be dumb to encourage players to pay less. they also set a precedent when they phased out 30 and 90 day time codes, and effectively increased the price of 60 day codes by 33%. they will not listen to the csm on issues of billing, and it's naive to assume that they will.sorry. :("
"there is no startup cost associated with a second account, and only two months worth of plex required to transfer a character. for one month training of an alt on the same account, simply stop training the main.the choices are quite simple. the game should not be changed for sake of convenience. if the rules are changed for sake of convenience, we'd have jump-capable ships that need no fuel or cyno beacon in order to jump into remote star systems.inconveniences require you to make strategic decisions and think about your goals in the game."
"due to the outcome of the elections of csm6, i and several fellow eve podpilots can not support the elected members of csm6.it is obvious the mittani is chosen not because of his view on eve, but just because of the mere fact that he is a goon.goons voted blindly for their representative, hoping that his election into csm6 will benefit just goons&friends in the near future.this csm-council is a farce and became nothing more then a platform of big alliances and their representatives.the independant csm applicants stand little or no chance of becoming a csm member, if and when a big alliances urges their members to vote for an alliance member. this has to change.i call upon all eve podpilots to petition for a new election of csm6 and new election mechanics.how?maybe only 1 vote per alliance and/or corporation? (discuss)also it would be nice to see and hear ccp's view on this matter."
"so your idea is for everyone to form 1 man alt corps to vote for their alliance person?"
"lol"
"not supported.it's been like this ever since the beginning of democracy: the guy with most supporters gets elected as opposed to the 'best' guy (which may vary depends on how you define best).while i agree that the current csm (and many of the previous) are dominated by 0.0 people, it has most to do with involvement, 0.0 guys care enough to vote, most high sec guys, not really. if more people voted, i bet the csm's composition would be quite different.one vote per corp/alliance is an extremely bad idea. goonwaffe is a 2.5k man corp; i run a research alt corp in hi-sec that has 3 men in it. should 2500 ppl have exact the same say as my 3 alts?also, just for the record, imho mittens is a pretty cool guy, with a very in-depth knowledge of the game."
"this goes for most of the new csm. i actually have some hope this time, not because i'm a 0.0 player but because these guys love this game and know it intimiately. it will be good for the core game play i.e. internet spaceships."
"even by caod/c&p standards this would be ridiculous.tbh who cares, look at anomaly changes, ccp did never talk with csm about it and published dev blog directly after 0.0 fanfest discussions in order to make sure csm also couldnt ask there about it. sure ccp might make nice dev blogs how much they care about csm, but face it, they dont."
"i've never been a fan of the electoral college. but it is coming to a point where establising one in eve sounds like a good idea (to me). elect electors, which in turn, elect the csm. limit the amount of electors an alliance can have and voila, problem solved."
"this is democracy, direct your complaints to un"
"what the **** is this **** proposal?i don't like the fact that five out of the nine seats has a nc's ass plopped in it, but they were voted into them. so there you have it. the people who did vote have spoken.what you should be going after is what can be done to get more people to give a **** to vote. even though this election has the most votes than the past elections, it is a joke at what percentage of accounts voted.the mittani was elected to chair, and that is where he should be according to the votes. now if he breaks the nda or does nothing but try to reverse any progress other csm's have done to build on the relationship between players and ccp, then he should be removed.so in closing...^^this."
"so you are saying that goons are less clever than atlas people? apparantly they were clever enough to get a representative that lives under the same conditions as themself in a 0.0 that undergoes large changes if ccp executes their current plans.those plans might give eve a great future but at least mittani will question them and make sure that ccp isn't represented by a minority of players.anyway it's not like the chairman will be in position to decide over ccp anyway. and i actually found his views on eve pretty good, even if i might have voted in another direction..."
"the chair has no power whatsoever so you could appoint a chimp if you wanted to.biggest problem this cycle is the homogeneous composition of the council as a whole."
"well this is democracy - the largest interest group gets their way, one way or the other. i understand your concern, but to be frank i do not see what this will all change really, i look forward too good improvements to the game, regardless of who is on the csm."
"the voters have spoken. the candidates took the time and effort to campaign, and to organize supporters.if those elected perform well, and choose to run again, odds are that they will be re-elected.system working as intended...."
"yeah because that wouldn't have the exact same effect."
"confirming that we would get mittens elected no matter what measures are put in place."
"mmmm yes this is a vintage crop of tears. bottle this ****."
"the mittani sends his regards"
"that picture is full of win."
"and if you had been elected... it would be no different."
"the same effect? no. would it be 100% effective? no."
"do you, perhaps, feel like posting without trolling? does it not suggest something that you that you troll about \"honesty\" while lying and having to routinely having to create fictitious arguments and ascribe them to me? perhaps the fact that you cannot address what i've actually said and repeatedly claim you simply cannot comprehend it? perhaps that, while doing all this trolling, you're accusing me of trolling? does this not strike you as odd? as you are lying in order to troll, yet again, it's obvious why you can't point out any actual such error and have to, instead, replace my words with your trolling. but please, show you're not lying and trolling, and cite those errors. any time now. this, for instance, is a blatant lie. which is, of course, why you can't actually cite such a 'strawman', as you're making it up to troll. now, if you weren't, you could do something like say \"windjammer is lying and trolling by claiming that, for instance, anybody has denied that ccp can alter game mechanics in order to force a change in player behavior. that's what this thread is, in fact about, with people arguing over whether or not such an action is good or bad. windy's lie and his bit of trolling is that he claims anybody has disputed this, and uses that strawman to troll about \"irrationality\", and such. he knows he's wrong, which is why he has to lie in order to support trolling.\"see how easy that is when you're actually addressing someone's argument, and not trolling? yes, we've already addressed the fact that this is a lie, as ccp have themselves stated. aside from creating the rules and tools, they are supposed to be hands off as it's not a \"themepark\" game. they are, by their own statement, uninterested in forcing players to go about creating dev-approved player-created content. this is why their contemplation of new changes, designed to alter how players create-content and not a disinterested, breaks sandbox play and sets a dangerous precedent.do you really not understand that? yes, that's been the entire point, that ccp has not been doing that because it's a sandbox game and doing so will break sandbox play. honestly, have you considered not trolling? perhaps just as a change of pace? notice, of course, that while you're trolling and inventing fictional claims and cutesy lies to replace my actual words with, i can show how your actual claims are wrong. that's because i'm not trolling. you're unable to honestly respond, because you're not doing anything but trolling. go figure, eh?"
"what i don't understand is how the impact of jbs can be \"vastly overstated\" yet the moment ccp suggests removing them, the nc mobilizes to take control of the csm. apparently jbs are a sensitive enough issue that 5000-odd goons and their care bear alts were motivated to do something to protectvthem."
"windjammer and minigin you continue to post put still have posted nothing of substances. trolling post for trolling sack perhaps but come on i think this will be the 3 or 4th time i've asked the same question.where do you stand on the current sov mechanics.where do you stand on my suggestion that null sec needs more regions like venal and stains large enough to allow alliances to grow and raid established coalitions"
"the answer to your question is right above this, in the text you quoted. the issue isn't so much that it's a silly change, but that it's being done to break sandbox play. again, the best example of changes that aren't huge in impacting game-play but would be a bad idea would be letting five year old children submit crayon drawings to replace ship models. obviously, most people would object to that, yes? what, then, would you think about someone's argument if they said \"ah-hah! but crayon-drawn ships doesn't effect actual gameplay at all, what's your agenda?\"substitute any other obnoxious but not game-breaking change. obviously without a scientific study we can only spitball about statistics, but my guess would be that it wasn't jb's in specific as it was a combination of ccp wanting to break sandbox play and their utter cluelessness about 0.0 space. remember, these are the same people who were surprised to learn that there was module lag in fleet fights."
"i am not nc and i dislike the proposed changes, because as a small person not in the blob, it makes my life very hard. these changes make me want to join the blob, because as a little guy, i can't take good space and i can't hurt big people. so i have to join them or i leave, under proposed rules.these changes do not effect the blob. not one bit. not an iota of a skerric. people who think these changes will have a splitting effect on the blob do not know how these coalitions are funded or kept together.ccp has an 'agenda'. i presume that, given the new 0.0 changes, the agenda they are posting (less blobs, smaller alliances, more conflict) is not the agenda they want, because these changes have the direct opposite to what their stated objectives are. the alternative is that ccp have no real idea what the hell is going to happen and are pressing buttons blindly.look at all the things that people think are broken with nullsec now.botstech moon unbalancejump bridgessupercaps onlinedominion oppressive sov grindingall these changes were ones implemented in 0.0 to 'make 0.0 more accessible to the little guy' and 'introduce conflict', or in the case of bots, ignored and tacitly encouraged.the general agreement in this thread is that these are a sources of the continued 'problem'. why on earth do you guys continue to support ccp's rule changes? can't you see that either they're lying, or they have no idea what their changes will do? everyone in nullsec says these changes will make it worse, not better. ccp's track record of game mechanics changes should indicate you should think twice before believing anything they say with regards to 'probable outcomes' on their changes.tl;dr - ccp put all the things you hate about nullsec into the game to do what they say they are trying to do now. why continue to trust them?"
"its not peaceful. it's all out war. just some people played politics like you're supposed to in eve and made some space safe. it still gets invaded and occasionally two large power blocs go at it. its fun, its eve and no other game offers this."
"how do you figure any of those were fore the 'little guy' ? and i'm sure you'll be providing us with a link to the devblog asserting that they were. no, not really. if you pay attention to who's posting, you'll see most everyone outside of the nc is for the changes. i live in sov. 0.0 and stand to loose as much as the next guy in bad truesec. this does not alarm me in the least. i realize i'm one of many who are going to be looking around for better space. this reads positively for me: more local conflict for the best regional space.you don't have to believe them, but you will take part in the human experiment that follows when the changes go live. wether it goes as planned or not largely depends on the human (unpredictable) elements involved. if you're really unhappy with the change, get out of nullsec. simple as that. if you're of the opinion nullsec has been getting progressively worse over the years, stop participating. vote with your location and move elsewhere like lowsec or vote with your wallet and cancel your sub."
"you were there when tri lived in venal. how did that work out from memory??? or did you forget the 900 man blob you brought to camp in 70 guys for 3 weeks.i guess another example would be npc delve. having more npc space will not change anything. the real issue here is that there is no longer (since the introduction and prevelance of jbs / jfs / titan bridges) a substantial downside to forming a coalition spanning the entire verse. back in the day the most people any alliance wanted to nap was 3 because beyond that was largely boring and didnt make things much easier. now we have a situation where you get none of the negative side effects and exponential benefits for napping more and more people. to give an example its like playing mw2 on domination mode and out of a field of 10 you slowly start to recruit the other teams players until it is 9 vs 1. at which point the outcome is already decided and its no fun for anyone. theres also no chance the one person is ever going to tempt back more people to his side to make a difference. this is obviously occuring because of an accidental side effect of trying to make players lives a little easier, but instead of doing that all the changes / mechanics have done is made logistics more boring and mind numbing, encouraged stagnency in 0.0, destroyed small gang pvp (compared to old eve) and in general bread a generation of eve players who have a sense of entitlement to what ccp should be giving them eg. sanctums, jbs, moons.its time to wake up and realise that this game is not here to be your sandbox. it is ccps sandbox, you are just playing in it. if ccp thinks you should be playing in clay rather than in cement then thats what you play in. you dont like it? get out of the box."
"the problem with the proposed change to sanctums is that it doesn't address the issue of large alliances and coalitions. it actually hurts small alliances who are just trying to get established because, while the large alliances, and thus the naps they form, are funded through high-value moon mining, the smaller alliances need to depend on farming anomalies to afford the strategic upgrades to allow them to become bigger, and they use those upgraded systems to attract new corporations from high sec which they then turn into pvp pilots to help them hold that space.i speak from the experience of someone who has just gone through that process, of being in a small alliance in null and growing it by killing rats and using that money to buy \"cooler stuff\" and recruit new dudes.and honestly i don't really understand why large coalitions would be something that would be \"addressed\" on a mechanical level anyway. they are political entities, they will be torn apart by politics. rome fell. people don't actually want to be blue to the entire universe, the people in the nc want to engage in combat just like everyone else. but they will band together as long as they have something to fight against. if you really don't like the massive political entities, i suggest that attacking them politically will be much more effective than taking the blob head on."
"it seems to me that the problem you arguing folks have with finn is not actually with what he says, but that he is an arrogant ass about it. doesn't make him wrong.of all the times people have called him out on stuff, no one has actually quoted anything of his and said \"this is the part you are wrong on. here's why.\" and until someone puts the effort into doing that, he will have the upper hand, no matter how correct or incorrect he may be."
"except his entire thesis up there is \"ccp has no right to intervene in our (pretense being: his coalition) sandbox,\" and that ccp is somehow on the warpath against the nc personally. neither of those things makes a shred of sense.also, again, this doesn't just punish small alliances in bad space. the number of oasis systems with isk-spouts will not cover all the power-house alliance's out there and they will have to decide between playing second-fiddle or stabbing their buddies in the back, just like you will. they'll also be missing out on a huge amount of sanctum-farmed rent and will have underfed pets to buffer themselves from powerful neighbors who want that amazing space. in short, the changes look like they will cause exactly what they wanted: destabalization in larger groups of 0.0 players. war.i suggest heading to the war room with your friends if you're in bad space (i've been talking with my corp and alliance leadership about it since the announcement) because the chaos will make for a perfect time to revolt."
"firstly thank you for addressing the point, while tri may have been camped into venal (i may have been their but wasn't if you see what i mean) they did live there very successfully for some time and on several occasions before that. also i think white noise and several other successful alliance grew stronger (if not started out in venal). regarding delve npc couldn't agree with you more and this is actually the point i'm making it is far too small an area to be a viable \"badlands\" to hide out in. delve npc needs to be regions size like venal and there needs to be more around the eve universe so that alliance can move around without having to hold sov.regarding your last point about naps they are about security if the reds have 10 alliances blue need 10 or better still 11. but isn't that the foundation of the game? it's that what ccp have been advertising for the last 5 years? i take your point that this leads inevitably to a situation where the entry costs (in this case numbers) becomes too high. but and this is a big but there are far more people in 0.0 no than ever before, further it isn't the size of the alliance that squeezes out new alliances it's the amount of space they hold or control. prior to the original bob being disbanded, red alliance and goons controlled half of the eve universe, not as a coalition but as individual alliances. at the moment the drone russian control twice the territory of the nc. so i think the argument that breaking up naps is the solution is fatally flawed.greed is the issue mm controls tribute and i think has two other alliances living here with us and a number of overnight guests. attacking naps won't weaken mm it will mean that they can't have guest so it's the young alliances that will suffer.in contrast red alliance and legion of death are sitting on 4 regions each, they may have guests or renters but you see my point naps aren't the issue it's how much space is being claimed. my argument is that this space can only be held because of poor sov mechanics and the inability to reach it (which brings me back to my points)"
"the problem is you are saying a lot of stuff which is true but not relevant. and you arnt saying it from any experience other than your own very one dimensionalised pov.saying something like \"more npc space is good\" is true, im not going to say thats a bad idea, but it doesnt mean anything in this context. it doesnt solve any of the problems we have now, and in the past it hasnt either. i refer to initiative back when they were nc puppets being told to go live in venal and camp stations with dreads to \"cheese out\" tri (thanks to bluemajere for that term). coalitions arnt interested in fair fights, or fights at all in my experience. nor are they happy to watch people gain strength in an area that is close to them and easy to completely blob people down in.even when i was in the nc, i remember dmc and oxide being blue. after weeks of us campaigning to have them reset so that we could go find any pvp within 40 jumps, they finaly were. do you know what happend after our initial success against them (our 10 man gangs vs their 70). our alliance decided to go blob them out and take their space.no one is intersted in the fun / challenging part of this game. they are all interested in bandwagoning onto success. and this is caused almost entirely by the poor mechanics which you nc types are defending because you dont know any other way to play. - as an aside, you dont need to worry, eve is actually literally one of the easiest games to get really really good at. the shock for me is that you are all so bad at it... i guess hiding under skirt syndrome *shrug*.the only relevant discussion about fixing this game atm should revolve around fair ways to provide insentives to limit nap lists.one such is never going to be add more npc space."
"i guess my post made to much sense to be argued with......"
"glad you have an opinion and all, but that's not ccp's take on it.they want conflict. that's the entire point of the change. no matter what they do the established players are going to have a leg up, but you're completely wrong to assume that they are going to benefit from this. they gain far more from the stability inherent in the current system (happy renters in upgraded space farming anoms) than the perk of being the only ones in good space (making those renters less happy, and more jealous of their landlords). hence all the tears you see from the likes of finnagain and co."
"bump to the top!!!!!"
"a supercap should be able to survive a pos attack without much problems and i don't think pos ewar modules should effect supers... however, but a pos tackle mod that supers can't quickly dispose of would be a good addition to the game. it would need to have a higher cpu/pg requirement than a typical pos scram/disruptor, and it should have more hp and a smaller sig radius to make it harder for a fleet of 60 fighters to incap it. the problem would be, will it cycle to non-super ships?"
"- edited, for poor punctuation, and grammatical errors, just to cheese you off.i'll admit, i had a few typo's; but my sentence structure was fine. i'm not sure, if it's an american, (usa), thing, but making long strings of words, with comma's, and periods"
"democracy only works in very small populations. when the population exceeds that limit, a representative democracy works better."
"the csm allows ccp to engage in meaningful dialogue with the representatives of the player base. do you expect all players to sign - and be held to - an nda? how would any players make meaningful contributions if they are not aware of issues beyond the endless requests for ccp to fix assault frigates, add a hello kitty kestrel, make boobs jiggle, or improve ratting income for nullsec care bears.it is up to the players to vote for people to represent them. all it takes for goons to prevail is fir enough hisec care bears to do nothing.while that may be the truth, the facts speak differently. more people voted in csm5 than ever before, more people participated in discussion than ever before - this implies that more people thought csm was worth paying attention to.can you provide any evidence to support your fears? trawl through the copious minutes and crowd sourcing projects to show us just how bad trebor really is."
"^^^ this.while player input is good, you can't have all players suggestions taken and voted on. it would become a constant voting system and people would disagree on stuff left to right. then you also have to take trolls into consideration. if we didn't have csm, people would form something similar to csm except be lobbyists for you to vote on something anyways. as far as the security stuff, no. someone was caught doing that before and was removed. i'm sure ccp keeps an eye on csm activities. and i'm pretty sure if they were caught taking the code of eve, or whatever to make \"invisibots\" or whatever you called it. it would be in violation of the nda, and depending on the legal department, it may be possible to seek lawsuits against that person. eve is intellectual property, therefore any damages done to it, can result in prosecution. so no. getting rid of csm wouldn't fix anything, just make things worse."
"supported - more substantial feature than incarna"
"supported"
"so as the topic states, why do we as paying customers continue to post on these forums? i for one get excited at seeing i'm not the only one who thinks blastes aren't working as intended, and that nerfing nullsec sucks, and to bring back the old cyno effects, etc. but!!!!!!i take a look at the original post and see that it was over 2 years ago and guess what, no change...... so why do we waste out time? ccp good job creating a forum that you don't read or maintain. i applaud you for crushing our dreams"
"i agree. delete the assembly hall."
"we have obsidian hawk to thank for that. topics used to recycle, so people wouldn't see that others have been complaining about poss for the last 5 years and hybrids for a year and a half. projectiles were complained about for about two-three years (before the fix). neutral repping for two years. faction warfare since the day it showed up in the game.ccp used to not have to worry about new players having the soul crushing realization that the thing that started bugging them a week into playing has been a known issue for a long time. but these topics now stay in the public eye, as well as the point in time they were first raised."
"this forum is for the bringing forward of issues you believe to be important. the problem is the vast majority of issues brought forward are illthought or just simply wrong.you provided one. just because you think blasters dont work how they were intended to, does not mean they dont. i have flown probably one of the widest ranges of ships of all people playing this game, by virtue of having played for a long time, and maxing one of my chars in pretty much everything sub cap. i can tell you with absolute confidence, that blasters are well ballanced and not hard to use. the problem is you sit there and look at a drake and say \"well thats unfair... it can shoot 80km!!! why cant i do that in a brutix???\" in my experience there are ballance issues in eve, but not particularlly many. the foremost that comes up is ecm vs other ewars particularly ecm drones vs damp/neut drones.if you are pushing for blasters to get buffed its most likely because you havnt figured out their strengths and weaknesses yet, and this does not mean ccp is ignoring your voice. they are ignoring your poor opinions. which i think, is much better and i am thankful they dont just blindly say \"oh well people dont want us to nerf supers, i guess we wont!\""
"assembly hall should be for serious discussion only. virtually everything in this forum should be moved to features and ideas, then only csm members should be allowed to start threads in here, based on stuff in f&i."
"i agree ah suffers from many proposals that don't belong there, but your suggestion goes a tad too far. i'm one of the strongest proponents of better ah forum tools, which would enable much better self-regulation, organization and some powers to csm members."
"supported.what i find funny is the fact that some of these trolls actually suggest, \"if you don't like the lag then quit. less lag for us.\" which makes absolutely no sense because ccp <3s $$ and if 2k, or 5k or 10k people just all stop resubbing what do you think will happen? either a. it will get their attention and voila the lag magically is fixed in a short amount of time. or b. they say \"meh\" and shrug it off compensating for loss of funds by firing people resulting in less devs and gms which means even crappier customer service and slower & less updates/patches for the game. telling people they should quit is extremely counterproductive, but whatever. i used to want to fly a titan.. now i just spend billions overpimping t1 frigates because i'll actually be able to use it.here's an idea: how about when a system reaches a certain amount of pilots. the game then goes to like a 2d mode or hell even, a text based game. thats what this game is anyway, right? spreadsheet online. i'm fairly certain in the end the only thing that matters is being able to defend the system or overtake it when the numbers get that high. graphics seem to not be too relevant anymore considering players prep for the lag by lowering the graphics settings to lowest possible anyway, and would lower it even more to basic outlines of their ships if they had to; even if it meant it looked like the game was being played in mspaint.idk, just saying."
"graphics lag is not an issue, the issue is server lag. (not to mention ccp managed to make brackets, 2d, the most heavy part for your computer)."
"i think ultimately ccp is going to have to cap system allowances. no matter how much they don't want to its the only obvious choice unless either theres some sort of revolution in the eve server side administration (and on a technical side i dont think theyll ever catch up to the amount of stress the player base can muster) or some one figures out a way to incentive not blobbing.ultimately i would see that a cap is set to what would produce acceptable and manageable amounts of lag. say alliance with sov gets 55-60%(defenders advantage, perhaps starts at 50 and is upgradeable to a pre ordained level) of max system capacity and the rest is for the attack side, to prevent gaming of the system by filling with 3rd party players the fleet battle notification gets server priority to the sov and listed attacking alliance letting everyone else lag out if needed.if you can field more than the servers allow you can swap out people now that you know you can actually move instead of lagging or you can form a second group to find another system to contest to try to split the defenders and lessen the defenders advantage."
"funny you say that... cause my main income isn't through ratting... ironic that you would attempt to peg me completely, utterly, and so incredibly wrong.none the less...the idea of mucking with sanctum spawns is utterly stupid for the fact that you are, quite simply, undoing your changes from last patch (as well as the work and hundreds of millions up to billions of isk put into upgrading a system).if you really want to break up large alliances... scatter moon-gold around. make it so you need things from opposite ends of the universe to make stuff. do something with the moons... hit the alliances themselves, not the players."
"agree +1"
"no doubt."
"if people can upload anything, someone will upload goatsy. guaranteed.why alliances that have been in the game for years don't have logos, on the other hand, is a bit silly."
"i agree insofar as the sse2 requirement goes, it dropped with little notice. players pay a subscription fee to access the game, and to add a major platform change to a .1 update because a third party library didn't compile with binary support for older systems is terrible form and if i were in ccp's position, i'd be screaming for a more elegant interm solution while providing the subscribers who help pay my bills at least a full month's notice that they'd better upgrade.it's unreasonable for people to expect never to need upgrades. it's also unreasonable for .1 releases to make sudden unannounced changes to their basic requirements. at the very least, players caught in the midst of this should have been offered a pro-rated refund rather than have their spaceships set adrift."
"macbooks have terrible gpu cooling and laptops often get very hot regardless.an eve client uses anywhere between 400-800mb of ram, 2 will use 800-1600mb of ram. this is a lot, especially for laptops and systems with modern os' installed on them. a radeon 5770 costs <<U+FFFD>$100 and that'll play eve at maximum at 1920x1080 for yearsits been very slow the progressiona graphics team can work independently to a programming team and with ccp using an agile software development method this is exactly what happens. and if you have ever tested even slightly complex software you'll know how difficult it is to fix bugs. also bug reportsse2 was near 10 years old, ccp weren't asking you, the slow advancement of time was asking you to upgrade."
"if your going to respond and pick apart my posts... read them.otherwise go away and troll someone else.if you think i'm kidding... i'll start with your first bit of your post.you said macbook pros have terrible gpu cooling.nice cop out.read my post again...i said i used to be able to run this game on my macbook pro on cooler temperatures.i've been running eve on my macbook pro for nearly over a year.think about that for a second before you open that mouth of yours again.oh and by the way... i'm a credentialed apple tech... i even have the tech manuals for repairing these things... even replaced the motherboard in a few as an apple care tech.*wasn't for over heat either... although i'm surprised it don't happen very often*fact is my point stands... every time they add a new major package to the game... it jumps 10 to 15c.guaranteed.i can play portal... half life 2.... no problem.eve?don't even dare go there.like i said... your obviously full of it. and that's just the first initial part of your iceberg of a troll."
"they have been pushing it a bit hard lately i would agree, after incarna releases i hope they will slow things down a notch or two.for some reason, one of the last updates about halved my framerate with aa enabled. optimize much ccp?having said that i can still run eve at 80-100 fps in full hd without aa on my overclocked q9550 and radeon 5770. not really the most awesome hardware around, if this can run it on high quality (sans the aa) then a hell of a lot of older hardware should be able to run eve too with some tweaked settings. my more than 3 year old laptop can still crank out 50-60 fps with some lowered settings (which i don't even notice).just for the fact that i think and hope they should slow done a bit after incarna i'm going to support this one."
"two off those things mentioned have no effect on true income.a person only makes money off of moon mining if someone wants to buy what he gets. same with belts."
"it was at this point that i knew this was either a really bad troll thread...or the op has no clue about most of this stuff"
"no. while i agree the upcoming changes to combat sites isn't good, but the changes to moon goo is not needed.alliances don't want to spend the time or effort moving poss to keep an income. this would require an enormous amount of time and people to scan for moons each month or whatever cycle. players want to blow stuff up. also take into consideration, during the time of scanning and moving, that would be less amount of materials moon mined per month, which would drive supply down and prices would go up. thank you, but t2 stuff is already getting expensive as is.having a \"dynamic\" moon goo would not let the smaller guys make money as once they are spotted, they go boom by the guys with the scs.\"every month the minerals change, so the powerblocs dont just have massive income and become invincible, where they can build super after super after super, and lose without any consquence! its ridiculous.\" <<< supers don't come from moon goo, people do have to still mine for the materials. so if your changes did go in affect, industrialists would complain as they would have less business and everyone would complain as t2 would become even more absurdly expensive. and just to go ahead and answer your counter arguement. no, you can't put a pos on every moon. the sov changes main purpose was to get rid of having all the moons covered with towers."
"ok, get rid of belts. and no more minerals? that's awesome.... you know you can't upgrade a system without having to start ratting in the belts or mining in the belts right? who is going to want to mine moons? ice and roid mining is already boring enough. we don't need the game to be more boring. we need it to give us isk and let miners build stuff for pvpers so the pvpers can have fun and blow **** up."
"point sources of income like moons are the best driver of conflict in this game and removing them is the sort of ******ed thing a worthless empire pubbie wantsit shouldn't be tech though even though our 40 technetium moons are wonderful"
"moon depletion wouldn't help.iterating on alchemy or tweaking t2 manufacturing requirements might, though."
"what moon depletion (and subsequent replenishment of unmined moons) would do is create a lot more conflicts and a lot more competition. prices of moon related stuff may rise or fall, depending on how inflated their current values are."
"hellonoticeable are the extremely high prices of some minerals such as neodymium & tec.to counter this, i resort to an already existing technology .... alchemy.so far, only six simple reactions are replaced by alchemy. i tried for 9 more simple reactions to calculate an alchemy reaction. i leave 4 simple reactions on the sidelines, as they result from gases.below is the table of my alchemycalculations. for reactions that leave 95 units of one of the two moonmierals unused, i specified the requirements with 5 units.i have tried to use the moons as follows: 1x r64 / r32 2x / 2x r16 / r8 2-3x.it's only an example. you have to change the reactionoutput or the input of the used materials.please visit your user settings to re-enable images.electricsix"
"i have no idea if the numbers are reasonable (i'll leave the calculations on that to akita), but doing alchemy for tech would ofc be the easiest thing to do for some balance."
"much too sense make you."
"yes"
"i like it"
"locusts online? you'd need to balance it so that depletion is considerably faster than restoration or you'll have powerblocs cycling regions like farmers do arable land.much better to make the crap land industrial powerhouses so their income is from selling to the rich ratters."
"i really think this is a good idea. probably that's why ccp will never do it."
"fully supported... anything to make things more interesting without resorting to nerfing the individual player's ability to make isk *cough* dev blog *cough*"
"are you suggesting that people could possibly log out one day and log in the next to find they are now in a low-sec system? if they implemented this then they would have to either get rid of low-sec kill rights or let newbies get podded left and right who never wanted to enter low-sec. would null-secs change as well? well established corps in null-sec would be ****ed if they had to move every few days to a new system, tearing down and setting everything up again. their other option is to not kill any npc's in the 0.0 system so as to keep it 0.0. it would also screw up the economy with crazy fluctuations in the prices at major trade hubs. the majority of which are in hi-sec. also for hi-sec trade hubs how would the sec status decrease? there are barely any rats to begin with so any ratting would keep them at hi-sec status while any ratting in the systems around it would cause them to become hi-sec semi-permanent as well. you would not be able to have ratting decide the outcome of systems changing. there would have to be a system put in place to choose at random 2 solar systems. they would have to morph at the same speed from hi-sec to low-sec. also where does it stop? if a 0.3 and a 1.0 are trading places do they move all the way to the opposing sec status? or just halfway? or does the 1.0 become a 0.1? the mechanics you suggest just aren't possible with ratting being the trigger. especially if you imagine a 0.5 mining system. most hulks keep mining and light drones on board. if they use the light drones to kill the rats then the sec status will raise higher causing the rarer ore types to spawn less. miners wouldn't unnecessarily throw money down the drain like that."
"please learn how to use english. this reads like a 13 y/o made it.btw i like this idea! but don't make things change too fast. would suck if every week the whole region changes. should be gradual so we can see the trend and adjust."
"rag on my english all you want. i was rushed. i still believe that it is a valid argument for not implementing what he says."
"i would support a depletion mechanic.... although.... it would need to be slow, much slower than pi depletion rates! a tec moon should be around for 3-6 months before depletion shuts down the operation. the truesec of a system probably shouldn't change faster than 0.01 per week. for true-sec: there probably should be a system minimum limit. i.e. null sec remains null sec.the average regional true-sec should probably remain about the same. with the farther from empire you are, typically the lower the sec. the rate of change of truesec should be based on the target number of players that a system should theoretically support. if the activity is well below this threshold, its security might decrease, and vice versa. upgraded space should have a higher target number, and systems with more belts should have a higher target number. this way there would be an optimal level of activity/system. and if a corp/alliance grows too big for the area, they would be economically encouraged to expand or move. but if they remain the right size, they can make it their base. if they are too small, it'll become profitable enough to encourage conflict... i have no idea on any mechanics to dynamically change moon minerals..."
"since we have a new csm, i would like to put forward the issue regarding the bookmark system. while i don't doubt this has been discussed, i would like to put this forward to our newly elected representatives for their attention.at the moment, bookmarks being treated like any other in game item (in the sense that they are a physical object) provides for a basic functionality. however, since the implementation of wormhole space, this functionality has been insufficient to the needs of those who live in wormhole space. an example, is that in a wormhole system, you have five different sites. you do what most corps who live in a wormhole do, and you put a copy of the bookmarks in a can. in the cases of k-space, this would be fine, since you dont have to use them. only in wormhole space, they are vital. this current system has several issues: firstly, the physical presence of the bookmarks themselves. that its hard to organize them without having to rename each and every bookmark with a date. secondly, the actual time and effort spent probing out sites, only to have a forgetful corp member not replace the bookmarks. in the case of static sites, we start seeing upwards of 20 different bookmarks, trying to distribute them between dozens of players becomes a tiresome and unnecessary task.while many will respond, that it just requires some organisation and effort, its the case that a relatively old mechanic, has expanded and thus, is becoming a major issue for those of us with there have been several threads requesting that bookmarks be moved to a mail based item, these proposals seem to make sense. however, i simply wish to raise the issue with the csm in the hope that they can bring awareness to ccp with regards this."
"supported conditionally.it's a bit hard to follow what you're saying. specifically, i'm not seeing a clearly-stated specific proposal. but, it sounds like you're advocating the ability to give someone a bookmark by chat or evemail. if this is what you mean, then i support. if not, then i need clarification."
"pretty much its just a request that the issue of the current bookmark system is overly complex and hard to use for large numbers of bookmarks and people, be raised by the csm with ccp. not suggesting any solutions (search the threads, there are plenty of those) just wanting the issue brought up"
"i have a simple request:when setting lots of waypoints for autopilot (like you bought something region-wide and you need to pick it all up), make it so it picks the most efficient (least jumps) possible. currently the system is orginized such that you add waypoints and it goes to them in that order- even if the first is all the way across eve and the 2nd one is right next door.it would (most likely) be a pritty simple fix thats been bugging me for a while.-eregorn81"
"the optimize button doesnt do that for you?"
"still working for me, so i'm guessing the op is another guy suggesting a feature that has been in the game for ages already."
"when ccp decided to bring in the sov bills, their intention was to make larger alliances shrink down in terms of territory size and open up space for smaller alliances to emerge. it hasn't worked as large alliances are still maintaining large regions of space.i do propose a sov bill multiplier. for example, if you hold only 1 system, the sov multiplier is at x1.0 and only costs 80mill isk per system. if you have 2 systems, the multiplier goes to x1.2 making it cost 96mill per system and increasing by x0.2 for each system that the alliance holds under their control.having this idea in effect will make alliances think more about where they will expand to and weighing the benefits of how much the system will cost and how profitable the system can be.see what you guys think of this idea and hopefully it passes.cheerssamson"
"the only effect that would have is that the alliances wouldn't claim systems just patrol them.(example: it/test debacle a few months ago) i would say that the current system is fine but when you look at alliances like shadows of xxdeathxx (146 systems) and legion of xxdeathxx (125 systems). the first non russian alliance to be in the top sov holders is test at 69 systems. there is something going on here but i am making no accusations."
"when the current sov system was implemented, there were supposed to be a few things fixed.first of all, sov bills were meant to act as an isk sink. second, they were pitched towards reducing the logistics overhead - large alliances would otherwise need to set up complex fueling regimens in order to satisfy the fueling needs of control towers (which could climb to over 40 large in some systems). the limit of 5 towers dropped per alliance also made the process difficult to manage, and it created an environment where attacks and defenses were usually done on terms set by the opponent.the intention of the new system was to simplify sovereignty management while also removing isk from the game. ccp pitched it also as a way of making it easier for smaller corps and alliances to gain a foothold in 0.0 space. the reality is that sovereignty rarely changes hands now, because it's easier to set it to a clock. the home defender gets the advantage, and they've eliminated stront timing mechanics (which generated instability).the cost of sovereignty of a few systems is also high enough to scare off small corps. larger alliances need only a tax rate to cover their needs, plus the manpower to wrangle a few moons. larger alliances and better organized alliances always win the day. and the few systems that slip past those basic truths aren't worth the harassment that follows by unaligned pirates and bored denizens of nullsec who happen to crash your party.in short, the sov system changes didn't really tackle the goals set out by ccp and removed certain chaotic human elements, and a second rethink needs to be done.if you want to level the playing field a bit, consider a pos-warfare-lite system. i can't provide exact answers, but here's one i've got kicking around: require no more than 5 sov-claiming control towers with a new tcu-power module. this would exist in addition to the tcu/ihub. limit alliances to on-lining tcu-power module per day. make the ihub/tcu invulnerable until the towers are down. the tcu/ihub/stations don't get a reinforced timer.a system based on a few towers would require man-power to maintain, which is really the currency that will hit even larger alliances, and this is what will test the measure of alliance dedication. add to that reduced maintenance costs and remove notifications of tcu's/towers getting dropped and you create an environment where players will need to keep a closer eye on their assets.sneak attacks would suddenly drop on peace-time alliances after a few weeks of carefully prepared incursions into the space by invading alliances, spies become a necessity towards the ends of preserving their primary alliance's space while also reporting on the actions of hostile alliances, and information becomes a valued currency. and, of course, manpower by the alliance who has a lot of space.but they needed that space, right? that's why they have so much to patrol.that's my idea, but it hasn't gone through the filter of public opinion."
"some sort of inefficiency modifier would be awesome, the bigger one gets the more there is dragging one down.think roman empire, british empire, persia, mongol empire etc. they all had the perfect setup until they got greedy and ran into escalating maintenance/troop costs which is where changes to force projection comes in. besides, what's the point of denying someone from using empty space when one can collect tithe from them instead? support pending number crunching."
"iirc, the original idea was that sov would work something like this, but that got dropped because... well, loldominion.your basic concept is sound, but rather than a simple linear progression, i suggest a logarithmic one. this would mean that for a few systems, the difference would be imperceptible, but eventually the total amount would start climbing very steeply.so each system costs x isk per month. each system added increases the total sov bill by y% to n.x^(1+y)"
"the only result of such changes would be that alliances will only drop tcus in key sistems: jbs, stations etc.the rest of the systems will remain unclaimed, but as soon as anyone does anything in there (in order to make anything in a system you need to put down at least some structures like poses or ihub) they will either be forced to pay rent or get evicted(depending what that alliance needs more at the time, isk or killmails). you can't really move into conquerable space that's within strike range of a major alliance unless they agree or you can take them in a fight.so nothing would really change."
"sounds like a problem that you can fix with a simple find-replace or at most a regex."
"interesting direction for a change to null sec. do you think this would be a more viable option than just nerfing the hell out of null making a bunch of changes and crossing your fingers?"
"supported as long as any blue (awoxer) can walk in that station and shoot the agent in the head like in that eve:future video."
"the agents are in space in their ships. you can fly into the system and blow them to smithereens. :)"
"they and their npc friends may shoot you back though. :)"
"heh. do be sure to enjoy watching your representatives howling impotently about the anomaly changes and the forthcoming rebalancing of jbs and nullsec logistics in general."
"i live in fountain and don't fly a capital. none of that really affects me. vovbut you can always tell that changes are both balanced and healthy when people use them as a weapon against other people."
"regarding anomaly changes, i recommend checking dotlan on the truesec of deklein.regarding jbs and nullsec logistics i recommend checking the titan tracker in caod and northern jb map that's widely disseminated."
"people whined (and got taunted about) the nano nerf. as such, it was clearly unhealthy and unwarranted, and should be reverted post-haste!so you are upholding the anomaly change as an example of the new csm's power, influence, and effectiveness? as for the rest... you may want to look up the meaning of the word 'forthcoming'."
"saying a clich<U+FFFD> meme, soo cool >.>lets see what i do in eve1. whine on forums2. spam **** in gamewhat does the average goon do in eve1. convinces himself that mittani is sarah palin2. brown noses, day in and day out3. says the same meme's that have been said for the past 40 years4. stays up late to play internet spaceships5. spends alot of time indoors just so he can 'fit in'6. ignores rl for alarm clock ctas7. boasts and brags about having space which was given freely to them8. replies to rl criticisms with \"well at least we have space\"who really takes eve too seriously?because well i would hate to play a game that is like having a full time job with no pay, isnt really what i would consider 'cool' or 'fun'. dont get me wrong everyone who plays a game and talks on forums is pretty much a nerd, but theres a limit, perhaps you should see a shrink to discuss the issues that are making eve your reality.it really isnt healthy taking a game too serious"
"oh noes!i am a nerd :( we all are.. :(i thought i am the cool kid."
"you should be less pleased about how games like eve poker are keeping rmt in business. where do you think gamblers get all that isk?"
"here here!how about a militia store where we can get faction goodies?"
"well yeah, we have been screaming for ccp to address it almost since beginning and gotten bugs (and later fix for bugs) in return problem is that for a meaningful fw/low fix to be made an obscene amount of man-hours has to be allocated, which translates into a full expansion or more.i would much prefer that my home be properly renovated rather than having putty thrown in the obvious cracks.lag is draining server and developer resources. sort out dominion as originally envisioned (small scale pew/flux) so that the blobbage ebbs and send the freed up devs our way .. we don't bite, honest!"
"honest question to the csm here, can you guys actually explain what is wrong with fw? i mean its like you guys are saying \"fw is broken\", hell even during the campaigning mittani and other goons said 'faction warfare wasnt lucrative\" wtf?do any of the csm even have a clue what is wrong with fw and why people ***** about it?"
"so are you saying that you disagree and that fa is fine as is? or are you merely trying to equate lack of a definition with insincerity?"
"you don't get it, the whole point of the null bloc getting elected was to forestall any nerfs to null space. that's why they spammed voting with their botting alts. don't expect them to do anything but that."
"i'm glad to hear this csm is of the mind that fw is worth ccp time. i can certainly agree with seriphyn that the small scale fights that happen in plexes are a real boon to eve as a whole. and i really think ccp could greatly increase the subscriptions if they done some well thought out fine tuning here. i also agree that npcs in plexes work to prevent pvp on many different levels. realistically i don't expect much for fw until incarna is nailed down and they finish up some dominion mechanics. i just hope incarna doesn't linger on sucking resources past the 18 months (december of 2011). a couple of general points about fw. as has been mentioned fw is sort of a unique situation. it never really ends. and players can choose whatever militia they want. the problem is if you make the winning side get direct advantages people will tend to join the winning side. i mean do you want to join the side that has unique or better resources and maybe even a boost to shields and armor, or the side without these benefits? other than the odd role player, people will continue to pile on the winning side making the war more and more lopsided. right now players may actually join the losing side so that they have more targets. thats really a pretty good thing. that said i do think they can make some consequences for occupancy. but they would need to be more of the indirect variety."
"what do you expect from a blithering idiot who attacks mittani just because mittani is a goon? a good post? ha! when pigs fly."
"to bad people did not vote for rippard teg as he was actually an fc is faction warfare fairly recently."
"they've been in less than a week, and the server's already crashing in the middle of the day. this csm will surely be the end of eve!!!1!11!c/d?"
"this is our game. get out."
"awww.can i play? i voted for mittens."
"lookit the sore losers like minigin and windy, even noname empirebears got more votes"
"i blame mittani"
"that would have been an awesome iceburn if only i'd actually posted anything. cheer up, cy bear! you can always abuse me again next year."
"1. run for csm.2. come in twentieth.3. ?"
"i notice your original post (that you edited fast) was \"i see you recovered from that soul crushing loss fast\". i'm glad you changed it, as i couldn't even understand what you were talking about.thanks for taking the time to write a second, very different post.i'm actually fairly pleased that i didn't win. i was starting to worry what my wife would say when i told her that i am a secret internet spaceship pilot, and needed to suddenly go all the way to iceland to talk to other internet spaceship pilots. several times, because internet spaceships are serious.edit: holy crap! you edited it a third time while i was replying! good work, fella! quality posts take time and need to be refined."
"you know how you get to carnegie hall, don't ya? practice."
"if there is extra traffic and that results in him (the mittani) being paid more, then i would think you would be encouraging people to write. you want him to get paid more, dont you?-windjammer"
"heres an analogy for you. if it looks like a worried duck, walks like a worried duck and quacks like a worried duck, its probably a worried duck.for some reason this reminds me of a time i was out duck hunting. it was very foggy and a bad day for it, but we could hear a single duck in the distance giving out a quack every now and then. the duck was on the move and i started calling it. it would quack and id use my call to respond with a quack and the duck kept getting closer, homing in on my call. in the end the duck came in for a landing and hung there in the air about two feet from the muzzle of my 12 gauge. it just hovered there for the longest time like it couldnt believe what had just happened. then i killed it. it was a very tasty duck. its a true story, but i do not believe youll understand why i told it, zero.the only way tentonhammer will know how you feel about being lied to is if you tell them. write to support@tentonhammer.com let them know. every single persons opinion matters.-windjammer"
"not that anything will come of it, i'm sure, but libeling tth and claiming that they're lying to anybody, while you're trying to start a letter writing campaign and cause negative press for them, is probably not the smartest move.and:\"i'm gonna do it, i'm going to eat dirt!\"\"don't do that, it makes no sense.\"\"you can't stop me, i'm eating dirt right now.\"\"it's still not a good idea.\"\"you're terrified!\"\"nah.\"\"i'm batman!\"\"not that either.\"\"you're a duck!\""
"write to support@tentonhammer.com help tentonhammer become a better site by giving them your valuable feedback. too few bother to do this these days.-windjammer"
"not only is there no strawman, your lack of comprehension is not a lack of clarity on my part. you're obviously very, very upset because someone wrote an internet spaceship opinion piece. does this seem normal to you?likewise, does it seem normal to you to call your own words a \"lie\", especially when you haven't even edited your post to hide them? who, exactly, do you believe you will fool?"
"wow, mittens must have done something really terrible to this guy for him to be trying this hard."
"please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"wow if people didn't like this xxxxer and his drones before, they'll raise eyebrows now."
"well, the usual results page is having some difficulties so i'll post them up here!votes character5,365 the mittani3,813 seleene3,320 uaxdeath3,306 trebor daehdoow2,925 killer22,539 white tree2,240 vile rat2,086 meissa anunthiel1,986 draco llasa1,747 elise randolph1,341 prometheus exenthal1,090 krutoj956 two step921 darius iii819 ripard teg786 helen highwater769 peter powers733 roc wieler689 tarannus682 general windypops639 issler dainze624 imigo montoya587 sokratesz545 serious internet politician498 ms pacman477 arden elenduil474 eve truth469 mike azariah458 cyerus452 tinak genry426 gehen sealbreaker396 mezridax376 kumi katana358 dreipniir349 jonathon silence284 aureleos273 kalrand273 alsyth255 madcat144247 bean achilles235 straight hustlin214 manalapan204 sir happypants188 bruce blacky174 buth leupold165 miogarsormr138 tallus meridius106 domania100 raptorxl99 mjjackson66 k'smith'y66 agondray60 strikercity48 davidnorell"
"wow, candidates like windy and eve-truth really stole away the chance for candidates like ripard teg and roc wieler to make it into the csm.i am loving this."
"possible to also have voting stats of the candidates who cancelled after the begining ?and you forgot to update the voting statistics of the others thread with last day"
"only one candidate withdrew after the election opened, kalrand, who is listed above.we'll release a blog with voting over time statistics, hopefully soonish!"
"you should probably look into the guys that used the direct link to voting, to trick people into voting for them./me looks at the mittani"
"not like there's a vote confirm page before you actually vote though, right?"
"you still had to click the \"vote\" button."
"i will not stand by whilst you slander the good goon name. we worked very hard infiltrating corps and holding there ships ransom under the conditions they voted and we would never stoop so low as this 'trick clickery' you speak of.you seeplease do not throw such dishonourable words around again with out 1st proper research."
"but, but they hacked the page and replaced the button text with \"close page/watch ****\" .. i swear!! if it wasn't for the spam campaign conducted by pretty much all the elected seats the turn-out would have been as anaemic as previous csm's .. so that is something.only sad thing is that it is the least representative gathering yet with nothing but null more or less."
"i almost would have preferred not knowing. remind me to get you an appropriate christmas gift this year, diagoras. a puppy with projectile diarrhea, perhaps."
"perhaps for csm 7, ccp might consider instant runoff voting or similar systems."
"please visit your user settings to re-enable images.please visit your user settings to re-enable images.please visit your user settings to re-enable images.please visit your user settings to re-enable images.please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"i understood that all parties elected would get a csm stamp on their names in forums. the candidates would get (and got) one that said \"csm delegate\" and the alternates were to get one that said \"csm alternate\". i didnt get mine-and i want it! also can we troll the poorer performing candidates? not that i would (tee hee) but just like to know if could :d suckersssssss"
"csm1 to csm6 candidates and alternates sorted by highest percentage of votes from eligable voters at the time they were electedper. of votes name term/seat total votes[10.93%] the mittani 6/1st [5365][10.65%] dierdra vaalt 3/1st [2967][10.44%] mynxee 5/1st [4116][10.11%] vuk lau 2/1st [2033][09.88%] jade constantine 1/1st [2436][09.71%] hardin 1/2nd [2393][08.84%] ankhesentapemkah 2/2nd [1777][08.52%] ankhesentapemkah 5/2nd [3360][07.77%] seleene 6/2nd [3813][07.34%] elvenlord 4/1st [1553][07.25%] vuk lau 3/2nd [2020][07.12%] mazzilliu 3/3rd [1983][06.76%] uaxdeath 6/3rd [3320][06.73%] trebor daehdoow 6/4th [3306][06.71%] lavista vista 2/3rd [1350][06.65%] zastrow j 3/4th [1853][06.60%] darius johnson 2/4th [1327][06.55%] erik finnegan 3/5th [1825][06.39%] dierdra vaalt 5/3rd [2521][06.29%] ankhesentapemkah 1/3rd [1551][06.23%] bane glorious 1/4th [1536][05.96%] killer2 6/5th [2925][05.83%] altekseyev karrde 4/2nd [1234][05.83%] zastrow 4/3rd [1233][05.81%] teadaze 4/4th [1229][05.68%] avaltloc 3/6th [1581][05.57%] korvin 5/4th [2196][05.17%] white tree 6/6th [2539][05.14%] darius johnson 1/5th [1268][05.09%] mrs trzzbk 4/5th [1077][05.00%] pattern clarc 2/5th [1005][04.84%] korvin 4/6th [1023][04.74%] omber zombie 3/7th [1319][04.65%] tusko hopkins 2/6th [0935][04.56%] vile rat 6/7th [2240][04.51%] larkonis trassler 3/8th [1255][04.30%] z0d 4/7th [0909][04.30%] dierdra vaalt 1/6th [1059][04.25%] meissa anunthiel 6/8th [2086][04.18%] vuk lau 5/5th [1649][04.06%] meissa anunthiel 3/9th [1132][04.05%] draco llasa 6/9th [1986][03.94%] teadaze 5/6th [1553][03.91%] serenity steele 1/7th [0965][03.85%] meissa anunthiel 5/7th [1519][03.82%] omber zombie 2/7th [0769][03.71%] trebor daehdoow 5/8th [1463][03.56%] elise randolph 6/alt1 [1747][03.52%] song li 4/8th [0745][03.52%] sokratesz 4/9th [0744][03.43%] helen highwater 4/alt1 [0726][03.35%] issler dainze 3/alt1 [0932][03.33%] serenity steele 3/alt2 [0927][03.31%] issler dainze 2/8th [0666][03.29%] t'amber 4/alt2 [0696][03.20%] sokratesz 5/9th [1260][03.17%] bunyip 2/9th [0637][03.10%] lavista vista 1/8th [0764][03.07%] farscape hw 4/alt3 [0649][02.99%] shatana fulfairas 3/alt3 [0832][02.99%] mazzilliu 5/alt1 [1178][02.97%] t'amber 5/alt2 [1173][02.97%] helen highwater 5/alt3 [1172][02.94%] meissa anunthiel 4/alt4 [0621][02.93%] extreme 2/alt1 [0589][02.86%] inanna zuni 1/9th [0706][02.80%] meissa anunthiel 2/alt2 [0564][02.80%] altpha12125 5/alt4 [1104][02.80%] tusko hopkins 1/alt1 [0689][02.79%] sophie daigneau 2/alt3 [0561][02.78%] omber zombie 1/alt2 [0685][02.77%] scagga laebetrovo 2/alt4 [0558][02.75%] chip mintago 3/alt4 [0766][02.74%] vily 2/alt5 [0551][02.73%] prometheus exenthalt 6/alt2 [1341][02.67%] gritt pebbledasher 1/alt3 [0659][02.65%] azzazell 1/alt4 [0653][02.63%] serenity steele 4/alt5 [0557][02.55%] elvenlord 5/alt5 [1004][02.22%] krutoj 6/alt3 [1090][02.04%] weazy z 3/alt5 [0569][02.01%] leandro saltazar 1/alt5 [0495][01.95%] two step 6/alt4 [0956][01.88%] darius iii 6/alt5 [0921]"
"csm1 to csm6 candidates and alternates sorted by their total votes for each candidacy that they've runvotes name term/seat percentage of votes[5365] the mittani (6/1st) [10.93%][4116] mynxee (5/1st) [10.44%][3813] seleene (6/2nd) [07.77%][3360] ankhesentapemkah (5/2nd) [08.52%][3320] uaxdeath (6/3rd) [06.76%][3306] trebor daehdoow (6/4th) [06.73%][2967] dierdra vaalt (3/1st) [10.65%][2925] killer2 (6/5th) [05.96%][2539] white tree (6/6th) [05.17%][2521] dierdra vaalt (5/3rd) [06.39%][2436] jade constantine (1/1st) [09.88%][2393] hardin (1/2nd) [09.71%][2240] vile rat (6/7th) [04.56%][2196] korvin (5/4th) [05.57%][2086] meissa anunthiel (6/8th) [04.25%][2033] vuk lau (2/1st) [10.11%][2020] vuk lau (3/2nd) [07.25%][1986] draco llasa (6/9th) [04.05%][1983] mazzilliu (3/3rd) [07.12%][1853] zastrow j (3/4th) [06.65%][1825] erik finnegan (3/5th) [06.55%][1777] ankhesentapemkah (2/2nd) [08.84%][1747] elise randolph (6/alt1) [03.56%][1649] vuk lau (5/5th) [04.18%][1581] avaltloc (3/6th) [05.68%][1553] elvenlord (4/1st) [07.34%][1553] teadaze (5/6th) [03.94%][1551] ankhesentapemkah (1/3rd) [06.29%][1536] bane glorious (1/4th) [06.23%][1519] meissa anunthiel (5/7th) [03.85%][1463] trebor daehdoow (5/8th) [03.71%][1350] lavista vista (2/3rd) [06.71%][1341] prometheus exenthalt (6/alt2) [02.73%][1327] darius johnson (2/4th) [06.60%][1319] omber zombie (3/7th) [04.74%][1268] darius johnson (1/5th) [05.14%][1260] sokratesz (5/9th) [03.20%][1255] larkonis trassler (3/8th) [04.51%][1234] altekseyev karrde (4/2nd) [05.83%][1233] zastrow (4/3rd) [05.83%][1229] teadaze (4/4th) [05.81%][1178] mazzilliu (5/alt1) [02.99%][1173] t'amber (5/alt2) [02.97%][1172] helen highwater (5/alt3) [02.97%][1132] meissa anunthiel (3/9th) [04.06%][1104] alpha12125 (5/alt4) [02.80%][1090] krutoj (6/alt3) [02.22%][1077] mrs trzzbk (4/5th) [05.09%][1059] dierdra vaalt (1/6th) [04.30%][1023] korvin (4/6th) [04.84%][1005] pattern clarc (2/5th) [05.00%][1004] elvenlord (5/alt5) [02.55%][0965] serenity steele (1/7th) [03.91%][0956] two step (6/alt4) [01.95%][0935] tusko hopkins (2/6th) [04.65%][0932] issler dainze (3/alt1) [03.35%][0927] serenity steele (3/alt2) [03.33%][0921] darius iii (6/alt5) [01.88%][0909] z0d (4/7th) [04.30%][0832] shatana fulfairas (3/alt3) [02.99%][0769] omber zombie (2/7th) [03.82%][0766] chip mintago (3/alt4) [02.75%][0764] lavista vista (1/8th) [03.10%][0745] song li (4/8th) [03.52%][0744] sokratesz (4/9th) [03.52%][0726] helen highwater (4/alt1) [03.43%][0706] inanna zuni (1/9th) [02.86%][0696] t'amber (4/alt2) [03.29%][0689] tusko hopkins (1/alt1) [02.80%][0685] omber zombie (1/alt2) [02.78%][0666] issler dainze (2/8th) [03.31%][0659] gritt pebbledasher (1/alt3) [02.67%][0653] azzazell (1/alt4) [02.65%][0649] farscape hw (4/alt3) [03.07%][0637] bunyip (2/9th) [03.17%][0621] meissa anunthiel (4/alt4) [02.94%][0589] extreme (2/alt1) [02.93%][0569] weazy z (3/alt5) [02.04%][0564] meissa anunthiel (2/alt2) [02.80%][0561] sophie daigneau (2/alt3) [02.79%][0558] scagga laebetrovo (2/alt4) [02.77%][0557] serenity steele (4/alt5) [02.63%][0551] vily (2/alt5) [02.74%][0495] leandro saltazar (1/alt5) [02.01%]"
"can we have the corporation and alliance of which those guys belong to ?"
"you understood wrong, alternates have never had csm delegate badges on the forums maybe if you ask nicely webcell will do a csm alternate badge for you on the new forums."
"actually its because electors were the only practical means of conveying vote data from the states two hundred and thirty years age. that and madison wasn't nearly as pro-plebeian as jefferson was."
"this smacks of a flippant sarcastic response, but i'll answer anyway. my biggest concern is orphaned or leftover content, especially pve. when the static complexes were removed and replaced with exploration content, this was great. i think the cosmos missions need something similar. they're very static, a linear chain with no variations. they're also not repeatable with a single character, which doesn't make sense from a resource standpoint and leads to recycling alts to farm them. more variety in missions would be great; i'd love to see 3-4x the current number of missions at every level. i'd also like to see variety within a level depending on security. low-sec missions pay more, but it would be nice if some missions were only available in low-sec, or perhaps were much more likely to come up in lowsec.faction warfare needs help. anti-blobbing measures in any area will help here as well. at the moment, fw has many drawbacks but few reasons to participate. pve content for fw would help, as would making flipping a system actually mean something and have consequences.i don't think eve is broken. i'm happy with ccp's direction and vision so far. not everything in the game needs to interest me and i expect a good portion of various expansions to contain content i may not see for months, if ever, due to lack of interest. but there are some areas i'd like to see focused upon, and csm is the organization that should help facilitate that. also as a note, i don't think null-sec is broken. jump bridges seem fine to me. they're useful, but also somewhat fragile. i think the new sov mechanics work well. huge blob-fleets are still a problem. i don't think that'll ever go away. something that helps smaller fleets be more effective, and possibly even counter a blob of up to twice its size, would be great, but not just in null-sec.last note: if i'd been able to get my passport processed in time, i would've run for csm myself. i no doubt will next year. i am that engaged with eve."
"the vote-match questionnaire was junk read people's actual threads"
"hi terghon,you may (or may not) have noticed that your concerns have been represented in the past (by yours truly among others), and will continue to be.now, a few answers (all of which you'll find in the previous csm minutes, but given here from memory for your convenience):- cosmos missions. we asked them to be added to, answer was that the amount of time needed to do cosmos stuff was so big ccp preferred to devote resources to other things, which is a fair point. chance of them being built upon for the time being is minimal. (more in csm 3 meeting minutes)- fw does need a lot of assistance. not just a bit, the fundamentals don't work very well (other than shooting at one another). in order to turn fw into what it should be, we'd need to ask ccp to devote at least a team exclusively to that for 6 months. considering there's only 2 not busy with incarna, i can't in good conscience request that until incarna is out of the door (ie, 2nd end of the year). that said, there can be improvements requests not specifically targetted at fw that will improve fw (ie, lowsec changes). (more in csm 4 and 5 meeting minutes)"
"this. it was a poorly contrived scam, hence why we didn't do it ourselves."
"you dont get it :)my problem is with ccp for allowing it, not with darius, good for him for thinking of this scam and getting away with it. darius may or may not take the csm position seriously, with or without assurances, i dont care.allowing scammed votes is a big sign of \"we dont care\" from ccp's part. i already explained why."
"how many politicians deliver false promises in order to be elected? all of them!just politics to me"
"+1 cant wait for the like button in the new forumsfor all of the hopefulls this year we need to know how many votes each of them got. and for all the close ones a starting point for there csm7 run."
"post a link.i need this rage, guys."
"congratulations meissa!your return is a ray of light to the few of us that enjoy the challenge of doing it the hard way on our own. i don't know if this is the csm to be overly diplomatic with, but i trust your perception of the politics. this group may be a bit inclined to wheel and deal behind the scenes, so i ask you to be vigilant on the transpancy and openess of communications with the community.good luck on what i see as a very busy year for you."
"dawg dig it a dawg dont know what, a dawg try 2 tims to be presdent of eveside, so far the man ain lettin a dawg rise.so what a dawg do, him put da re-republic behind other dawgs, like a shadow goverment of eveside.ccposse aint puttin da dawg's ketchup back in da squeeze pack, dig, kuz once that mess unleashed, everybody gettin da grease, dig, and its one stain what wont come out.mittini gonan clean house, vote mittini.no raps, no rhyms, jus 100 percent truth.be safe"
"this should be no different than the change to pi command center to be upgraded without having to tear the pi apart and re-create. this has been needed for some time now."
"pos needs love."
"supported - old eyes"
"support"
"not supported.i don't get why you want to change something you choosed at the very begining."
"silly. as if anyone with an objective view could confuse our old character look with the new one. what you chose for in the beginning isn't available anymore. the bloodlines continue to exist just in name, not in looks."
"/supp"
"i support. gallente need more power, especially the bses. hyperion should be way more powerful for its build cost."
"support"
"supported. i want to stop being laughed at in my corp."
"here's a funny one -the new ccp vid on turrets:linkagei see one arazu. the rest of the blasters are demoed on caldari ships wtf?!?!?!"
"1.0"
"another vote - please give us something new"
"anoter vote - please give us something new"
"totally support this"
"signed"
"is it our job to develop a fix for this? i (for myself) always tough our \"job\" is to play and enjoy the game itself. bump !"
"any comments or suggestions, feel free to post."
"not supported.what doesn't kill you makes you stronger. maybe at some point you might want to train for combat or industrial skills, and it would be a waste to delete skills you have already trained."
"i would say fof always hits enemy targets, but when ecm'd they just hit something.it seems like a fair tradeoff. lower dps but no target required. can work even when jammed, but you might hit allies.the only reason i don't like the idea myself is essentially being jammed while using fof is the same as current, but i do think it makes sense to have some effect since a fof does use electronics. perhaps changing it to reduced effectiveness while jammed would do it.also, if fof technology becomes more implemented properly and balanced, it puts hacking as a possible pvp subskill (mess with ff codes, fake ally ff, etc)."
"supported"
"would definitely like to see grid and drone nerf, but rather drop the tracking bonus than the falloff, since that is after all the angel flavour. i quite like the idea to move the falloff bonus to gallente frigate and put speed as the minmatar bonus, though."
"dramiels need to be fixed.personally, i'm okay with the speed the way it is. if the idea behind the ship was to create something exceptionally fast and agile that is able to disengage at will, well, that's fine. it's very minmatar in flavor.the problem is that it can have this amazing mobility and do a lot of damage and have nice ehp and have fantastic tracking and have fantastic projection. then drones on top of it all. it's just too much of a good thing.i personally refuse to fly them because of this, but this does limit what i can reasonably engage because dramiels are so popular. go dramiel or go home - it shouldn't be this way."
"bump!"
"thing is, though, i'm not. oh, sure, i point out bull**** and i certainly don't suffer fools gladly. but as koszybski once said, i have a \"blasphemous certainty\" about certain things because i am factually accurate and logically correct. i don't feel the need to coddle people or make allowances for those who just 'know' that they're right. those who can discuss the issues intelligently and honestly have nothing to worry about. for instance:literally every single claim made is a blatant strawman and a lie. every single one, without exception. further folks reading along can notice, easily, who actually tries to make these discussions about the nc (even when ostensibly talking about all 0.0 politics).i've spoken about bedrock principles and explicity said that they hold true regardless of playstyle. others respond with variations on 'it's all about the nc!' which is again the point. in a sandbox game the rules and tools are set up, and then the devs 'rest on the seventh day'. in a sandbox game you don't say \"okay, now go cooperate with or fight against whoever you want. waitamminute... you're doing what you want all wrong, you should do what you want the way i want!\"to say nothing of the fact that the proposed changes are myopic and almost certainly ineffectual. we'll see small alliances and independent alliances hurt and i doubt we'll see much, if any, increased internecine violence."
"you obviously have not seen the eve tribune which finn has a hand in running and writing (probably explains his ability to write walls of text that are still readable). most people get their null sec news from evenews24 nowadays but i remember the times when i would wait on the next issue of the tribune (its somewhat irregular ) to read about a conflict that affected me only to see that finn had omitted it because he felt like writing an essay about ccp. o/ finn, hope to see you again in curse sometime soon, and no i won't warp into your 20 man gang respect. never stop posting. this thread kept me entertained at work the whole day. to the alts, if you are going to post serious arguments then stop hiding behind alts, or if there is a valid reason you are posting with an alt (as one has stated) at least state it if you want to be taken seriously.p.s. eric, stop renting from russians"
"heh... been them eic for about five years now, although i'm currently on vacation with one of my managing editors running the circus. i'd say, though, that that's more of a symptom of me being able to sling the lingo than the cause. my undergrad work in english lit and my m.ed. gave me more practice than, strictly speaking, i wanted.and yeah, en24 is awesome and we just ran an interview with riverini. they run a very different system than we do. even during our peak we had a writer, maybe two, dedicated to providing a broad overview of nullsec or individual conflicts they were engaged in. en24's setup allows them a log more flexability... and when we were working heavily at it, finding good information still took hour upon hour if scouring scrapheap. we're back, actually.see you on the field."
"problem is the players are idiots. a lot of times what players want is a lot of shinies and easy facerolling wins. long-term, that's not healthy because they get bored and start to whine because they were given exactly what they wanted. player conservatism is a huge problem, and eventually it chases fun out of the game.i mean, look at all the supercap threads. this is players doing what they want. look at all the cries for dramiel nerfs, or botting. players will always act in their own interest to the detriment of the game.if anything, the themepark genre arose because players have a bad tendency to screw up sandboxes, and eve is pretty screwed up. they got pvp right, but nothing else."
"there has been very little discussion on the public forums about why napfests are a good thing. my suggestion is that napfests are turds in the sandbox, and it is ccp's responsibility to remove them.how is being blue to everyone in any way \"good\" for this pvp oriented game?since you have been busy licking butt in nullsec instead of kicking it, you missed the deviantart spaceship design competition. there were, in fact, crayon drawings (and worse) submitted, which the player base did, in fact, object to most vehemently.thankfully the folks at ccp are actually quite smart, and know how to discern good design.crayon drawn ships do affect gameplay, since they break the theme that ccp is trying to establish, which is a harsh cold world with conflict between capsuleers being the motivator for activity. when the gameplay devolved into care bears online, the devs will want to change the sand in the sandbox. this isn't about politics, it is about the current design for nullsec being broken because the motivation shoot people isn't as strong as the motivation to napfest.some people will argue (quite rightly) that ccp should be fixing broken sov mechanics first, but the counter is that there are a few small things that can be fixed while other teams are working on the new sov model.these were the people who had not seen a reproducible bug, is what you mean. the problem lies in the bug filtering process, not the devs themselves. what alliance has room in fleet fights for people who show up for a couple of hours a week? how does a bug hunter participate in nullsec with their anonymous alt without triggering more claims of t20 style favoritism?thankfully there was someone on the csm at the time motivated to help ccp fix lag."
"yet again, your personal preference is nice and all, but in a sandbox game people get to decide how they play. yes, even people you don't like. \"napfests\" don't have to be \"good\" or \"bad\" or \"wombat\", they just have to be what players freely decide to do of their own accord. just like everything else in the sandbox. you cannot claim that people are \"sandboxing wrong\", 'proven' by the fact that you'd make different choices than they do. i've snipped your trolling at the front of this quote. anyways, no, i didn't miss the contest. in fact i wrote about it. but thank you for arguing my point for me: even changes that do not effect game play at all can be objected to, cogently and convincingly. of course that point is used to rebut the traditional strawman \"but if jb's don't radically alter the game/don't do what the naysayers claim/whatever, then you should support removing them!\"it's a nifty trick. if someone agrees with your arguments, then they agree with them. if someone disagrees with your arguments, why, then they really agree with them too. gampeplay =/= theme. you can't say it's not about politics and then talk about politics. you've also just elaborated on the justification for a never-ending cycle of failure. you institute your first changes, and people still play the game the way they want. so instead of deciding that your initiative was wrongheaded in the first place, you decide you just didn't go far enough. so you try again, and people still play the game the way they want. so you...i have said what i have said. i have not said what i have not said. they were surprised to learn that there was module lag in fleet fights. it was not an issue of whether or not they had personally seen that in action."
"sorry to disappoint but actual i have answered that question several times, i guess the issue is small gang pvp verses large fleet pvp, the reality is that null sec has been anything but peaceful. from my personal perspective we have been at almost constant war.kos vs aaa teneriffe - lost 0-10nc vs insurgency branch - won 2-1nc vs tri mk1 deklein - won 5-0hydra vs kia vale - rain stopped play 1-1nc vs gbc deklein - lost 1-3nc vs tri mk2 & gbc vale - lost 0-3nc vs gbc tribute - won 3-2 (won in extra time)nc vs goodfellas/tri mk2/atlas deklein - won 5-0nc vs tri mk2 vale - forfeited nc vs aaa curse - no score draw 0-0nc + goons vs gbc querious/delve - (bob disbanded)nc + goons vs kenny querious/delve - won 3-2nc vs tri mk3 venal - forfeitednc + goons vs stain wagon period basin - won 2-0nc vs pl + evoke cloud ring - won 2-1nc vs atlas and friends geminate - lost 1-3 at ft (first leg)nc vs tri, evoke, wn, co2, rol, aaa, iac, init, atlas, hydra r, cry havoc, ra, solar - won 3-1nc vs sc (it, rol, init, atlas, cow, gc, evoke, solar, etc etc etc.) won 2-1 everyone got bored and went home.so there was war there was turmoil but then the sov system was changed and that is when everything change."
"the soc mechanic has been \"broken\" in some form since it was introduced.version 1 involved pos spam, to the point that alliances would schedule alarm clock pos operations to ensure that they got as many poses erected as humanly possible. players in general liked the amountnof combat involved, but hated the endless pos bashing.version 2 involved sitting in capital ships shooting big hp buffers a few times over a period of days, at predictable times. so ccp effectively replaced pos bashing with something even less exciting, while taking away the part of sov warfare that was marginally interesting.along with sov 2 came the homogenization of claimable nullsec space.if we look through the features and ideas forum, there is a dearth of workable ideas for replacing sov 2 with something workable and interesting. there is one by doctor invictus for example.the folks who think they have ideas on how to fix sov and/or motivate more fighting should have a go at expressing themselves. start with deciding whether or not you feel sov is broken, and work from there."
"why do people set everyone around them blue? why do they decide to avoid pvp in a pvp game?is it incorrect to assume that people should be motivated to pvp in a game intended to be a cruel, harsh world where pvp is intended to occur? is it incorrect to assume that, given enough motivation, one player will engage in combat with someone else? explore what motivates people to napfest instead of blowing the living crap out each other.is it the mechanics of the game? can we engage in simple experiments such as increasing the reward? is it deeper than that, and requires some sort of recreation of the millikan shock experiments? has naping been institutionalized along the lines of the stanford prison experiment?"
"we didn't avoid pvp. we brought more friends than the other guy and we won. why do you seem to think that this requires mechanical intervention to stop? it is a pvp game, and everyone wants pvp. looking at killboards there seems to be plenty of it going on. the critical point is that as soon as pvp dries up, resets and backstabbing will happen. but for whatever reason, there is a strong impulse in this instance to not wait for that, but to force the naps apart through some mechanic.eve is a political game as much as it is a pvp one. if the game company interferes in the politics, then why not just reset everything periodically, like every year, six months, day? if you want constant pvp which is not subject to the overwhelming strength which is evidenced in a political union, then perhaps you might be happier playing something like world of tanks.the continuing lure of eve lies in the persistence of the relationships you can form and their effect on the game. if you force them to become meaningless then what is the point?"
"bit of a contradiction there if you stop to consider the outcome of your victory. you, quite literally, force other massive coalitions into existence by virtue of your own policies, which was not actually a choice of your own, but an extension of what the game mechanics require of you to succeed.ccp isn't forcing decisions any more than they did when they changed sov. mechanics in dominion. they're simply stirring the pot to see if they can generate more dynamic nullspace through very steep and notable diffirences in the value of systems. there's nothing political about it. ccp didn't go out of it's way to trust-bust 0.0 because the big bad nc and drf went and killed it. they went in with the intention of making nullsec more interesting for everyone (coalition members included, believe it or not).if you aren't sold on their ideas, that's fine, and you've every right to post all the feedback you like. however, there is a fine line between constructive feedback and simply opposing something on the basis of conservatism. i don't think most of the opposition here realizes it, but they almost unilaterally come off as very conservative for the sake of their own ambitions. this is why (presumably) greyscale made it a point to say the changes will be made without regard to negative feedback. they are keenly aware of just how political the players make the game and they do not want politics to become a part of their reason to change or not change the game."
"we conquered this game so thoroughly that ccp is now attempting to break it to stop us winning so much and give a chance to allow the inferior groups a chance to keep up.i'm pretty smug right about now."
"finn, let me make sure i understand this.your problem (for the most part) is not that they are making the change, but why they are making the change.am i correct?"
"dictating player game style is critical for controlling hardware resource demands and staying ahead of player with new applicable software and events. and rpg gamemaster can tell you why it is quick disaster to let players do what they want without slose guidance. tehy quick decide to go in directions for which you haven't developed game material (or its still has not been fully debugged) -- often several factions go in totally different directions. bottomline: in the real world game providers have limited resources and time with which to provide new game material and stay ahead of lag while still remaining profitable. so they must herd the cats (players) in the general direction of new development. since this must be done anyway and a certain percentage of players will be irked no matter what -- why not go in the direction developer-player find most interesting. sure they can be wrong. but no more likely than any faction of players who want to be in control of game direction.plus players on their own tend to guide the game get into unimaginative and boring ruts and quit. i played my fantasy and proved i could be the best --time to move to a game i have less control over to prove i can conquer that too."
"on the carebear side...maybe ccp needs to invoke automatic player ejection if you refuse a certain number of combat challenges in a row. lol -- i think ccp has it right. the game is far from 100% pvp. if you want a pure pvp ladder sandbox -- go to another game."
"actaully its very easy for ccp to tap into regular player streams and see what you see. no ccp player in fleets required. ccp would just rather wait until they can play. lol - essentially like any staunch game player they want the bugs that effected them personally fixed first.of course more often it has to do with how big the problem is and how many people it effects and how often. to be right down blunt. the amount of code to be studied and optimized is huge involving potential almost all ship and combat coding. plus very few people spend a high percentage of eve time actually in fleet battle. so most (98%+) game play was not effected. so ccp delayed and tried to make sure that changes where done effectively and right rather than just quickly.yes the outcome of battles was critical to alliances and corps. yes big battles was supposed to be a centerpiece of eve game play. but ccp saw that the problem was not biased toward either side and both sides had an option to avoid larger combats. frankly those who complain are just impatient people. lol - that includes me.and for those intermittent bugs -- well we just need more of those folk who like to record their battles to post the video and the time hack when problems occur to the bug reports site. that sort of seeing would make quick believers of devs. of course the reproducibility issue still plays when the devs are trying to figure out what factors are causing the issue. that is devs need to reproduce errors to be able to capture debug data even after they are convinced there is a problem. so issue where they have no idea of the source or conditions to reproduce can take many scores of hours playing to capture debug info."
"i totally agree that pos need an overhaul given the strength of scs. having witness pos going down in no time with no chance for the pos gunners to do any damage to a fleet of scs, this needs attention."
"/signed"
"!"
"why are you supporting this?it's already happening."
"because its a great idea !! :)) lets have nice ship with a corp design or a solo design... even with predefined skins, it doesnt matter if there is a lot of combinations."
"why not :)"
"not supported.. will add to lag due to having extra stuff to load on grid, plus i don't care to see what bad taste in ship design u all have."
"you don't know that for certain, especially now that ccp are actively working on it. i mean they must have made some kind of breakthrough in that area because we all know the one thing they really hate is lag.and it's not going to allow freely designed paint jobs, just a different texture or two and a corp/alliance logo on the hull."
"love the idea (a lot) but the trick is going to be getting this implemented without falling under \"microtransactions\". this is the kind of thing that worries me most, that something cool but cosmetic will become pay to play instead of just something that enriches your existing game experience."
"just think how much happier we'd be with this (provided no impact on lag), than incarna. and i see this as a much easier task and much more anticipated by all players than wis. supported"
"i think it would be great to be able to remove rigs from ships."
"then they wouldn't be rigs, they'd be modules."
"no."
"you already can remove rigs from your ships."
"yes , but without destroying them."
"agreed. rigs are commitment to a specific hull and its built-in functionality. good as its is.maybe ccp could make it clearer that rigs are really hull customizations with refinements worked into the fabric over wide areas. perhaps some sort of hull etchings or growths. ecm rigs might add xmas lighting over hull. drive modifications might have some sort of \"spoiler\" or drive emission spikes.not a high priority to do that of course, since most people don't spend much of their time staring at one target close up."
"i suppose an alternative that still supports the idea of hull modifications but allows the idea of removal without damage would be...allow the proposal but make rigs have a long installation and removal time plus a good sized fee for labor.say 15% of rig material cost to install or remove -- and --5-15% of base hull construction time to add/remove a specific rig. some rigs could be a bit faster to install/remove than others.heck there is even an argument for even longer install times as modifications are not standardize part of hull blueprint and thus not 100% suitable for unsupervised robotic installation. i am sure that install times lasting hours for frigates to days for larger ships would tend to damp out most game balance considerations. but there would be economic impact at the higher end as people could swap rigs instead making major purchases that drive local mining etc.in any case this alternative would preserve the idea that rigs do not show up intact as part of loot. whether ccp wants to have rigs contribute minor amounts to salvage is up to ccp. but doing so should probably also open up the idea that structural damage could result in rig damage similar to thermal damage to modules. after all rigs should not be part of normal repair nor should they be as well protected as systems in the original bpo."
"just one problem big boy, the first year and a half i dedicated myself to gallente ships and the hybrid platform. i know how to use them....yes they take some skill to use, but they still suck. then i cross trained to try all the other races. hybrids/gallente boats have a serious problem when compared to other gun platforms. and this isn't the point of the post.i'm just saying that not once does a csm or a dev comment on the topics, and that in 2 years of complaining about blasters, even if it's been wrongly worded, it's still a problem at hand. some insight to how it should be worded would be nice."
"heh, and people wonder why there are those of us who won't ever touch or have the desire to go into 0.0 space. other than main market hubs, there's no lag in hi-sec. i agree though, a self proclaimed grand sandbox of a mmo, can hardly brag as much with such insane lag. supported."
"bump.totally agree with vlade.but, on the brightside, at least we will be able to lounge in our private quarters this summer.really ccp, do we really need this when the lag is this much of a problem?"
"too bad ccp cant setup up an overload server too handel big engagements so it makes playing well possible :)"
"half life 2 was released 7 years ago. pci-e graphics started becoming the standard 6 years ago, roughly the same time sm3 cards were released. why should a modern game run on your 6+ year old pc? assuming you have a case/psu/monitor you can upgrade to the minimum spec for eve for less than <U+FFFD>100. in those 6 years you'll have spent 6-10 times that amount on subscription fees.and if your answer to that is \"abloobloo but i have a laptop\" then you've hopefully learned an important lesson about gaming laptops. you don't see me complaining that my single core atom netbook won't run eve after they removed support for the classic client."
"this is what i say to people who have issues running eve, eve is 9 years old and has only recently been upgraded, other game engines like source, unreal etc are 5+ years old.you have to eventually get a new computer, whether it is eventual hardware failure or standard support being dropped, which is how computers got where they are today, to play the newest games. and with something like an mmo they do change over time."
"eve's requirements are a joke, just like those of all other mmo's. mmo's are designed to be run on office computers, not high end gaming rigs. the updated system requirements don't change that, they just require a computer built sometime within the past 5-8 years. that's really not asking too much."
"tldr - i started eve after someone else did, and it's not fair they have an advantage."
"no, what you'd see is reduced incentives towards territorial conquest (\"why bother fighting to take those tech moons, by the time we secure the region they'll be about ready to despawn and go somewhere else\"), megablocs encouraged to hold larger areas of unused space so that the next random respawn is more likely to be in their territory, and a secondary advantage to larger alliances who have the manpower resources to carry out regular co-ordinated moon-scans. the underlying problem that should be resolved is the hilarious disparity between tech (and to a lesser extent, neo) and everything else, not static deposits."
"lets take a closer look at whats changed in 0.0 only recently:atlas - dead, not dead, and dying some moreaaa - lost all their space, and then gets it backbob/it - dead, to rise again?nc losing space, gains it back, losing some morethis is all in the last 6 months or less. in the last 3 years i've lived in 0.0 you can watch this video to see what i've lived through. dominion came out dec 2009, enjoy the 2010 0.0 explosion. fast forward to 1:45 to skip nothing changing for about a year and a half."
"razer and mm have remained untouched mostly because they have been so far away from the frontlines of coalition conflicts for the last 3-4 years. i've pointed this out before, i will point it out again: if ccp wants to break up the coalitions, they have to extend the distance caps can jump. to break up a coalition, an invader needs to be able to hit different parts of the coalition to keep defenders bouncing around. as it is, coalition fights end up being static line defense for the most part. this leads to little more than wars of attrition, where the little/new guys always lose."
"moons do not pa for plex's anomalies do. why do u think plex price start raising? this anomaly nerf is here because most people in 0.0 have several account. with anomalies they can make enough iskies to pay with plex for them (they wernt able to do that before). this hurts ccp's wallet. this effect is much worse than l4's in high sec because most l4 dwellers have only 1 account. miority of steady eve players are the 0.0 ones."
"first time i've seen the argument that more active accounts is bad for ccp's finances.(you're pretty stupid)"
"something has to be done about the technetium spike. we are already at 100k, how high has it to go befor ccp is reacting to something that clear. alchemy would be i also think the best way to go. as it already exist, moons are still good to mine."
"well ya see the region with the highest concentration of tech moons is currently fighting off a drf/raiden invasion. moons are being reinforced, logistics to and from empire are being harassed, and super caps are dying at an unprecedented rate in eve history.tech spike? ya deal with it, or join the fight (on either side) to make your own change.-1 supporttake away moon goo, and why have 0.0 at all?"
"technetium is only an example.i try to approximate the prices of the moonmins in every group (r64 / r32 / r16 / r8)in every direction would be \"good\" moonmins"
"i think ccp should give us the option to use token keys like we use for internet banking for logging into eve.yes they cost money, but i'm sure a lot of people would pay the $15-$25 for this.i know i would."
"these are already coming...given to attendees at fanfest to test out."
"i would pay no more than 7 for this, and not pay shipping."
"i propose replacing market averages and price percentage warnings with the recycle value of an item based on average eve mineral prices. this is more useful to casual market users especially missioners. it implies nothing about proper sell order prices (the current composite market average generally implies that sell order prices should drop to be the same as buy orders).missioner might actually get treated more fairly in market transactions during loot disposal without spending extra time or burning out their two market-oriented brain cells.warnings based market averages are unrealistic in that they often do no reflect scarcity (supply and demand). in fact i have seen very scarce and high demand item prices fall due to the mission dumping and trader buy order purchases moving items to higher profit regions.i am not sure what is represented by the average of completed sell orders (available retail product on market) and completed buy orders (mostly missioners dumping loot without looking -- liquidation auction? ). while the composite has been around forever i suggest that ccp ask its economist why similar averages are not the primary indicators used in stock market and futures market."
"alot of the larger blocks are using jabber for 2 main reasons.1) it can alert users to eve events over a wide rarity of platforms2) its easy to get someones attention on jabbereve can mimic at least one of these great features by alerting users when either their name is dragged into a channel they have open or is linked in the channel by another user ( except local channel ofc )."
"what might be even more epic would be to change the chat system over to the jabber protocol in general - which would then allow people to connect to chat outside of the client."
"signed"
"i think its a good idea in general."
"spoken like someone who has never had to setup a pos, ihub, jump bridge network, built a station, and then spend countless hours defending all this from the other 50k+ people playing eve.sounds like you want no capitol ships, small scale pvp, and shifting resources that vary day to day. wormhole space is just a probe scan away my friend, go get'm."
"supported, op isn't exactly chaucer, but i understand what he's driving at and it's definitely what 0.0 needs.spoken like someone who spent one too many days setting up jb networks and infrastrcture for his coalition instead of having fun.sounds like you want supercaps, naping, and black-screen pvp that goes on without variation. you've done well for youself thus far, unfortunately ccp doesn't like those black-screens and 60 jumps of bff as much as you, so... might wanna try something more hardcore and boring like collecting stamps."
"supported. every resource should be depletable; moons, rats, roids and missions. the static nature of these resources is why eve is so horribly static as a whole."
"from another thread:"
"quotedagreed, but on couple conditions:1. mining any roids in high sec should come with a refining ban in all of that factions space - after all you're stealing their natural resources.2. as a thief you should be attacked by all navy and customs patrols as well as station guns.3. 0 insurance for any loses - after all which insurance company would insure someone going into combat at 20 : 1 odds or taking industrial ships into dangerous, pirate infested asteroid belts?4. a realistic income and vat tax (10 - 50% range) on all production and trade, after all those station managers and gate operators have to make a living somehow.why such worthless reply's its so low its gross.ganking is pathetic and extremely annoying and gets old quick, and for mining ships its not our fault that ccp cant give us enough cpu or power grid to properly use the mid slots on the barges.after all we don't want to ruin the 4 main empires and make them go out of business because of all the carebear free riders..."
"please oh please get this implemented... for every crime i commit i get 5k bounty addedcommit a few thousands crimes (no biggie)get out in blank clone podget alt to warp in and open fire????????????profit!!!"
"make concord equivalent of sanshas which will spawn on anyone below -5 standing against sanshas"
"bookmarks also have the following cumbersome properties:* only copy one per 2 sec into people & places;* only copy max 5 per job out of people & places or else random bookmarks among the set fail to copy silently;* cannot drag & drop them into a container that already holds bookmarks, unless you are using icon view and being very careful to drop in the cracks between icons - otherwise the transfer fails with \"those items are not stackable\" error;* drag & drop often silently fails with no bookmarks transferred despite giving audio feedback that it has succeeded;* no way to get rid of bookmarks besides transferring to people & places, or jettisoning them & blowing up the can;* causes client slowdown or freeze when attempting to open a container that holds only a few of them;* impossible to transfer them out of a container into people & places - must transfer to cargo first; necessitating 4 copy steps per bookmark you are attempting to propagate;* impossible to copy or propagate bookmarks while in a pod;* impossible to copy or propagate bookmarks while cloaked (and pretty much every person who lives in wormspace flies a cloaky ship a significant fraction of the time);* copied bookmarks reset their creation time to the time they were last copied, making it necessary to add additional timestamps in the bookmark's name;* impossible to get any info on a bookmark about timestamp or system without first copying the bookmark to people & places;... & probably many more i haven't thought of off the top of my head. careful herding of unruly bookmarks is a never ending headache for wormspace dwellers!"
"^this.supported. explorers selling bookmarks are incredibly courageous..."
"partly agree. bookmarks need an overhaul, they have too many current limitations. eg. i'd like a to see a function where you can make a copy of a boomark that you have, keeping the one you have in your people & places & handing the other one over to a corp mate."
"yes please!"
"recently we have seen incidences we have seen alliances being disbanded by one person, that shouldn't happen any disbandment should be put to the vote and not have a one click disbandment."
"due to abysmal voting results theres alot of extra plex which will be donated to plex for japan.any plex prizes that aren't won from the signature bonus draw will also be included in this contract.soe shares will no-longer be paid out nor will they be worth anything and this character will no longer be played. i'm not at all upset about not getting a seat, i am however extremely ****ed that i didn't get my csm tool released, i spent alot of time on it and took many days off work to design it. i hope to have it out some time soon :|peace!"
"so-you are doing it wrong imo. just trying to help out. all you really need to do is promise plex, not deliver plex. just skin the saps and give them courier box renamed plex. it is easy, fun and makes you most infamous candidate overnight. but mad props to you for donating plex to japan. i would donate plex to them but i have like 140misk to my name. well at least till this domination control tower i ganked form some sap actually sells."
"i support this product and or service"
"skanthra and i support this product and/or service"
"i will donate one on your behalf."
"uaxdeath is a really good friend of mittens.so it's more like 6-3"
"please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"you can have delve, don't tell your friends though or everyone will be asking"
"you can't tell me what to do!"
"i ate a bucket full of icelandic lobsters last night and what came out of my ass this morning looked like the end of eve~"
"how is the local food? i'm curious."
"the restaurants here own if you're a pro and stay in old reyk and avoid all the crappy places by the fanfest venue"
"confirming there are some excellent restaurants here. expect to pay at least 1800 isk for a meal tho, not including drinks.you can find some recommendations here:"
"so i went on an 8 day bender in reyk, win the csm election, and come back to find some angry dude who signs every post he makes is starting a petition to tentonhammer because he's so upset with megod damn my life owns"
"sorry trebor. finally figured out why i don't like you; and why you have such an obsession over the character generator.i never liked people who love"
"john, i (ms pacman) did not make use of dierdra's vote match.i believe 7 others also didn't make use of that.it would be an interesting issue for your blog to find out how much influence vote-match may have had.perhaps dierdra can provide you some numbers :)"
"i've heard a lot about how csm6 doesn't represent the eve populace, since csm6 is heavily stocked with null-sec members. i know that most null-sec issues don't represent my concerns as a (mostly) high-sec player. but what is the breakdown of players in eve? i haven't seen one lately. what are the percentages of players in null, low, and high-sec? i know it'll be somewhat ambiguous since there's a lot of overlap even in a given day (let alone over weeks or months).it seems like the csm should have this kind of information available to help them choose which issues to champion."
"you do have the issue of removing mining bots in empire from the census...i know between places like nakugard, kamio, arshat and other 'quiet' systems you find 5-20 bots a day. i can't see them counting. then you have missioning bots, /gag . how to come up real numbers is a trick. most people in null are real from my experience, though most also have 3-10 accounts. again, should you could characters or actual account owners?"
"i'd suggest you reach out to some reps with your core issues and see their thoughts on it. just because somebody is currently in a 0.0 alliance doesn't mean that defines their voting pattern nor does it impact their desire to see eve fixed for everybody. if you find a rep who doesn't share your enjoyment for a particular playing style this would be a perfect time to reach out and teach them a bit so they can represent you better.as for the breakdown of reps this is extremely foreseeable. 0.0 is by definition made up of voting blocs where empire candidates will never have that benefit. your job is going to be to make sure that all reps are as read up on your important issues as possible so we can better lobby on your behalf."
"the breakdown of eve population is visible in the qens.now, there's always been delegates to support every play style in each csm, sometimes more, sometimes less. and a couple (like me) who have had experience in all of play styles and don't favour one over the other.that being said, some 0.0 candidates have historically been positive advocates of highsec specific measures, and others haven't been hindrances. so you may want to check out each candidate individually.also, we're checking the csm section of the forum for interesting proposals to raise anyway. so don't be too scared not to be represented, unless you have terrible ideas, they'll get attention."
"i just want to echo the other two here.just because some of us are 0.0 or empire residence does not mean we can't step in to represent the other areas. i would imagine that each of the delegates has a firm grasp of most areas. while we may care more put issues that affect one area or another we will not ignore other areas because we dont live them every day. i can tell you i specifically do care about high sec and how things work there even though my main character doesn't live there. as noted the qen has a lot of the details i think you are looking for.at this point the 2 recommendations already give are very good ones. determine if one of the candidates aligned to represent you the best and reach out to him. and don't hesitate to post your ideas.. they are reviewed."
"cosmos missions : they are like other missions. they offer nothing other than different texts and other brackets to tank and shoot. incursions are kind of new missions.faction warfare anti blobbing?? how will you do that then? what ever they manage to fix for making 0.0 pvp work for small groups, will work for fw. good luck coming up with anything for this that is not exploitable.anyway, the 0.0 reps will have no issues with 'supporting' your wishes."
"i represent my voters, not random dudes with entitlement complexes who assume that 'the playerbase' means 'ignoring everyone who voted for candidates who they personally don't like'."
"my chairman"
"this is why the csm in it's current form isn't as effective as it should be.we as a customer base have a great opportunity here to really make the csm a valuable addition to the game,to make it better.ccp won't ever give the csm any real power as long as people like yourself bring your in-game politics to the table and are only interested in representing a certain group of people.wether people voted for you or not you are supposed to represent us all and help improve the game.this csm so far is off to a really bad start and it looks like it'll be as useful as a chocolate teapot..... little reminder of what you're suppose to do.....the purpose of the csm is to represent society interests to ccp. this requires active engagement with the player community to master eve issue awareness, understanding, and evaluation in the context of the greatest good for the greater player base.not the greatest good for the small numbers who voted for you or the greatest good for your coalition !"
"you had all my three votes !thought you should've been nr 1 shame still hope you can get something done in the alternate spoti fully support your look on game improvement and realy think ccp should work this game out before destroying it's great potential !"
"i will violence your boat-to get your vote! *****************************additional content removed request to moderator: remove chatlogs on page 1 please as they are lies, all lies :d"
"and may be a little more cpu since moon reactions take up a hole pos, truly terrible."
"yo we want a pos mod onlining queue poses make me want to stab myself in the eye just thinking about them holy ****ok peace out im thinkin bout you, pos dudes, gonna pour out a 40 in your honor~"
"do want."
"trails or velocity vectors, yes."
"supportedfirst get current game on a higher level before we can even think of the presented 'eve future'"
"yes please."
"so, logically speaking, this would be like your character getting bashed upside the head and selectively getting amnesia? so you would then unlearn what you never knew you had... oh, wait... what the hell is mining laser? oh damnit, i didn't wanna know that! go on bash me upside the head again! wait, so what's this thing again? dunno dude, sounds like i could care less."
"i totally support this........the drone sub needs work......and an extra slot would be urgently needed....."
"supported, legion needs some love."
"the legion feels restricted.instead of a specific buff, i would rather ccp add more subsystems to all t3 ships and make the legion one pretty ****ing amazing compared to the others."
"+1 for nerfbat."
"ffs people, a dram is elite faction. it's cost is 10x or more of t1's and 3-4x's more than afs, i would definitely expect for it to be better. risk vs reward! that's what eve is! cause if i fly one and f'up then i pay a high price for it! there have been a number of threads on this debate already. it comes down to people whining cause they are ill prepared and don't want to have to adjust tactics. well hell, adjust or die. they have a dram, come out in a daredevil or even a sentinel could work. so why not use what's commonly know as tactics and planning and quit whinning. heh, not to mention the ship is available to everyone! whether you choose to invest in the dram elite/risk is up to you! but stop being babies because others choose to use the ship.btw, drams have been killed by a well fitted badger mk ii, so the idea of it's impossibly difficult to kill and it can gtfo whenever it decides is total crap. use your brains for once and make that dram pilot cry over his loss."
"of course supported, in a big way!"
"all hybrids boasthave fleets not be all abbadons and malestorms."
"yup, supported! it's well overdue to update the hybrids overall, but i don't know about your spike range reduction... aren't they suppose to be the longest range weapon in eve? also lightest damage? perhaps better tracking instead? over supported though."
"yo anyone who thinks they can get in the way of out of game social bonds forged over alcohol is a dummyi wouldn<U+FFFD>t worry about it just chill out, even if they do something silly like try to make a standings limit folks will just use jabber to metagame around it and the dev in question will look dumb vovnbdpeace out chairman lmao signing off"
"this is the first time ive ever seen someone backpedal before getting on a bike...what happened to \"they want to nerf us??? what! i am running for csm to stop this insanity.\"not to introduce actual substance to this post either - but i dont think the point of ccps stance is to hard counter blobbing by saying \"nope sorry you can only have 8 friends\" im fairly sure the point is to introduce incentives for conflict and to breed a climate in 0.0 where it is more practical to have smaller localised wars (not small btw... just small enough to be handled by the server)but go ahead keep claiming the reason you are blue to all these people most of who you dont know is because you are such good friends."
"hey hey hey all 50,000 of them are blood-brothers for life yo. if any of them were to have a child that kid would become world record holder for 'most god-fathers'."
"if this thread isn't a reason for an ignore button in the forums i don't know what it would be.zero is sooo annoyingwould have been a good discussion without his pap - why even the chairman blessed us with a snide remark."
"i know, someone whose arguments are logically sound must drive people absolutely wild when they just know that they're right but somehow can't actually prove it. take arms against a sea of troubles."
"i absolutely know that ccp should not be messing with stuff because i saw a trailer for a patch 2 years ago.our logic is undeniable. you will be assimilated! in the face of such an argument i would most likely start sperging like mad about trolling, my own sophistication/superiority and how clearly handsome my portrait is."
"actually, the fact that our arguments are correct is the reason why we see so much trolling like yours. \"reasons x, y and z show why the changes won't produce the desires effects and reasons a, b and c are why ccp should not be manipulating things in such a fashion anyways.\"\"you're crying, tears, tears, there are tears!!!\""
"actually its like this:you - \"bawww they are taking our sanctums, i read it in a dev blog\"us - \" but look, your getting a whole grip of new complexes to do, it says it in this dev blog\"you - \" that dev blog doesn't count it could never happen\"maybe now you can see why we all think all of you are mentally unstable."
"heres a list of blaster/drone boats.drone:myrmishtarcursesentinaldramielrattlesnakeblaster:megahypevindivigilantdiemosbrutixtaranisddboth:domiishkurand these are the ships you think need a buff?????? what else are you wrong about?????????you're right, they're awesome and i should add: overpowerd !!that's wy i'm training minie stuff now, i like challenge."
"you mean to say i can't make isk solo anymore? i don't like having to find someone to run the site with for my isk, let alone the chance to get a ****ty drop. again, it's called risk vs reward. nullsec is the riskist eve environment, it should have the largest payout. so the static haven/sanctums should be present everywhere with the new complexes following the new true sec proposal.and for those of you who are whining nullsec is boring and there's no pvp bc of all the napfest, well i'd say it's bc a large alliance like pl comes in and forces smaller alliances to blue up everyone and their mother to survive."
"you are literally just wrong. im not going to sit here and explain drone agro to you because you are too stupid to figure it out for yourself.needless to say ive been using droneboats for years and the last time it was buggy was when training the drone movement speed higher than the drone tracking speed would cause the drones not to track anything. and that was about 4 years ago.ask yourself why it is that i could use drones about 700 times in my most used weapons and have never had an issue with them, while you have used them for less than half that and you seem to think theres an issue with them?i mean... really... look at your most used ships..."
"that'd be you lying in order to engage in some fail trolling, naturally. likewise, that'd you lying in order to engage in some more fail trolling. because you're hallucinating things i didn't say and having delusions of multiplicity in which a handfull of trolls are \"all\" people? do you not find it odd that you can only base your trolling on blatant lies? what, do you think, it says about your argument that the only possible way to support it is by making things up? minigin trolling, again? and demonstrating that he doesn't know how killboards tally up weapons used (and ignoring all other instances in which drones are used) so that he's hoisted by his own petard, to boot? ignorant, angry, unintelligent and trolling? what're the odds? of course, coupled with kb-based epeen flailing, \"i can't explain it... because of you!\" pedagogy, and ranting about how someone (else) is supposed to be stupid when he can't spell the word 'convinced' and thinks that it has an \"s\" in it... it's like being brutally savaged by a very angry chipmunk."
"why do you say this? it takes the role of a dread, while a dread fears a deathstar pos. a bit op no? i think so :pyou don't siege a lone dread on a pos bc it will die, the same should hold true for the sc."
"in some fanfest presentation there was talk about an x-large pos able to fend off supercapsbut thats just talk atm"
"supported... to counter the 50% bonus to damage to capitals, give dreads in siege mode a 50% reduction in damage from pos modules :)"
"now that would be viable to bring back utility to dreads again while giving a real reason to anchor a pos."
"supers are overpowered, +1!"
"no, because one of the major rules in eve is: never underestimate the stupidity of other players.i don't want majority voting of the player base to have that sort of effect on the game."
"pretty much this.no matter how much the csm decide to vote in their personal/alliance interests, at least most of the have some kind of a clue about the game.also the biggest problem with player based voting would be the lack of dialog. no, troll infested forums don't count."
"please, people, if you support the idea, dont forget to activate the checkbox \"support this topic: check here if you want to give your support to the idea/discussion going on\" !!!thanks you all :)"
"watch the art presentation.they're not doing it, mostly because of the internet law known as 'time to *****.'we don't need thorax's flying around looking like giant space*ocks."
"all shuttles need to be able to fit a single gatling pulse laser 1 to it. for to long shuttles have been defenceless targets that can warp realy fast, and this needs to change now.buff:give shuttles 1 highslot 1 turretslot 4cpu and 5pg and maby enough cap so it can perma fire it with a standard crystal.i want to see a 100man shuttle blob kill a hulk by bumping+laz0rs."
"i think it would be good if when you destroy a character on your account, you could reimburse the skillpoints that were on that character on another character in the same account. the same part is key so someone can't have 4 accounts and just kill the chars on 3 of them to superboost one of them. this keeps it so that you only gain the skillpoints you paid for on that account.seems fair to me, wouldn't you all like to be able to do this?"
"no."
"my solution did state that it would need a station/pos interface. i know having it on the fly so you could update it from anywhere would be too powerful."
"the problem is that rigs have pretty much become like modules: leaving a rig slot empty is like leaving a module slot empty. rigs should be changed to correctly fulfill their original vision: option semi-permanent ship customizations to specialize a hull. i.e. meaningful and significant drawbacks (5% velocity decrease or sig increase is not a meaningful drawback) that would prevent people from using rigs slots as additional damage mod, tank mod, velocity mod, or etc. maybe rigs can change a ship's bonuses or do drastic changes such as halfing a ship's hp and in exchange doubling its turret optimal and targeting range (ie turning a thorax from a close range blasterboat into a sniper platform). just throwing out some ideas. but yea, back to the topic: making rigs freely removable would be taking a step in the opposite direction. rigs should not be another tier of modules"
"if your ships are cheap enough that the rigs are a significant portion of the cost, buy another one and rig it. now you have two ships.if the ship is expensive enough that you can't afford another one, why is the cost of the rig an issue at all?"
"i'm sad that rigs are in the t3 hull and not the t3 subsystems, but this thing you're proposing i don't see the value in."
"the only rig change i'd like is a rig subsystem for t3's, rather than having to own a separate hull for every rig setup you want."
"how about a \"modular rigging\" skill for t3s that increases the successful chance of disengaging a rig. success means you get the rig back and unsuccessfully means it is destroyed."
"personal information removed. zymurgisti had 2 chars on this account and i had began a trade with xxgrim reaperxx. the orininal add he posted on the forums was for a char with positive sec and wallet. the second the char was transferd to me my whole account got banned for buying isk. all of my toons still have healthy wallets my 7day ban is now up which i have lost from my gaming time and the new char i had transfered to me now has a wallet balance of -4.45billthis is highly unfair to me and i would like my wallet setting back to 0 with xxgrim reaper. please tell me what can be done as it is eating away at my game time and also 7 days have already been taken away from my other two characters on this account because of the previous owners illminded behaviour.kind regardsdeep"
"you should seriously edit your op a bit if you dont want to get hit worse. buying accounts is against the eula, you are only allowed to buy characters."
"rotflmaothank you so much... i seriously needed a good laugh."
"ah so your an alt then?"
"pretty sure there is a petition system already in place to handle such problems. pretty sure ah isn't the place for this post. pretty sure this thread will soon be locked.in before lock."
"i propose an addition to the courier contract application that would allow you to set a specific time you want a courier contract completed by. if its delivered by that time, the courier gets a bonus which you also set. if the contract is completed after the scheduled time, the bonus is not paid out.that simple. this way, the bonus is secured by the contract itself."
"do it!"
"yes! love it!"
"i think this is a very nice idea but if it will ever happen??i am afraid it is more about ccp not being able to make something like this as it is about them not wanting to make it.but if they could they should.."
"i really like your idea of security decks and the semi-based security % per system security level. that's very logical. i don't know about personal shielding, but different styles and levels of armor, both discreet (under clothes or underarmor if u will) or more exterior armor would be cool. also, don't know if this has been suggested yet (tl;dr all thread), but i would imagine that deck security 1.0 would have hi-end weapon detectors, to prevent anything but a brawl from happening, to which ofcourse could imprison or fine you. this little bit of \"give\" for the common carebear or noob, should be implemented. imagine being in an airport in the us the day after 9/11. good luck even passing security with so much as a pointed comb or a paperclip. the goal here is to make this immersive and playable with choice risk and limited no choice risk decisions. should there be pvp in stations, absolutely! should it be in the spirit of the eve we have now, ofcourse. we just need to keep that balance of risk vs reward system and things should be fine and enjoyable for everyone. btw, i would say that 1.0 deck security levels be a very small percentage, reserved for banking, market trading, insurance... the very basic of services. bars/gambling/games... below 1.0, with said police response time... may the ninja'ing begin."
"...and in the process drive the prices of t2 gear through the roof. think before you post, please."
"supported."
"my estimation of running anomalies based on personal and corpmate experience in a -0.07 truesec system:sanctums: 30-100m/hrhavens: 20-60m/hrhubs: 10-30m/hr ports: 6-15m/hrbelt ratting: 4-8m/hr. imo, the \"nerf\" to system upgrades is highly desirable. dominion made all of null-sec extremely profitable. way tooo much soo!!!! when it takes the average player only a few days to replace a dread loss, there is a problem! besides, with the proposed changes, there will be plenty of hubs to do in a -0.07 system, which are better than mission running because a) they are in your home systems and b) faction spawns. the changes will also make -0.9 systems highly desirable, with more sanctums and havens == better isk, more targets, and more conflict!!! conflict happens because the grass is greener on the other side... null-sec atm is too fertile... and needs some spermicide before every newb is flying a supercarrier!!!"
"someone could post ascii goatse in thier bio, and it would get reported, why should this be any different?"
"edit: delete thread, op didn't do his research /bonk"
"ships and bpcs in fw lp stores are half the cost compared to empire lp stores.combined with stupidly easy missions (lol-bomber) and low-sec level lp rewards, whoring fw missions is one of the most lucrative things in eve.if anything it should be nerfed to reduce income, 90%+ of the militias are mission runners who never actually participate in the wars.moving lp gain to killing and plexing (after plexes are fixed) makes a lot more sense .. fw should be pvp/rp first and isk second."
"ccp isn't really responsible; for what evga puts on the table. that being said, those cards are on the inexpensive side, mostly; and a new motherboard, which will support them, is less than a hundred dollars. about $50-$57 usd/cad. it'll even last a few years, and be in keeping with most of your old hardware; depending on the board you get, and current system spec's. pci-e is highly available.here's some options:1155 socket/ddr3 $601155 i3 $125775 socket/ddr2 $60775 socket/ddr3 $55am2/am2+ amd/1066 ddr2 $35..and i skipped 1156.a few changes can be pretty cheap; for a desktop pc. can't help you much; on the laptop's, as the only ones i like, are >$1000i.e: sample of pure awesome"
"this would like the poor gameplay being improved but if i had to choose i'd rather like awesome graphics"
"oh please, eve is not really demanding on hardware...i've been running on lowest settings on a athlon64 rig w/ 1g ram (not because i have to, because i value frame rate above everything else) since i started playing.i dont even remember how old that thing is, just recently found out it must be really ancient when they dropped support for sse2 incapable cpus and it turned out it came out shortly after sse2 did. have been running two clients just fine until incursion with it.since my similarly ancient gpu burned out recently i was forced to pick up a new one for 90 (cheapest i could readily pick up over the weekend), and now running without everything on max settings seems like a waste.about 500 invested in hardware in the last 9 years was enough, i could have made that much by begging on the streets in that time without any problem..."
"drake draconis - proof that sometimes the primordial algae does indeed find it's way to a computer with an internet connection"
"solution:1- buy a 300-400$ desktop pc. it will last for another few years.2 - dont use a mac laptop for gaming. i have a macbook, and its perfomance is subpar due to lack of driver & design support. macbooks are not made for gaming, you will be better off with a desktop."
"i totally get the ongoing childish need for eye candy. imaginations have all but been destroyed by a constant multimedia blitz on all our senses.anyway, rather than just keep on blindly increasing eve's graphical technology and complexity, why not introduce a reason beyond fapping for doing it?subsystem targetting, geological surveying, drill mining anything really. some sort of mechanic that would actually need the graphics you keep pointlessly drawing and adding."
"what? slow it down even more, cause you don't want to upgrade? or are too cheap to spend $80 for a graphics card upgrade? really? seriously, just how ancient is you pc? i'm sure the myan's had better tech. seriously though, you must be doing it wrong, cause i use only a dual core 2.7 ghz w/ an old 500 mb ram graphics card and can run 3 clients on a dual monitor... pretty much flawlessly. granted, i don't have everything cranked up on graphics, but everything is on medium or low settings with all but the shader on. heh, and my pc has to be 5-6 years old. and guess what, i have plenty of bills and two young kids to feed, yet somehow i manage to put aside cash here and there to save up towards my new pc for sometime this year. and i don't upgrade because i have too; i want to upgrade cause i'm not a lazy a$$, and i want to have some kick a$$ graphics and performance because i love to play eve! so you'll have to excuse me for having zero compassion for your pity party. if you truly can't keep up from 6 - 10 years ago, then you have greater problems and you have priority failure and should just stop putting money into a game(s). take care of you stuff, save up and upgrade. you wouldn't fit a hac with t1 weapons would you? samething here, don't play it until you have the skill or rescources to do it right! don't play/fly what you can't afford to lose. wise words both in and out of game. btw, there are plenty of wholesale, pc websites that have great deals on hardware... newegg.com and tigerdirect.com come to mind. those are us companies, but if you're overseas i'm sure they can ship or there's probably a euro solution like them as well. don't hate the game, hate your crappy hardware."
"when i married ccp it was \"til death do us part\". that was back in october of 2005. i've since obliterated many player controlled and puter run pixels and met many a good human from across the planet as well as some morons. mainly goodly peeps even in the piratey world. after playing mmo's the majority of my adult life... shiot, i forgot what i was saying. enjoy urselves. too many beers have my brain currently clouded. party hard"
"indeed."
"several weeks ago, eve client decided to crash on my machine..after several months of stable work. that happened when i was warping to 0 m to the station. as soon as i saw the station, it crashed.result = i found out my pod when i re-logged into the game minute later.my pod was on some distance from station, so game automatically warped my pod to the station again, but as soon as i saw it again...boom...crashed.when started the game and logged in again...no more pod...killed as well by pirate gang..i opened petition, but after more than a month of writing , nothing is returned and ccp is declining to reimburse my lost ship and implants, which costs close to 2 bil. isk. i offered to provide access to my machine, where in windows even log i found those 2 crashes and detailed information, i sent them that log file, but they do not want to do anything....it seems, that after playing eve for 8 years, time to stop, because i am sure, that when next time client will crash and i will loose my last money or something else, ccp will also decline to return it.good job, ccp. loose customers instead of gaining them !"
"bolded the reason you are wrong. suck it up and stop spamming whines about this everywhere. software issues on your machine have never been cause for reimbursement.take your lumps and stop crying about pixels. it's embarrassing."
"this was posted by an:alcoholicanonymousscum sry malcanis it was too easy"
"this has been posted in 2 other forums already. i would think making your point once is enough, but that is just my opinion.eve new citizens q&ageneral discussion"
"when you open the information window for any corporation there is an agent list tab. this tab lists all the agents by type of agent, such as intelligence or administration. when you open one of these \"folders\" a list of agents for that type drops down. the information provided includes agent name, location, and level. perhaps this is a small thing, but is it too much to ask to have the number of jumps added to this information. isnt the reason why you look at this list of agents is because you want to find an agent for this corporation? it would be very useful to know which level 4 agent is the closest to your location. proposal - add the number of jumps to the information listed for agents in the agent list for corporations."
"@op: all isk faucets needs to be addressed and reading the blog it looks like they may well be. plexes were just first because it was the easiest to do.there is way too much isk and it is way too easy to get at .. even without bots/macros. the infinite is"
"you must do something about this constant isk making machine! that is bots!"
"i support extending alchemy to all r32 and r64 moon minerals"
"wow this is so cool"
"don't you dare!!! :d unless you mean donate to japan, which would be awesome. but please don't dare donate one to the public, seething masses begging at your door. even though vile plex grubbing pubbies did get me elected when i stole their votes. :d"
"it will be fun to watch the goons and buddies go emo-rage when ccp decides to make large coalitions not viable anymore despite all of their candidates in csm though"
"sigh another cry for attention"
"bah, jump bridges removal will be a good start"
"whatcha gonna do brother when the 24 inch pythons of democracy get ahold of you"
"nah, there won't be any ragequitting. you'll just see all the bffs roll up into one alliance. fancy seeing a 13,000 member goonswarm?"
"the law of unintended consequences is a mega*****. especially as systems approach the upper bounds for complexity. my, how well the sovereignty revamp worked in dominion. or the moon mining revamp works to get us away from the dyspro bottleneck. boy howdy, what we need is another change just like that."
"i crashed it, so what? it was all a test..."
"the best thing about the csm being smug was what grayscale did at fanfest, mittani was all like \"yo dude im pro, ccp aint got nothing on me, we can blob and do everything we want, ccp wont do anything to 0.0\".grayscale was like \"ok well this seems like an interesting discussion, nothing more to see here\" and bam blog about nerfing nc pets oops i mean anoms.just shows that ccp are in charge not nc no matter how important you think you are.pure genius from ccp"
"i don't think thats how that conversation went at all..."
"just like kalle's claims that the nc only has 20 titans and 8 supercarriers, it's generally best to take her claims with a watermelon sized grain of salt. the anom change is, rather than a serious assault on anything (odd that kalle focuses, one might say obsesses, about the nc), just another example of ccp being hamfisted when subtlety and well thought out action is called for. there were coalitions and massive fleets before anomalies. there still will be after them."
"heard you were crying over the anom changes too, your life does own indeed, btw understanding body language isnt hard, just saying"
"you actually didn't..it was a link that took you directly to the \"thanks for voting for <player>\" page.look above"
"in the real world people who clicked the links taking them to the voting page still had to click the \"vote\" button. perhaps you should leave your paranoia filled misinformation campaign back in 1999 when people feel for such *******s."
"thanks for the suggestions, i have and am following up on them. for those watching at home... the raw breakdown of eve population is about 55% empire, 35% null-sec, with the rest split between wormholes and low-sec (leaning mostly toward wormholes). given the prevalence of bots and the like, it is possible that null-sec accounts for 40-45% of actual players (just guessing). so a null-sec living csm isn't as unrepresentative as instinct would suggest.as for marshaling my concerns and choosing a rep to bring them to, that seems an excellent suggestion. at the very worst i'll pick the wrong rep, at best i may find someone like-minded on the csm.thanks for your time, both in this thread and in the coming year."
"you'd be surprised on how many of the empire players are actually alts of 0.0 players."
"i guess the thing i find interesting about this \"null sec controlling the csm\" concept is that we all mostly started out in the same place and have a decent appreciation of how inter-connected eve is. due to the restrictive nature of certain aspects of 0.0, the alliances simply have to deal with empire players on a day to day basis. alliances have empire-based production corps, logistics, etc... i mean, even mittani knows he needs people in empire to build ammo for his alliance's maelstroms and i once watched him give an inspired presentation about low-sec iteration at an eve meet in vegas.players don't end up leading alliances or playing eve for 6-7 years without understanding these nuances very well. in that respect, i believe csm 6 might be much more 'representative' than some would like to realize."
"fixed that for ya.... (sorry couldn't resist)"
"the reason i asked was that this is the first time to my knowledge there has been an organized effort by a coalition toward candidates. did mittani and company use their null alliances to get seats on csm? sure. the question is, what was the intention beyond getting seats? was/is there any overall strategy by the null-sec people to \"control\" csm? seems unlikely, but then i would've said the same about alliances banding together behind candidates too.perhaps i gained a false perspective from the vote match site. i used it as one of the tools to research my vote. i also read all the summaries, and read a lot of the jita speakers posts as well.edit: as a side note, mittani using his alliance contacts to organize a voting bloc to get a seat, even the chair, is perfectly reasonable. it only becomes suspect if there's an evil hidden agenda emperor palpatine style. of course, even then, one needs to recall the perspective that csm isn't a ruling body but an advisory council with only as much authority, access, and audience as ccp allows.i know my concerns for eve won't be totally unrepresented, but i do wonder if ccp's outlook on what the players want will be skewed by a biased csm with an agenda (though there's no evidence that csm6 is biased or has an agenda)."
"im basically a walking talking posting hidden agenda, hth"
"i stole page 12 of the hidden agenda document before i left iceland but apparently the whole thing is just pictures of your puppy. what shenanigans is this?"
"it's... it's a cookbook!"
"the guacamole recipe is particularly inspired. who would have ever thought to put roasted garlic in?"
"that just goes to show how deep the corruption is in ccp. everybody knows that fresh garlic is what you put in guacamole."
"this should be an interesting csm judging from this thread. also this thread made my day."
"what you've actually got there is mittani's \"hidden gender\" document, the two are easily confused."
"i'm really really really obsessed with trying whale steak now..."
