"supporting for awesome"
"i'm not certain if ccp should do this, but they should definitely look at the idea and consider it.+1"
"i support!we want to change our bloodline, ancestry, even school, like we changed our portrait.about race change...i think, that if we can redo our origins and appareance,it is best to be able to change everything, and not just a few minor details. :/i liked caldari deteis when i created my account, but now, with the new charachter creator, i prefer sebiestors, or intakis i really would change."
"/signedlet us change our bloodlines."
"/signed"
"there is something strangely appealing about this."
"supported as well, though personally i would also suggest increasing the redock timer from 1 minute to 2 in some cases.basically combat support actions such as rr, remote sensor boosting, etc... will give you the standard 1 minute redock timer.shooting however, saddles you with an increased one, making deagressing quite a bit harder."
"too many unrelated ramifications to such a change. and i say this having been on the receiving end of this tactic far more often than the giving side.not supported.repping is not an aggressive action which is why it doesn't force a session timer for docking/jumping. and it shouldn't. as far as neutral rr goes the only difference is when you can engage the rr. hell it's not like it's even a big surprise if you see a bunch of logi's sitting on undock you might as well just assume they are neutral rr and have them pre-targeted for when they go flashy so you can drive them off, neut or jam them.in the end it doesn't matter if you can kill the logi just whether you drive them off the field or remove them from the fight so you can finish off your main target. simple solutions usually aren't. if you think the solution to any problem is simple then the odds are you just haven't considered it enough."
"i endorse this. there are a lot of excellent ideas here. hell, ccp should open up the apis more in general as long as they're working on them anyway.edit: posted on my blog and on twitter and encouraged others to support this."
"supported.the proposal speaks for itself. with better contracts will the eve community be able to do easier business."
"1.0"
"lets get this done."
"bump.i had originally wanted this thread to have a 100% support rate, to illustrate the concrete need for the change. i suppose i was being too proud.during initial testing, ccp found they enjoyed using shield buffer tanks for their legions, allowing them to fit excellent damage and speed with their high medium slot count. however, the lack of any shield bonuses makes this a bad idea that should have been dropped instead of clung to. even then, getting 5 medium slots isn't worth the terrible damage output of the drone and covert ops subsystems. the curse enjoys the most medium slots of any amarr ship, only because it has excellent ewar bonuses. perhaps a tracking disruptor bonus was intended for the 5th legion subsystem, but with the apparent cancellation of that project the 5th medium slot needs to go.edit:hirana yoshida, i'm suggesting the legion be balanced with other t3's, not overpowered. 8 slots would be clearly overpowered.as for 2 med slots, the only case where that would happen is a command/rr defensive sub with a scanning/neut electronics sub, an incredibly rare combination."
"wow so baisically ccp is saying it can not do much against bots?so everyone should get a bot! or change the game mechanics in a way that eve is so easy that you dont need a bot!how much time do they dedicate every day to find a solution? dont they realize that this problem grows bigger and bigger and destroys the game?does anyone from ccp reacted to this thread other then telling us nothing can be done? lol botters you do realize that you will play the game alone someday? may the best bot win!"
"cheating is bad. cheaters will ruin this game if they can continue without any action from ccp. supported!"
"part of the problem with this is a lot of pilots block chat requests, ignore them, or can at times be completely present but alt tabbed (i browse websites between asteroids or look to my other screen with my other client, and yes i miss stuff on my other screen at times). if someone yanks me into a chat, if i am in combat, or as i said doing something else, it has been a good hour before i even look at my active chat tab. while not everyone may be as space case as i am at times (or i'm simply in a condition or altered state of mind) it is highly probably that such a purge like system would result in numerous bans and warnings to people who are actively playing the game as per the eula.i would still not hesitate to page on a guy that has 10 miners all the same damned name, flying the same ship, activating the same time, and the name alone is something that is a sjdghuy3a232dfs as the guy has probably been banned numerous times and just keeps making new characters."
"i've seem and heard many stories bots and their exploits, but i'd never personally had problems with one until today. i bought some hardwirings and put them on the market, only to promptly get run over by the .01 isk bots. people in this thread are saying the ccp might be looking the other way on these bots because they don't want to lose the accounts, but what about the accounts they are losing because people join the game to do this, that or the other and get run over by these botters. my one experience with the bots today made me not play and go do something else with my day. if these market bots are the rule and not the exception, i won't be around to see whatever incarna looks like. i also wonder how many people who are fed up with the bots tell people not to bother with this game.blizzard did a pretty good job of squashing bots, as have other companies. it can be done. if ccp can't or won't, than it does not bode well for eve or their future projects, no matter how imaginative they are. no one will want to play dust or wod if it is filled with botters and hackers."
"you can't really ignore a gm when he's trying to contact you. plus its oxymoron to argue about the guys \"reality\" when he's been playing for 20 hours straight every day for the last 3 months.anyways, a little more effort than the unholy rage when planets are aligned would be great."
"they need to find ideas to solve this problem.why not randomize some dropdown menus for example?if they dont sovle this problem it will spread more and more and people in mmo land will realize that eve is a bot and macro game! then ccp can make it a bot championship cause no casual player will subscribe!!!i love eve but the botting problem lowers my motivation. ccp! you will looose more subs cause of this then you win cause of bot-subs.anyway the bot subs pay with plex...wake up ccp!!! now or you will have a big marketing problem in future."
"they do change the drop downs from time to time. then again the latest bots don't even use the client anymore so i'm not sure how much good that does nowadays. start doing something like gm chat checks and see how fast the botters have their bots relaying chats to their iphones. hell as i understand it they already have the ability to send text notifications to the user so it's not like that's a stretch.hell a month after implementation you'd be more likely to ban a legitimate player by mistake than to get a bot.i often miss chat requests even while actively playing because the pop up window ends up buried behind some other window in that screwy uihonestly, i wish all you idiots would stop with these posts all they do is raise the visibility of just how easy botting is in this game and more likely encourages more people to bot who'd never have considered it otherwise.."
"while botting currently impacts my gameplay in no way, i have concerns about how much of an impact this could have on various eve mechanics in the future. it's been a growing problem since i joined the game, and while it is yet to affect me, the frequency of complaints has increased. i'm ported in motsu - a system with no belts; yet, i see no fewer than two deliberately-named bots a day. whether they're a mockery on already-existing dirtbags or legitimate botters is irrelevant. perception is everything, and i perceive that ccp turns a blind eye to botting the way border patrol turns a blind eye to drug smuggling.food for thought, from someone on the fence about the matter. it is a matter of principle, not whether or not you agree with it."
"the idiot is you,,cause you dont use a macro/bot !eve players arent dumb. bots in the markets. bots in roids fields. makes no sense to play these parts of eve even when you like it cause reward is to low.i hate it cause eve is the best mmo out there but it will get destroyed by bots! makes no sense to not talk about it. yeah dont talk about crime, dont arrest the murder cause we may get more murders lol doesnt make any sense at all. we need to adress it solve it. make it no.1 priority to fight against bots. sure they will fight back but make it as hard as you can for them.i'm no software producer but there are already enough ideas out there which can give relief to the problem.inappropriate link removed. spitfiresoftware developers: what can you do against bots? please share ideas and provide them to ccp as they are not able to solve this problem it seems..."
"naturally."
"all \"work the lag just right\" stuff in eve, such as timing the overload of that first mwd boost, is not good.why?"
"/signed"
"why has this not been done yet? tsk, tsk ccp."
"you are not activating the module, just toggling overload. there is no heat produced from an inactive module.why?normal cloaks have very long locking recalibrations, plenty of time to toggle overheat on an offensive module. only thing you will be harming with your proposed change is black ops ships being able to decloak and instantly fire overheated weapons."
"obvious support"
"not that it is really hard to slip in the overheat hotkey after decloaking and before activating the mod, but still it definitely annoyed me a lot of times you couldnt toggle heat before decloaking."
"if you actually read any of the ccp correspondence regarding the bots, they spend copious amounts of time \"dealing with bots\". they spend enough time dealing with it and listening to complaints of players, i am sure they are having nightmares about bots in their sleep.if you use the search tool you should be able to find a particular topic in by a dev explaining just why bots are so difficult to spot. i can name a few because for the past 2 years i have had these damned emails trying to sell bots because a forum i signed up on had a security leak and a .cn originating user began spamming all users.when you actually look at what ccp is trying to fight, these things are ridiculous! you would think rails that run you through diablo were high-tech, these things make those older bots look like a tandy next to a 8500$ gaming rig.however i know since the first mmo i played in 97 bots have existed. do you think out of no where ccp is going to develop a anti-botting system that hasn't existed in the 14 years its been a prevalent trade? do you think you pay enough for them to try and develop that? considering just how much program developers make in a paycheck, i can sum it up pretty simply. ccp has spent more money in anti-bot development than i have made during my highest year of income.but please don't tell me because you pay a subscription ccp is required to make you happy. they don't force you to subscribe, neither do they do nothing to try and make you happy. they do what they can with the money that is there. they have jobs, they are not subjects of the amarr empire. treating them as such shows no respect for a group trying to make an earnest attempt at correcting the issue."
"bump /supported"
"ccan you please tell me what did they done against bots???only thing that is done, and not only on paper, is unholy rage, and it was not against bots it was only against rmt...they can spend trillion dolars on \"taking care\" of the problem like this...many other mmos are doing things against bots, things that work more or less, bots are adapted and now are much more $$$ than before and in a circle... but they are working...and ccp cant say that... we don't see anything they are doing against botting...i can wrote that i am constructing nuclear power plant and only thing that i did i wrote that... and ppl will be deceived untill they see that there is no new (more) power...that like we all feel... deceived... becouse there is no result... only words...and if ccp cant (or wont becouse its too much dolars at stake) anything against bots... well... ok... just say so... then remove that part from eula and we will all use bots... and no more threads about this...and that will happen sooner or later, 90% of players will be using bots, if ccp dont do anything...\"we are building nuclear power plant, but we can't give you new power... just pay for that in contract... but new power you cant get... you know... we are working on that... we are working... but untill then lets make one new factory and sell it to you and new ppl... but we are working...\"p.s.this is harsh version... and sorry if i am too harsh... but when you tell harsh version then all ppl will see what you are talking about...and sorry for bad english... didn't have time to check the text at all..."
"supported.an anti-bot program should be multi-layered like ccp's anti-phishing program1) modify the client so its harder to bot (stop code injection).2) modify the content so its harder to bot (interfere with simple \"timer\" macros)3) add methods to flag bot-like play. both coded methods, and easier player reporting.4) gm challenges to flagged accounts. modify the eula to make it a violation to not replay in an understandable way to a gm challenge. worried about being afk? give the gm's tools so they can tell if the client is being operated while ignoring them.5) ban, name and shame. name the actual player (not just the pilot), the corp and alliance."
"+1only, one more thing put on the list:6) modify the server and client, so that server can know what is original eve client and what is not, so that server accepts only original eve client connectionsbecause some bots emulate client..."
"bumping for more support."
"+1right so we can do our part to solve this problem. this problem needs to be attacked from every angle! its destroying the game"
"oh look the clueless are out in force again.i'm getting so sick of these anti-botting threads i'm half tempted to start botting just for the tears.onto your idiocy though, if ccp actually had some sort of system for identifying bots they would be stupid to tell the whole fracking universe. cause then the programmers who make the bots would just tweak their code to counter it. what? you think botters don't read these boards too?"
"not a bad idea. keeps players aware and reassures confidence in that something is being done. also reports can help on the fight on rmt. rmt players themselves will think twice. if they see ccp playing an active role in the fight against rmt and how much ccp care's for us non-botters maybe like a semi-annually report that describes security measures, new & old scams, up to date information on account protection, numbers (bots banned, how much isk was removed from the game via banning rmt/bots players, types of bots).ccp you are doing something about them, right???"
"how about ccp also release their credit details, real world addresses and home phone numbers?the stupidest idea yet. even the worst of real world 3rd world dictatorships don't publicize identity information without severe backlash from all over the place.a blog detailing numbers involved, as was done with the rage thing is more than sufficient.as for alliances policing themselves: make them at least partially culpable when a botting ring (note: not an individual bot!) is found operating under their banner.have gm's talk to leadership to find a solution, if none can be reached or leadership takes the fifth .. ban the ****ing lot of them."
"means??? stop fighting botters?you a botta?"
"i mean you aren't accomplishing **** by filling up the forum with 15 million posts about how prevalent botting is. all you are doing is advertising how easy it is to do and get away with which only encourages people who might not have thought about it to give it a try.and no i'm not a botter i value my accounts and fun too much to risk them just for some easy isk even if the chance of being caught is remote.the fact is that ccp does catch the occasional botter. typically because the botter screwed up in some way or got greedy and over confident.raising visibility of the issue actually harms any efforts ccp might be making towards combating botting because it raises the paranoia levels of the botters so that they are more cautious and become even harder to catch. telling how to identify a botter simply gives the bot writers the opportunity to adjust the behavior of their programs to avoid what ever triggers are used. they're already sophisticated enough that a stop watch isn't an automatic way to spot any but the stupidest.in my opinion the solution to botting is to address the problem in a more holistic manner. avoid gameplay options that tedious and repetitive. these are tasks at which bots excel. why are so many bots mining bots? because you practically have to be a fekking robot to stomach the activity. think about it. mining in a hulk you warp to a fixed belt target a few roids turn on your strip miners and then wait 3 minutes for them to cycle at which point you either move your ore to a can for pick up by a hauler or dump it in the corp hanger of your orca. ratting is not much more complex warp to belt if rat target orbit rat optimal shoot rep if shield/armor under x% cycle rep/booster rat dead cycle tractor wreck <2400km loot cycle salvager , all rats dead yes warp to next belt and repeat else repeat.static content + boring gameplay = incentive to bot.so the solution is to eliminate static content and boring gameplay.which is a win/win as it rewards active players and discourages botting at the same time."
"a report botter function would work just fine. people seem to assume that it would behave much like the isk seller. in all actuality, it would likely behave as it has in other games:step 1: you think you see a botter named bob. (mining, missions, whatever)step 2: you \"report bot\" on bob much like isk seller through the right-click menu.step 3: gm staff that watches for bot reports sees that bob has been reported, possibly multiple times.step 4: for added effectiveness you ask folks in local to report bob too.step 5a: based on traffic on the bot list, the gm staff directly contacts reported bots. using a simple set of questions that could be based on visuals (for example \"is my ship closer to the sun than yours?\") or be too difficult for a bot to respond to automatically (\"what is 2 + 3 + 6 equal?\" which requires the bot to recognize and calculate commands from the chat window generated by a gm)step 5b: in the event bob does not respond at all within 30 seconds, gm deactivates bob's ship modules. if the ship resumes its activities without responding either bob is being a prick or the bot is resuming its activities. this prevents the potential \"i was afk\" argument as an afk player won't resume activity. there is still a loophole in which a bot could be programmed to simply wait 5 minutes or longer if a forced deactivation occurs before resuming...thus fooling the gm. a possible workaround could be a 'time out' function in which the gm forces a log-out of the character if they are afk and fail to respond. this could actually hurt afk people though (though i loathe afk miners, they are legal), thus this excuse remains troublesome as always. the time for miners (given the simplicity of how they work) could be extended to several minutes to account for a typical afk break. unless an indy, another telling sign is if the miner switches roids without responding. only industrials mine slow enough to stay on one roid. mission running bots would be much easier to detect as they won't just sit there suddenly afk when approached by a gm and have their modules forced off...they'll still be under attack. to do this would be suicide (and thus not profitable).step 6: gm can determine within a minute or less if the person is in fact a bot. if a bot, then eula takes its course, if not a bot the character (not account) is cited as being a player and could potentially have temporary immunity from the report system until dt or longer.in all reality only a single gm would really be necessary, though the work would be more boring than playing ping-pong with two titans and a pod. the point of this simplistic system of direct intervention is...a) players can't abuse it as only the gm can negatively affect the player in question.***unlike the isk seller which mutes the player. some bots are players, some players are bots, they are difficult to separate sometimes. \"jfggaeth\" as a name is a good hint, but not all bots are so foolishly named. as stated many times before, some of eve's bots have incredibly advanced tech behind them.***b) players can help gm's potentially locate and identify bot behavior.c) low cost, doesn't require lots of development, botters can't create an effective program to answer the questions as (if implemented correctly) the questions simply change monthly, if not weekly, based either on ccp's or the gm's discretion.the biggest benefit is that while this system is progressive, and thus there won't be 'mass bannings', it does put the hurt on botters (rmt or not) and will deter it over time as it becomes to annoying and/or not profitable."
"another step that could help to minimize the problem!i think there is not one solution. the problem has to be attacked from all angles.what about randomizing some dropdown menus?"
"it is the only realistic option there is. what comes after a report is up to the powers that be.well duh! under threat of immediate perma-ban is it any wonder that it actually worked as intended?now local in the hubs is filled with honest scams and noobishness, just what goddess intended! wrong. it is the only step that has any chance of alleviating the situation.all the ideas of captchka, menus and other random crap will end up being a pain in the arse of everyone whether they are a bot or not .. difference being the bot doesn't give a crap and won't drop subscription due to game being unplayable/no fun."
"i agree. ccp is going to have to assign more people to the problem(1 gm is more people than they have now -_-') but when they do so, they should make it easy for players to help find bots"
"this would never work. this would be abused endlessly. frankly there is no need for this. ccp knows who the botters are already."
"i'm gonna try my best to keep this brief.in regards to the impending threat of the macro bots, many of us capsuleers have grown tired that very little has been achieved or done in the ongoing war against bots. we vent our anger over this on the assembly hall to ensure that you (the csm) go tell ccp that it's time to put on the elbow grease and start swinging that ban hammer. many of us have already posted multiple ideas on how to deal with the threat, so please make sure you read each and every one of them to see which idea is best for tackling the bots.please, don't let eve get taken over by bots. don't let the economy fall into the hands of bots. we don't want the suffer the same fate as other mmos did. i love eve online too much to let that happen.i don't want any long replies to this thread with the exception of a bump and support to ensure that the counsel sends the message and it's made loud and clear."
"i've said it before and i'll say it again, i can deal with pirates, gankers, scammers, can flippers and the like....but i can not stand getting worked over in the wallet by bots. i got worked by the bots earlier and now i don't even want to log in and do anything. odds are, mine are 4 accounts lost over bots when it comes time for me to renew my subs in 20 days.also, in case someone asks, you can't have my stuff."
"because we don't already have enough threads about this..."
"problem is you dont hear anything about this from ccp nor the csm.probably cause some csm's are in alliances who use bots themselve.me to have 3 subs and will cut this down if i dont see that soemthing is happeningcant be enough threads of this sort to find a solution. this needs to be no.1 topic cause if they dont stop it will destroy eve!"
"have you read the minutes of the last csm summit?they raised this subject with ccp then. they have already done what you have asked."
"counting this one, i count seven threads on the first page of ah about botting. one would think this was important enough to mention in the sticky thread: hot topics of the assembly hall updated jan 24.i guess not."
"you guess correctly. believe it or not, spamming threads on any topic does not raise its relevance, all it does is point out the fact that people are incapable of understanding the very simple rules for the hall.decisions are not, and should not be, based on whomever can scream the loudest. people are sheep and indignation is infectious .. that is primarily what we are seeing."
"well aren't you just little miss opinionated. i bet you're the sort who's got so many opinions nobody wants to hear that you resort to expressing them though dozens of bumper stickers."
"let me assure you that ccp is very much awara of this and has several people working on it full-time. i agree however that more information about numbers caught and banned towards the playerbase would be a nice extra."
"that would be wonderful. feedback is always a good thing (always better than nothing).edit: oops, check"
"vote 'support' if you want ccp to give caldari ships a (long overdue) skin-job overhaul. especially the tengu looks fugly, with that unfinished aluminium look.we've seen the noctis, ccp; we know you can do it! make it look like someone was actually willing to spring for the paint on a t3 ship. :) doesn't have to be all colorful -- a touch of style, however, would not be amiss. (nighthawk) piano-black and red leaps to mind. or something else distinguished."
"agreedeve is a sandbox, you make your own future, except you have to wear a shirt. ( eve's new ad campaign)"
"supported!there is a blog called eve travel that actually shows just how many tourist attraction there are, its pretty cool, but more would be great."
"supporting more cool lore stuff in space and general improvement of exploring."
"the evolving battlefield (fleets)ccp has expressed their concern that fleet fights in eve were getting too \"blobby.\" while i love the fact that fights in eve get more players involved than any other mmo, i agree that the blob is too powerful as is.unlike other games, blobs in eve suffer very little inefficiency as they grow. 1000 people can all receive instructions on teamspeak, warp around to exactly where they need to be, and focus their fire/reps on a single ship. and with the removal of aoe doomsday devices and the recent war on lag, there are almost no disadvantages of having a massive fleet assembled.so what makes this overpowered, in ways that blobs in other mmo's are not? first and foremost, it's a lack of aoe weaponry.since ye olde days of starcraft and total annihilation, aoe weapons in games have been rare, expensive, and incredibly useful. they are a tool used by game developers to weaken \"spam\" or \"cheese\" strategies. most importantly, aoe prevents a large army from steamrolling a smarter, smaller army without taking any casualties.what does this mean for eve?having more, smaller alliances taking advantage of nullsec is ccp's dream, but it's happening much slower than they expected after the dominion sov changes. this is because while a small alliance can now negotiate a tract of space from a bigger alliance, they still can't defend their space with any realistic hope of success. there is simply nothing they can do against a larger enemy.one option that's been investigated is the removal of jump bridges, to make nullsec fleets harder to move and ruin the fun of several thousand players. i believe that fleet mobility should be reduced, but not starting with conventional fleets! they should begin their study of mobility with supercapitals and work their way down.---so, what changes am i actually suggesting?-make bomb launchers available to t2 battleships (black ops and marauders) with area bonuses. this will give these ships an actual role in fleets, while preventing \"aoe spam\" from getting out of hand.-along that line, give us a t2 bomb launcher and t2 bombs. perhaps make it impossible to fit on a stealth bomber, if it can be fit make it so the sb can barely fit anything else. t2 bombs can be made to track a target like missiles. as we've seen recently with the siege of 6vdt, a gang of 30-some bombers can be used by a small alliance to harass its invaders despite being overwhelmingly outnumbered, just like ccp wanted. who would have thought the small alliance would be it?-as i've explained (or will explain) in other episodes, grant black ops access to aoe electronic warfare. marauders should receive bonuses to smartbombs. by limiting aoe effects to t2 battleships, they receive a new purpose and provide alternatives to capital spam. however, this in turn gives dreads and capitals a better position as aoe effects will do very little to them.-bring back the area dd, although perhaps with lower damage and higher fitting costs. don't replace the existing dd's, just add aoe alongside them. it should take at least 2 or 3 dd's to take out a fleet the way an old dd could.-reduce the mobility of supercarriers. this will also get its own thread, so i won't go into detail here but since they became more difficult to kill, they need to be more difficult to retreat or ccp will continue to see supercapitals not dying.-----this post is part of the giving eve a tune-up project. if you are interested in reading more, go here:[giving eve a tune-up] introduction and links"
"as stated give us a skill to remotely accept missions. radius should be equal to the equivalent trade skill per level. also with the same training multiplier."
"not supported.people will start asking every agent within the radius for a mission and pick only those missions they like.this leads to more mission farming as it is. some players already use shuttles to fly from agent to agent and to get offers. this skill would make it worse.mission running pays quite well, it has got skills to increase the income further and it gets supported by the map with a filter for available agents. mission running is probably the most lucrative profession already. another skill to make it even easier to find the best missions will only bring further imbalance to the professions in eve."
"isn't that exactly how it happens now?but they can't very well mission in said shuttle. they have to slow boat their mission ship to wherever the agent sends them. usually near the agent. so one would have to think about going 20 jumps in their marauder.i've always cherry picked agents one would be dumb not to. and with mission distribution and the 4 hour window i do not believe that this will be as much of a game breaker as you think. o by the way trade is the most lucrative profession in eve and it way out balances any profession by far."
"i have to agree with whitehound on it making mission-whoring way too easy.yes, people currently cherry pick missions from multiple agents, but at least they have to actually move their lazy arses around to do it.back before invention when i ran missions for dollardollar, i had multiple mission ships stationed in a target area so no matter where i was sent the maximum travel time was negligible. ps: missions are sub-par in overall earnings. the reason they are \"good\" is that the relative safety per isk earned is higher than most other occupations.marketeering is by far the safest, easiest and most lucrative thing there is, only 'negative' is that it takes an already healthy wallet to do properly."
"will just cause people to sit in target systems 24/7 and maybe even promote botting."
"would fly brutix then"
"it sounds like people just want better ships with less skill required to be trained? while i can understand what everyone wants when they play a game, it just comes down to someone wanting diamonds when they dig a 2' hole in the ground and expect it to made easier.to begin with any command ship can be fit with an insane tank. why would we improve it? it took 35 people to down my damnation a while back, do we need to make it 40-45? as it stands the ships that typically have a bonus to active repairs are not primarily meant for prolonged tanking, instead their bonuses give them such nice damage and/or speed etc that their goal is a massive dps strike and to repair as needed. improving an astarte to the point it can now active tank as well as dish out some of the highest dps when in close range is such an imbalance its not even funny.someone mentioned above the logistics reps are more then enough, i did as well. adding even more logistics rep hp just makes something that has the advantage just become overpowered. hacs would be useless against a remote-repaired astarte fleet who could come in, out dps and out repair.you can't have the best of both damage and tank without giving something up. this would remove the thought process that is put into fits, the smart ones anyway."
"a resist bonus provides:- 1/.75 = 1/3rd better local repping- 1/.75 = 1/3rd better received remote repping- 1/.75 = 1/3rd better ehp- it is totally capless- it is not stacking nerfedcurrently, an active tank bonus provides:- 1 + .375 = 37.5% better local reppingunder the proposed boost:- 1 + .375 = 37.5% better local repping- 1 + .375 = 37.5% better received remote reppingas you can plainly see, resistance bonuses would still be much more powerful than an active tank bonus.i'm sorry, you're completely delusional and didn't even bother to read the thread. your damnation doesn't have the appropriate bonus, and thus would not be improved... and frankly none of the situations you even mentioned were of any relevance to the proposed boost.in the end, i think this was a good line:indeed - and you will note the rather large set of bonuses that resistance would still provide over an active tank bonus.-liang"
"*snip*"
"a whipcrack went her whippy tail, and the newb was done."
"command ships with resist bonus are at least as tough to kill as one with only an active repair bonus when solo, and in a gang massively outshine them. so saying \"don't change astarte cause damnation is hard to kill already\" or is irrelevant. this change would simply put the gang tanking ability of the gallente and minmatar command ships closer to the level of the caldari and amarr ones - though with their tank still being less powerful.the only \"people just want better ships with less skill required to be trained\" is in terms of racial cruisers and leadership skills, it's about bringing ships across a class more into line.but this isn't solely about command ships. the change is proposed for all ships having an active tank bonus so including maelstrom, claymore, sleipnir, brutix, cyclone and so on. currently their active rep bonus is very underpowered compared to a resist bonus when operating with logistics support."
"actually this change is for any ship with an active tank bonus, like the hyperion for example"
"this would indeed be pretty nice change and make more ships usable in current metagame envinroment. cyclone for example would be reasonable alternative to shield hurricane (more tank, less gank)."
"that oughtta do it. thanks very much, ray."
"i don't think this is the solution to active armor tanking's woes, since my problems with armor repair seem to go away when i am specifically receiving remote armor repair.i don't know what the problem is with it, maybe it's the backloaded repair effect. shielders can just hit it when they need it, armourers have to think ahead, is that the issue?is it just too hard on the cap? because armor tankers tend to be out of cap just by firing their hungry weapons?is it therefore because they nerfed nosferatu to the point of ridicule?i'd normally support active armor proposals, but i think spider tanking is already far too meta to get any support from ccp. spider tanking would need pre nerfing before this measure be introduced."
"although i love the idea and it is an idea i have tried to push myself in other threads i'm a little worried about the balancing issues.i was just looking at ways in which you could fit t1 1st teir bc's for rr fleet work. i set myself some rules for the fittings. these were simple.i must be able to fit an mwd. (i figured you would want to be mobile when in a bc gang)i must have sufficient buffer. (as close to the minimum of 60k ehp as possible was the figure i thought was appropriate)i must have some form of eccm.i must have a point.i plugged the fits into eft to see what they could achieve and i decided to compare them. i was able to achieve roughly similar buffer tanks across the range of ships ferox vs cyclone:similar ehp'sferox has better resists. ferox defence is greater unless 37.5% rr received bonus is applied to the cyclone. in which case the cyclone tends to be 10% betterferox has better sensor strengthcyclone dependent on cap transfer chaining so very vulnerable to ecm.dps appears balanced as the ferox has roughly 25% more but is heavily restricted by range and the cyclone has selectable damage type and is faster so it can kite.the cyclone requires fitting modules.brutix vs prophecy:both of these ships compared tanking wise in a similar fashion to the ferox and cyclone and the 37.5% bonus also applied with similar results.the prophecy is faster and has far better range but the brutix has better dps. brutix could do with being faster.both ships have fitting issues and require fitting modules and or rigs to fit.shield vs armour:similar ehp'ssimilar capacitor endurancesimilar sensor strengthsarmour has slightly lower tanking abilities than shieldbalance issues:ferox is the only ship which does not require fitting modulescyclone could use a little more pg (5% maybe)prophecy could use a little more pg (ferox and prophecy would require a little more base shield/armour to balance out brutix is too slow and lacks sufficient pg and a utility high slot putting it at the bottom of the pile.i think it would work out but there would need to be a fair bit of rebalancing going on to make it work.the biggest problem with the active tanking bonus is the fact that you only get that bonus when you have an armour repair/shield booster fitted and it is active. the resist bonus is applied always and carries over to active tanking as well as buffer tanking."
"bow before your new sleipnir/scimitar overlords mortals!good idea, although i am not sure repair amount can be calculated on the receiving end without some extra calculation/data going back and forth.would necessitate a revision of slots/fittings of affected ships as well. they are all geared towards local tank and straight switch to buffering (you know that will happen) will probably break some of them.no accusations needed when nothing to accuse of .. see how it works?"
"eve does not need more rreve doe not need to encourage blobbing over small gang even morenerf passive/buffer tank until active tanking starts looking good"
"a few comments:- there's nothing about rr itself that encourages \"blobs\" any more than all mechanics encourage blobs. in fact, rr stops scaling before other mechanics do.- rr can be used in small gangs quite reasonably, without being overpowered. there is, and should be, more to the game than simple tank'n'spank.- you must have missed the huge discrepancy in benefits given by resists vs active tanking bonuses. nerfing buffer tanking doesn't address many of those.- overall, ship balance is pretty reasonable. yes, there are some adjustments that need made (supercaps for sure, drakes/hurricanes and other bcs are a bit too powerful next to bs's, capital projection, the tier system should be removed, etc) but those are on the whole fairly small. you're talking about nerfing pretty much every ship in eve.if you want to more small gangs and less blobs, i'd say we should encourage ccp to create mechanics that encourage small gang warfare. there are lots of ways to break up larger gangs - from the mechanics of getting a blob into a wormhole to making targets need to be attacked in multiple systems simultaneously. pretty much anything that makes for strategy instead of \"bring moar ppl!\".-liang"
"how about this? since gallente have trouble fitting good guns alongside their other stuff, what if the bonus read:7.5% bonus to armor repairer effectiveness and 10% reduction in armor repairer and remote armor repairer power-grid needs per level.the current bonus may be too specific, but ccp is very concerned about it becoming overpowered."
"give players a drop down menu option to report macro users similar to the one used to report isk spammers. get players involved in helping ccp police this problem. give them a way to quickly and conveniently report macroers. not really my idea, borrowed it from hirana yoshida, but it seems like a good one.regards,windjammer"
"support"
"and then ccp hires all of china to investigate those claims."
"note that chinese players from china cant play in our gobal server coz of the country firewall and their government policy. thats why they have their own eve server last i was told."
"or maybe admits they can't or won't allocate resources to investigate the reports/petitions?despite your exaggeration, it wouldn't take much in the way of resources, but it may still be more than ccp wants to spend.-windjammer"
"in regards to the recent csm summit in iceland. the issue of 0.0 sovereignty, logistics, and pvp were raised as a future problem for ccp to deal with. there was a response, from some who opposed one particular change, that the agreement between ccp and csm for a possible removal of jump bridges circumvented their opinions. not everyone is opposed to the discussed changes to 0.0 mechanics and the general consensus is that things need to change however, the pilots of new eden need to be consulted and feedback given to ccp before any hard code changes take place.in my real life line of work, campaigns, we often propose citizens conventions. a citizens convention is a deliberative assembly of ordinary people who are given information on a particular subject or issue and come up with what they think is the best possible solution.i think that the csm could chair a similar convention of capsuleers, they would however need to select a more balanced group of players from several 0.0 alliances and a number of play styles. which could then take all the evidence and proposals from this forum and elsewhere and present a report to ccp via the csm. the csm could make the report themselves however i would suggest that they include a more diverse group of players from 0.0 backgrounds. discussions could take place on eve voice, eve mailing lists, email and here in the forums for us all to see. this process will provide ccp with an idea of player opinion on changes they want to see which could guide them in improving 0.0 mechanics rather than disappointing or inflammatory changes being shown to the csm or player base without much warning. i humbly submit this proposal."
"sansha should siege poses too."
"an incursion in venal would virtually eliminate the tech supply. that would be.... horrifying. imagine: all t2 manufacturing in eve comes to a crashing halt. \o/-liang"
"good. more interesting market trends. it would also eventually force ccp to even out resource distribution. in all honesty, that won't happen though, the goo farmers would beat back the incursion fast."
"as sanshas want this systems, there should be an impact to the owner.as sanshas are able to manipulate hole systems, there is absolut no reason, they shouldn't be able to manipulate pos moduls.lowered resitences and regenertation of pos forcefields.lowered quality of production moduls (longer build times, lower refine quality, lower moon goo).higher energy need (more fuel need) for pos moduls.same effects for player stations as for npc stations."
"i like this idea, after all if they nerf highsec isk income during incursions they may as well do it during null ones as well."
"if as you say there are some null entities who can flat out ignore an incursion then that means that effects are not enough.read up on the word/concept of an incursion. it is not something you'd want anywhere near you.let's look at what penalties are applied? bounties cut in half? pfft, move to neighbouring constellation.cyno jammed? pfft, offline own jammer to save a few isk and add a temporary redirect bridge.mission rewards cut? lol, as if there are agents in the first place.resists compromised? who cares if you ratting elsewhere and just avoiding area in general.all but the cyno-jam effect have huge impact everywhere but null so people are encouraged to clear the damn things. same should be true for null, if current penalties are not enough to do so then we increase them until they are .. hitting the single biggest isk faucet in eve is the obvious solution."
"cyno jam is a benefit, not a penalty."
"sansha's jam affect jump-bridges as well i think, so yea for the bridge addicts (read: all of null) it is a penalty .. just easily mitigated."
"good idea, i'd go further still and support the ability to split out any tab from any window. for example, i'd like to be able to keep open d-scan and the exploration scanner at the same time when i am exploring in low-sec. i am sure that traders would appreciate the ability to seperate market/wallet tabs to seperate windows as well."
"i would love to see this implemented."
"alright a while back i saw a post that lead to a link that mentioned that the greater part of the csm/ccp council is for removal of jump bridges. while i don't understand why if the whole gang agrees chances are its going to happen, that said this idea is for if it does happen. a new capital ability known as parade formation. any sub capital ship can right click on a capital ship and ( assuming its in fleet) click on parade formation. with this done the ship takes up a position to the right or left of the capital ship and maintains it as if under autopilot. heres the kicker, any ship that is in parade formation jumps with the ship its \"parading\" with. ships that are not fleet supportive such as dreadnoughts can take a max of 5 ships skill dependant with them. ships like carriers and sc can take a lot more, starting at 10 for both and going up to 25 and 35 respectivly. the transport of the sub capitals does not increase the total io needed as its simply pulling them along , not opening new portals for each ship."
"alternatively, just give everyone the abilities of instant teleportation."
"somebody played the original homeworld..."
"so your response to limiting the ability to project force using bridges is to add a jump-portal to all ships with a jump drive .. and at no additional cost on top?and this is a good idea why exactly?or put more simply: you mad?the formation thing is one of the things ccp have already voiced interest in, but that is for warping and generally flying around on grid."
"i didn't think that the obvious needed pointing out. but i will anyway. moons orbit planets. ya dig?then we will have to put on our thinking caps and rework the idea until we come up with something that is fun, challenging, solves all the problems and is a viable alternative to ice mining.regardless of the particulars of the solution, a revamp of the ice mining -> pos fuel mechanic is a wonderful opportunity to add a new dimension to the game. personally i still think that is still a great opportunity to add depth to pi and another way to disrupt a corporations activities. imagine how much attention players will give to dust when they realise that it threatens their continued space presence."
"to be honest the idea of making it passive removes the required dedication of operating a pos. otherwise everyone including suzzieq's grandmother, grandfather, dead dog, horse, doll, and step brother will have a pos that is passively fueled. yeah ice mining could be a little more interesting, maybe we can find frozen junk in it, like iceman. but leave the requirements alone. it's a slap in the face for people who actually manage to run a pos, let alone several of them by either buying minerals or mining in fleets like i do."
"i was not suggesting that we make it passive. though, i would argue that the current system is passive, and macro-friendly. the point is to recognize the opportunity that re-evaluating pos fueling presents. having to protect your installations on the ground, whilst adjusting reaction rates and alignment, whilst ensuring that enemy fleets dont jam the transition of power to your pos would hardly be a passive experience. my suggestion was intended to prompt discussion, rather than be the perfect solution.im going to go ahead and assume that your suggestion for random drops of iceman (sic) was not sarcastic, but surely you have your own suggestions based on your own experience on how this situation could be improved.thank-you for raising the point that a lot of people do benefit from the current state. whilst i dont think that this is an argument for leaving the system unchanged. i do think its important that any suggestions put forward do consider the skill time and isk invested in their pursuit."
"if you're looking for an improvement to ice mining, i've written a great deal about it in my depots document.i do like the concept of finding stuff frozen in the ice, like a faction item or decryptor or something like that. my idea is far from perfect, but it should work well, and can constantly be improved."
"it sounds to me that the core problem with this mechanic is that it takes too long to \"recapture\" the plex once they leave. even still, i'd rather they fix it wholesale instead of tuning it at this point.-liang"
"maybe in another 3-5 years...... maybe......"
"should definitely be classified as an exploit until the wardec system gets completely overhauled.as for the gm's response, that's another thing that really should get adjusted. we need more congruency in the rulings of gm's, right now they each have their own opinion and act upon it. we need a general ruleset about the different topics and how they should be handled for the gm's to use."
"/agreechoices must have consequences. when you rep someone has neutral you take part of something and must assume the consequences.there is no reason that someone can rep without being flagged1- make them be flagged has long has the agression of their target -if it's a wardec he should think twice before repor2- make them be concorded, the rep system should work like weapons"
"so why cant people play the game not as it is supposed to be?without bots - without macros?they all have an unfair advantage to all casual players. it makes no sense to play the game in a normal fashion. the macros and bots take away profit from normal players.i read about the idea about random menus and buttons. this would kick out most macros and bots.i hear more and more about macros and bots. the bot scene is big and makes up a significant part of eve. they cheat the game.this has to end or ccp has to allow bots for everyone.i have 3 alts which i pay with real money. if ccp doesnt do anything against bots i may cancel my subs.you hear from ccp now and then in threads but their silence in threads regarding botting is defeating.its also our game! lets clear it from the bots and macro users. let us keep this topic up until it is solved!!"
"greed is one of my favourite sins."
"you get my full support for this!!and i really want that queue for setting up a pos cause some take about 8 hours..."
"yep gread idea"
"/flog"
"the point for the cyno is to be detected, aka baiting..."
"+1 here for the love of god, fix this already!"
"yes"
"yeps"
"this is long overdue now, give us helvetica!"
"well to be fair for the most part we eventually just crosstrain minmatar and get all the cool angel ships (working on large auto's atm myself)but ogogov's point stands. there have been countless threads discussing the problems with hybrids and while there may be some disagreement on exactly how broken they are and what could be done to fix them the general consensus is that they are broken. that the concept of a short ranged high dps ship that can't actually close range with it's opponents is stupid. something needs to be adjusted. and it's the job of the developers to decide how to do so.oh and it's really more than half the player base that gets the shaft here because hybrids are technically the primary weapon system for 2 races, caldari have about as many hybrid platforms as missile platforms. oh and both those races alternate weapon systems have major flaws as well. now personally i like the idea of faster ammo changes instant sounds good to me since it would give hybrid users the option of using lesser damage ammo while closing then switch to facemelting dps if they manage to actually get into hull bumping range.hell the best solution may not even be to adjust hybrids it might be better to adjust the bonus's on each ship individually. say velocity or agility bonus's on blaster boats so they can get into range better. or a web bonus or any number of different things.the point is that the developers have to recognize that there is a problem in the first place and the most recent communication that came out of the csm meeting was that \"blaster are fine\" which anyone who actually uses them knows is bull****.as it stands now hybrids get every disadvantage a weapon system can have. fixed damage type, cap use, ammo use, high fitting requirements this combined with a much smaller engagement envelope than their competitors. this in the case of gallente combined with supposedly active armor tanked ships (another problem for gallente) which are by nature going to be slower. if ccp wants ideas or specific proposals they can look through the boards for those ideas are legion but first we need them to recognize that there is a problem."
"everything i've read suggests there's a problem with hybrids and atm i'm using autocannons on my myrm so.../signed"
"all i can do to avoid rookies to post here in a few months is to advice them to stop train gallente/hybrids.100% of the rookies that have listen are capable to see the difference between both and are happy because they didn't lost months of training.ccp dev's or manager can't, this is the bigest problem of gallente/hybrids. keep dev roguecraft on heroes station at aions system it's more important."
"supported."
"supported."
"why should i do a devs job? i've simply pointed out a perceived problem ... suggested ... repeat ... suggested a fix ... they are the one who need to come up with a fix.they've already voted to do something about the problem ... they just have to get off their collective asses and do something about it ... but i guess walking in station is still a priority"
"supported."
"and with the support checkbox checked this time!"
"supported. amarr with 4 lows or less is fail."
"agreed"
"amarr is the low-slot happy race, having the same or less than others is an affront to the entire concept of racial differences.low: 5-8mid: 3-4high: 5-7don't even try to sell the possibility of a two midslot t3 cruiser, that is just beyond gimp. it is bad enough that some of the frigates and the dessie are so midslot deficient.otherwise a decent analysis. no support due to wanting a 2 mid solution and \"only\" 7 lows."
"up! what csm think about this topic?"
"1.0"
"1.0"
"here are some thoughts on the matter:sansha shipsthese ships are almost decent - but there's a reason everyone just buys a zealot. you can really feel the lost shields, and the ships are obviously meant to be all out gank machines, even more so than the serpentis ships which have the awesome web bonus, but then when you look at the ships you see those two utility highs. they might be reasonable if your already extreme cap dependence didn't all but preclude neut usage or nos was actually worth fitting.i'd say fixing the sansha ships should focus on the lost shield hp and those two utility highs - perhaps trading them for mids/lows/turrets.blood raider shipsthese ships are also pretty close to reasonable. it seems to me that the cruor/ashimmu are pilgrims that traded away the covops cloak, tracking disruption, capless damage, and part of their neut bonus for a web bonus and cap hungry turret dps. i think this is a slightly unreasonable trade, given that the pilgrim draws so strongly on the covops cloak to pick targets and the tds to mitigate damage.i'd say the fixing the blood raider ships should focus on survivability to compensate for the \"loss\" of the td+cloak+cap reliance. i think i'd personally experiment with sprucing up the neut bonus - by increasing its range, amount, or making it also apply to neutralizer cap requirements (zomg, almost free neuts?!).guristas shipslet me start off by saying that i'm not overly fond of the concept behind the guristas ships. the missile range bonus just completely killed the mood set up by a shield/missile/drone boat. i am rather strongly in favor of trading the missile range bonus for a missile rof bonus. it'd turn them into brawlers, true, but that's ok. i also admit that i lust after a worm with a 10% drone damage/hp bonus and inbuilt drone bay bonus.angel shipsi think everyone pretty much agrees that the angel ships could use a drone bay and agility nerf. a general reduction of ac awesomeness (by a little) wouldn't be a bad move, but i admit to being fearful of an unnecessary sledgehammer approach.serpentis shipsi'm gonna say to leave them alone pending a thorough looking over of hybrids.-lianged: formatting"
"supported.the shield nerf was uncalled for."
"caldari cruiser - 25% bonus to damagei want this thing nicknamed the spaztasm."
"buddy, that's two constellations in all of nullsec for, what, 5 days? if by \"huge swipe\" you mean \"temporary irritation in 10 starsystems\", then i agree.you, sir, are adorable. have a support for your endearing naivite, and don't stop believin."
"yes i would pay 25 % more no problemreport bot on right click menu option would be a good start."
"this is only possible if you never, ever, use the market."
"bots are maintained largely by plex (personal player bots) or stolen credit cards (rmters).plex not bought by bots will cheerfully be consumed by players at a lower prices. it's no loss at all to anyone if bots maintained by stole cards are removed (in fact it's considerably to ccp's gain if they are, since chargebacks are very expensive for them - this factor alone probably explains why they focus so heavily on rmt rings.)the idea that ccp \"need\" bot accounts to survive is a popular fallacy that does not hold up under scrutiny.the fundamental solution remains what it has always been: ccp need to bite the bullet and remove significant sources of isk generation that do not require intelligence and/or risk-taking. the many, many addicts of easy, risk-free isk will scream and wail, but the fact is activities like mining, ratting and missioning are currently pretty much designed for bots, not humans, since they reward patience above inteligence, skill or insight.that's a fight human players will always lose.incursions are an encouraging development in this regard - they're vastly less susceptible to botting than ratting or missioning. i suspect they ccp is testing the water with them."
"bump."
"definitely supported. while we're at it, lets name all the modules in a pos as we wish.when you have multiple different reaction processes in your pos, keeping track of which silo is linked to what floating in space can be a pita.with naming all items you could do stuff like:general silo: reaction 1 in ageneral silo: reaction 1 in bgeneral silo: reaction 2 in ageneral silo: reaction 2 in bwhatever silo: reaction 1 outwhatever silo: reaction 2 outright now the only way to do this, is by putting them in specific positions and memorizing what you put where."
"while i have no experience with reactions, i can see how painful that scenario could be.so how about it csm? can we get this raised with ccp? you can't say this wouldn't make your members lives easier too."
"agree with #3-7"
"supported, so long as some measure is taken to prevent sleeper levels of drone instapwnage. everything else is, i think, critical for pve to develop beyond the shallow level it is at now. just don't make gallente (more) useless than they are already."
"let me know how those lvl 4 missions work out for you if they are made to be sleeper like."
"i admit that i care more about the lowsec/nullsec implications more than the highsec/macro related ones. anybody involved with rmt (the part ccp really wants to stop) is probably in nullsec, where the money comes a lot faster and there are fewer people who would write petitions about them.i liked an idea i saw a few weeks ago: penalizing nullsec alliances for bot miners in their space. the truth is, player organizations know about 90% of the macro mining/ratting in eve, and simply ignore the problem or even endorse it. there should be consequences for groups that allow it to go on."
"supportin'"
"hopefully this won't cause a bug some totally unpredictable elsewhere..."
"disagree.when cloaked any action on a module should decloak the pilot. even if it's something like toggle overheat."
"there is plenty of empirical evidence out there that ccp takes action against bots. every few months, people will make a post on the forums saying:\"what the hell happened to all of the bots in system <x>?\"which will be confirmed by multiple other players who claim the same thing and say that the bots on their watchlist aren't logging in anymore.this is what ccp does: when someone petitions about a bot or rmt, they research into it before taking action. they collect as many related accounts as possible and then ban them all at once. it is inefficient imo, but this is evidence that ccp *does* care."
"useless thread, useless request. people have made all sorts of suggestions on how to solve the problem and those who don't respond about how a bot can get past the idea respond by whining about the solution making their game more tedious or time consuming. iow, its a problem everyone wants solved and nobody is willing to deal with the hassles of anything that would be needed to solve them. i'm sorry folks, but you can't ****ing have it both ways. what makes the game easy for you makes it easy for bots and what kills the bots makes it hell on earth for the players.the republicans said it best, you wanna be safe, you're gonna have to give up some freedoms."
"i saw that threads appear only when there was some change to the client (update, fix)...and about banning... yes, they ban small number of them... but that's only temporary ban... and they get theirs accounts back... so they dont have to worry about absolutely anything..."
"absolutely. however not to bring your mood down but a properly programmed bot is almost undetectable from a player that just ignores you. at least to the server. how can you differentiate a bot that has random number generators for the click locations and timing built it from a guy that just has no life and mines 23 / 7 ? ratting same. i support this but really this is going to be an uphill battle."
"you are right in making things more exciting and harder to exploit by bots but you cant reach this with not talking about the problem. i think the people who use bots will use them whenever they can. i dont want any of these people in this game. they should have no right to play it anymore.not talking will led us to even more bots! there are only two possible ways of playing eve:you play it within the rules oryou a cheater who should gtfo ban lifetime"
"you think they know? how? and why dont they do anything against it?the report isk spammer button is also there so why not a report bot button?"
"recurring themes are certainly an indicator of people wanting something badly (or being fed up with something badly). when you attach no judgement to why people repeat certain topics all over again, you can simply look upon the multitude of similar threads as something ccp ought to be taking seriously.or... you can quote the rules for the hall."
"caldari ships look fugly because that's how they're supposed to work. if you read the backstory, caldari are more interested in utility than appearance, contrary to their gallente brethren.there are many other ships that could use this overhaul moreso (such as the aeon or the navitas). not supported."
"not supported because ccp has already stated that all ships are going to be overhauled and reskinned over time. also the tengu already has the current textures like the scorpion and i have no idea what you are complaining about."
"i agree that some caldari ships are butt ugly. the raven comes to mind.hopefully the raven gets a sensible look at some point in the future."
"yeah raven should get bulkier with small wings and visible launch tubes"
"i doubt the raven will see significant changes other than a texture rework due to the fact that ccp sell the models on their online store. to alter that would be to obsolete not only their stock of those models but also screw everyone who bought one (lol) over.i can see it getting a texture update but i doubt the shape will change significantly."
"agreed.supported."
"suported.it's not a lore that affects eve directly, it's lore that affects the depth of eve beyond the mere depth of playstyle possibilities. some rp would do good to all players except bots, of course.more difficult is to make these events (anomalies, artifacts, whatever?) unfarmable / unbottable while still giving more casual players an incentive to look for and do them.maybe add a chance for each agent to give such a lore mission (in the form of hints - meaning no rewards for completion but rewards for finding this special place and it's content(s)) over their regular mission agenda? maybe also have the agent hand out a passcode or gate activation key or so.or just make storyline missions fill that role by making them fore challenging than your normal courier or easy kill mission. add hackable stuff to them! add some items that give a random bonus mission! so many options..."
"so, just for fun. these incursions are giving concord lps, right?well, it turns out concord has an item that i'd really like. their cruisers have a 10-12km radius smartbomb... that decloaks cloaked ships. doesn't do any damage. just decloaks you.update: the item would not work on grid with a stargate.100,000 concord lp for one of this item sound about right? let's get this item into circulation, ccp. right now, in the eve battle between submarines and destroyers, the submarines have it way too easy."
"supporting my own proposal."
"member of terrible alliance has terrible idea because mean people gank him with cloaky ships and it's sooo unfair. gtfo and take your terrible idea with you."
"are you kidding? i have just as many cloaky ganks as the next guy, maybe more. i love my recons and my bombers.but now i'd like some more kills on the cloakies. more seriously, this would put a bit of a dent in the botting ravens in dronelands if they couldn't immediately cloak up when a neut enters local. local's never going to be deleted, so this is an alternate possibility."
"troll rejected."
"gate camps with decloaking bombs? really? what then is the point in training for a cloak, let alone black-ops/recon. a decloaking bomb would be sop for every gatecamp and low/null sec mining op. it would render both, the cloak skill useless in the vast majority of circumstances"
"look again. short range. high cost. unless you're willing to commit 15 or 20 of these to a gatecamp, you're not going to catch a thing. you can do the same job in a gatecamp much more cheaply with drones or jetcans."
"there's 1 major problem with this idea:gate campers could use this smartbomb to decloak all transports, recons, cov ops that jump thru and try to warp out.this feature just gives too much power to gate camping with overwhelming force, while very marginal benefit for all other tactical situations. it is my opinion that gate camping with overwhelming forces is strong enough as it is."
"the op proposes 10-12 km range, that means for non-regional gates, 2 people could cover 70% of all jump ins. 4 people would cover 90%the bottom line is - this idea benefits strong (5+ people) gate camps while offering almost no benefit to all other combat tactics. does eve need this? why do you think eve needs stronger gate camps?"
"in case of missile target being destroyed mid flight the missile will home in on a closest enemy that is being target painted. what do you think works only with guided missiles."
"it's a decent idea and i'm certainly not against it. a few points come to mind.target painting just highlights the target. point being that changing targets mid flight should be a characteristic of certain type of missile, a module or a ship type. so either a missile with a laser seeker or a system that guides them to a new target. having all guided missiles be able to do that isn't the only option to go with. it is possible for example, that having your missiles automaticly attack a target you didn't fire the missile at isn't a desirable thing, but you still want to use guided missiles and target painters. this is propably a minor issue at best, but it might be worth it to take it into consideration.what exactly is the server supposed to consider as an enemy? this is an important detail, so better make it clear what you are suggesting. i'm assuming it only goes to targets the ship firing the missiles is already painting. this is of limited utility, but won't cause problems with the aggression system. or did you have something more ambitious in mind?"
"good points. point 1well this could a characteristic of t2 missiles only. or you can actually make fof missiles useful this way. say that this is some kind of t2 fof missile that will require lock and painter but can be guided around with the painter. point 2 how to determine the enemy. would be a target that is painted either by a ship that has fired the missile or a a ship that is painted by a member of your fleet and is closest to the missile."
"i like this idea especially as it would make fof missiles a much more useful item although i have no idea how difficult or costly (in server usage) it would be to implement. if it was implemented i think it should probably require a high level of skill such as target painter 5 and be a function restricted to t2 target painters."
"i dont think it would be that hard anyway. it could server side be a alternat form of \"locking\" the opponent , the server would consider any one under the effect of a \"target painter\" is treated as having a type 2 target lock, this lock would not show on screen and instantly locks and unlocks in tune with the activation of the painter. any fof missile ( or what ever new missile that comes of this post) will seak out only targets that have a type 2 lock that are not allies"
"drake blob requires additional pwnage."
"i'll throw in my insights into what encourages blobbing.the #1 reason: long range weapons, combined with no line of sight limitationswhen you can pack 50 ships into 6km radius sphere and that fleet can deal damage over 150 km, blobbing is the best choice. \"blobbing\" is a fleet where formation doesn't matter, where even most maneuvering doesn't matter. if you look at tackle tactics, there's the 24km and 10km tactics.blobbing is least effective for the 10 km scramble + web tackle tactics, due to its short range. the shortest range tackle puts greatest emphasis on individuals, formations within the fleet, and maneuvering ability.long range weapons encourage blobbing also by allowing people to quickly switch between multiple targets, regardless of their position and distance. short range weapons have much poorer support of blobbing tactics, because of greater need to maneuver and greater difficulty to switch to new targets - if they targets are spread apart. therefore, increasing effectiveness of short range weapons would automatically discourage blobbing - on some level.#2 reason for blobbing: high defense over offense ratio. there's 2 effects happening at same time. first, stronger defense means longer battle duration, which in turn leads to greater escalation of small fight into larger fight. every time combat is initiated, it acts as a magnet for opposing forces in the area. even if things are very one sided, where 1 side has many people and other side has very few, the battle will pull people from the stronger side until combat ends, even tho their additional help wasn't needed at all to win the fight.battle duration have to be carefully tuned with strategic mobility speed (warps and jumps). naturally, reducing battle duration by increasing damage and reducing defense would automatically reduce blobbing due to less escalations.the second side of high defense / offense ratio is that effective killing of the enemy requires more concentrated fire. eve is a game with high defense/offense ratio. in most eve battles, opposing fleets focus on \"primary\" targets which are called one at a time.in most online fps games and even rts games, such tactic would be considered very stupid, precisely because the defense/offense ratio is low. in most games it's more effective to split into smaller teams and attack several enemies at same time. so focused fire is still effective, but the groups are smaller, where larger and fewer groups would be simply inefficient.even in a battle with 100 vs 100, if there are separate fights between groups of 5-10, on the same grid, you can say that many small scale fights are happening simultaneously, instead of just 2 blobs picking each other 1 at a time.these are the main 2 reasons for blobs. aoe dd does not effect the main reasons behind blobbing. it merely effects how often the battles happen. with high threat of multiple aoe dd, the frequency of battles is reduced, but not their blobbiness.bombs of stealth bombers also don't effect incentives for blobbing - what they effect is concentration of forces into small volumes of space. so bombs encourage people to spread out and split into different groups, but those groups still fight as one. also, stealth bombers effect short range weapons/tackle more significantly than long range. they encourage use of long range weapons, which in turn encourage blobbing."
"good idea. what this game really needs is more ways for a small number of people to destroy hundreds of ships instantly. it's not like a skilled bomber gang can destroy a fleet as it is, so what we need to do is make bombers with a range bonus and that can't be killed before the bombs land. that will make the game more fun for everybody.big plus on bringing back the aoe doomsday. just because everybody and their granny can field 10+ titans and they have many more hp than they used to doesn't mean they would be used to drop on every subcap gang in jump range like they were before dominion.wait, did i just get trolled? 8/10 at least."
"i like the idea of bring old dd aoe effect. with current number of titans in game. we can clear red fleets in home systems a lot faster by dd all of them. bring our titan alts much more actions and no need to assemble hd fleets.oh, btw, if and only if a titan got tackled, log in our 200 man super carrier fleet.super caps ftw."
"supported if for no other reason than to add value to the charisma attribute."
"yes, there are no bots in sov null, agents only give missions in one system, and chaining sanctums 23/7 is one fewer hour than 24/7."
"i can accept the fact that we have a 100km minimum warp distance, makes sense. what i don't understand is why we need a \"warp to\" target of an object or a fleet member. why can we not just engage our drives and hop a distance? the proposition is simple, add a button with similar characteristics to \"orbit @\"- you can set a custom distance or choose from presets. if the feature is engaged you activate drive and hop in the aligned direction. bigger ships- longer \"spool-up\" time so there is a balance.simple, game changing, fun, and adds a whole new variety to combat and tactics like never before.suggestions, ideas?"
"support for me! vvv"
"i have not taken the time to see how this could be exploitable....thumbs up."
"it's called thinking ahead and setting yourself up for success. simple things like ancoring or having someone with mwd at just the right angle. so rage all you want about being popped mid jump but the system works. it's a little annoying how people keep screaming about how they're forced to use a little strategy and tactics and expect ccp to take out all the challenge. you create your own upper hand. simple as that"
"basicly it's because ftl travel in eve doesn't work like it does in star trek. the nature of ftl travel in eve means, that there is no way to accurately do what you propose. what the real reason behind that design is i don't know. it does allow for a totally different tactical environment, since people can't just warp around without worry.i could see this working, but you would need to pre-nerf this heavily, so target based warping would always be a preference. otherwise you make catching targets extremely difficult, since the align time is often the only thing preventing them from warping away before you can point them and you would screw up many existing tactical elements.for example there should be a minimum distance you can warp without a warpable target, so you can't use it to travel on the grid. such travel should be mainly done using afterburners and a microwarp drive, if you don't have a warpable target available on the grid. warping without a target should never be an accurate science, so it shouldn't allow the choosing of a specific km(maybe au) amount and there should always be random variation in the end result. there also should be a spool-up time, that is longer than the normal align time from zero velocity. this way bookmarks and static locations would be preferable warp to locations in emergency situations, since you could avoid the spool-up timer.all that is basicly to make sure, that on-grind fast travel by warping isn't made easy. the fact you have to actually travel the distance and be vulnerable to enemy fire and ew during that time or sneak a covert ops in their rear to provide a warp in point, is preferable and more interesting tactical environment."
"1) any ship/pod on grid in fleet completing the incursion plex should receive payout for completing incursion plex.2) loot from the final incursion plex killing the sansha mom (the only loot in the whole incursion) should be locked to the fleet that is awarded the isk and lp for completing this incursion plex. maybe even locked to the fleet commander.2 simple changes that make a massive difference. 3) like most pvp that this simulates maybe the sansha should remove easy dps from the field first such as unfleeted / small fleets like any decent fc would. that ship cant get reps kill it. that ship has no backup kill it.the third idea is optional."
"supported.as it stands they are not worth doing."
"1) seems sensible. some people will get killed and they shouldn't be excluded from the rewards. i'm sure people will try to freeload and exploit the system, but they will get kicked from the fleet very quickly and will find it harder to get to future fleets.2) no, it is counter to the sandbox idea/current loot rules and your reward for the completing the site is the lp and isk. no special rules or mechanics should be invented for this one specific loot drop.a kind of compromise might be to have it drop in a locked container, that requires a codebreaker module to be used on it before gaining access to it. this way it would be open to a fight and stealing, but harder ninja loot.3) no. seems like an unnecessary mechanic designed purely to protect the biggest fleet doing the complex. the sansha already have a decent ai. it might need tweaking, but this seems uncalled for."
"supported."
"#1 is already the way it is, you get rewarded if in the fleet. might be excluding pods though which should change, but then the sansha should target pods-of-opportunity as well #2 makes no sense anywhere but high-sec and is a little carebearish. low/null anyone not in fleet should expect to be nuked rather quickly if suspected of wanting to loot *****.#3 like most pvp the sansha have no way of knowing who is in fleet and who is not. do you want them to get banned for spamming fleet invites to find out?"
"low sec"
"owned."
"i had been contemplating if a resist bonus would fix this instead, but i must say, i like the creativity of this one. it pretty much takes pve bonus and makes it pve and pvp, like a resist bonus. this would bring so many ships in line with their counter (amarrian/caldari)parts."
"with reference to my earlier post in regards to the brutix being a pig to fit for rr'ing compared to the rest of the 1st tier line up:if you go all mental and use armour rep drones instead of a rr module you solve a lot of the fitting problems. however, in order for this to be well balanced the 37.5% bonus needs to be applied to rr received from drones too and the rig: drone repair augmenter needs its bonus increased from 10% to 20% for t1 and 15% to 30% for t2. to be fair. this rig is pretty useless anyways and needs to be buffed up to be worth using."
"not emptyquoting."
"ceo's and alliance leaders have been hoping/asking/begging for this since eve started. it's crazy that we still can't do it.edit: supported"
"+1!"
"hello, i pass this idea on to people to keep adding on to this topic! i would like to point out, if caps need to be changed then don't! why not add more things on to it to do more in combat or other things!!! that's right add more modular types this will save ccp from making new ships but adding more options to caps! ccp wants to make the ships more different they can now! will your idea help ccp change caps?!?i will start this topic off with, caps changes or added on's to it?what ship? why if any-change to go on it?skills books maybe-?bonuses changes if any?"
"what ship? why if any-carrier, need more options!change to go on it?jump puller, able to move ships with carrier to cyno! how will this work, fuel plus cap to move (5) of any ship with it! ships must be in fleet, linked with carrier from drop down menu! then carrier just jumps out, with small fleet of ships!note - could risk losing it combat! hehe...skills books maybe-?jump puller, each level would add on how much ships could be pulled! level 2 trainer!bonuses changes if any?had idea could replace, jump network if removed! able to give small alliances move around!"
"what ship? more e-war!titans the entrenchment! able to be deploy like a star-base!able to do area effect, e-war! here list of e-war!change to go on it?anti-warping -- slow warping, effect! 250km maxslow your warp down by 50%!anti-locking -- quick med range dis-target, effect!10 secs@ 30km to 100kmmakes your ship dis-lock with in range of titian!anti-charge -- 5km to 45km max! last up to 4 minutes per cycle!slowly eats away ships charge around titian!entrenchment -- able to deploy like star-base, deploy temp shields for cover in system!skills books maybe-?skill book for each modular to be used on it.bonuses changes if any?none that i can think of right now."
"i will start this topic off with, caps changes or added on's to it?what ship? why if any-dreads, anti-support killer defense platforms! bean charge, sucks near by ships cap to get more dps!change to go on it?defense platforms - able to set in space temp defense platforms, in space!what race you are you get different defense platforms!power surge - increases the damage done on ships or stations hub starbase. skills books maybe-?defense platforms skill book, each level can set up more in space.energy surge skill book, each level useless cap by ally ship close to dread. bonuses changes if any?more use in battlefield!"
"ooh! i get it.you're all alts."
"1.0"
"supported - point ship in any direction and engage warp."
"if you combine it with the inability to create bookmarks then yes, good idea.lets face it, if you can warp to anywhere at any time you don't actually need bookmarks, right?if on the other hand bookmarking remains possible then you'll be back to square one with deep safes for everyone without having to actually \"work\" for them."
"you could find people by dichotomy pretty fast and take them off guard as they'd never see probes... could gank those unprobable t3s at last too..."
"hey, ccp, it's been how long since eve's been in existence and only corporations have wallet divisions? why not show some love to the traders and industrialists of eve? give individual players wallet divisions like corporations have. bonus points for being able to have market orders come out of and go into a particular division. this is only the umpteenth thread on the matter so it's not like this is important or anything."
"definately. it's currently a pita to compare say, a mega to a hyperion."
"if it works for isk sellers, why not for this? obviously, ccp needs to be motivated to do something about macros, and it seems like currently they're not, but this simple feature in conjunction with some analysis and banhammers could make a difference and let the players feel more in control."
"dear csm6 candidates,as a service to new players, and an opportunity for you to appeal to them, i am offering to insert a short audio clip for each candidate at the tail end of each episode of the srs bzns podcast between now and the elections.audio clips should be no more than 30 seconds and should address why a new player should vote for you. any format accepted, but a high quality .wav is preferred.you're welcome to contact me via email at fans @ srspodcast dot com, or"
"maybe it is working as intended but is it working the way it should be? this is, essentially, an immunity for hisec pos. if you and your alliance (and i realise that many hisec ones are marriages of convenience) can't defend your assets then do you deserve them?"
"this may look as a pretty abstract subject, but it has to do with game design and with the minutes of the december summit.the thing that prompted me to post this thread is here:from the 3rd part of the minutes of the december csm-ccp summitthis actually shows the problem: how can a structure be designed so thatthat structure is reasonably at safe (that is, it can survive long enough to allow amortizations of cost and some net gain, thus allowing the related activities to be profitable)that structure can be attacked with a small gang without much effort (if it's not defended by real players)the present game design paradigm is that every structure in the game must be protected by a huge amount of hps and some invulnerability timers. by this reasoning, the request 1 is satisfied, while it is not possible to satisfy the second one, just because it seems to conflict with the first. so, the question is:what are the possible designs to make a structure in space safe enough? give it one or more invulnerability timers, lot of hps, and very strong damage capabilities: in three words, \"make it tough\". it will only be vulnerable to large fleets or small group of powerful vessels. of course, it will cost quite a lot in terms of setup, maintenance, time required etc. make it (almost) invisible so that hostiles will not know about it, e.g. it will be invisible on scanner and unprobable but some random days of the week you can probe it down. make it so that it can only be attacked by small ships, and give it some defence without making it invincible (i.e. place it in a deadspace complex with ship restrictions, or make pi stuff nukable only by stealth bombers). this does not make an asset safe, just forces the attacker to organise a fleet of small ships to destroy it, it may be good. make it cost just a little, and easy to set up, so that if it is blown up it's not the end of the world and it can be replaced easily.the only design that is used in eve is the first (ok, eve uses a pretty expanded version of it). but there is no way such a design can be tweaked to allow both the safety of assets and small gangs to attack it. actually, the first design is pretty conservative and stands only on the \"owner side\", but of course it demands a lot from the owner (refueling, huge amount of time, bills).my personal opinion is that a mix of the 2,3,4 designs could be the one that allows small gangs to attack stuff in space while it will be \"safe most of the time\", or better, \"profitable to run\", and that's what actually matters. on a side note: being \"profitable to run\" means being profitable even from an opportunity standpoint: i.e. if i can run lvl4 missions and make 30 mil per hour per account, while the net gain from playing with structures in space is less (when taking into consideration all the benefits but also the inevitable losses), i may prefer to run missions. this could be applied (maybe) to the \"nuke it from orbit\" idea for pi, whenever it will be implemented, or to some new other stuff. i'm not going to discuss the specific feature ideas here, the goal of this thread is just to discuss a general mechanic (\"safety of structures in space\") since that topic was discussed with ccp in the summit.edit: grammar and stuff"
"pretty sure that you can use macros on a gaming mouse or keyboard. not sure about latched keystrokes, just put a book or something on your f1 key.reference botting in general for non rmt purposes. people do it because they don't want to waste time making isk, either because they don't have the time or because... well, it's bloody dull. there needs to be a fundamental shakeup of all pve content to make botting hard and the activities themselves more interesting. a mass banning won't do anyone any good."
"+1 a very big +1.... do iiit!"
"i would actually use tactical if had this."
"just replace all ship graphics with an appropriately sized arrow."
"as a player who flies almost-exclusively with the tac map up, ive gotten quite good at guestimating most of this info from what little we have on the screen... but i must say that this idea gets all-kinds of support from me!imho, a simple vector segment originating at ship's center, at a length proportional to the tac overlay itself in km/s makes the most sense to me. ships that move at 3km/s (dram, yaay!) would show a 3km long segment, pointing in their real-time direction. it would be up to me to evaluate my target's changes in direction and maneuver accordingly.tbh, i see the merit in quite a few of the suggestions in this thread... vectors, relative, absolute, semi-circles and triangles, transverse velocity, radial velocity, acceleration, target envelopes, innies, outties, i dont care! i just want more tac info on my tac overlay!so long as all the options are generated client-side, de-selectable and customizable on the esc menu, i dont see how is this *not* a good thing? a veritable treasure-trove of information to help us pew-pew each other into space-dust and not a single bit of it adding to server lag ftw!st"
"/signed"
"supported.i understand that concord doesn't pay out insurance. state farm isn't going to payout on a van you wreck while doing something illegal.it just makes sense.i don't wanna hear how there are too many minerals, prices are steady going up. oh, and guess what... normal players, ones who stick to highsec, also gank macro miners because they mess everything up. i've never, not once, seen someone gank a hulk and say \" i did it for the market \" no, they were all griefing *******s who can't handle fighting something that can fit a gun."
"no. in the most emphatic terms, no.as for cosmetic only...no. that starts down the slope of new features double dipping into the pocketbook.we already have plex as a way to spend real money for things in game. i don't want to see more."
"it just makes sense to me on too many levels.1) there is no longer a game mechanic tied to race/bloodline, and so balance or power is not an issue.2) there were three different reasons people chose particular races/bloodlines in the past: a) roleplay value (unchanged), b) mechanical benefits (no longer extant), and c) appearance (now vastly different). those who chose them for reason b may have not liked their choice before but felt constrained; so why not let them change to what they really wanted in the first place? those who chose for reason c are among the most maligned here as some bloodlines' appearance has changed drastically now. why not give them the chance to pick again since they weren't responsible for the change?3) it's just good customer service. since ccp made changes that players may or may not like, why not give the players the option to make the most of it instead of changing what they had and simply telling them to suck it up?4) new players get all options available to choose from. loyal, long term customers get 1/12th of the options. is this fair?now, i know many say that you should stick with the decision you made and/or it doesn't make sense that you could change the way you were born. but think of it this way: the decision was made under different circumstances than we have now. and many would not have made the same decision had the situation been different at the time. second, this isn't real life; so why try to enforce things that people don't like about real life either?as for a justification in game and in character for it, that's simple. the sansha assault concord's central genetic record database in an attempt to wipe all cloning data for capsuleers, thus preventing them from coming back after death. fortunately, a quick thinking computer ace in concord managed to stop the virus before it did too much damage. sadly, though, some of the data was corrupted and so some capsuleers may notice a few...changes.anyway, just trying to keep the thread alive and contribute logical points in the hopes that the devs take a look. i chose my bloodline as a compromise that i could live with. i wanted a different race/bloodline, but they looked terrible to me. i went with what i had though it wasn't the perfect look nor the best rp fit, but it was as good as i could get. now the race/bloodline i really liked looks quite good and what i have looks vastly different from what it did. i'm not terribly pleased really. :("
"multiple people have explained the flaws in your idea here in this thread. hopefully the developers will read the arguments against as well as all the lemmings who are supporting your proposal.you on the other hand are so focused on your playstyle that you never even thought to consider the ramifications for others. the way rr works today adds a level of complexity to the game allowing for the use of more creative tactics than simply overwhelming the enemy with superior firepower.once again the only difference between neutral rr and in corp rr is when you can engage them. surprise isn't even really a factor since as i mentioned before if you see a logistics ship on grid if isn't your neutral rr it's probably your opponents. plan accordingly and pre-target them so you can use the appropriate counter when they go flashy.yes rr can change the outcome of a battle. that's kind of the friggin point of it's existence. it's why people bother training logistics skills in the first place. and one of the ways it changes the outcome of a battle is it allows one to mitigate losses to a superior force during a withdrawal.a large part of why it works is that rr doesn't cause aggression meaning that when what ever ship the rr is repping deaggresses and docks up the logistics ship can follow imediately. a good logistics pilot has already invested significant isk and time to gain that ability. your proposed change would diminish the value of that investment with no compensation in return.the mechanic is working as intended and can be countered so...how is it said again?oh yeah... htfu or gbtwow."
"bump"
"as far as rigs go, it would have been much more reasonable to set shield rigs with speed penalty. just like armor rigs. speed penalty is something people actually care about in pvp. nobody cares about sig, especially on drake.alternatively, tanking rigs could have penalty to damage output - that'd make people think twice."
"i actually like this idea. the main problems with gallente is that once they get people scrammed, they either cant hold them there properly (minnie) or dont actually out damage them by a significant amount (amarr)"
"i agree with a small number of voices on this topic: the dram doesnt need to be nerfed.faction gear is supposed to stand slightly above t2 in capability, and we pay accordingly... in isk when we fly faction gear, and in ships+mods when we fly against it. i personally do not have a problem with the dram's capabilities as they stand. yeah, some of them dont make a lot of physical sense (a 15m3 drone bay, on something that small? really?) but they are what they are. suspend disbelief and have fun flying it.the rest of the faction ships, however, are a different story. ccp just recently decided to 'balance' them with specific roles in mind. ok, sure, ill buy that, no problem. ccp even kept the majority of them in line with each other's capabilities and within their specific roles. the problem is that the dram seemed to get the role of super-frig... with a good pilot, it can do damn-near everything any other frig can do, only better...so, yeah, the easiest thing to do would be nerf the dram to the same level as the rest of the faction frigs. the harder thing to do, and imho the right thing to do, would be to boost the other faction frigs to where the dram is. ccp, you guys raised the bar with the dram, how 'bout we bring the other ff's up to meet it?just an idea...st"
"shaera taam, do you agree that dram is too cheap for the power it provides?considering it's the best of all faction frigs, it should cost 140 mil or so - which is still less than most faction cruisers"
"realistically, yes, i think so. a ship with a significant advantage over the others in its class should be significantly more expensive. but, as the caldari are fond of saying, the market is god, and the current prices have sorted themselves out for a reason. that said, should some sort of nerf/boost take place with the dram or other ff's, prices will sort themselves out again. and no, i wouldnt mind seeing all ff prices go up by a big margin if some general ff-boost were to be implemented. i will gladly pay more for a ship that performs better, why not?"
"the bots issue is part of a larger problem, called dumping.in rl the company i worked for just failed, because of competition off 3rd world super-mega cheap modern slaves.in eve it's no different. you demand your income, others kill it. they use bots today. if you add captcha, they create captcha bots.if the captchas improve enough, they just hire a modern 3rd world slave to answer captchas.if ccp devises a smarter system, they force the 3rd world modern slave to also grind in place of the bot. he will still be happy to earn 30 dollars a month while managing 10-15 clients anyway.this is why ccp does not fight hard and just imposes some face damage control. we and ccp cannot win, the moderns slavers do."
"amazingly i agree with something you've said for a change. of course the argument isn't quite that ccp can't win, it's just that the way to win is more complicated than hunting and banning botters.the only real way to combat botting is to eliminate boring static repetitive tedious game play that is easily scripted or to level the playing field on activities for which this can't be done.consider the suggestion i put out a few weeks ago to change mining to a passive activity. eliminate exhumers and barges and replace them with mining pos's that operate mining drones on an automatic basis. adjust yields accordingly and you eliminate the bulk of the use of bot in mining. admittedly they'd still be able to gain some advantage in using them as haulers but a big enough ore bay to only require emptying every few days and that advantage would be pretty much negligible. other bot friendly activities would require different solutions but essentially if you reduce the advantage gained by the bots sufficiently then you reduce the incentive to bot and there by reduce the amount of resources devoted to botting. for instance a relatively easy counter to market bots would be to allow players to adjust their market orders when offline say through eve gate so that the advantage the botter gains of being able to .01 isk 23/7 is reduced compared to the poor ******* who spends most his day at work. it's similar to the solution to the \"dumping\" problem you mention (i call it \"capitalists gone wild\" since i see off-shoring as essentially the same thing as a sexual predator who travels to another country to avoid our laws regarding abuse minors so does the capitalist operating in a foreign country to avoid our labor and environmental laws) you tax the crap out of imported goods coming from countries that don't match our local labor and environmental laws to the point where the competitive advantage of exploiting foriegn labor is negated.so the real solution to combating botters is for the developers work to negate the advantages gained by the those who try to break the rules.edit: of course that assumes that ccp actually has a motivation to combat botting. the truth is that they'd still be looking at a revenue drop so..."
"dear csm,i see nothing in here about a (rather persistent) rumor i heard about the csm wanting wrecks to become probeable. i even filed a proposal against it.if the csm has any such plans, where can i read about them?"
"i'm not letting this one go. so bump.as a side note, i'm sure it's worth noting that the more controversial a subject is, the more support/discussion is seems to garner.the easy ones like this seem to die fast even though the majority of people agree with it.i wonder if that's why we never see the easy ones get implemented?"
"definitely support both ideas. i would like to be able to change the names on all pos modules, but i'll take anything we can get in this direction."
"i have found its generally pretty easy to rat in pvp fits. can't say about sanctums though.-liang"
"^this"
"bots don't have a bottom line. after they've made their plex money, it's all gravy. you could nerf their activities very badly, but that will hurt legitimate players far more due to the fact that \"real\" pilots are playing for far fewer hours in the day.a better idea for \"fixing\" mining and ratting bots has been suggested elsewhere :)"
"its ccp's job to enforce eve's eula, not that of alliance leaders."
"there are some downsides to this.i dont like macro miners myself but i do like to mine while i do other things. read news, email, surf the web etc and even play another game while i mine. ofcourse turning the eve sound off because those mining lasers make a terrible noise.this way i look much like a macro miner and dont get warnings (minimized window) it does take a while to fill up a hulks cargo hold so a minute will pass by easy when you are not paying atention.if somehow this can be incorperated into the design of the \"new mining idea\" i love the ideas to get rid of macro miners."
"i'd rather mining have some sort of mini-game where i get to aim the laser or something..."
"they really need to get rid of static belts. the more analysis and critical thinking required, the less likely a macro could do it and the more engaging it will be for humans."
"well, i guess making mining a more interactive profession wouldn't be a bad idea to combat macros. i know, i know, i've always been a stern advocate of the \"gank the living crap out of the macros\" policy. but after reading so many ideas around here, i realized that maybe ganking alone won't solve the problem. hey, i can be open minded at times.i don't know whose idea it was (of whatever i'm about to talk about), but after seeing how planetary interaction has developed into a complex process that requires quite a bit of careful planning, adjusting, etc., perhaps ccp could adapt the same concept towards mining (well, the planning and adjusting part i mean).let's say that when you engage the mining lasers or strip miners, a window will pop up showing the complex process in which the mining modules are working at (depending on their tech level and type). the mining process would be represented by what looks like a series of circuit boards that need to be adjusted every 5-6 minutes for variations in the mining yields and amount. these adjustments can be anything from rerouting the pathways of the circuits for achieving optimal yield to realigning the mining crystals to ensure the yields are maxed. a graph (much like the pi survey graph) would show how your adjustments and tweets have affected the module.this should create a big problem for macro developers as they won't know how to teach a computer to make these constant adjustments. i am willing to wager that even the best macro software will yield inaccurate results with this setup as it also requires visually clicking and aligning the circuits to achieve maximum yield. real miners will profit since they are human and can compensate for sudden changes while macros will suffer (yield wise) for a very long time because the computer can't compensate for the fluctuations as it doesn't know how to align the circuits every 5-6 minutes.of course, the time between adjustment can be debated as i know some players have multiple monitors with 3-5 eve clients running at the same time and have to constantly switch between monitors looking at the adjustments they need to make.what do you think?"
"yes please"
"and my support"
"yes"
"this looks nice."
"outpost destruction will unfortunately force people to nap even more than they already are. do you want most of the 0.0 be blue to everything that has even a tiny chance of taking systems away from the said blob? but i`m not against introducing vast amount of \"anyone can dock\" stations in 0.0. that helps the little guys. so i suppose this could be a good thing or a bad thing depending on what kind of politics we have..."
"i'm not a programmer i'm a miner. so i don't know what kind of softwhere it would take. i do know that botting is cheating and that ccp doesn't seem to be doing anything to stop it. if there isn't softwhere for it then have one of those squiggly letter codes that web sites use when a minning ship activates it lasers. if the code given is wrong 3 times, make the ship flashy red to everyone around. if they get it right then they are given a pass until they dock up again.you could limit this to just mining barges if you feel it it too intensive. seriously though, something needs to be done."
"/signedwhy not allow players to police 'botters'? a kinda menu option (like invite to fleet), where a player can tag a botter, and if that botter doesn't click on a 'confirmation' button / enter a code (whatever) within 5 mins, then that bot /afk player then turns red and is open season.should the confirmation pass then it cannot be activated again for 1h.simple solution maybe, but i dont know, i'm not a programmer, just an eve gamer."
"post here if you would like ccp to make the removal of bots/scripts from eve online a priority.do it noaaw!+1"
"they got one for gold spammers... bots are just the other side of that... i'm down!"
"love pizza"
"haha wow this thread is still alive i love it"
"i'm well aware of caldari design philosophy, thank you. :)i think you may have missed my point, though. i didn't mention the noctis all for nothing. i did so not because it's got a pretty skin per se, but because its hull skin makes it a realistic ship. it's got some black grills, and a khaki, canvas-like outer skin. it's probably the only ship in-game that actually looks like it's real. unlike caldari ships, that are basically just wire-frames with a cheap metal texture slapped on the side.so, i'm not proposing all-colorful, exotic designs; rather, i'd like caldari ships to become like the noctis: looking realistic, merely adding minimal texture/coloring. just enough so you actually get the feeling you're looking at a real ship again.also, keep incarna in mind. i know, the two seem unrelated, but with graphics being beefed up considerably for it, the crappier looking ships will only start to looking crappier by comparison."
"if contracts could be securely created through the api, corporations would be able to create their own fully customizable \"storefronts\" using a platform that is already widely in use - the web!adding the ability to create contracts to the api, or to the igb javascript calls, or a combination of the two, would allow corporations or individuals to include sales directly on their websites.the igb currently has javascript links for contracts already. this is obviously very simple, but my own corporation uses these to offer pre-made contracts in an easy to find format. for an example, check out"
"my question would be, how many corporations would actually utilize this and would that number be significant enough to implement this."
"at present there are not many corporations that make use of the igb features. however, i believe that if the option were available to make websites more interactive people would use them. also, there are many developers, myself included, who would make easily installed packages for a \"shopping cart\" and \"checkout\" system to be used on corporation websites.i think it allows players to make their own commercial portal that is fully interactive with the game, as ccp originally talked about with the \"storefront\" idea - but it saves ccp a lot of work and allows players to use their own creativity to make something unique and high quality.thanks,dacil arandur"
"<--did ccp really intend for things to get this bad?lets have a breakdown on 0.0 including the mechanics1. well first of all those timers suck, we went from pos warfare that involved activity in several systems with multiple timers (not amazing mechanics, but still workable) to lets call cuddle up in a ball and lag the system out.2. 1 year after dominion, lag is somewhat none existent, but with every sov holding alliance in a desperate attempt to blue each other to 'survive', just so they can get similar numbers as their enemies we will see lag return soon enough.3. supercaps, here, there everywhere, they are now used for ratting <sigh> dreads on the other hand are used for, hmm where can i use a dread instead of a supercap? now before you give me the \"but dreads are cheaper and can dock\" reply, you should know carriers are also cheaper and can dock yet still fit a role, dreads are somewhat useless mainly because of siege being too long but thats a different story.4. lets shoot stations, how exactly is shooting a station any better than pos warfare?, at least with pos warfare dreads could be used, now supercarriers fill the role of structure dps and well everything else5. number warfare, alliances are aware there is nothing stopping them from blueing all of 0.0, they also know this is the easiest way they can survive, while their player base goes inactive or npcs they just get more blues. this is literally bull****, yes i am aware ccp and csm are working on fixing this and want to get rid of number warfare i just dont want to see something as bad as dominion.6. puppet masters, pets, renters and nips (non invasion pact, in other words neutral with benefits) if you look at the sov map, each sov holding alliance fits into one of these categories.7. passive income, why is it 0.0 criticise lvl 4 mission runners or people who work for their isk, when 0.0 alliances get passive income through moon goo.8. industry in 0.0 sucks, the only pveing anyone does is ratting, mining overall is bad, what happened to making people in 0.0 live in 0.0 majority of the time (free from mission alts).i think it is time ccp focus on making a dominion mk ii, no more empire stuff, no more random stuff no one even asked for.change 0.0 to encourage smaller local wars, that dont involve curling up in a ball in a single system shooting a stupid structure.charge alliances isk based on their member and corp count like a human resource fee meaning if you are going to recruit everyone at least be charged for it, that way people can choose if a player is worth the upkeep and recruitment wont be as limited as \"hey we have space, join and blob\".change supercaps so dreads are useful again, i personally think if dreads had a 2 min siege timer they would used more often make sov easier to claim that favours skill over blobbing, for example introduce a beacon that can be anchored fast and easy, the beacon will have about 2 mil hp and unless destroyed will claim the system for the alliance who deployed it. the beacon will be 500 m3 allowing smaller alliances to have a chance at sov warfare, a beacon can be placed at planets only and it takes 3hrs to online, once online the system will switch sov for the beacon holding alliance. this will encourage more wars, yes people will be outnumbered but because it will be easier to claim sov people are more likely to put effort in defence / offence rather than spending days risking only to get boredom.as for stations, allow them to be incapped making it impossible to dock in them (or use services if already docked), this will require carriers etc to rep and encourage cap / supercap warfare. also for the sake of industry allow 0.0 stations to manufacture, invent, copy, refine etc better than anything else, better than what they are atm."
"introduce a new ship which leeches moon goo (from 0.0, whs, lowsec, yes im well aware of the wh comment :p), if moon goo is being leeched the harvester will send a message to the starbase defence operators letting them know \"there harvester is running at a reduced rate\", during this time the moon harvester will only harvest 20% of efficiency.these are some ideas and examples, i am hoping small gang warfare gets promoted where we see more black op hot drops and more conflicts that wont rely on numbers.\"how do you know people wont blob with this?\"  well based on everything that has happened in the last few years, i believe the major reason why blobs happen is because of timers allowing in advance planning of blobs and because one system is usually affected.think of it this way, imagine you had 5 days to defend a system and 5 days to organise a fleet, can you really blame alliances for doing a cta: everyone has 5 days to get to xxx, 3hrs or lower timers promotes continuous battles, active alliances benefit but due to smaller sov structures there will be more fleets, more combat, more destruction.questions you may askthats not fair, when i claim sov someone can take it while im asleep!  yes, they could but then you can take it back, one of the major things people complain about is timers ruining everything, smaller alliances cant claim because they cant handle having mass numbers and larger alliances get bored due to spending more time shooting a station and less time shooting players.i have 1000 players in my alliance, they are all inactive why should i pay a fee to have members?  well managing an alliance isnt exactly easy, it allows corps / alliances to decide who is worth having / not having that includes who and who shouldnt be kicked.i have 10 systems ready to swap in 3 hours, well done on this bad idea im going to lose everything!  maybe you should go kill their beacon? it doesnt require a lot, you can even do it with a few sb, or if you want you can go claim someone elses system.the sov map is ruined, everyone is trying to kill everyone, people are claiming space everywhere and all you see is pvp in 0.0  good!i am in a 20k coalition, we will be able to defend all these places that are going to swap sov  3 hours is a lot of time to kill something with 3 mil hp, if you can manage to defend all 20k people, good luckthis promotes piracy, you are a ****  actually im the biggest carebear in eve , not by choice either, sov warfare doesnt happen much and when it does its all about the numbers and who or what is blue, where inactive alliances can sit back and have 50+ supercarriers defend their space.how exactly would this promote pve?  imagine the huge increase in losses and pvp, well players will need to buy stuff, selling stuff in 0.0 npc stations will make a fortune.my supercap is useless now that i cant blob!  nope, supercap / cap warfare will be to defend a station, huges fleets will be there but will be limited to defending / attacking structures, smaller fleets will focus on sov, you can always use supercaps to defend sov but that would be really inefficient.what about the current bonuses we get from sov?  those will be there too, but i guess for the sake of things the current sov structures can be removed.bwhahaha i will claim all of 0.0, mark my word!  you really think you can claim and defend that many systems, if you can manage that then great stuff.black ops warfare, heh  yup ;)once again these are just ideas, im sure not all of you agree but since most people (careless of epeen status) are disappointed in 0.0 atm"
"i'd like to see some sort of convergence between sovereignty styles. at present we have \"database sov\" defining empire space, \"dominion sov\" defining nullsec alliances, \"occupation\" impacting faction warfare and \"incursion\" where npcs temporarily invade some region.the incursion and faction warfare styles of sovereignty encourage smaller groups and active pvp. faction warfare is a little broken due to \"occupying\" bunker deadspaces with cloaked ships to cheese your way to winning, so that needs to be fixed.perhaps there should be a kind of \"grand unified sovereignty\" system: empire space should be contestable, all sov & sec status should be determined to some extent by the amount of pvp or pve action that takes place. nullsec alliances could launch attacks on their enemies by paying off an npc empire to wander into some region the enemy controls (incursions on demand). pilots could choose to align with the npc empires, providing the casual players an authority to work for (because npcs don't kick you from their alliance if you don't turn up to ctas for a month).sovereignty would be determined by the amount of activity in a system, with the benefits being bonuses to those activities (i.e.: sov based on indexes, not structures). contesting sov would require doing the activities that the sov holder is supposed to be doing. go into enemy space and run their complexes, mine their ore, blow up their ratters, blow up their miners, engage in all available forms of pvp.we need working treaties too. then the alliances could hire carebears to occupy specific systems to rat and mine.concord or local police/navy could then be installed with an ihub module, or a simple treaty with the appropriate npc corp. taxes not enough in empire space? concord response time drops (as indicated by the security status). too many missions being run? security index goes up, mission quality drops. more pvp happening? security index goes down, tougher rats appear, better mission agents move in (or existing mission agents become better quality).thus places like sasoutikh, emolgranlan, dodixie and motsu would end up as 1.0 sec with l1 agents , while places like jita end up becoming lowsec with l5 agents.a sandbox, where half the sand isn't glued in place? yay!"
"i would also like to mention, when people are asked \"why arent they moving to 0.0 or joining a 0.0 alliance?\" i get the following replies, in no specific order.\"lag\"\"too many naps blobbing everything that isnt blue\"\"supercap blobbing\"\"shooting structures sucks\"\"except for weekends there isnt any targets\"and many other criticisms, now when 0.0 players are asked \"why dont you think non 0.0 players goto 0.0?\" i get the following replies, in no specific order\"they are all carebears who like ccp to hold their hands\" (which doesnt make sense, non 0.0 includes whs and lowsec)\"0.0 sucks, no one really likes the current mechanics\"\"because who really wants to spend hours getting ready and travelling just to die in a blob or get no combat\""
"this is what i would start with:rotate moon minerals on a 3-6 month schedule with the nascent vein being discoverable on a similar schedule.- should spur some more wars to secure future income for the bloated null entities.allow small gangs to affect sovereignty upgrades by direct action as in external target-able upgrade modules on ihub.- makes patrolling/using ones space an actual requirement, go figure. encourages entities to diversify their roster across timezones and loose some fat. restrict bridges (titan+pos) to industrial type ship and boost null industry by a healthy margin.- increases gate use -> more pew. gives null the opportunity to become self-sufficient when it comes to common goods.increase dread damage, ehp and/or change siege function to near toggle.- dreads are ok'ish at what they do but have a ww1 pilots life expectancy against supers. flip that and they may come out of hiding again.fw cloaked timer capture was fixed ages ago, you are behind the times"
"stopped reading at this point"
"i actually agree with the goon there, lag is horrible in 0.0 as are lots of other things. they haven't come close to the lag levels from before dominion at all."
"im finding 500 man fleets quite fine atm, cant really speak on a ncs 1200+ in a system point of view but most alliances cant reach those numbers anyway.the very idea i am suggesting will reduce number wars (exception to station shooting) so there wouldnt ever strategically need to be a reason to bring more than 100 players.saying that, this conversation isnt about lag and while some people may feel lag is still present and some dont, i for one havent heard experienced much problems with lag recently or heard lag affect average sized engagements.the lag comment was todo with the nature and mechanics of 0.0 where people will just shove more players in a system until it lags anyway."
"on my alliance forums, we have altered our software so that people in certain usergroups are only capable of seeing this for all posts. the yellow squiggle at the left is normal sized text."
"also i know somebody will bring up greasemonkey scripts to bypass this, i know greasemonkey can fix this but it also borks all the legitimate numbers and punctuation, also not everyone can run the scripts and in the end the dude knows he got punished.we have been using this for a couple years now and it's a pretty effective punishment. we can share the algorithm with ccp if they decide they want to implement it."
"turn that frown upside downwill you be applying for csm this year?"
"i'm surprised you guys let \"for\" and \"you\" slip by with such obvious replacements to be had...-liang"
"it's just based on single letter replacements right now, although i love the idea of using txtspk.this will show those greasemonkey scripts who's boss"
"i'm sure thieves and the like are going to flame this, but read the whole post before you begin with the mouth diarrhea.plexes that require a key are broken. not the whole complex, but the mechanic used to get in. if you have to kill a named rat to get their key / card / passcode / left eyeball / whatever, it should _not_ work 2 weeks after you got it. we assume/pretend we play a game in which not all of the npcs are idiots, just the ones in l4 missions who can't fit all their hard points.the key used to gain access should expire in a given amount of time... say 30 mins or an hour. anyone who has ever tried to do one, that isn't a farmer, finds that it is already gone, and if one is lucky enough to get to one before a farmer, say, after dt, a crash, or maybe just pure luck, it's not uncommon to see a farmer burn thru a key they already had and come through the pelx and try and steal the swag at the end. point is, if it is supposed to be so special that they have a secure key that a named rat has, how can they not figure out he's dead and make his key invalid? simple solution is to make the key/pass/whatever poof after 30 mins to an hour.anyone else feel this way?btw, i looked thru 5 pages to see if this was here or not. if i missed it, link it please."
"why not make the key die either when the rat dies or when another key spawns?along those same lines, it would be kind of nice if the final room was instanced (no respawns into the instance) as people will often... sit in the room for a silly long time."
"yeah, i've heard of that happening... but i honestly haven't gotten into plexes enough to even see that happen.all the same, that is avoiding the mechanic of the key, and you're right, the room should reset somewhere else, kind of like a mission once a new keyholder rat spawns."
"there has been several threads about this issue."
"of course. i also would like to see command ships as a whole looked at again. :)-liang"
"^^ this.with the advent of the tengu, nighthawk just isn't worth it any more. not that it no longer has any purpose, but relative to the amount of skills required for a command ship, the nighthawk just doesn't offer enough extra to warrant the high requirements. nighthawk, sorry to say, currently is just a slightly better drake."
"im going to get behind this. needs a look at least."
"it would be nice to see field commands able to run a link while doing pve or pvp fits. as well as fleet command getting a better bonus to links, because at the moment, any t3 can run 3 links, warp cloak, warp through bubble, and be unprobable, while doing a better bonus in less than half the training time. additionally, it would be nice to see the armor rep (such as the one proposed in another thread to give local tank bonuses the abil to bonus incoming rep, change to resistence bonuses, or shield/armor health) bonus on the minmatar and gallente command ships overhauled to get them more than just gang work. as well as the few other minor tweaks needed, such as falloff bonus for the claymore, more bandwidth for the eos, longer range to the damnation, and vulture bonus' flipped to missile velocity and flight time instead."
"i'm perfectly fine with this item not working on grid with a stargate. it'd be intended to be used in belts and sites to catch cloakies and bots.updating proposal to reflect that."
"i was thinking more of making the missile sniping actually practical more difficult to manage but not impossible compared to turret sniping. drakes would not get too much of benefit since the range is lower this wold make cerberus and cruise ravens actually usable if handled properly."
"for guided missiles, no. you already get a huge range, damage selection and cap free operation.for fof missiles, yes. allows for a way to have a buddy help defeat ewar used against the missile platform.otherwise you'll have cerbs/ravens sitting at near max range with launchers going non-stop using a logi-tank group in the middle painting stuff."
"tl,dr: boost missileno, thank.current fof balance (damage) is based on the assumption that they don't focus fire but hit the nearest target. if playing with a friend with a painter allow you to bypass that limit and focus fire on a single target the fof damage need to be nerfed.similarly you get a serious advantage in locking time if a frigate with a painter can acquire targets for a group of bs using cruise fof. again it would be a valid reason to reduce fof damage."
"wouldn't that merely bring them closer to par with guns which can have the same buddy remote boosting the gun-ship?fof already have 25% less damage than regular ordnance and painting have range limit that is generally lower than the missiles themselves (ie. painter in harms way)."
"ok i like we have some discussion going. from some valid points that i have seen here. the proposal then would be. make a t2 missile group that would require fof to 5 with spec skills for each size. like other missiles. unlike the t1 fof missiles these will require normal lock to fire but have the additional homing feature. base damage of fof is lower so would keep it that way."
"no. remote boosting don't do anything similar. this idea will totally bypass ecm and make fof a wondrous weapon if you have a friend. it will remove one of the two drawback of fof for free as a target painter already give an advantage. you really want to live in a world of fof firing drakes with tackers target paining the called targets?"
"how about a counter proposal of fof's having a second function of hitting the closest target with a target painter on them, this would effective make it similar to assigning your drones to a fleet make if you got jammed, as well as give a reason for fof's to be used. side bonus would be that this would make long range missile boats suck less in pvp."
"i have a suggestion to make with the new incursion patch i think if u dont save the system before downtime u lose the system to the sansha nation bc that would make more people fight them and also make the game more entertaing to play so just get back to me on it and tell me what u think miket213"
"no, they don't stick around enough as it is, if anything they need to stay longer!"
"if not one day two bc i think it would make incursin more fun"
"incursion : short, as in raid: the bandits made brief incursions on the village.invasion : long, as in. entrance as if to take possession or overrun.any dictionary would inform you of the difference between the two."
"@majid al'amarr i dont get what ur saying"
"i completely agree with the idea. i'm not sure what you propose can work but we definitively need to reduce fleet size.fleet should be limited to 40 pilots to maximum.with the current concept of fleet and 200 drakes flying together, we don't need any pilot anymore, fleet commander just need a big remote control to control all ships it will be better (for the result, for the players who can watch a movie instead of looking at the lag).do something regarding this please.guldi"
"ok, so you might want to get ready for a wall of a text for this as i might have to explain this in detail so you can get a better understanding on what i'm talking about here.since planetary interaction is a passive source of isk income that requires some attention (ie: moving extractor heads, adjusting cycles, etc.), how would you guys feel if ccp did a little experiment in which you can keep an eye on your colonies via the ipad or any other tablet-like device like google's galaxy tab? this could really be a benefit for those who don't have much time to head home, log into their desktop computers and log into eve online to check their planets (usually because of work, road trips, or whatever other reason like wife aggro). but of course, one might ask how this could be implemented. let's start with a few suggestions (feel free to pitch in if you like).1. since devices like the ipad and galaxy tab are not known for handle much in the way of 3d graphics, each planet that the pilot controls would be represented by a 2d rectangular map of each planet (much like your typical classroom map) with some basic data displayed such as survey data, location of ecus and their respective heads as well as storage units.2. to reduce possible lag on the server, anytime you log into your account from the ipad the eve client on your pc will log out if you were still logged into the computer then (just like how it happens today between two computers accessing the same account). this should also reduce data corruption.3. since the current pi system requires that your ship be in space to use the customs office, you won't be able to import/export your commodities since a portable device like the ipad won't handle the graphics.4. to reduce the possibility of log-in/log-out spamming of this form of planetary interaction, i would recommend a cooldown time of about 2-3 hours between log ins so that the server can have time to gather the information inputted from the ipad or galaxy tab and apply it to the 3d version of pi that we currently see in the eve client.this will obviously take a lot of time to experiment since this is quite a leap to try to connect a server to a portable device. but then again, ccp is already trying a big leap with dust 514."
"get a real tablet, not trash you can only browse the internet in like an ipad, wait... they can't even do that right (no flash)i own a lenovo s10-3t multitouch tablet that runs win7 and eve at 15+fps at 1024x600 in combat. even systems like rens/jita are completely playable on it.next time you spend some money, get a machine that will do something your smartphone cant."
"well, last time i checked, flash (according to symantec) has the worse security record in 2009.with the popularity of the ipad rising, i doubt that the masses would go for the tablet pc anytime soon (unless you're a true techie). and besides, i don't really own an ipad. i only brought it up because i thought it would be nice to create a little app that links the players to their pi colonies in some way."
"seriously?a standard fleet drake has around 80,000 ehp. a max-skilled bomb deals 8000 damage, unless you have covert ops 5 it does less. the maximum number of bombs that can be used in one volley is 7, otherwise they destroy each other. it takes at least 2 volleys to kill anything, which means if you don't have conventional ships as well, the enemy will get away.also, after insurance a marauder or black ops costs more to replace than a dread or carrier. if an alliance fielded 20 t2 battleships against 50 drakes, they would still be risking twice as much isk on the fight. the drakes would only have to kill 5 of them to break even on isk destroyed/lost.the main goal is to make weapons that are bad vs 50 drakes but good vs 100 drakes, so that fleets are encouraged to split up into sub-groups and more commanders are needed.the aoe weapons i'm suggesting would be rare and ridiculously expensive. as for dd's, i acknowledge that titans are much more common these days and suggest their area also be decreased significantly."
"solution: bubble fleet, start waves of bomb salvos. been there, done that, came away with a dozen bs kill mails. it works (especially on entrance gates with armor bs).only idiots fly marauders in combat that could have the potential of ecm (which is pretty much any combat situation). one scorp could shut down half a fleet. black ops are silly expensive and equal to their t1 version, again, never seen in combat where the other side might field more ships than the one being ganked.i'm a big fan of carrots, personally. rather than penalizing people from having \"too many\" give them reason to be in multiple places at the same time. in current battles, there are no supply lines to hit, flanks to circumvent, or weaknesses in the line to be exploited.rather than blobbing into one place to accomplish something, the mechanics should split up fleets to hit multiple targets. the current mechanic is little more than pound one structure until it reinforces, then come back and do it again as many times as needed until it explodes. as long as that remains, it matters little how many penalties you put on the blob, it will still remain the most efficient strategy in combat.all that said, calling fleets blobs is rather silly. there is a lot of complexity in many of these large fleets and the efforts put into organizing them is near overwhelming.give carrots, not the stick."
"i'm going to go out on a limb here and try a different way of thinking about it.while i agree the lack of aoe weapons is maybe a pertinent point, i also feel that there might be something to be said about adjusting the effects of having so many ships maintaining an active lock on another ship.i would assume maintaining an active lock on another ship would involve some pretty sophisticated sensor telemetry, so how about there being an upper limit (based on the targeting ships sensor strength and target ship's sig resolution) on how many ships can target a single vessel? the more ships locking a target, the smaller its apparent signature radius becomes due to interference."
"such ideas are counter-intuitive for players, and it does nothing to change the root cause of blobby behavior, which i described in my previous post.it would just cause a lot of frustration and introduce all kinds of exploits with friendly/hostile locks"
"whilst i can see the mechanic possibly being exploitable (like every other mechanic in eve), i don't understand how the claim that preventing a blob from locking a target at once would fail to discourage blobby behavior. or maybe i'm just unclear on the ability of a maelstrom fleet being able to one-shot a carrier as being encouragement for blobby behavior."
"the multiple locking thing is particularly bad because friendly and neut-alts can take advantage to \"secure\" their important ships from enemy locks.so not only you got idea that makes no sense, gets people ****ed off, but it also gets abused"
"how is any of that relevant for virtually risk free highsec missions?"
"get ownedyeah, really though: highsec missions pretty much should get nerfed into the ground, maybe left somewhat the same. sure as hell not boosted."
"high sec mission running needs a nerf not a buff!"
"red font is the new capslock?"
"i would be happy with simply not having to dock to accept the mission in the system. or perhaps allowing you remote accept a mission from and agent you had just completed a mission for instead of just any agent.also i believe as professions go wormholes are far more lucrative then missions."
"all this nerd-rage about bubbles offlining when too close to a pos made me wonder:why on earth do we even have infini-point bubbles that does not even require an operator?- interdictors provide fast on-demand bubbling at the cost of short duration and near guaranteed death.- hic's provides the bubble/tackle to take over from the dic with a hefty tank to stay on target.common for both is that they require a person at the helm plus represent a significant investment.mobile bubbles on the other hand have a huge amount of ehp (for their sizes), good range, low'ish cost (comparatively) and require no one to actually be there .. the only downsides are volume and anchoring delay.suggested change:mobile warp disruptors cannot sustain the scrambling field without an external source of em energy.- said energy can be in any form and can come from any remotely operated device such as webs, tp's, disruptors, dampeners, td's etc.anchoring delay for all units is cut by 75%.- t1/t2, s, m, l -> 30s/15s, 60s/30s, 120s/60s.all other stats can largely remain the same with a possible downwards tweak of volumes to allow for easier deployment.result (not counting tears from people stuck in pos bash era):mobile bubbles become just that: tactical assets that can be deployed rapidly to the field to provide semi-static scrambling or deployed before hand for later use."
"i always liked someones idea on this that a mobile warp bubble should require fuel like stront or something - not a lot - but some.imagine like 2 stront an hour but only has like a 6 stront capacity.when the fuel runs out - it stops working.there have been plenty of times i have gone into a wh and there are like a million of these things setup around a pos for protection... right now they dont cost anything to run and are just left behind.that and the damn things should be able to be scanned with combat probes. its annoying that you cannot."
"maybe i am the only one with this problem, but now that i have the ability to overheat modules, it seems to happen frequently when i don't want it do, also it can be difficult to tell if a rack is overheating or not at first glance. what i suggest is some sort of safety like on a gun that you can latch or unlatch, that will prevent any attempt to overload a rack when its in a latched position. beyond that i would also like to see some sort of graphic that in no uncertain terms shows that a rack is overheating so that if you somehow accidently start overloading it will grab your attention so that you can turn it off before it starts to damage the modules.so that it does not upset those who like to overheat frequently, there could be a default state setting that will set the latch to the users preference, or even disable the latch altogether if that is what they wish."
"what you seek is the 'lock overload status' menu point in the hud menu, the little triangle near the capacitor. also, overload graphics are indeed in need of a facelift."
"i don't mean ship graphics, space graphics, etc, they're all very pretty.some of the effects are terrible though. here is what i wish for, it would really improve immersion.for starters, i wish when a gun missed, it showed it.there needs to be variation to where turrets and missile hit on a ship or structure. there is some, but not enough. let my guns hit in different places, just randomize it.i absolutely hate the little shockwave effects rails have when they hit ships, clipping is *never* right, it just looks cheesy, a new effect, smaller shockwave maybe?blasters seem too big as well.rail sound effects are terrible compared to other guns, they sound like they have absolutely no punch to them.when guns fire, the sound stacks are too strong, 8 rails on a rokh can be deafening, when a single one can barely be heard. i find myself adjusting groups to make fighting more fun to watch, to quiet down my turret firing, etc. and of course, torpedos look rediculously strong and they aren't. my girlfriend the other day watched me play for a second and laughed at the fact that i was surviving the dozens of torpedos hitting my ship. shields, armor, i don't care. it's a cool effect, just far too strong. torpedos aren't the godly weapons they were when ccp first put them in game. again, they look cool, but not when you have 6 npc ravens firing torpedo after torpedo at you for 30mins straight in a mission.i would also absolutely love it if when you group fired, they hit at the same time, but had a graphic other than all turrets firing at once. staggered firing (just the visuals) would be fun to watch.i know this post seems a bit rude, i don't mean it to be. the list formatting might not be fun to read, my apologies if it seems presumptuous (as in, 'here is a list, i want you to do it, get back to my when it's done), really didn't mean for that. the game is beautiful, the graphics are great in most areas, but some stuff hasn't been updated in eons and i wish ccp would take notice. it was my biggest disappointment when returning to the game after a long break.most of the changes i asked for would only take a matter of hours at the long end. if anyone agrees with me, please support me in this."
"older thread covering the same issueta :)"
"a lot of the changes talked about in that thread are difficult though.. i'm mentioning stuff that would take a single programmer almsot no time at all to sit and do.the point is, very little investment of time could make a huge impact on immersion in this game. forget ship damages and all of that, that can be for a future expansion, i'm talking about a simple 300kb patch (not including sound effects, of course) that would add a ton of graphical improvement to the game."
"it needs to be fairly inaccurate to not be imbalanced however i would like to see it possible to get on grid with someone in a save spot or mission pocked by using the directional scanner and that warp function of curse it would have todrop you at a random distance off the target in a radius of at least 200km and all dead space/mission complexes have to be set so you can't warp around in themotherwise someone dropped at 200km could just warp to a wreck near the complex/mission runner if those criteria would be met i think it would be doomsday-proof"
"actually, they can. it's like fitting a micro warp drive: it doesn't fold space or any other weird sf dipsh*t: it just behaves like a superfast afterburner, moving you thru regular space, along a linear path, very fast. so, i see no real impediments to the op's proposal, immersion or otherwise.supported. +1"
"excellent! your self-exclusion makes mining more profitable for me. i'll semi-afk my way through the mining sites quite happily while attending to pi, market orders, and scanning down the next grav site.what about mechanics changes intended to make the game more interesting to play?"
"people still a bit slow to realise the same bugs that fw players have been screaming about for years are now breaking incursions and sabotaging ccps efforts to release new content. i wonder how long it will take, 5-10 years?"
"dust514"
"the sandbox/current loot rule is broken when you have a a percentage bar countdown to when a piece of loot will spawn that is broadcast to everyone with an exact location requiring no effort to have a go at ninja stealing it. if every piece of loot had this with a beacon that spawns so that everyone could warp into anything to ninja loot with no effort then i would agree with you. maybe even making so the mothership has to be probed out would help?point 3 was made because it is quite easy to sit in front of this super npc ai and not get killed.the rewards and how stupidly easy it is to loose them makes incursions pointless."
"as if you and your care-bears will go there in all those expensive ships and clones. low sec incursions are just going to get powned by a big alliance when they spawn close enough to their homes.low sec incursions are a whole different set of pointless issues.ya know?"
"as if you and your care-bears will go there in all those expensive ships and clones. low sec incursions are just going to get powned by a big alliance when they spawn close enough to their homes.low sec incursions are a whole different set of pointless issues.ya know?large alliance don't run incursions in their systems. they lack the kind of skills necessary. it's very different from blobing."
"forget what, now?"
"ah, well, that is a different question. i would not be surprised if the csm addressed a well-supported proposal in ah regarding this issue.it should be clear to everyone that pos's need a ton of work."
"perhaps one possibility might be things that degrade pos operation that can be achieved by small/medium gangs, permitting hit-and-run harassment operations against enemy infrastructure."
"the problem that any fixed hp system runs into is the one where 'if ten people can do it in an hour, they will bring a hundred and do it in six minutes'. we saw it happen with pos'es and pos guns, station services sbu's etc.i am hugely in favour of more conflict drivers in all types of space but care should be taken to prevent situations where, instead of the intended 'small gang', you will find a roving band of 50 people running around nicking all the stuff in no-time. while certainly natural and according to expectations, it doesn't exactly make the game more interesting."
"any news?"
"seriously, csm, post something about your views on the neo neocom that was sc****d forever.this is not a discussion topic, the csm need to post more on current events, so either csm members please post your opinion on the neocom, and it's fate. so people can link to csm posts that have already address the issue so all of the posts can be in this thread."
"capitalism will always survive, because socialism will be there to save it ;)"
"added the 25 page thread about botting from gd forums. that being said, post in that one please.also, fight against the bots is coming soon with hulkageddon, make sure to follow the advice of my forum sig and kill the pods too. i mean pod them so hard they go back to an alpha clone!"
"awesome ideas. supported"
"<3 i wish i could sell my ideas so eloquently!only one nitpicking: i proposed to make the vectors constant in length to make it possible to see them when zoomed out. this excludes the length relativeness to speed that you propose. ideally, we should be able to select between the two visuals..."
"aww, thx!and yeah, what you say makes sense, but even a 1km/sec frigate will still have a discernible vector on your screen, even if youre zoomed all the way out to a 100km wide tac display. for my part, i tend to drive the fast ships, so the ones i really worry about are the ones that compare to my ship in speed, or are faster! but hey, make it selectable! 'relative' and 'absolute' radio buttons on the esc menu, problem solved! either way, its a more-usable tac display... \o/"
"keeping hope alive."
"finally.dead horse not need new cloaking ship buff.ccp forget black ops boost. thx.p.s.give cap usage for all cloak."
"+1, qft."
"/signed"
"supported."
"bump."
"i agree, this would make finding stuff in the wormhole so much better."
"yes!"
"wow"
"let me get rid of crap i never use"
"i was looking forward to this... let the people decide, after all it was optional."
"ok but make it optional like the new contracts system.i really don't want another buggy ccp release screwing up my interface and getting my ship blown up while my api crashes."
"supporteddidn't take the time to test it any on sisi but i was looking forward to giving it a chance on my secondary characters when it hit tq."
"i want it and i'm frustrated by the fact that it's arrival was announced with trumpets, a marching band and a devblog - it's removal was that it simply wasn't there, and later a vague post about 'player feedback'.i didn't see any player feedback that said it was a bad idea - players just wanted it *and more*.at the very least, we deserve a proper explanation - they clearly spent time and effort on it, and hyped it up lots."
"supported. i'm using the optional beta contracts i would be using the neocom if it was there."
"amen... dominos use the most disgusting old rotten ingredients off the back off a crashed truck from the 20s.don't worry though, they listened to customers, and updated a 50yo recipe.... rofl."
"would it be possible for adding an option to free a slave... like the ones slave traders drop? maybe get a small standing gain (.01 per) with the groups that don't like slavery as well."
"i feel sorry for them even though they're pixels..."
"the option would be fit nicely to the back story, especially for us minmatar"
"freeing them should be an option, but i'm iffy on the standings gain. mainly i don't want to see a situation where you can buy standings and i have no idea how many slaves there are actually available for people or even know all the places they get spawned.support for free the slaves -option with no reward.edit: add a sound effect when you free slaves. a cheering crowd/person should make for an appropriate effect."
"actually, i like the idea of freeing the slaves... do it in minnie space and you get a standing bump (small!)... but do it in amarran space and you get an imperial navy aggro timer *and* a standing cut (not-so-small!), hehe... yes, this is a kind of 'click here to buy standing' but would also start pipelines of slave smuggling to anti-slavery space. slave prices in minnie space would skyrocket, and your buy-standing scenario would even itself out...a new occupation would be born and a few more grains added to the sandbox!now where did i put those skillbooks for that prowler?edit: gah! forgot the little thumbs up! supported!"
"this sounds tight."
"we in rf freight would probably use something like this to let our clients set up courier contracts directly from our trip calculator, prefilled with values. a very good idea, that i have wanted for some time. for security reasons, the contract should be finalized ingame."
"long overdue."
"covert cynos (can only used by blacktops)shuppoteed!"
"yeah!let's make recon ships obsolete as well as command ships!>_<"
"i don't think this is really necessary. i'd rather see cyno/hotdrop whatever mechanics improved first."
"i don't mind if ccp does this but only after nerfing cynos.there should be some delay between cyno start and ships appearing. it should not be 3 seconds.and there needs to be a short range mobile cyno jammer."
"so you get bubble immune ships that can warp cloaked and pop covert cynos.sounds like something eve really needs if and only if the ability to pop covert cynos conflict with bubble immunity, and even then it should be a hassle and a half to pull it off fittings wise."
"bump"
"i support this topic."
"counter-support"
"oh no, hired goons bumping treads with \"counter support\". guess i should support this one then.hmm, why the heck would anyone bump a thread he doesn't support?"
"i don't really the rounds stuff it sucks my screen so much."
"i would prefer it if they would just remove passwords all together to be honest. if your not in the alliance, then you don't in the pos shield or get to use the jump bridge.other than that your proposal is just another thing that encourages nap trains."
"yeah but seeing 700 ships lag out looks cooler than seeing 300 ships lag out.make dreadnoughts useful for shooting other capitol ships. making them more agile with a bit better ship to ship dps should accomplish this.just make a station a really big pos. i think blowing up someone else's station would be pretty awesome personally. also if a group of players can set up a station it makes sense that a group of players should be able to take one down. in theory you could track the amount of stations that go up each month and calculate a time when ever nullsec planet has a station around it.i like the \"lets get rid of jump bridges\" solution that keeps getting kicked around.again getting rid of jump bridges would reduce the ease of just shipping in everything from jita. also ccp could just add on numerically more nullsec stars on the edge of the mapsure why notthis could be another good role for a dreadnought to encourage people to fly 'em.this would help 0.0 industry."
"a gas cloud mining ship is indeed curiously missing."
"didn't prism x already implement this function?and tbh, i'd rather have it like my old corp's forum where whenever i was mentioned, my name would just be either \"ultimate pedo otaku lolicon\" or \"herr general\". much more entertaining that way.::initial post name::/minigin paosts::initial post name:: + \"[emo limegreen within, wear protection]\""
"some site i remember a while a go had \"disemvoweling\" as a punishment for crap posts. in that case it was only for their posts instead of deleting them outright. that was kinda fun."
"the best punishment is a bit of code which means that any posts or topics created by the ****** cannot be seen by anybody else on the forum. he can still see make posts and topics, and can see his own, so he wouldn't even know anything had happened. see how long such a person keeps obliviously talking to himself."
"and this is why i voted ... wait, i voted mynxee last time. well, this is why i will vote mazz with my second account next election.brilliant"
"isn't \"playing\" eve enough of a punishment ?"
"bumping...i can't be the only one that can see this is broken.-skan"
"who cares about static plexes nowadays anyway?and dynamic plexes don't use the keys, everything is unlocked or can be unlocked just by killing stuff"
"key is not a problem.problem is when you can just permatank in last room and keep collecting the loot.low level plex loot is not expensive or anything so economy is not going to fall, however this is annoying and it is extremely ridiculous that eve still has this kind of content in there. at least it isn't really promoting this new quality thinking much."
"i agree that all command ships need a review."
"looks obvious."
"this, no thumbs up for 'just the nighthawk.'"
"powergrid is not only issue with nighthawk but certain other caldari ships also, like cerberus. they're hard to equip with micro warpdrive when buffer tanking while equally buffer tanked minmatar ships are just fine since autocannons don't take so much powergrid.this probably leads back in history when missiles always hit and you could fit multiple micro warpdrives, but after countless nerf this and that..i doubt it ever gets fixed."
"having gotten used to the flow of incursions, i've noticed a few things:- the pickup group mechanic is working really well - and i'm really glad it is. i've been in some really nice pickup fleets and had a lot of fun both just being a member and actually leading them. people from corps that don't know each other, and occasionally even from corps that hate each other are actually coming together and enjoying working alongside each other in fleets. this is awesome.- people love vanguard sites. vanguard sites ideally take ten people, and ten people is a very cool number in eve - it's easy to find people with leadership skills for this many people, and it's fairly easy to accumulate a fleet that size quickly. vanguard sites are also easy to build for, and aren't a huge investment of time - they take about as long as a level 4 mission, and have a decent payout for the time investment.- some vanguard sites are way more fun than others. specifically, i'm talking about the nation commander outpost. these are very popular, and if there's one available, it'll almost always be occupied very quickly. this is mostly because it's \"pure combat\" - there's no need to worry about logistics towers or mining. there aren't very many of these (or at least, if there are, they get done so fast that i don't see them). the mining outpost site is less popular due to the mining/hauling aspect of the mission, but it's still 90% combat, and all you need is a ship with one mining laser or five mining drones, so no-one complains all that much. the override transfer array is the least popular of all, and it's not hard to see why - without playing the hacking minigame, it becomes very much harder or sometimes even impossible to complete the combat section, and including a hacking ship in your lineup either requires that you drop your dps, or cut into your rewards. when you look at most vanguard systems a few hours after the incursion shows up, there'll be a lot of override transfer arrays that people have just left there, and very few other sites.therefore, my proposal is twofold:- increase the frequency of already existing pure-combat vanguard sites. more nation commander outposts.- make more pure-combat vanguard site types. obviously, we want to keep variety as a factor, so having more pure-combat sites to choose from when spawning them would also be cool."
"was great flying with you, good team work and very efficient...also, increasing van sites is a very good idea"
"just to clarify these missiles would require a lock to fire so if you are jammed you simply can not fire more until you are no longer jammed. it would work like normal missiles just without the wasted salvos because of the delay. heck my idea was not to boost drakes. i wanted to make a raven long range missile combat useful. i dont care if it is going to be only included with cruiser missiles group i would be happy."
"he's suggesting that your idea is ill-conceived, since incursions are by definition short conflicts. if the npcs were going to take over a system, it would be an invasion not an incursion.i like the idea of npcs being able to claim sovereignty, since that means we'd be able to take it back from them."
"@mara rinn ok i got it now so then they should come out with some new pach where they try to take over the empires bc that will bring a whole new life to eve"
"that would suck the life out of eve..."
"@goose99 how would it suck the life out of eve"
"turning empire to npc null with stations roids and everything else being the same, along with incursion penalties. lolsec, now with even lower population."
"heh, yeah, i'd forgotten about treaties. good catch. :)"
"please do this right away.i'd allso like to see something like, fleet bonuses only beeing applied from an active command ship on grid.good way to reduce size of sov capping fleets, is to make it a capital ship's job (buff capitals through the roof in dps and hp - but, virtually unable to harm subcapitals) witch means, subcap fleet can gtfo the tcu and roam/camp gates like they should do. while the fewer, more powerful capitals can eat structures and other capitals without the 1000 drakes crashing the server every time they shoot a missile"
"artifficial limits like that will accomplish absolutly nothing , it will only anyjoy poeple .while your idea is noble , your implementation sucks."
"low sec!"
"this would lead to a problem in lowsec, with spider tanking around gate guns going unpunished."
"i think thats a great idea, it would be nice on an ipad or android os, to work on tablets and phones."
"1.0"
"/bumpx2"
"oh man if they made a guardian dominix kind of like the guardian vexor that would rule.actually making t3 battleships (subsystems and all) would be pretty nifty."
"hmmm.. lets see..-battleships aren't supposed to be more affordable than classes smaller than them.-battleships can reach way more firepower and range than the classes below them.-battleships are used plenty often. i see them demolish drake blobs all the time.-what are you smoking? it must be good can i have some?"
"it is related to how you don't see a hostile for weeks on end while tucked deep inside the blue ass of an alliance, while highsec mission hubs gets you suicide ganked left and right."
"csm are aware 0.0 is brokenccp are aware 0.0 is brokenplayers are aware 0.0 is brokenso why are we getting new stuff, when 0.0 a major part of the game is broken and disliked.im not going to get in another discussion on whats wrong, ccp, csm, major alliances are well aware of all the issues since the problems now so obvious that ccp even commented on the fail in the csm minutes.fix timers, make it faster and easier to capture space, make it so small gang warfare is needed for sov warfare and blob warfare (supercaps and caps) for structure wars.remove current sov structures like tcus sbus etc and make the sov upgrades be created in a station.sov warfare needs to be fast paced action thats fun different types of strategy not numbers > alllow sec is dead because there isnt any real need to be therein hi sec you are your own boss and know what you want and whenwhs, mix of lowsec, hisec and interesting risk0.0 is numbers, blues and botsif sov could be captured with a beacon like item (flag) which can be put online in 3 hours or so, there would be more wars, more hostility, more action.imagine the following changessov structures like tcu / sbu removed, stations now control the bonuses of a system, station also grants new bonuses too and have the best services in the game (race dependant ofc)sov warfare is as simple as anchoring a beacon (which is 500m3) at a planet, if the beacon isnt destroyed after 3 hours the system will swap to the beacon alliancewhen a beacon is placed the alliance who claims ownership of that space is informed, they can either destroy the beacon (which has 2 mil hp) or ignore it and move on.alliances can place as many beacons as they want and the beacon appears to all on the overviewdue to fast pace action and with sov flipping every few hours, numbers would have little effect as an alliance can move fast to a different location.supercap blobbing wouldnt work as alliances can move around fast, this fixes the jump bridge issue too which can now be kept as it is since there would be very little need to travel far (i know supercaps dont use jump bridges, but my comment was also todo with titan jump bridges).if this was implemented all you would see is continuous combat, new alliances in 0.0 not the same nc vs it vs drf crap we have seen for the past 4 years, if someone dies they can form their own alliance and anchor beacons freelypolitics will still be there, as there will be alot of sov flipping and wars occurringtimers are the source of inactivity, boredom and blobbing in eve, fix and change the timers and we might actually see 0.0 become fun again.ofc there should be more incentives for holding space nowas for blobs, they will be needed to destroy structures or claim stations which will now have features such are stargate deactivation, system wide effects similar to whs etc, as well as buffing a system they can also nerf, like cyno jamming or reduce the rate of npc spawning etc.theres a lot of ways 0.0 can be fun again and have all issues fixed yet we dont see or hear anything on 0.0 apart from we are aware there is a problem."
"the csm continue to push for (promised) iteration on existing game mechanics. there are a number of larger issues that ccp need to address - 0.0, lowsec, factional warfare, missions, mining, the list goes on.whilst ccp are at least addressing some of the quick fixes players have asked for it seems (due to the focus on avatar environments etc) unlikely that 0.0 will be properly looked at for some time yet..."
"whats wrong with poss? this is a question of how corps are able to avoid war decs, isnt it? the op could destroy the pos hes writing about if it werent for the corp who owns it cleaning the war decs by joining and leaving an alliance.-windjammer"
"yes, but it's an interaction with pos mechanics. there's a lot of support for a real overhaul of pos's, and this might get folded in with that, or used as another example of pos-related things that need to be fixed.i apologize if insufficient serum caffeine levels rendered me susceptible to imprecise language.update: i got some emails confused, so i actually didn't get an answer about this loophole. i actually asked and received an answer about another game-design question. i have re-asked the question."
"color me tuned in and eagerly awaiting the referenced answer.wheres the pos overhaul discussion being held and which pos mechanics interact with war decs? inquiring minds need to know.-windjammer"
"update: turns out i did get a reply on this one, but confused it with a query on another topic. clearly i am not drinking enough coffee.the answer is that this \"works as intended\""
"edit: too angry :p <3 csm"
"i rather liked the new neocom, myself. but deciding not to deploy something is not the same as removing it by a long shot.i'll see if i can get a more detailed explanation, but the most likely reason is a resource-allocation issue; the feature needed more work before wide deployment, and there were other ui changes that were of higher priority."
"firstly the new neocom was only going to be available as a beta feature.secondly there was an issue discovered on sisi that caused its release to tq to be delayed. we haven't had any information about when this is going to make a reappearance, hopefully \"when it is ready\".we should be thankful that ccp were willing to focus on making it work correctly rather than (as happened with various things in the past) releasing a known broken feature."
"i'm more upset about the fact that employee pet projects are now being touted as expansion content.its find to have employees working on stuff like this on the side, but please dont announce it publicly unless you have the full intention of including it into the finished product."
"features forum discussion threadwould it not be a good idea if there was some way to allow the creative community to expand the mission content in some way?the thread above is the discussion that was started yesterday and i'm not posting here in order to gain a wider viewpoint, as well as the likely ccp outcome via the csm would be.is such a programme possible? would it not only be widely used but generate good quality missions for inclusion in to the game without squandering ccp's time and efforts in creating pve missions?any and all feedback welcome."
"it would be used to create the mission with the \"best\" hidden tricks for a fast completion or to get high level reward it you \"kill that building that has nothing to do with the mission but drop faction modules\". not a good idea."
"ok so i am sure at one time or another we have all shown our friends the dominion trailer to try and impress them with eve. the idea of hundreds of players getting together to have a massive battle sounds really exciting until you get into what blob warfare is really like. so here is a question; what is it that makes blob warfare bad?i'd bet it's because of the whole \"calling primary\" focus fire thing. it makes a lot of sense that if you want to drop someone fast you have everyone fire on one target. and if you get in a fight the fleet that calls primaries will beat the fleet that doesn't every time. but it starts to mean that you as an individual matter less and less. it doesn't matter how much dps you do if a hundred people are all firing at the same ship. it doesn't matter how good your tank is because if you get noticed you'll pop. it's kind of like playing elementary school dodge ball except with lasers.try to imagine a fleet fight without everybody shooting the biggest thing on grid, then the second biggest, then the third, etc. imagine if a fleet fight was actually a series of simultaneous smaller engagements, more like what we saw in the dominion trailer, or really any other sci-fi out there.the actual proposalmake the four damage types faction specific. each race does primarily one damage type, and is vulnerable to the damage type of their lore specific enemy.ok so for example lets say that since amarr shoot lasers they would primarily do thermal damage. then minmatar use guns which could be primarily kinetic. then since amarr and minmitar hate each other according to the eve lore, amarr armor could be vulnerable to primarily kinetic (instead of explosive that it is now). and minmitar shields could be vulnerable to thermal (rather than em). then caldari missiles would do explosive damage. and em is all that's left so i guess gellente hybrids do em now. then caldari are weak vs em, and gellente are weak to explosive (so their resists wouldn't really need to change at all).ok so now imagine that you get in a big blob fight with two mixed race fleets. and while calling primary would still technically work. it wouldn't be as economical as everyone picking targets based on what their weapons work best against. in theory a really coordinated fleet could have 4 fcs each calling 4 sets of primaries for each race but honestly i don't think most people could keep up with that.the really interesting thing is what this would do to solo fights. since the faction damage vulnerabilities mirror each other, rather than a paper scissors rock set up, every solo fight would be fair. lets say someone in a drake is flying solo in lowsec or something. he runs into a hurricane and they go at it. since they both tank each other's damage fairly well they'd have a fair (if slow) fight. then lets say the drake runs into a brutix. they are now more vulnerable to each other's damage, and the fight will be fair, but now it's going to be over very fast.also lets say you are in a gate camp or something and an amarr battleship shows up. all of the minmitar campers are going to get a bit more worried than everyone else because they know that (if the amarr bs pilot is smart) they'll get shot at first.this would make people care about who their faction hates because if you run into your faction's rival in space then the fight is going to be over faster and therefore a bit more dangerous. so what are your thoughts? blob warfare, good, bad, why?"
"fiddling with damage types would do nothing for fleet/blob warfare. in eve, a wounded opponent still produces full or near-full damage output. thus, if your damage type-focused fleet wounds half of an enemy fleet, while said enemy fleet annihilates a quarter of your fleet - you're losing. your damage output is dropping far faster than theirs. even if this weren't the case, alpha will still be king. first, it's far easier to call primaries rather than let individual pilots - who often won't know wtf they're doing - have a go at shooting whatever they wish. second, damage types are inconsequential for many priority targets. nobody cares about the resists on random ecm boat, they care that random ecm boat is being melted within three seconds of the engagement.yes, yes, being part of a fleet means being a mere cog in a great machine. that's kind of the point. there's a reason fcs are titled fcs - they command. you obey. (or not, but if that's the case, enjoy the failboat.)as for solo combat, it'd change little. ship attributes, pilot skill (which has nothing to do with game mechanics), modules and setting all have far more to do with victory or defeat than damage types....now, all that said, i'm still kind of annoyed that glorious amarrian lasers are so freakin' predictable to tank against, compared to certain factions what with their three or even four damage types, pah!"
"i think people need to actually stick with one meaning of blob and i dont think the problem is blobbing, people get baited all the time then hotdropped and dont complain so why should people complain in 0.0?i believe what people have an issue with is number warfare, but can you really blame alliance and coalitions from playing the nap gamewith the exception of roams every other type of pvp combat in 0.0 is slow, when things are slow it allows people to form numbers, because of how slow things are people have the chance to plan well in advance numbers that will last 5 mins in combat.timers are so stupid, i mean look at 0.0 today, it are dead yet are still on the map because enemies will have to spend several weeks ****ing on timers, why the hell would ccp think this was fun?then if we look at standing coalitions like nc or drf, they will be inactive until something goes in reinforced, which is only when they will log in, where they can match any opposition with numbers.in short timers are the source of all issues :d and because of these long annoying timers people put alot of effort into 'blobbing' the system.ccp need to make sov warfare fast paced and do something about those ****ty timers, because right now 0.0 coalitions are mass producing supercaps and anchoring stations, in other words sov warfare = supercaps & timers warfare which is why people like me are so bitter in 0.0 and get more enjoyment cleaning the house than invading something.seriously though, how do the csm feel about timers?"
"to a single player, 4 players is a blob. to 3 players, 10 players is a blob. no one is going to play this game 'fair' if they can win by outnumbering an opponent. the game is complicated enough without some damage type scheme."
"hey obsidian, has anyone ever told you your new avatar, at that angle, kinda looks like the bill nighy version of slartibartfast?please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"yes, please."
"supported. no peticualar reason i wanna share. its just a good idea."
"cute .. you and your girlfriends have a secret handshake too ?"
"supported"
"1.0"
"/supports"
"yes to pos stuff. fixing small stuff like that might make them realize how broken they are."
"bump!"
"this is a terrible terrible idea."
"1.0"
"supported! even if the whole next expansion is used for that!"
"so you want ccp to spend manpower and resources to actually decrese its revenue ???it is just not going to happen in capitalism."
"signed"
"despite people forgetting to check the box, and some confused people, i don't see any negative views on the neo neocom in this thread o.o"
"oh god, definitely.. when i first saw this i got pretty excited, but they shelved it? c'mon ccp, please?"
"ccp don't do themselves any favours by promoting features like this too far ahead of time, it only leads to situations like this when people push for things before they're ready.and yet, we've seen so many unfinished features added to the game already and somebody's asking for more? not supported."
"pizza! pizza!"
"99.99% of the time these modules are considered useless due to taking up a mid slot, the fittings needed to fit them, and the relatively negligable boost they give to overall capacitor performance. i suggested awhile back that they should be buffed to be immune to energy neutralizers. energy neutralizers needed a direct counter since the nosferatu nerf, but many players think that counter is capacitor injectors, which is fallacious thinking.large capacitor battery ii:cap increase - 700 gjcpu - 100 tfpg - 275 mwthe change would give the fitting ship 700 gj of cap protection. no skills to increase this. no skills added or changed at all.now this wouldn't provide a massive amount of cap to say, an apocalypse. however, 700 gj being entirely immune to energy neutralizers would significantly increase the viability of said apocalypse in a great many scenarios.this change would not effect nosferatu modules directly."
"no, this is just a nerf to amarr recons. injectors are the defense to nueting, you got the time it takes for you're cap charges to run out to kill the attacker and even when capped out you still got the drones for defence."
"immunity for the full value of a battery is way too much."
"why? ships that need that cap are still going to use it up. and if they don't want to use it up, they will need an injector anyway. you could always fit some nos and just empty your cap with the neuts and drain them anyway.because curse and pilgrim are the only ships that ever fits neuts.and armor reps are the defense to damage, so why do we have resistance modules and bonuses as well as plates?ever try killing something with lasers when being neuted?"
"take a look in the less than 1 week old thread on this exact proposal for my pve sacrilege that will be a pvp god with this implemented.full value is too much, even 25% is borderline criminal."
"there's no need for extremes. i can kill a sacrilege without fitting a single neut. most of my pvp ships don't use neuts.the cap protection is a strong feature, but it's niche. it wouldn't be general purpose.anyway, ccp can put it in for a month and see how it plays out. even if it will have unexpected results, there's really no way for it to become \"god-like\"edit: one reason i push for this idea is because i personally dislike passive tanking and want to see more active tanking in eve. right now, passive tanks dominate on all sub-battleship levels. this new feature would give active tanks an edge in pvp"
"really?this would give an apoc the cap of a cruiser when fully nueted. which means it could fire a few guns or rep itself a bit."
"i'm not going to hunt for anything for you, you bring it to the table if you want to use it to support your point.none of this would be game breaking, not even for ships that use neuts traditionally. all it would do is add to the viability of cap dependent ships and setups in general pvp."
"this change would make frigates fitting a cap battery 100% immune to neuts, and would make cruisers fitting large cap batteries extraordinarily powerful in the face of neuting. it would be a huge nerf to amarr recons and any ship which relies extensively on neuts.this is a horribly bad idea.-liang"
"most ships would not be fitting neuts. most frigates would not be fitting neuts. the days when 1 heavy neut is a free \"get out of jail card\" against tackler frig are over."
"i hear battleships are all the rage these days. having a battleship allows you to go anywhere without any fear of danger, i hear. i hear that heavy neut will totally protect you against a frigate that has a small nos. i hear that the 24 second cycle time on heavy neuts makes them awesome against frigs. ephemeron, did you sell your account to someone that doesn't know how to pvp?-liang"
"until you elaborate on this and back it up, i'm not paying any attention to what you say."
"the noctis looking \"real\"? it looks like it's made out of multi colored play-doh. \lol. the caldari ships look real. who would waste a million isk for a paint job that will get blasted to bits the first time the armor takes damage? oh wait. galente would. btw, irl, i saw this crown victoria with a green and brown baby poop gradient high gloss paint job. all i could think was, wow that looks so galente. i'm not trolling...honest. i just think the caldari theme works well imho."
"caldari ships should look fugly, eh?condor, kestrel, merlin, heron, hookbill, caracal, tengu, drake, ferox, rokh, charon and all caldari capital ships don't look fugly at all. are they less practical then bantam, moa, blackbird and osprey?fugly ships are a clear minority, so i guess caldaris do care about the appearance of their ships. i'd rather say the moa and blackbird are obvious attempts at making ugly ships."
"lol if a caldari ship take armor damage, a million isk would be the last thing the pilot worry about ..."
"in my opinion, while they don't necessarily need a redo, i would like the textures to be updated. if you compare the new ships to the old ones, its almost like comparing the new tron to the old one.ok, exaggeration... somewhat."
"caldari are proof positive that the 'form over function' philosophy of ship design ignores the most cardinal laws of physics.if a spaceship is going to be utilitarian, it would still have to be mass balanced aka symmetrical. utilitarian is in the details, not the overall form."
"all ships are due for re-skins over time as previously stated...and hopefully they'll think on this proposal as they do it!missile launch graphic updatesupport this proposal if you'd like to see an upgrade from the \"*poof* missile\" launch from the middle of ships to something more reasonable. if you think you'd like to see a similar fix like the fighter-bomber fix, mention that in your post! the proposal is directly related to skin issues with many ships (not just caldari use missiles)."
"i think slaves should be freed without standing gain (it's kinda expected in the factions that don't like slavery). in addition, you should spend some isk and/or effort to free them.i'm thinking something like the slaves would need vaccines for the vitoc running through their system (which is available through pi), and maybe a marginal isk expenditure to allow them to learn their way back into society.i was working on this a bit ago, and came up with this very basic document which outlines the possibilities. feedback is still welcomed, as there's a long way before this becomes an honest proposal, and even longer before implementation.supported."
"been requested and ignored many times but yeah maybe we'll finally get lucky"
"actually, buying, or redeeming, slaves in order to free them is a beautiful thing. how many abolitioners bought slaves with their own treasure for this very purpose. i further support the small boost in standing. but, i believe once they are freed, they are stuck livig in your cargo hold until you can find a station willing to accept newly freed immigrants."
"/signedfreedom!"
"as an rper i'm very interested for this to happen eventually./supportshowever i would love to see all the \"market\" items that are portrayed as people to be incorportared into other venues, making them interesting for a number of uses besides being stored as collection in the hangar."
"yes plz"
"dirty roleplayer supportin' this."
"i've suggested this before so pleased to support again"
"you would need to remove them as npc commodities (they are still sold i think) first unless you want people to be able to buy standings (which you don't, riiight? )alternately, instead of standings, an rp angle could be used: news bulletins at certain benchmarks and when x benchmarks globally is reached a series of actual ccp rp articles about \"the new life\" similar to what was seen post-9thgen-emancipation.either way, anything that reunites the rpg to the mmo has my vote."
"thanks!yeah, i agree that there are many different uses for this ability and i hope it is something ccp would consider, as it would allow us to develop our own tools without ccp having to develop any new uis."
"down with stylefascism, i refuse to wear a shirt."
"sure thing."
"if they make it rated m this game will probly become over populated with 5 year olds who think we should add space elves or something. also on that note please make it so we dont have to wear pants."
"thats a nice idea and would really spice things up, unfortunately the current owners of high profit moons simply will not tolerate it. and they can get quite vocal. good idea as well, but again the large empires expect their space to be defendable by a giant blob rolling around. the necessity of patrolling space and engaging into small gang warfare is not gonna be accepted easily."
"nothing make me feel worse than have to agree with goon"
"i think that a rearrangeable watchlist (fleet) would be a nice feature. since people are often dropping out of fleet due to server related problems it's a pain in the ass to get the right order in your watchlist. i'd like to see \"move up\"/\"move down\" buttons or an option in the context menu that lets you rearrange watchlist entries. a drag & drop watchlist would be awesome but not necessary. this might be a minor change for a lot of players but people that are logistic pilots might welcome this with open arms."
"also increase number of ppl allowed on list."
"/supports"
"/signed"
"you can bypass it on pl forums just by clicking reply and you get the whole thread in unpinktexted format.-currently pinktexted :("
"official eve forum is for the greater community, not a playground for you dorks. keep your creativity off it. besides, the only ppl who'd get to see it would be you caod trolls."
"[cool]if i had to choose between this or plex for pizza though ..."
"no need, really. the existing punishment options aren't used often enough as it is.for proof of this, i offer caod."
"indeed. while for a long time i've moaned about the nh's anaemic pg, the entire class of field cs is now broken and needs a rework."
"woot"
"this. the whole command ship lineup needs a review, with the nighthawk and eos being the most egregious examples.(i'd say something about the astarte, but people aren't even trying to fly that ony more.)"
"i'm planning to fly one so they better fit it!!!"
"i agree as well. (b^^)b"
"i think a new module would be better or even an anchorable bubble that stops ships being able to cloak inside it. but then we would also need the removal of local (or delayed) to go along with it."
"i see no problem with this (now that its been edited).though in practice it may prove useless as most cloakers don't want to be that close anyway. however, the ones that want t be in scram range (as opposed to just disruptor range) will be hindered... which isn't necessarily a bad thing."
"ships deserve at least as much customization as avatars since they are the real star of eve."
"i wanna fly around in the typical sauser ship. differently sized for the different classes . so hell yes let us shange the look of our ships."
"after the fact, thank you ccp for actually fixing it. it wasn't particularly fast, and it wasn't broken to begin with, and i did have to delete all my settings completely to fix it all the way at the end, but you did fix it. which is more than you theoretically have to do. so genuinely, thank you for that."
"the \"drones: engage target\" command needs to be right clickable on the icons and the overview instead of just the little drone dialog box. (and the little plus signs on the battlefield as well)"
"1) so they aren't fof but some new kind of missiles, ok.2) you want to boost missiles (no wasted salvoes is a neat increase in damage), what will be the drawback?less damage for missile?a special launcher with higher fitting requirements?lower speed?nothing, it should be a missile buff?so far you seem to want only the last option, a free buff.it that is the idea, i want a special ammunition for my blasters with a shotgun effect. if i miss the first targets i should do half damage to all enemy targets in a 5 km radius from him.perfectly balanced."
"one of the major reasons people still play eve is because there isnt any decent competing sandbox, people either quit playing or play until something good comes out.world of darkness will kill eve imo, i mean bitter ***s have been waiting for 0.0 to get fixed for years, well before dominion and now we find out that \"[..]unlikely that 0.0 will be properly looked at for some time yet...\"i cant wait to see the 2 expansions in 2012, no doubt with ccps track record it will be new stuff no one cares about or wanted and old stuff will still be broken."
"another way you should look at it is if timers were increased 10 times more than they are, so stations and poses take over a week to come out of reinforced.what would happen to the population of 0.0 then, would it increase or decrease? waiting for timers suck, but you may as well quit, obviously ccp dont care and the priorities for the next 3 expansions will most likely be incarna, dust and wod.but you are right the problem with 0.0 atm is the timers and so much time is given that allows players to blob, sov warfare should be limited to fast small gang pvp, structure warfare should be limited to blobs.if they made it so outposts were the only things that could make supercaps, people would fight over them, where as sov would be about epeen much like why space is needed now.i mean lets face it major alliances have so much space within their influence unclaimed, what they use for systems they have are jump bridges, moon goo and csaas, sure people can npc for hours but thats not the reason people ever claim space.stations should affect supercap production, jump bridges and bonuses in systems, this way people will fight over them.sov should affect moon goo and epeen, but should be limited to small gang warfare, meaning fast action where sov can flip as little as every few hours."
"obvious reply...~18 months~"
"to be fair, it seems that common a problem that increasing the cooldown time of a wardec carrying over to a corp leaving a decced alliance should be upped to 48 or even 72 hours. no need to mess with pos mechanics (i'm sure that would make many at ccp people happy, not to say that they don't need looking at in the futre) as far as this issue is concerned and it might encourage a bit more of a fight rather than flight response."
"but here comes the problem: enemy is going to shoot it when you are not online, so basically if you want your asset to be safe you must have a consistent number of pilots logged in at any time. this has never been a requirement, and cannot be. the current paradigm is that you don't have to play necessarily outside your primetime if you want to defend your stuff: either we change this (but it may soud quite harsh) or just accept that having stuff in space that can be destroyed or damaged at anytime while you are away is not a good mechanic. shooting station services or pos modules has always been possible, it's just very boring and i hope we're looking for a totally different mechanic. in my opinion a possible solution is to have several multiple small objectives around many systems. in that situation, travel time becomes important, and an attacking fleet would be better to split into smaller groups so that they spend much less time warping around systems (if there is no or little resistance). but having small objectives with little hps means that they rely on active protection to survive, or on invisibility.the point of the original post is this: in eve, the security of stuff in space is achieved only though active protection and/or firepower and/or ehps and/or reinforcement timers, and this design has some clear limitations. what if we add visibility to this scheme? i.e.: structures that become probe-able only for random time intervals during the day? of course those structures must be cheap, and easy to set up, and their \"visibility time\" must be tweaked so that it is profitable anyway to run them, even if the enemy destroys it. but the certainty that, on aerage, it will run undetected for a sufficient amount of time to amortize the cost, is enough.this is a pretty general concept, with a lot of potential, that comes true very seldomly in eve just thanks to 'the sandbox' (for example, ninja moon mining, ninja lowsec mission running, ninja stuff in general). it's just trading efficiency for having less visibility, thus gaining security. why can't this become a well rooted mechanic in the game instead, with great profit?"
"lets have a look at this csm term, obviously some csm will want a free iceland trip again will want to apply to become csm again.lets have a breakdown on what the csm have achieved this term, please note \"we had a discussion with ccp about xxx\" doesnt count because those discussions stop at discussions and nothing really ever changes (unless you count the 5 min forum timer being 2 min).so minus the micro transaction drama what have the csm done to help improve the game this term?"
"i totally agree with you 100%. : ) and to be honest i'm not being 100% fair in saying there has been no csm coverage since you guys might not even know it's been pulled.this quote popped up today. and quote=ccp explorer]it has not yet been re-scheduled for another iteration, that's all i can say for now. this was a project done in free time and the feedback was negative so we removed the code.this make it sound at least, like it not being pulled for polish or that they are even going to fouc at all on the ui. as a player i would of been ok with \"we deiced it wasn't good, but we will be working on a different neocom for the next expansion\" or \"we'll release it when it's ready\"but sadly it really seems like they are just don't with it. also on the note of there might be an exploit with the neo neocom there was this quote.also in agreement that advertising a feature that isn't ready as a main feature of an expansion was kinda shady. but it worked, and i think started from scratch is a horrible move. :( i mean if it was the look of thing wouldn't be better to just change the graphics of it so it looks identical to the current ui? as a graphic artist i know the look of the ui is just graphics that can be replaced."
"your disappointment doesn't properly take into account ccp's statements/philosophy about the delivery of some elements of the game in \"experimental\" mode (as was described in a dev blog awhile back). when stuff is included as \"experimental\", you have to assume there is a possibility it may be removed for whatever reason, whether temporarily or permanently. as for your belief that changing the ui involves nothing more than changing the art, it is apparently a whole lot more complicated than that in eve for a variety of technical reasons (as was mentioned in the june summit minutes)."
"tongue in check, maybe, but you know what i'm saying. play sansha's, stop messing with me and my fleet of 85 miners, we pay the rent in that house and car you can't afford."
"now that they're 14th months overdue, perhaps it's time to ask ccp when they intend to introduce them?"
"dust 514"
"thats all we need, more ways to avoid combat, why not just change 0.0 to empire"
"do we really need in-game treaties? i mean, seriously, doesn't it work fine with oog measure so far? i can see a lot of allied/blued/whatever space on the maps without a single treaty option so far."
"yes people would create missions with their own loot table and rewards. nothing to do with the fact that the \"story writer\" would have any control over the total bounty or the loot table.the important aspect is getting an interesting story with the most applicable rats available. both faction wise and ai level.should level 1 missions be 'harder' - i.e could a new character understand a shield transfer npc and in order to complete the mission to take out the logi ship before the 'bigger' ship?wouldn't you like more of a range of missions?"
"this was at a fanfest one year about walking in stations.player made in-space missions you could create yourself.they went on to say you could create npcs in stations that would have dialog trees that lead to the missions you made. this would make player made missions somethign you had to get out and walk around to find. but i think that was a cool idea, since it would make player made missions special, without replacing or forcing normal agents into a feature some players might not ever use.."
"my personal opinionpreserving the trend of development that now is, ccp slowly kills eve as a project. and inkarna will not help in no shape or form.experience of game 1.8 year.dear yours."
"alright folks, what's next? any news from ccp? i guess they're busy putting the pieces back together to what they call eve in order to harves.. excuse me, to serve their customers.have a nice day ;-)laxps: i still love this emulation of a forum\"character may only support each topic once.\" - ok, i removed the tick. may i post my reply now?\"you are going too fast! wait two minutes and try again.\" i guess not..."
"still very little excellence ccp. the continues breaking of the game by (re)introducing a ****load of bugs each expansion.seriously, i dread expansion days often. i'm always wondering what will be broken when i log on the first time..."
"1.0"
"bump"
"supported"
"consider this a petition to cure \"video game breast cancer\". let's keep our boobs nice and bouncy."
"wow, four pages of boob comments. the capsuleers of new eden must really be concerned about this.war on droop"
"way to show that you actually have no answers to any of the criticisms of your \"idea\"."
"supported"
"all of your criticism, as you call it ... have been brought up in the previous 14 pages which you obviously haven't read ... and have been addressed ... but somehow you assume that gaping hole in your head can spout it out better than those who have brought up those issues before ...note: in the previous 14 pages .. it was stated ... the csm voted to bring the issue to ccp ... they brought the issue to ccp ... ccp said yes there seems to be a problem and we will take a closer look at it ...said discussion has been long over for months ... we eagerly await ccp's 'look at it' ... the bump to the thread was a friendly reminder to ccp the issue hasn't gone awayso in short .. your 'criticisms' have been heard before and noted .. and the issue still passed and went to ccp .. so you can rest better ...so in the future .. please try to read a thread in its entirety before you put in your 2 cents where its already been given (by numerous others) ... save your money ... there's a recession out there"
"bumpage"
"i believe they are already doing plenty, but they can't tell us everything because then they tell the botters everything. but more effort in this direction couldn't hurt.i think they should look at people who are online, and doing stuff whether it's ratting, mining market activity, and so on, for 23.5 hours a day, 7 days a week. no one can survive on 30 mins sleep, certainly not for several days, so they are either botting or account sharing. either way it's a violation of the eula, and i would have thought could be an easy win. even if it means botters only bot for 16 hours a day, every little helps."
"yes please - gief new ui"
"not supported.neocom is fine as it is.if they ever fix the real reasons for why the ui is a cluster****, then i will support this. new neocom will not do this."
"idea is simple. you made a courier contract i.e. and forgot what you did put in or the contract gets \"failed\".give the owner of the contract the same overview for the contracts, like in the window before you create it. you should be able to see what you did put into the contract."
"tbh, thats putting it lightly. this idea is terrible enough that i can't reply to it because the whole post would just be censored out by the forum."
"cruisers fitting large cap batteries are sacrificing whatever else they need to actually perform reasonably well. or do you have some kind of godship example waiting in eft you want to share?i already did, but you don't need to post any more.but to humor you: ships that need cap injectors to fight neuts, needed cap injectors anyway. or are you also one of those people that wants the curse to stay the second most versatile pvp ship in the game behind the drake simply because it can cap out any other sub capital in the game without any effort or skill at all?"
"passive tanks would still be superior. people prefer them due to the current pvp environment of gang warfare, active tanks would make not much sense there even if you didnt need any cap at all for repping.besides, you'd need to fit cap battery + injector to get any sort of use from it (on cruiser size vessels!). given you need slots for propulsion and tackle as well, its not gonna work out."
"ok, i'm not gonna push it further. i'll just say that people who are opposed to the idea greatly overestimate the impact of this module on general purpose pvp.i think any change to the game ****es off some group of people, but ccp still do it. even when it's something as horrible as the great nano nerf. or the nos nerf - that had much stronger opposition. ccp heard the idea, that's all that matters now."
"people don't fit neuts to have a good fight usually, so any chance a player might be able to not instantly become helpless when neuted down is like asking them to give up killmails."
"they are the only ship to specialise in it as the primary purpose of the ship. yes, i also tried killing things while sensor damped, tracking distrupted, jammed, it is all annoying but it is what seperates the small gang from the blob, without these its just blob warfare on a smaller scale."
"and neither of them will be nerfed all that much if this does happen.yes, i also tried killing things while sensor damped, tracking distrupted, jammed, it is all annoying but it is what seperates the small gang from the blob, without these its just blob warfare on a smaller scale.sensor boosters offer sensor damp resistance, tracking computers offer tracking disruptor resistance, eccm offers jamming resistance, but there is nothing to offer energy neut resistance. and cap injectors are not neut counters, no matter how many times anyone says it. cap injectors are critical in plenty of setups before the possibility of being neuted is even addressed."
"it is more useful to just fit capacitor booster on medium slot. ships which actually need something against neutralizers (active shield tank) cannot spare a medium slot for that.carriers and dreads are just another story. they should really be immune to ewar too."
"if cruisers are fitting battleship sized mod, could there be a problem? nah, i don't think so. dua, rebalance cap batteries. can it get any more obvious? and in pvp scenario cap booster will always be more usefull then a cap battery, espeshially considering the fact that batteries take an enormous portion of cpu.support, and rebalance cap batteries."
"and that is why this is going to fall flat on its face. ah rules are very simple, do research prior to making a suggestion/proposal.this specific topic was raised about a year ago i believe and currently has a live thread in f&i.and yes eph, you are such a pvp god being able to kill a hac using a drake/tengu + scimi as you stated in the other thread .. not sure what moron in a sacrilege you expect to attack a ship where the passive recharge equals/exceeds the maximum theoretical damage output but whatever floats your boat it is not just a huge hit to amarr recons but amarr in general as they generally do not have the midslots to spare, and when they do use cap mods its an injector to keep the guns firing.the suggestion does absolutely nothing other than remove one of the last counters larger ships have against smaller .. leaving only \"more dudes\" and ecm.in short: not only a bad suggestion but entirely unnecessary."
"if you are going to argue for or against something, you have to back up your statements.that's great. so the sac being 'overpowered' is a reason not to fix something that is broken for every ship in the game? maybe that is a reason to fix the sac?how can it be a huge hit to fit exactly the way you always have and gain nor lose any effectiveness doing it? maybe the myth that everyone in a pvp ship must always fit tackle to get kills can finally die?it doesn't remove neutralizers from being effective, do you expect most ships to fit these, and if they do, what aren't they fitting? even with this buff, there are a lot of setups that a cap battery simply won't work on. and plenty of ships don't need cap protected to begin with. the simple fact of the matter is, cap batteries are useless right now most of the time, this change makes them useful, but not overpowered.if you want to totally cap someone out, fit nos with your neuts and cap yourself out to make it happen."
"i don't like this, unless the curse and pilgrim get some sort of battery-penetration of 100%."
"here's the old thread: linkagelots of good ideas in it.but a right-click to free option is not balanced enough imho. unless there's a right-click to enslave in amarr-space.but i'm still for implementing an enslavement/rehabilitation -program (via pi, manufacturing, or whatever).make slaves, militants, scientists, janitors, etc useful."
"you're a ****ing minmatar! how could you condone slavery after all the crap the amarrians put your people through?/role-playing time over/anyways, i support getting the option to free a slave rather than trash them."
"a toggle button for this, when you have two accounts and find yourself in an amarr station the singing makes me turn all sound off, and with the shortcut for remove sound being bugged it's kind of annoying to have no sound half the time."
"self support."
"well it would be nice if we could fix the sound ourselves like switch it to something else, i don't know how hard it would be, what do you think ccp?"
"i bet when you change it amarr will become a more popular market hub than jita"
"freighter get a disadvantage by learning the navigation skill. as the max sub warp speed is higher they need longer to get into warp. get freighter pilots a bit of speed back by a autopilot skill.lvl 0 = 20 km range to gatelvl 1 = 16 kmlvl 2 = 12 kmlvl 3 = 8 kmlvl 4 = 4 kmlvl 5 = 0 kmganking game mechanic would be still possible but when the freighter uncloaks and aligns to the next gate.either implement it into the freighter skill itself, or as a single skill. or let the freighter simple warp from 50% max speed not 75%."
"yes hauling stuff needs to be easier, at the moment it is too much :effort: with freighters and jfs, because you actually have warp manually if you won't want the ap to spend half a day slowboating. the game clearly needs to get better at playing without player input.not supported!also, webs. and your complaint has nothing to do with your proposal."
"this is all well and good, but i'm pretty sure that ships with identical mass and inertial modifier reach warp at the same time. this is because the speed needed is always 75% of max velocity and the formula works in a way that the faster ship will also accelerate faster. this basicly means differences in sub warp speed have no relevance in determining your time to reach warp, it's the inertial modifier and mass that counts."
"hm i havent thought of that. well it was a secondary proposal anyway.as for the charmin sarah...i am sorry - did i take away your argument of not beeing able to gank freighters? must be pretty hard to only be able to think of only one argument and then fallback into mocking the proposal! either bring something constructive or keep out. this is not a thing of \"the game is to hard for me\". its just a proposal."
"you should be happy the autopilot even exists. it's the only officially supported macro mechanism that lets you do stuff automatically/afk. giving people who are actively flying their ships an advantage over the afk crowd is more than fair."
"lol with all those passive income the game might as well play itself.wait. it's hardly a game at that.+1."
"only a fool uses autopilot on a freighter hauling billions of isk worth of cargo.not supported.wtz ftw"
"some freighter hunters wait for the freighters not autopiloting as those are usually the juiciest ones."
"why not!"
"that won't happen, since it's a crappier system than what we have now and nap train whinage is an emotional outburst and not an argument against this idea. a more realistic alternative to your idea is a standings based system used in addition to a password system, where the user decides if he wants to use either standings, password or both as a requirement to gain access to the facility. that would allow better ease of use in most cases, so people wouldn't have to remember and insert passwords in most cases, and still retain the ability to allow/limit the access people have to certain sites by allowing the placing of an optional password requirement. but until ccp is willing to delve in to the bottomless cespool known as the pos system and actually fix things, something like what the op proposes would make things a bit more convenient in the meantime."
"i posted a pretty comprehensive (and long/technical) sovereignty/0.0 proposal awhile ago. the last post in that thread is a bare-bones outline, in case the main proposal is too long. the shortest version is i can manage is \"more sand for the sandbox that is eve\"."
":/"
"not that much logistics pilots in here, eh?"
"**** yes"
"not exactly the first time this is proposed, together with a ****load of other stuff for watchlist. it should be drag and drop btw.but also want besides this more people in watch list (ccp said it wont happen) and either groups in your watch list or ship types."
"yes, this would be great, the current watchlist is way too spartan. i understand not getting more people on the watchlist cause of performance reasons, but it should still be modernised a bit..."
"i don't like that idea either. there should still be some broadcast discipline involved, like not spamming broadcast after a bomber attack unless you are attacked by something other than bombs. this shouldn't be taken away from fleet combat."
"fsck yes. eve's healing ui sucks. and add current capacitor to the list too!"
"i want cheaper boosters."
"i thought the ferox already did this? (lol ferox )"
"thanks for this. gotta put it on our list of things to fix :]"
"right now alliances can only build a single outpost per system. this seems like an arbitrary restriction. we should remove this restriction and allow alliances to burn their money how they please.there are obvious benefits to allowing multiple outposts in systems (refinery/construction), as well as allowing smaller alliances to become more condensed within smaller areas (or rented space).i know this topic only applies to like 2% of the players in the game, but it seems like a relatively easy restriction to lift. i'd appreciate if a csm candidate would propose this to ccp."
"supported only if there's a way to destroy outposts."
"now that would certainly help small alliances with one or two outposts. about the op: i don't think it's time yet. many systems still don't have stations. let it populate a bit and then we could talk about multiple outposts in a system."
"i think there should be a limit of one outpost per constellation personally."
"nowai. if you look at 0.0 now and at its state 2 years ago, you will realize the outpost spam is already getting ridiculous. not at least in part because it is impossible to destroy/dismantle outposts currently. and the argument that......is either a joke or shows you have some severe lack of the grasp of game mechanics. you are aware that you can install refining and manufacturing capabilities in a pos you can anchor basically at each free moon? i mean, sheesh, how about you l2p? or if that is too much effort, howe about moving back to empire where you get tons of stations free of charge?jfyi, nullsec != empire, despite ongoing attempts to change that gradually."
"yeah let us blow 'em up. just make stations act like a really big pos or something. with a load of hit points and a week long reinforcement timer.if we can blow them up then i support people building as many as they want."
"uhmm... just for the sake of the argument... do you really think that a simple member of a nullsec alliance have enough roles to even consider using pos-es for manufacturing?"
"i wouldn't know how rawr or other entities in the nc handle this, but rumor has it there is still a bit of non-nc 0.0 space out there. also the alliance/corp policies have nothing to do with initial argument that more outposts would be needed for manufacturing and/or construction. that simply left out the fact that there is a viable alternative existing already, aka a manufacturing pos. furthermore, op stated specifically in second part of that sentence that it would help \"smaller alliances\". if an alliance forbids itself to use game mechanics like employing refining or manufacturing arrays, that would be a bit silly, won't it? if it is so needed for them to have those... i can guess where that idea came from though. with the new ******ed sov mechanics it is several orders of magnitude harder to interrupt works in an outpost than in a pos, unless you just stack several hundreds of people into the system. so yeah, nice buff to making 0.0 even more static and blobby. why not call it an initiative to have 0.0 gradually become more empire-like straight away? no, thanks, this is a terrible and totally unwarranted change in my book."
"every outpost is like a new barbed wire on prairie. what next. a sheriff?"
"malc's outpost wrecking proposal.i'd rather see 2 outposts in one system than 2 systems with one outpost."
"why? care to back up your opinion?"
"i think it's an interesting idea"
"good idea"
"they don't exist, the few that do are beholden to one blob or another so it matter little. there is no independence possible with null system the way it is.have a gauge of activity in a system; once a benchmark, comprised a ratio between sovereignty holder size and rats killed, goods produced/reprocessed + other indicators, is reached the system becomes eligible for a second outpost.allows the mythical small entity his second harbour while effectively denying the lazy fat-cats an even easier life.to proposal: no. null needs a massive overhaul to make it the settled wilderness/outback it was supposed to be and sovereignty system needs to be less biased towards blobbage before any more luxuries are added."
"it's an opinion..."
"supported.and outpost shoud not able to be destoried anyhow."
"fully support the idea to have more than one outpost per system.could somebody explain to me please what is the reason to have such? it should be a good reason."
"such as?"
"i support it only if there's a way to completely destroy these outposts.destroy everything, clones (character podded to noob starting station), all assets, all ships, everything.that way we can have a self regulating dynamic system that will not push eve into crisis state - where space becomes littered with 1000s of unused stations"
"similar to highsec to drop pos it takes standings. i have been cruising around npc 0.0 and there's nobody at all in them anymore... especially so compared to 10/10 static plex days. according to the map outer ring is utterly dead. 6 people in yva, 6 in nm-, 5 in d5iw, 1 in 2jj, 0 in 4c-b7x. that's pretty friggen dead.to rejuvenate npc 0.0 i think it would be great if corp standings with the home faction is what unlocks the ability to create jump bridge and cynogen chains. this then gives the space gypsies like pandemic legion the ability to cruise around npc regions in addition to all the little guys whose home is that npc region"
"jump bridges and cynogen chains are really bad for pvp. ccp already expressed concern about their effect on alliance sov space. they aren't gonna move in opposite direction by increasing their use"
"have you ever had something you didn't need, couldn't sell and thought was a waste to trash? my proposal is a public station hanger on every station where you could drop the items that you can't use but aren't worth tossing in the trash or selling. the hanger would be cleaned out once a week to avoid buildup and whatever is there an be taken by anyone who wants or needs it. kind of like take a penny, leave a penny."
"lol, help-a-noob. should help with trial retention rate. will probably need time limit on taking out item though, there's gonna be some greedy person bulk reporcessing stuff otherwise."
"well, if people put stuff in there and people want to take out what they can to reprocess, that's fine. its just a place to drop what you either don't want or don't need. sure, people will abuse it on occasion, but that's fine too, hell that's eve."
"high(****) precision missiles are a joke, not only do they do less damage and less range, but they slow your ship down, for a tiny decrease in explosion radius and tiny increase in explosion velocity. precision heavyexplosion velocity: 87m/sexplosion radius: 112 mmaximum velocity penalty: -5%damage: 130regular heavyexplosion velocity: 81m/sexplosion radius: 125 mdamage: 150cruise precisionex vel: 71m/sex rad: 270mmax vel pen: -4%damage: 260regular cruiseex vel: 69m/sex rad: 300mdamage: 300i don't see how anyone would bother. fury missiles are good, fury cruises suck because exp velocity of cruises suck. its obvious that they need some fixing. whoever made these values i need to know his name, so i can blacklist him for being incompetent."
"bump!"
"personally i find that command ships are obsolete given the existence of t3t3 can do everything that t2 bc can do - better. the only thing going for t2 bc is they are cheaper, but still expensive to lose.even with extra grid on nighthawk, i'd still pick tengu.maybe if nighthawk had extra mid slot, then i'd seriously consider it using as a drake on steroids."
"perhaps when ccp gets around to doing treaties for 0.0 they could create essentially vassalage. right now pets need to get blued by everyone who is blue. vassals could be a new symbol perhaps pink, so when they role up in local they stand out more. the -a- citizens sort of approach is somewhat efficient but doesnt allow for differentiation or full usage of having alliance pets.thusly this change would make it far safer for alliances to take on pets. which in of itself would cause 0.0 to become far more populated. which means lots of stupid people in 0.0 that is easy to kill."
"wasn't that the plan they aired when last they talked about the treaties all those moons ago?to give null a feudal system, complete with obligations to/from a liege?doubt it will happen though since the underlying sovereignty system has failed spectacularly in achieving their goal of less blobs and more skirmishing.chances are they they will revamp the whole thing before pouring more gasoline on the smouldering wreck."
"the ease of moving blobs in modern eve has nothing to do with that i'm sure."
"all the other serp ships have green, daredevil has orange. this is unacceptable. change the lights to green."
"you can add one codebreaker to a single drake, doesnt cut into dps or rewards.the lineup we've been using and has proven very effective has been 3 basilisks, 7 drakes and a loki gangboosting (3 skirmish links + the shield resist link) from outside the site.one drake has codebreaker, two are mildly speedfit (2 bcu, dcu nanofiber) with tackle, the rest ab fit and triple bcu.as for the mining sites, you can mine all the ore with an osprey you leave there once one is done, and have it ready for the next ones you do."
"i guess you could call this a petition, or a request. i want it clear that i'm not here saying to change it, or not to change it, i simply want to know what the game designers and our elected representatives think? because as long as i have played this game there have been... discussions.. about this, most of them less civil than others, call it what you want. sometimes you won't see one for a month, sometimes you'll see 10 of them a day. the recent csm comment in the minutes \"afk cloaking is lame\" seems to have created another storm of them.nobody wants to touch the issue with a 10 foot pole from what i've seen, which is understandable, but until someone does we're going to have an endless stream of posts about it. so someone step up and find out. is it intended game design? if so then all the people who don't want it changed will have one very simple argument to throw in all these threads. ccp looked and it and said it was working as intended.is it not? then why has ccp left it for so long? are they simply afraid of the player base backlash?it probably won't end of the posts, but then at least it wouldn't be one side repeating the same argument as last week, in a new thread, while the other side uses the same defenses. we will at last have an answer from the designers and representatives point of view, that's all i want."
"afk cloaking is our only defence against botters, are you saying you want to make it easier to bot?face it afk cloakers only affect botters, no one else, if you complain you are a bot!"
"i've gone out of my way to state that i don't intend to express an opinion on the matter here, nor do i want this to be another topic where both sides argue about the issue. there are plenty of those in other parts of the forums, lets keep them there.this is just a request to the csm to broach this topic with ccp, whatever the outcome, because it's one that isn't going to go away. both sides feel strongly about it, and that is usually the job of elected representatives, to present issues from the player base to ccp."
"ccp already stated \"afk cloaking\" is lame, in the csm minutes, but guess what theres more of a chance of afk cloaking getting changed than 0.0wouldnt want to make bots angry would we :p"
"just to correct the record on ccp's/csm's behalf, ccp didn't state anything about afk cloaking, and as far as i know, never has. what csm said i wouldn't conclude to be a statement of their stance on the issue either.note here that afk cloaking wasn't specifically being discussed, only 0.0 changes/updates (official heading for that section was \"post dominion 0.0\"). it seems like a side comment, it could have been added as a general feeling amongst the csm, without them necessary feeling that it was wrong or unfair. it could have been a comment by one csm, not representing the majority, etc.anyway, i don't think it's right for anyone to construe that as any kind of official stance on the issue. for all i know they are perfectly in favor of it because of it's effects on local. whatever my opinions and the outcome of a discussion with the devs may be, i agree that i'd like to see the issue officially resolved."
"afk cloaking is awesome, cry more carebear tears mua hahaha hahaha"
"well, thanks for responding to a genuine request like a troll, i guess i know who i won't be voting for in the next csm. and no, it has nothing to do with your position on the matter, i might agree with you, i might not, i've tried to do my best to refrain from expressing an opinion here as i didn't want this to become another discussion on the matter between trolling players, on both sides. i see the csm itself is determined to drag it to that level."
"hahaha aww mazz is amazing, ill definitely vote for you <3"
"no, no i meant changing the look of the neo neocom. as in changing it's color, or the border. i was not talking about changing the meat of the ui (like more buttons or such). sorry if that wasn't clear. also, i understood the idea of \"experimental\" features of eve. however maybe that's the real feature that has been pulled. they never deployed the \"experimental\" feature. where you could turn on and off \"experimental\" features on tq. if it was put on tq as an \"experimental\" feature and then removed forever for something better. then that would be grand. the thing some players thought the idea of \"experimental\" features on tq was a brilliant move in the right direction. the features wouldn't have to stay, they could even be pulled forever. but even if it was just to gather feedback on a newer neocom, the \"experimental\" neo neocom could of be used at great length to gather real non sisi feedback. i'll go back and read the minutes again just in case i misunderstood you. : )"
"the \"issue\" is that the new neocom is crap."
"did anyone notice that insurance is next to useless now?aka no need to keep bumping this thread."
"+2, qft."
"it also doesn't make sense that police suddenly appears from no where to kill the agressor with no real way out.nor does orbiting in space.et cetera.it would be more realistic if there was no hi sec at all."
"1.0"
"necro supported"
"i <3 boobs."
"if they don't want boob physics, it's easy enough to add bones and some animations to make 'em bouncy."
"supported, and i would go a step further and give an increased timer for rr ships.not to mention we need a rebalance of agression timers in general - they're lethal for small, fast ships and often irrelevant for big slow ships. should bigger, slower, and more powerful ships have an advantage in disengaging from a fight?non-wt rr should give a 2 minute no-dock, no-jump aggression timer. or should just flag them as a wt for the duration of the war."
"1.0"
"bots are bad m'kay."
"is the omission of the orca intentional when talking about refitting t3s? it's mentioned in the link ..."
"either make the belts and rocks larger or get rid of them please."
"another genius.captcha doesn't work. is ****. doesn't work, and is ****."
":thumbsup:"
"nosferatu, perhaps you've heard of it?"
"what the hell did you even read what i said?"
"i like the idea of rebooting an otherwise useless item with this purpose. and to expand on the idea of a 100% battery penetration bonus for the curse and pilgrim, maybe we should steer that towards:role bonus:5% heat damage to a target's battery (if fitted) per energy nuetralizer cycle.this would make it so neuting-specific ships, like the curse, pilgrim, cruor, bhaalgorn, etc etc could still potentially burn out a battery fit ship.aside from that, i do support this idea."
"you didn't read the op apparently, nosferatu would not be changed in this idea, so you still can suck em dry, you just have to be capped out as well."
"cap batteries are not useless. specifically, they are already useful on hacs.-liang"
"i would expect all tackle frigates and nano hacs to fit these. it provides more benefits than an infinite range medium nos - literal immunity to neuts and practical immunity to nos.-lianged: honestly, the only way i'd expect people to stop fitting them is if neuts became so utterly useless that suggesting fitting a neut would garner a \"lolfukingnoob\" response from any competent pilot."
"and that's why you can't be taken seriously. sorry, but you have to be reasonable in your predictions if you want people to be swayed by your arguments."
"great idea people.i fit a module that eats up 30% of my cpu, 20% of my powergrid, takes up a mid slot, is less effective than a cap recharger and is useless against neuting ships if you give them penetrations. great, i am totally gonna fir that instead of a cap booster."
"there was a time..."
"you can fit what you want. but the idea does not include any sort of penetration ability to 'counter the counter' for already overpowered ships. that was a curse pilot whinging about having to actually worry about not winning."
"are you guys ready for this bull****?"
"i like kittens"
"the guy forgot his pills."
"remove gates alreadythe only thing they have been used for this last year is as something to plant sbu's at after you have cynoed in"
"just like what he said.supported."
"another thought:contracts created via the api could be used to automate ship replacement programs in an alliance. you could easily write a script to give out a new ship to replace one from an api-verified lossmail based on whatever criteria you choose.there really are endless uses for something like this, and ccp would only have to do the backend and security side of things. they wouldn't have to worry about creating any new uis, it would all be done by player-developers."
"a sound idea and one that would be extremely useful for multiple parties."
"having read the latest csm minutes, i've got some ideas that i want to share with you and see if it could be a good change or a bad one.so, firstly, lets get straight on what is wanted in the game:- nerfing blob movement time over huge amount of territory- boosting local production in 0.0- more small gang pvp and more ships lost/killedthe solution (combination of the following steps is important, not the individual steps alone):1) do whatever is needed with titan bridges/jump bridges/covert jump portals to increase travel time (or cost)... most likely by nerfing the range of the jumps, but i leave that to you.2) introduce industrial jump bridges with increased range that only industrials/orcas/freighters can use. this jump bridge network must be separated from the current (combat) jb network;the alternative to industrial jump bridges can be found in this post3) introduce personal station \"upgrade\" modules, called industrial arrays, which will allow individual players to have their personal manufacturing slots in player owned stations. you need to pay the installation/maintenance fee to the owner, have sufficient standings with the station owner and have appropriate skill to use it.about industrial arrays:- built from simple materials (minerals/pi stuff) - why: t2 materials are too \"touchy\" and prone to be monopolized. this eliminates t2 material whines and can buff the pi market by increasing demand;- industrial array gets a bit of damage every time it's used. set it up that it would be completely useless and destroyed after some time of using it actively (a week for example). an array must then be replaced. - why: boosts the economy, requires effort from users and regulates production cost.- each array creates 1 manufacturing slot for the owner. you can have maximum 11 arrays active (limited by skill), to cover all manufacturing slots that a character can have;- different arrays for different types of manufacturing slots - much like current pos assembly arrays. types of arrays that one can use are limited by the level of a new industrial arrays skill;- if station gets conquered by a hostile entity, the new owner can destroy your arrays and you will lose materials and blueprints that were used in active manufacturing jobs;reasons behind the changes:- stuff in empire is cheap because of two main reasons: abundance of basic minerals (trit, pyerite, mexallon,...) and availability of almost unlimited numbers of manufacturing slots in npc stations. until mining gets some kind of revolutionary fix, there will always be a shortage of basic minerals in nullsec, because, as we all know, no one moved to nullsec to mine veldspar. additionally, a limited amount of public manufacturing slots will become queued up if the production is forced to be done locally and even the most basic t1 stuff and ammo will be monopolized by the corporations that own the stations and have private manufacturing slots in them. it will also hurt the simple member of a corporation without sufficient roles to use those private slots and will make only a few people in the corporation very rich while everyone else suffers (that is not a good and healthy environment)."
"- by introducing industrial jb network, we are creating supply routes of low-end minerals that go from empire and into the 0.0 space. at the same time, by separating supply from combat routes, we get another layer of pvp (camping supply routes / defending"
"this does nothing to pop jita's rancid tit out of 0.0 alliances mouth.removing all forms of bridging except black ops covert jump bridge in combination with adjustments and buff to regional supplies is what needs to be done. the removal of static moon goo and a nerf to recycling capital ships for the components. then, and only then will production in 0.0 will become a reality./not supported"
"i support this."
"i didn't mention anywhere that we need to totally cut the supplies from highsec, in fact low-end mineral supply from highsec needs a boost. plus, jita is only a trade hub for those living in the north. this proposal is equally beneficial for everyone.i don't think you've read my entire post (or even if you have, you didn't quite understand it), because that's pretty much what it's all about. we can do whatever we want with combat jump bridges as long as supply routes exist.moon materials are out of the scope of this proposal and should be handled separately. recycling capital ships for the components doesn't really have an impact on production of ships, modules, ammo or drones used in small gangs and is also out of the scope of this proposal. besides, you can recycle capitals in lowsec too.when i summarize your post, i don't really see the reason for \"/not supported\". there's enough space to nerf combat jbs as much as you like while \"adjusting and buffing regional supplies\" in my proposal and the rest of what you've said is just out of the scope of this idea."
"why not boost low-end minerals in 0.0? if people could mine high-end and low-end for same profit, they wouldn't have to haul it."
"who mines low- or mid-value minerals in null? if by boost you mean increase the amount of minerals coming out of a unit of ore by ten-fold, people might be willing to mine low ends in null sec.and to the op: decreasing the range of the bridges will do little. if you look at the network mm and rage have, some of those bridges are barely 1 ly in distance. people would still put them up.i'm still of the impression that force projection for attackers needs to be increased, not a nerf to defenders (aka killing the bridge networks)."
"i see a lot of extra power for the blob with practically no sacrifice.it is not a matter of \"adding time\" to projection, it is the projection itself that is the problem. so what if you have to do 5-10 more bridges, the gates are still gathering dust and anyone who could/would waylay a fleet in transit are still forced to battle not only fleet but whatever deathstar it comes out at.- kill off any and all military movement through bridges, let that be handles by range reduced titan bridges. reduce capital range in general.- bridges to be limited in number based on stations, constellations and/or systems, and only able to move industrial ships (miners, haulers).- bo bridge to be range extended to give a rapid response option as well as deep strike capability.we need to cut the high-sec umbilical cord so that only rare materials need to be imported. remove supers ability to enter low-sec entirely and the \"one-jump -> titan -> bridges\" dies out giving rise to convoys, ambushes and other tasty things that go pop in the night ..it's a decent proposal when it comes to the indy part of things (ie. arrays), but i don't think it goes far enough.- the fact that people didn't move there to mine veld is irrelevant .. if you make it enough of a hassle to get it by other means they will suck it up and hit the belts -> increase null yield of low-ends to meet the lazies halfway.- start the long slow slog towards supplanting moon-goo with pi goods. passive income of that magnitude has no place in eve and should never have been introduced.(pi => lots more traffic moving around => more pew/patrolling).- add many more and larger upgrade options to outposts in general. there was talk some years ago about modular stations and pos's, those discussions sadly died out but are worth taking up again."
"yeah"
"supported. why should there be any sound in a station anyway?"
"i like station sounds, especially amarr choir, and would like to have more. a toggle would be fine, tho i'd like option to have station sounds at all times, not just for one minute."
"a way to turn them off would be great.. at least for amarr stations."
"this does seem a bit ridiculous with all the killing and slave taking, stealing, drugs and prostitutes in the game. the current state that some avatars seem to exist in where they have at least one layer on their top and bottom seems sufficient to me.let's hope this petition gets loud enough and heard by the right people.ccp is going to drive away more of the player base that is of the right age to play this game than the people that are young enough to warrant protecting with these silly and extreme messures."
"also i want mini-skirts"
"chicks like me need half-shirts too. so sexeh!"
"+1 for exotic dancers!"
"contrary to popular belief and bad math, a higher max velocity does not cause you to align more slowly. the reason mwds and afterburners cause you to align more slowly is because they add mass when active, it has nothing to do with the change in max velocity."
"do the math....which is easiest to kill? an autopiloting freighter or a wtz freighter.cargo is only a factor when it comes to picking your targets... and the wtz ones are very very hard to catch.auto-piloting ones are noobs... easy prey."
"both are easy to kill. i shoot the ones not on autopilot when i gank. not to say that pilots on ap are safer, they get their cargo scanned like everyone else."
"there is no such thing as a freighter that is hard to catch or kill."
"risk vs reward is a glorious thing. if i bring my bpos out to 0.0 there is far more risk. not to mention chance of getting locked out of the stations and losing access to the assets. what is the reward for this risk? i get to build stuff slightly faster? meanwhile 0.0 has low volume so the time bonus is utterly useless.as a manufacturer why would i ever build outside highsec?now we cant just give a material bonus or else there will be a bad loop of reprocessing and rebuilding.my suggestion: nerf lowsec slightly and highsec manufacturing a fair bit. keep 0.0 manufacturing at no difference materialwise. nerf lowsec by 5-10%. nerf highsec by 10-20% material. leave pos alone. highsec moons just became much more valuable and wardecs over moons in highsec will likely become extremely common. which brings fun to highsec. it benefits manufacturers in 0.0 lots. manufacturers will setup shop in 0.0 and setup buy orders for minerals. which will make mining in 0.0 more plausible.yaaay all around. except for those in highsec manufacturing i guess."
"it's been a while since my last proposal as well as my last perusal of this area of the forum, but i have a new idea and i'm not sure if it has been proposed before or discussed so apologies if it has.basically this is a very low priority proposal, but i do feel it might come into play at least once in a while for many pilots, and in regards to carrier pilots it would be quite a help if the opportunity to use this would arise at some point during their career.proposal: after requesting to dock at a station, either from a warpable distance or while on grid of the station in question, before you are accepted to dock, as noted above the default capacitor area, allow a pilot the option to cancel the docking procedure while either in warp or approaching the station. i do know that you have the ability to merely redirect your ship, which will effectively cancel the docking attempt but sometimes you can get unlucky and it proceeds to dock you anyway.as mentioned before it is a small issue, but i think it would be used if made available especially by a carrier who has requested to dock and warped to a station while fighters are deployed. once on station, the fighters also warp and then the carrier docks leaving the drones out and the long annoying process of gathering them back up, god help you if you don't have an indy ship helping you.to a lesser extent it may be beneficial to someone who has requested to dock and finds some reason to cancel this request when landing on grid, or noticing something on directional scan which causes them to change their mind. i can see why people may like the fact that a careless pilot would leave a flight of drones worth 200 mil or so floating in space for an easy grab if they have the ability to do so, but it seems like this scenario would happen so few times it wouldn't effect very many people, just save those individuals some time, but i'm willing to throw this idea out there to see what people think and if they like it great if not i can see why.to clarify, i do not mean for this to be allowing a ship that has been accepted and which has become invulnerable to targeting to then cancel their docking procedure, as that would just be pointless and wouldn't make sensetl;dr allow docking requests to be rescinded, before the ship is accepted and invulnerable, for situational purposes."
"straightforward"
"when approaching the station... if you select the little stop button (alternatively, ctrl-space) you cancel the request to dock.already in game."
"ok so we as an alliance have run 5 seperate incursion areas. we primarily run vanguard incursion sites:nation comander outpostnation mining colonyboth vary good sites!overide transfer arrey on the other hand...not worth the time !our proposed changes:1: increase the sansha incursion recharge rate in highsec keep it as is for low sec reduce it for null2: make payouts for fleets more scaled eg: nation command er out post pays 10.5mill and 1400 lp in high-sec for a fleet of 5-10 ships make fleets in excess of this size get at best 25% a fleet with less than 5 people should get payout plus 10-15%3: bonus payouts for fleets consisting for same corp at +2.5% alliance at +5% (encurages people to join corps/alliances)4: overide transfer arrey needs love! remove the 2 bss and replace them with dps cruisers when you \"hack\" the cans the station should randomly remote rep a pod pilot (we assumed this to be good because you did \"hack\" the can not destroy it)5: as an alternate to point 2: (assuming site is hs vanguard) fleets with in excess of 10 are disqualifyed and payout is payed to next fleet with most dammage inflicted (assuming the second fleet has no more than 12 members)6: finalyincursion spawn mechanics, they are currently realy off balance(current hs incursions are being ****d in 5-10hours)so:hi-sec: 4-6 incursions at any one time (pref 1 per faction space)low-sec: 2-3 anywherenull-sec: 2-4 (atleast 1 in npc space)-----------------------------------------------on a side note!we have also been discussing the possible implimentation of a point system (not unlike alliance tourny) in to incursion sites:a possible point listing could be:table keybs= battleshipbc= battlecruisercc= cruiserdd= destroyerff= frigitindi= industrial/mining bargelogi= teck 2 logistics cruiserstighest point value !pirate faction bst2 bsnavy bst2 bcbc, t2 logi, pirate cc, t3t2 cc, t2 indinavy cccc , pirate fft2 ff, t2 dd navy ffff, indi, ddlowest point value!any thaughts/sugestions/changes"
"aside from the massive spelling and grammatical errors, i think the ideas are sound."
"1: eh, sure.2: pointless change, if people want to use bloated fleets and get paid less then they can and using less is just dimwitted.3: no, go die in a fire, people can join or not join what they please.4: meh, w/e.5: see point 2, and excessively easy to exploit around.6: meh, w/e."
"honestly i'm not sure about most of the ideas here.but one things for sure.... incursions should be rampant in 0.0 and low sec.why?no security... why should it be \"more\" frequent in high sec? should be just as rampant everywhere else.i'm just waiting for a const. to get incursion'ed in the middle of a war zone in 0.0 with cyno's being jammed."
"from what i have seen, the commander and mining sights need to be harder. every incursion is swamped with ten man fleets throwing themselves all over those sights and that's it. they simply race to the next vanguard until the sansha mothership appears.all the sites should be rebalanced to be more competitive with the vanguard commander and mining sites. sorry i don't like you idea, if anything those two sites you love need a nerf."
"not necessarily. the purpose of incursions seems to be to steal people. my understanding is, that most normal people live in empire space. it sort of makes sense, that the incursions would be more focused on areas where there are large population concentrations.sansha also was initially driven out and defeated by the combined armies of the 4 empires, so it isn't too far fetched to think he wants to give some payback, so he focuses his efforts more on them. that seems like a good reason to make low and high sec prime targets and helps to explain why 0.0 isn't overly burdened with incursions."
"regardless... they take place in 0.0 either way... and they should be more often if not just as often as high sec/low sec.npc space out there is no different than empire let alone player owned space... just different forms of security."
"as to start, your apathetic attitude towards even the good suggestions shows that either haven't tried the incurison at all, or don't have an opinion on the expansion in the first place, so i'm not entirely sure why you felt the need to chime in.1. this is good, simply based on the roleplay reasoning that sansha hates the empires the most, and because of the rate at which the different areas are being completed. the ones in null are there for a whole week (and then expire? or are they actually being done?), the ones in low sec seem to slowly be accomplished at the rate they should be, and the ones in high sec are finished before you can even go the 15+ jumps to get to them.2. i think if someone wants to use a smaller-than recommended fleet, they should rewarded rather than punished. its pretty much impossible to run the sites solo as is, so make a mandatory minimum through the pay scale is unneccessary. at this point, 4 spidertanking domi's (with well-trained pilots) can run the commanders and mining ones (with some struggle, but its possible) and then you just warp in an alt on a separate client to get a free extra 10.5m anyway. so why not take that +10.5m and spread it automatically to 2.5m per member of the fleet as part of the game mechanic?3. he didn't say \"if you aren't in a corp you won't get paid,\" he said that there should be added incentive to alliance and corp groups accomplishing a task together. as evident with the increase of taxes in the npc schools, ccp clearly wants players to join corporations. tbh, of the ideas suggested i feel the least strongly about this one, but it would make for a nice addition and a break from the normal neutral rr logi gangs that are making hisec wars so pointless. if they logi's (alts) don't want to be in the same corp they normally rr, there should be a penalty for the increased security they get being \"immune\" from conventional war mechanics. in this case, less pay out from the incursion plexes.4. once again, your reaction says to me that you don't particularly care for this expansion in the first place, so i'm not sure what solution you'd prefer. in response to the other people that say the commanders and mining ones need to be nerfed, if they get more challenging, then the isk and lp reward would simply drop the incursion sites isk value vs time required to accomplish them into a terribly inefficient realm. i suppose this would curb the flooding into the sites that are causing the hisec zones to be over in 4 hrs time, but it could also get to the point that no one will do them anymore and just run missions until they appear in motsu or dodixie. then people will simply not do anything and wait until they expire. as it stands, they are more fun than level 4's by a massive amount and pay pretty damn good in that comparison as well. so if they don't make the overrides a tad easier and instead make the mining and commanders more difficult, instead of seeing a crap load of overrides in all the vanguard systems not being run, you'd see all 3 not being run and the negative sansha bonuses at 100% for a week."
"5. the hole i see in dark's plan is that a fleet of 15 could come in, consisting of 5 logi alts that could just bail before the site is finished, and i understand and recongnize this hole. the fix would be for the sites to register how many were actively participating in the fleet in one way or another and they would be counted as in that fleet. as it stands, groups of 15+ are fleeting up from the incursion chat channel and crushing the plexes with no care as to the payout. and i suppose this will die off as people come to realize the downside, but those that had forethought enough to keep a fleet limited within the specified range are being penalized for it. our blobs of domi's do a good job, especially in a group of 10, but we are no match to a fleet of 18 consisting of vindicators, 4 logis, etc etc. sure, i'm all for a nice bit of grief, i encourage it. but those idiots don't even understand how they are wasting their time, and everyone else's. i suppose this is just tears, but its a mechanic that is at least worth looking into. and as you said, if people are stupid enough to blob the sites and get paid nothing for their time, this wouldn't do anything to them anyway. it would instead give a chance to the guys that are doing it the right way, instead of starting a plex and seeing that blob fleet warp in and the only alternative being to leave before we waste any more time. so, give them nothing for their time, as they are right now, and hand the rewards to the \"law abiding\" (in concord's eyes) dudes.6. again with the lack of interest, but this is probably the best idea of the whole group. if this happens before the recharge rate, it might make it unncessary to implement a different recharge rate altogether. it would spread the players out instead of all the hisec people blobbing into one area and moving like locusts to the next (after the 10 hr break where there are no hisec incursions). and i get the whole \"move them to lowsec\" grief mentality, i see where you are all coming from, the thing is: moving it to lowsec will make it so no one will do them at all outside of the very small groups that they affect negatively for that span of time, or the even smaller groups that will rove around farming them. if they move out of hisec, they'll be the next cosmos thing where new players will ask an older one: \"hey, what's this meter on my screen that appeared when i was passing through such-and-such lowsec?\" and the older player will go: \"oh, its this group pve thing that came out in an expansion that no one does anymore. think of them as level 5's, but a bigger pain in the ass and not worth your time.\""
"welcome to the assembly hall, where any idea that could lead to a nerf, no matter how remote, to a popular playstyle will never win any support. eve is full of selfish players, just like any other game."
"i've noticed, its mostly why i don't post any of the ideas my alliance comes up with. and as far as eve being full of selfish players, i think its more of a \"people are selfish\" more than a \"this group is more selfish.\"the thing i don't understand is my corp mate dark here has proposed good solutions to the widespread, well-known problems in the incursion expansion, and trolls just nay-say it because they didn't like that incursion was launched (i guess?). there really isn't any play-style we are wanting to nerf aside from the pointless time-wasting 15-20 man fleets crushing the vanguard sites. it'd be one thing if they are doing it for \"lol! that other fleet didn't get paid!\" but they are just idiots that fleeted up and are blobbing the sites for no benefit of anyone. there's no loot... no pay... no lp... maybe some sec-status increase; but why not just hit the belts instead?"
"incurtions should be mroe frequent in high-sec since that space actually has some people to abduct for sansha."
"tldr version - timers are causing 0.0 to be boring and blobby, fix timers and fix 0.0i agree with this, but ccp are too busy with incarna, so you may as well spend the next year inactive, then when ccp do something there will be approx 8100 more supercarriers alone in 0.0oh joy!"
"+1 for introducing concept of theft of non-actively defended assets (moon goo). should be able to steal 100% of moon goo while ship is on station though.moon holder: easy passive income when not being raided. raider: income when active, assets (ship) at r"
"i don't particularly care about 0.0 sov warfare, mostly because of the mentioned reasons. if the system changed to allow small gangs to harass sov holders, i would at least partake in this.especially not needing caps to accomplish crap and/or a leaching ship that can steal moon goo. very good idea!"
"1. timers are setup such that you the attacker have to win 3 times straight or more. while the defender can just ignore you for 3 days. manage 1 small win and then you're back to stage 1. obviously this can be fixed relatively easily. once past the first reinforce. you can only rr to the previous reinforce and it goes back into reinforce at the same timing. example: shield reinforce when you had sov 5. you now have sov 4. armor reinforce and now you have sov 3. next one is dead ihub or they fight and rep it back to shield reinforce. day later the attack puts it back into armor reinforce and now they have sov 2. forces them to keep defending.2. lolwhat?3. dreads arent used because you're better off flying a battleships because cap fights are decided by subcap fights. capships now dont have the ability to kill subcap fleets. this is untrue for supercap pilots as they sure as hell wont eject and get in a battleship.4. you've always had to shoot stations... what's the prob? do you want to go back to 2006 where you could lose your station anytime.5. game balance means numbers are the only factor for winning. unless you live in a country which allows you to ddos your enemy's comms. you cant stop this.6. ccp will never be able to control who is blue and such. they could rip the standings system out of the game and there will be everso larger blues just to avoid conflict.7. yes we need a moongoo mining capship that has to siege for like 1 hour at a moon. thusly killing moongoo values."
"and the ability to select multiple people and remove etc. (ctrl+click)."
"hi, i suggest to remove the number of pos that can be anchored per system per day limitation. this limitation was set in place to protect the sov system long time ago but since dominion pos are no longer used to hold sovereinty.thanks !"
"even though poses no longer have an effect over sov, they're still a part of overall sov ownership and a tactical tool in sov invasion.i don't know the exact reasons why ccp left the anchoring limitations in place, but i would it guess it would be to prevent pos spamming and load issues surrounding that.not supported. there doesn't seem like theres a really valid reason to remove the cap, other than people wanting to anchor moar"
"supported.also a suggestion, seeing as the creation of boosters is illegal why don't you make the ships pirate faction versions of the mining cruisers."
"i find it silly that a hulk cannot mine gas faster than a battlecruiser.mining is mining - and a mining ship should always outperform any other ship in the game vs mining.this is not the case with gas harvesting. that i beleive should be fixed before a ship is created just for gas harvesting."
"sweet thanks.like the voice idea but won't hold my breathalso like the bit about adding in lore that was player driven such as big fights...eve has so much history i could read it all day and finding these would be amazing."
"pink text is for pussies, i vote green.also this wont work on eve-o because you can read them while not logged in, then log in to post and you would only be pink texted while posting. hardly an effective punishment.on an actually serious note, the punishment on eve-o is a bit too strict and far too easily circumvented. both feed into the other. (as well as being enforced sparcely)i suggest a look into changing punishment as several small infringments eventually lead to being banned for 6 months at a time. as this is a servise we are technically paying for i find it odd that over time there is no eventual return to a good standing with ccp. if you swore on the eve-o forums 4 years ago it is still counted towards your bans currently.free everyone."
"if you want to punish your guys for something you already have enough ways to do it without giving the game another \"gay\" look.what's next? pink megathrons using ice cream instead of amo? -they already stinck with their hybrids so pink megas louching ice cream couldn't be mutch worst./no"
"the problem isn't that it's cheap loot, everyone has to start somewhere.the problem is that you can sit in the last room and defeat the purpose of the key, or farm the keys, which also defeats the purpose."
"alternate solution: move static plexes to exploration system.fixed."
"not sure if this has been brought up yet.i think longitude and latitude coordinate lines should be given to planets. i like the new pi system that came with the last patch but i've had to change my setups to account for hotspot decay. as such i'm much more spread out with extractors and as a result overlap with corp members in inevitable. to help prevent this, numbered coordinate lines would help in communicating where i or others have extractors on a planet.in addition to this coordinate lines would allow individuals with better planetology skills to help others find the best place to put extractors.any thoughts on this?"
"or even showing extractor heads for members of the same corp/alliance or high standing?"
"since you are in init. you should take a look in your neighbourhood, like catch or providence. plenty of smaller entities there.look, i know how hard it is for a small alliance to enter nullsec without being a part of a blob. in fact, i've tried to do that some time ago (around dominion deployment). we were a new alliance on the nullsec scene with only a little help from our coalition... it was called coalition of independent alliances (~100 active players total in different time zones). we all hoped that dominion will bring sov mechanics changes that will help us survive as a small independent entity in nullsec, but it didn't happen. that's why our coalition didn't last long enough to be even noted. one of the main reasons why we decided to go to nullsec is because once you own a station (or have access to one), there is at least some form of security knowing that the majority of stuff you own is not placed in some station that can be destroyed with a little effort by some bored blob. even if the station does change hands, you still have a jump clone and your stuff that can be sold if you get kicked out of there.when our little coalition fell apart, some of the people i know quit playing for various reasons (disappointment in sov mechanics, inability to build something by yourself without belonging to a blob, loss of isk). they haven't gone emo on the forums, haven't complained... they just left. introduce destructible outposts and you'll get massive discomfort when that happens to a small alliance whose members only have isk they earned all by themselves (no high profit moons, isk from rent,...). you won't see \"cries\"/\"tears\"/\"whines\" or any other troll meme, you'll just have a silent mass exodus from the game. i'm sure ccp would love to see that happen to its customer base. it's one thing to get blown up because of a mistake you made and totally another thing that your entire stack of pvp ships get destroyed in a single attack. in the first case you can learn something from your loss, in the last one there's only one message - get inside a blob or don't even try living in nullsec."
"i agree. waking up to find all of your assets and pod destroyed when it was all in a station is just silly.i am curious as to what the need for more than one station in a system? is it so a corp has something to call their own or the need for more/better station services? i was under the impression stations could be upgraded."
"hey, nobody would force people do build those things.ccp would only add an option for people to choose. it's up to them to decide whether they want to take the risk or not. there'd still be current invulnerable outposts, but 1 per system. and new vulnerable outpost, many per system."
"my motives in all this are definitely biased, but there are numerous benefits/reasons to have multiple stations within a system.1.) it's badass to have a complete system capable of performing every function2.) current station design leaves you playing rock/paper/scissors for refining/manufacturing/research. while you can upgrade stations (at exponential costs) none of the upgrades will let you effectively achieve anything close to the intended purpose of the stations. aka, you will never get a good refine at a manufacturing station, or production at any other station, etc3.) pos related compensation for a lack of a certain class of station costs in fuel and risk. pos refineries achieve 75% refine, which is terrible at best, and require substantial time (can't even keep up with a single hulk). pos construction facilities are subject to destruction and freightering ships to/from the outpost they're to be sold at. station construction facilities give greater options (personal/corp construction options) and are more \"omni-constructable\" if there was a term for the ability to build anything in their slots (as opposed to requiring many different pos mods for ammo, drones, fighters, bss, frigates, capitals, etc)4.) the refinery/manufacturing outpost are a pair that deserve to go together. minerals are refined and then shipped to construction outpost for construction. right now you have to leave system and move to another. in the end it's mostly about convenience and better services within a condensed area. the current station blight might in part be blamed on the fact that we aren't allowed to created condensed areas of functionality within nulsec"
"that's exactly why i vote for more than outpost per system. and for sure they must be invulnerable."
"or... you could check out this idea:"
"it is also exactly the reason why it is never going to happen unless some massive downside is introduced.forget blobs, bridges and whatnot .. everything is covered by services in a single system, rest is for all the bots and macros to rent!null is already safer than high-sec (lol-bridge) and provides unlimited isk (lol-moons) in stupidly high quantities (lol-sanctums), there has to be a limit to just how easy the pioneering life should be."
"considering basically 4 of the 6 next csms guaranteed to win csm have the platform of that being a very very stupid position and that increase jumpbridge use is extremely beneficial to the game. i think that pretty much explains the reality of the game. so getting back to the topic at hand. setting stupid solopvper and highsec people, who have no idea how 0.0 works, aside.ephemeron you must hate warp to 0 on gates. just totally kills your gameplay eh?"
"i dunno why people tend to equate jump bridges to warp to 0.i was one of the first people telling ccp to implement warp to 0 option.i am not in favor of easy/lazy kills. i am in favor of good strategy. i am against jump bridges because they undermine strategic and tactical possibilities of combat in this game.wanting to use jump bridges is the easy/lazy choice. just like wanting 15km minimum warp is an easy/lazy choice."
"at first i thought this was a good idea. then i thought about how someone could abuse it.create starter account and go around taking everything and giving it to their main. even if its junk and worthless to them, there are scores of people who would do it daily just to be a ****."
"this sort of incompetence is what ccp is known for, carefully compared most ammo makes no sense. on the other end of the spectrum take scorch for example, provided you're not drooling and eating crayons its an extremely powerful ammo with virtually no drawbacks at all. likewise conflag has minimal drawbacks and outdamages/outranges faction multi while hail and void are still jokes with no purpose unless you need to beat on something literally right in front of you while at a standstill.you may even notice a pattern, scorch +50% optimal, null +25% optimal +25% falloff, and barrage +50% falloff; all with -25% tracking. equal right? no. ccp failed to consider that optimal and falloff do not scale the same and failed to provide either differing drawbacks or benefits to bring anything resembling an equality in usefulness. oddly enough the inequallity of optimal and falloff scaling is considered in tracking enhancers and tracking computers but completely ignored in ammo.these sorts of random mathimatical blundering is pretty commonplace with ccp. the common view is that poorly concieved mechanics like these make eve 'hardcore' and is generally just glazed over with pr nonsense by ccp, welcome to eve."
"supported. +1"
"all t2 ammo needs to be evaluated and balanced, along with hybrids of course."
"i'd like it to have an extra hardpoint, rather."
"never reused my night since i have my tengu.they really need something"
"as always... +1"
"if we were going to use maths to document this it'd be as follows.normal pos shield (for ease of calculations) is 1000 points. when it is at 1000 points it is at 100%.damage it to 25% (hit it with 750 points of damage) and it reinforces.now in that wh system: pos shield has 2000 points. reinforcing it takes 1500 points of damage to take it to 500 which is 25% (how it's supposed to be).but after downtime, pos has 1000/2000 hitpoints. deal 500 points of damage to take it to 500 (25%). it's actually easier to reinforce this pos in a shield bonused wormhole than it is in normal space. eg only 500 instead of 750 points to reinforce it. reinforcing it is 33% quicker than it should be.now obviously this isn't \"working as intended\", but if ccp want to say \"ah, we'll just consider that a drawback of that type of wormhole. until you rep it it's weaker, but once you do it's stronger than normal.\" then that's something else."
"a lot of what has happened over the last year that was instigated by the csm has been behind the scenes at ccp. the reaction to the '18 months' and 'commit to excellence' issues was such that ccp could not simply ignore them. not everything the csm achieves has to have a specific in game purpose but can also affect the thinking and processes inside ccp which we may or may not see.a sea change occurred at ccp in the time between june and december, which was a result of interaction with the csm. this may not be a tangible change in game but it signifies a change in attitude and direction. more focus is being given to iteration of older features and bugfixes than before as the csm made it clear that the existing playerbase would rather have a working game than new shinies every six months.there is also the matter of the more frequent and in-depth dev blogs that have been appearing since june. with a few exceptions these have served to increase the amount of information and communication that we get from ccp and are a direct result of the csm pushing for this greater transparency.as for your comment implying that the csm is nothing but a 'free trip to iceland', if you'd actually bothered to read up on what the csm actually do and go over the minutes of not just the summits but their more regular meetings, then you would realise that the csm works bloody hard on our behalf and provides us a valuable means of interaction with ccp. each summit is three days packed with meetings and discussion (and sometimes argument) about things that the players want or don't want in eve. its not a holiday, by any means, and implying that it is is frankly insulting to the delegates and those that voted for them. i can vouch for the above through first hand experience as i have had the privilege of being able to sit in on a few meetings at the last two main summits (june and december) and the discussions are frank and sometimes heated. i would agree that there needs to be an easily accessible list of items that have made it into the game through the csm process, then maybe we can avoid posts like this in the future. the changes brought in for incursion were meant to be marked up in the patch notes but they haven't been, so obviously ccp needs to work a bit more on their communication. then again with just a little effort on your part you could go looking for that information yourself as most of it is in the evelopedia, but hey, effort?tl;dr: just because you can't see the progress that is being made, doesn't mean its not happening."
"world of darkness will have treaties."
"i remember qhen they were announced and the hype that was sorrounding treaties. i know they are generally considered an interesting feature, but i fail to remember why. can someone explain? just to make this thread more complete.i mean: treaties will not allow a different style of playing, they will just facilitate renting, thus making the control of renters easier and by consequence treaties will encourage space holding alliances to rent out more space, to a certain extent, increasing 0.0 population.they would be a cool feature, and maybe they are planned for the next release cycle. but i think that we don't need more people in 0.0 to join the coalitions, we need more independent small forces around in conquerable space. even small corporations should be able to live in conquerable space (without defeating a stronger group), the problem why this is not possible is that there are no structures a little corporation can defend agains a larger force."
"i think that the last post has some really good points and although the current market may be difficult to work around planetary trade is a great way for say a new player to make isk if there was a reason to move say food and medical or construction supplys between worlds. has anyone played escape velocity? that ways a game i always wanted to be like eve or eve to take a page out of its book the world was cool with pirate factions and diffrent races u got missions from bars the ones you got were randome and had a story about them, or u could trade on an open market finding a place where some food or luxuary item was cheep and flying it to a place where u could make a profit. aswell as u could easyly oversupply on high profit items because u oversupplyed demand. so that ppl who were doing this would want to stay out of eachothers trade routs so as to keep their personal profit up.ya escape velocity"
"do you work for the police? cos with that idea it sure sounds like you do.how will that solve the problem? traders would obviously just pack up and more on to/or create another (jita scale) trade hub, cos they would just loose way to much isk if they stayed in a 0.4 system. here is the solution, if u dont like all the ganking then dont trade there! there are plenty off other trade hubs going u know!"
"my dear sinisterdave i don't trade there, or anywhere i just have a very long standing and not altogether rational hatred of jita. \"utinam populus romanus unam cervicem haberet!\"gaius julius caesar augustus germanicusas he for the romans so i for jita."
"player-built missions sound like a nice idea in theory. in practice, you'll get lots of monty haul missions and one or two missions that really push the envelope of the mission creator and leave both the players and the devs begging for more.the monty hauls could be weeded out by an apple app store style vetting process - the automated tools will be able to check that the rewards match the mission level and intended security level. no officer npcs in hisec level 1 missions, no 5% implants hidden in level 4 mission structures, no endless stream of under-tanked over-bountied battleships, no shanty town pockets filled with hundreds of structures that have some tiny percentage chance of dropping something really nice. other processes could monitor the missions once they're available on singularity and tranquility, to ensure that bounty payouts and loot drops never exceed certain values.the two or three really good missions will make it worth wading through all the dross, while simultaneously encouraging the devs to ensure that mission-handling code is thoroughly cleaned up.there are some nice missions in the new bunch that ccp added to the game - it would be interesting to see what players could do given the same toolset. i'm particularly amused with \"pick your poison\", since it's a level 4 mission that can be completed (or more to the point is best completed) in a frigate (similar to recon (1 of 3))."
"support this thread"
"maybe just maybe my faith will be rewarded..."
"you know, the \"realism\" argument has been shot down at least twice in this thread already.i'll tl;dr it by asking if you want realistic police to go with your realistic insurance?"
"bump."
"good summary of why the mechanics change is a bad idea."
"agreed"
"no"
"no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no."
"no, if ccp wants money, have npc's sell stuff for isk. the people that want the vanity stuff, will then either earn the isk, thereby sustaining the economy of eve, or buy plex and sell for isk, giving ccp money. i imagine a npc selling some bling for 100m isk. people who really want it, but can't come up with the money, will buy plex. are plex sells down? since plex prices are not up, i'd say the demand and supply are fairly constant. we probably need a new money(isk, not dollar) sink, to stimulate the buying and selling of plex, and vanity items would do nicely. high sec carebears need a money sink. null sec already has one with the massive destruction of ships."
"yes, because this telling people how you want them to answer the poll is useful in making ccp listen to you. /sarcasm"
"simply no"
"yes"
"i vote for this proposal as my only other course of action is to junk my 8 million sp character."
"sup dawg, time for me to sayi got an accountbut no desire to playkuz dig it, by lookin at my heada dawg aint got choices to show of they mad dreadsan bein dark, dawg, against the lite?a dawg want more sun, not to look like its niteccp, you done this deal not riteand so u an me we gonan fightuntil you bitean make it ritekuz what y'all be doin is a major sliteso dig it dawg, please roll it backelse all you dam trippas be smokin crackin short, re-re got somtin to say:put better lights and dreadlocks in rite awaypeace out dawg."
"10% ab speed!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!"
"alot of newer players (and old) start with pvp via high sec wars.if the first impression they get is 2-3 netural alts repping war targets then they will just get ****ed off and give up.silly mechanic - good idea. but i would like it to go a step further and get neuts unable to rep a war target in high sec at all , but this is step in the right direction.lets get proper fun pvp in high sec + 1"
"i've replied in here before, and i was more or less trolling, but seeing this thread come back makes me want to throw out my solution:instead of an aggression timer, which is just going to make it so there is a clusterf*ck of logi triangles rr'ing indefinitely more than there currently is, just have it so you can't (without dying) rr someone not in your alliance/corp. leave the option on the table, and have them get concordokken'd if they hit the \"yes i'm sure i want to get ass-ploded.\" then we can have suicide gankers and suicide reppers (lol). i don't like the idea of not having a choice.as far as defending this point: what about the oft-mentioned scenario where a guy infiltrates a corp, warps into the corp's group level 4, and starts massacring the fleet while being rr'd by neutral logi ships. in this case, the logi ships won't even be flagged as committing a crime.i'm cool with a combo of the two ideas, 2 minute aggression or something for remote buff as well as not allowing to rr people not in your alliance. i'm curious as to the stats of logi pilots being in noob corps or single man corps."
"needs to apply to all remote assistance (eccm, sebo, rr, tracking and energy trans.).needs to exclude gate jumping. reason is that a jumper can be caught and molested on the other side whereas a docker cannot. of the two, the docker is by far the most frequently abused in high/low and i assume null as well.were jumping to be included then \"legitimate\" roaming fleets will be pretty hard hit regardless of location, essentially either making rr extinct or make it so heavy as to make any non-blob action pointless."
"i'm not sure, but i think people are really starting to give up on anything being changed with hybrids. nobody sane can keep trying to argue a point if the response continues to be indifference, and/or \"works as intended\" (which basically means they accomplished their original design, and if it doesn't actually work well in practice that's of no concern to them)."
"then all is left to do is to give gallente/hybrids pilots wishing to, the refound of their sp so they don't have to waste more time training other races just because theirs sucks hard rather than for the fun of crosstrain.i can perfectly understand that someone who's playing now since stone age don't care about this issue, he has the choice, while new/fresh players don't, they just get sucked for the 6 first months of their eve experience, and what a pleasent experience."
"pulse lasers are better in every way than blasters as far as i can tell."
"bump as well :)."
"bump !!"
"at the moment it seems that some select tech iii subsystems/setups shine while others (seemingly pre-nerfed and never un-nerfed) are hardly used at all. tech iii has not gotten much attention by ccp since it was implemented in 2009; i propose a revision of the \"unused\" subsystems; bonuses/slot layouts be reworked in an attempt to create more variety in tech iii setups.note: this is a \"general proposal\". the details below are my own observations and opinions on some select subsystems, as well as some proposed changes. these changes are not part of the \"general proposal\" and are only ment to serve as guidelines at best.general subsystem issues:emergent locus analyzer: currently only the amarr version provides +1 highslot for a probe launcher. i see no reason why everyone but legion pilots should be forced to fit a different defensive subsys. or compromise dps in order to make use of a subsystem specifically designed for scanning. suggest 1 midslot be \"converted\" into 1 highslot for the non-amarr versions (or 1 lo to 1 hi; referring to gallente).warfare processor: unlike the adaptive augmenter/shielding, this subsystem does not yield a \"personal\" defensive bonus. suggest one be added to match the adaptive augmenter/shielding; 5% shield/armor resistance for caldari/amarr + gallente respectively, minmatar; perhaps a 5% reduction in sigrad?adaptive augmenter/shielding: current bonuses are fine, however, would like to propose an additional slight range bonus, approx. 25% - 50% per level. this would allow large sized rr mods to have a max range of 20-30km with max skills. since minmatar tend to do both armor and shield tank (on different ships, obviously) i propose that the loki's current adaptive augmentor be changed into a rr subsystem, giving it a choice between armor and shield repair. cap, range and price issues should ensure that tech iii does not become the \"new logistics\".supplemental coolant injector: these do not seem to be worthwhile at the moment. suggest increasing the bonus from 5% to 10%.specific subsystem issues:- legionenergy parasitic complex: a slight range bonus would be nice. 10-15% per level, max range on a medium nos/neut would be 18-22km.covert reconfiguration: 4 turrets and only a cap use bonus. whats stopping it from fitting autocannons? propose an additional 5% rof or 5% medium energy turret damage per level.drone synthesis projector: suggest the current 7,5% to drone hitpoints per level be changed to 10% per level. additional 5% to tracking disruptor effectiveness per level.- tengurifling launcher pattern: currently the weakest ecm in game. propose the 10% to ecm strenght per level be increased to 20-25% per level, cpu bonus increased from 33 to 66, 1 highslot/launcher hardpoint be converted into 1 midslot, and a 10% bonus missile velocity per level be added. this would put it slightly above the kitsune but below the recons in pure jam strenght, and below the scorpion in range.covert reconfiguration: suggest an additional 10% missile velocity per level, making its launcher layout and bonuses similar to the suggested changes to rifling launcher pattern.- proteuscovert reconfiguration: suggest an additional 10% to medium hybrid turret falloff per level.drone synthesis projector: currently a proteus can have a max bandwith of 100 mbit/sec, by fitting this subsystem plus the augmented capacitor reservoir. suggest that the drone synth. proj. base bandwith be increased from 75 mbit/sec to 100 mbit/sec. this, combined with the aug. res. would allow it to potentially field 5 heavy drones. dronebay remains the same.hybrid propulsion armature: propose a 5% to remote sensor dampener effectiveness be added. +1 lowslot be converted into +1 midslot.- lokihardpoint efficiency configuration: 7,5% to target painter effectiveness per level."
"[sarcasm]you want them to do a balance pass on unpopular t3 items?hell, we've been trying to get them to look into unpopular t2 items for years, and unpopular t1 items since... well, since that's all there was. and fw. and cosmos. and sov. and...there are more important things that need to be done than balance passes. really important things that will keep eve competitive with new games... like pi, and new avatars, and walking in stations.[/sarcasm]seriously, while i do agree that ccp does need to do a pass on the t3 subsystems (i'm still waiting for the 5th modules), i'm expecting that to land in the pile with the rest of the old features. for years now, ccp has shown far more interest in blazing bold trails over new ground than they have been in looking back at what's been left behind.unfortunately, what keeps many of us here is the blind hope that someday they will stop trying to expand eve into an omnibus game with something for everyone, and get back to making it a great game for those that are not interested in games built for the lowest common denominator."
"hey, lets's not support stuff becuz other stuff needs to be looked into...on a side note, /supported"
"they should automatically flag accounts for inspection if they're constantly online and doing activities for more than 80% of the time that the servers are up."
"absolutely"
"this document reflcts all the stuff i managed to collect on fixing gallente and put it into one piece."
"you'd think that if the gallente were going to be fixed it would have happened by now, or at least started."
"because you know for sure that ccp is not wroking on it under any circumstances. how is that attitude helpfull anyway?"
"i can't help but smirk at the mention of \"final solution\" for gallente"
"didn't ccp say that blasters and rails were working as intended? things like that suggest to me they aren't working on the problem or even think there is one."
"you mean they don'twork as intended? and, if they don't see the ssue, that's only a cause to make more noise about it untill they notice it.i really hope that you are wrong. but if it continues like this, the solution will be final indeed."
"i agree that there is a problem, but i don't like the idea of having to be a squeaky wheel to get it fixed. that's how devs ruin their games by listening to whoever is the loudest to shut them up."
"seed l5 agents in every region not just in the few they are in right now.reason is simple.you just cant bring a small pve fleet in a enemy controlled system without getting killed within the first 15 min by pvp fitted ships while taking npc fire.you have to be in a region where your friends are to do that.that makes it unfare to other players.if your alliance is a region where l5 agents are your lucky if there not tuff luck go and do l4.see my point here?give everyone the same change of doing those missions cousse there really fun."
"yeah, sure."
"well , it would be nice to have the possibility to choose how many items we can pick from the lp store . right now there is only one button \"accept\" , and it doesn`t make too much sense , since when you purchase r&d points it gives you the options to buy as many datacores as you want with a single click , instead of making hundreds of clicks , same with the market ... you want 10000 rockets , you can buy them with a single click !it does make sense , no ? today i wanted to buy some bulk ammo for my corp , pressed accept/ok , accept/ok several times , and because of lag i received in inventory some implants , a skill book , and only 3 ammo packs , i spent 130k lp without wanting to ... this could be easely avoided if you make a dialog window as the one that exist on market or on r&d agents ...please take this proposal into consideration , best regards"
"it has been recently talked about a lot that the jump bridges in game need to be changed. this person"
"seems reasonable. low sec shouldn't get bridges though. take them off the poss, make them independent, let people reinforce them. these are good ideas."
"this would definitely help small scale pvp a lot.however, the article does not address another major issue of jump bridges: they make space too small. they are able to cut down travel time significantly, which i don't think is such a good thing. i want eve galaxy to feel big, and that is done by controlling number of systems people have to pass on the way from any point a to point b.big galaxy means more room for people to play war."
"can you give me a valid reason why a tackle frigate wouldn't fit a cap battery? better cap stability than now and total neut immunity at any range is unbelievably powerful. battleships - which are already pretty well useless - will have utterly no recourse against frigates. none, at all.great game balance you're wanting there. -liang"
"but it is balance. everything has a counter. now take a look at the tackling frigates:micro capacitor battery ii - 5 mw, 25 tf, 53 gjmalediction - 3 mids. 135 tfraptor - 3 mids. 150 tfares - 3 mids. 150 tfstiletto - 4 mids. 150 tfnow, which of these will be the overpowered fotm neutproof tackler? which of these would even need a cap battery?"
"it is not balance. battleships quite literally have no counter to tackle frigates. as to which tackle inty i'd fit it on: all of them. mwd, cap battery, disruptor. fwiw, a cap battery would make exceptionally sweet love on a malediction. <3 <3 <3 <3also: none of them need it. its just that they become literally uncounterable.-liang"
"battleships need a more proactive means to deal with smaller ships, something i've suggested before."
"drones are. i am primarily a bs pilot and i am not complaining. yeah, huge fitting requirements and the fact that it costs a slot."
"wholeheartedly supported!that way the curse can become the new pilgrim, and the joke of the piece of **** that is the pilgrim can be taken out of game by ccp.and next week we can quadruple the sensor strength of all ships who fit eccm so we can lol at the caldari recons and have them being rendered obsolete?"
"as far as battleship counters to frigs go, my experience is this:small ecm drones are pretty effective at jamming frigates.small combat drones are effective under 10km orbits.if we are considering 20 km frig orbits around a battleship with heavy neut, then i'd argue that small cap injector would offer exactly same type of immunity as a battery. because the cycle time for large neut is 24 seconds and battleships rarely carry more than 2 of those.it is true, however, that battleships have great difficulty when dealing with frigates. i believe that was intended by design. i'm in favor of boosting battleships in other ways, tho"
"val, please clarify why you think cap boosters aren't the effective counter to neuts. your logic seems really flawed.cap booster = semi-instant injection (short term cap regen, limited by boosters)neutralizers = semi-instant cap negation (short term cap null, limited by recharge/high energy usage)batteries/cap recharger - cap stability (more cap/long-term stable cap)nosferatu - long-term cap succor (limited by enemy's cap recharge rate)what you're purposing (if i'm reading it right) is that x amount of cap from the battery would be entirely immune to cap effects. nos works based off of the cap recharge percentage rate of the targeted ship. if a ship has x amount of constant unaffectable cap and a natural recharge rate to keep any modules it has activated at minimum 1%, that ship could effectively perma-run all modules. the effective positives for the nosing ship would be negligible; the nos offers only a minimal cap recharge rate and does nothing if the targeted ship's capacitor recharge rate is less than that of the ship using the nos.the point of neut is to cause cap failure on the opposing ship, thus turning off their modules \"politely\" for them. cap boosters are the effective counter to this as they provide short-term boosts to keep modules running long enough to \"do the dirty deed,\" or at least hold the target until more tackle arrives. a tackled ship with either nos or a neut, with your changes, has no chance to shake tackle unless they it ecm or can dps the tackle off before more tackle can arrive, which would be nigh impossible in most scenarios unless the enemy tackler was pants-stupid."
"i can address that, since i also have lots of experience in this area.the main issue is this: multiple neut stacking nullifies effect of cap booster. when fighting 1 on 1 or 1 on 2, a cap booster is enough. but when fighting against a hostile gang, with 4+ medium/heavy neuts, you simply won't notice any effect from your cap booster. the injected cap disappears as soon as you activate it. thus, the cap injector is completely useless in some situations. 1 curse with 4x neuts that are activated out of sync with each other will have same effect - even against heavy cap injector.i would personally choose to fit cap battery when i know my opponent will be neut-heavy. or when i plan to engage hostiles that outnumber me more than 4:1.for most other situations, i'd still prefer cap injector."
"if cap immunity is such a big deal, how about resistance instead? i'd even dare to suggest it take a high slot, because i'd rather active tank than run around in lame buffer fits like everyone else"
"as i said before, ships that fit cap boosters, fit cap boosters because they need them to run the ship. take the abaddon for example, even in brick mode, the guns will cap out the ship before any serious battle is over. so you fit a cap injector. in fact all ships that need cap to fire their weapons have this issue ultimately. ships with primarily active tanks such as the cyclone or the maelstrom also have to fit cap injectors to be able to sustain the tank.have you ever run across a drake with a cap injector? probably not, because they typically don't need that much cap to perform anyway.there is a major inconsistency in the way cap warfare is handled. ships that need cap for weapons have no recourse but to fill already sparse mid slots with cap injectors, but there is no similar danger experienced with droneboats, projectile ships, or missileers. usually those ships also have extra utility hi slots to fit cap attack modules, which even further increases the disparity.immune to energy neutralizers, not nosferatu.nos works based off the relative health of the capacitors of the two ships involved. if you fit nosferatu on a ship that caps out easily, then you will almost always benefit from nossing a drake for example.demonstrate this please. even with this change most of the ships that need something like this will still ultimately cap out. and those ships will have to fit a cap injector (they need to fit one regardless) in addition to this newly useful cap battery making their mid slots even harder to spare for tackle.recharge rate has nothing to do with it. higher capacitor percentage gets nossed, lower doesn't. if i am nossing your drake and you have 96% of your capacitor, but i'm flying a harbinger and only have 45% of mine, my nos is fully effective. nos is a great module to fit, but you have to understand how it works. it isn't the brainless module it used to be.of course. you fit a neut, so you should be able to make good use of it.what about in the context of bs vs bs pvp? sofar the only argument the opposition has supplied is that frigates will be harder to kill than before, which i don't necessarily agree with. the exact same ships that would be 'overpowered' with this change are just as effective now using small nos.nos would not be affected at all. only neuts aka effortless paralytics. do i use neuts? yes, would this change nerf some things i do? yes.700 cap protected at the bs level is a big deal when being neuted, but it will still require skill to manage."
"i'm not opposed to moving cap batteries to hi slot. forces you to choose between damage, nos/neut, and cap protection."
"this would be an enormous boost to interceptors and drams. if the pilot isn't dumb and hasn't made a mistake, you have to neut them to kill them. if you can't completely drain their cap with a hit from neuts... they can just run away."
"so? what do you lose other than a killmail? which the assembly hall has affirmed is not the reason people pvp."
"only battleships and amarr recons can have neuts over 20km. and how often do you see battleships in pvp nowadays? in fleet battles, dictors do the tackle.it can't be an enormous boost, unless majority of pvp was done with battleships and amarr recons."
"right now there is a lot of csm communication that goes on 'behind closed doors' so to speak, when it happens in e-mail exchanges and internal csm forums. currently there is no mechanism to 'declassify' any csm communications, aside from meeting minutes that happen during the iceland summits only.since the subject matter communicated between csm and ccp end up public knowledge within a few months, then the private communications that happened should be declassified within a few months too.this proposal is retroactive for all past csm 5 communications(the csm1-4 internal forums have almost zero ccp input so i'm not going to try to debate releasing someone else's communications), and the only parts of it that should be censored are materials that remain nda, personal information(such as telephone numbers). no other alterations should be allowed.the purpose for the proposal is to have more csm accountability and give the public insight into the process that happens between the csm and ccp- this can help future csms be more effective in their position, and also give accountability for individual csm members which is currently lacking- as very few things in the minutes are attributed to individuals.as for the mechanics of how it works, i think the csm is going to have to work closely with someone in ccp who has the ability to edit the forums, and need to get the individual devs that made the posts on the csm forums to sign off on \"ok this can be published\" otherwise the post will need to be labeled as nda."
"also this includes relevant e-mail communications, and whoever undertakes this huge work needs credit where credit is due."
"supported.if this proposal isn't accepted i expect you to be the deep throat of the csm mazz."
"pl needs its forum ****i would be a bad csm if i denied them."
"yes please"
"\"0.0 will be all mine\" changed to \"csm will be all mine\"?well hate to say it but numbers control the voting so expect mittani aka molle's ***** to control all of csm too <sigh>im just glad he missed out whs, for a sec there i thought his insecurities would affect whsso what other games are they to play atm or shall i just continue to concentrate on rl and return to eve in 5 years when maybe things arent so ******ed."
"just wow."
"csm was a bad idea from the beginning. told you so."
"the amount of misplaced smug that always comes from him is cringe-inducing. just because you were able to fellate your way to meta-gaming god-hood doesn't make you any less terrible at the actual game."
"sounds like you're pretty mad, bro."
"people still use this?"
"oh, no! alliances are picking their own candidates and voting as a bloc! this is unprecedented in the history of the csm!i demand that all csm members who achieved their office through organized alliance-wide voting be immediately forced to step down! sorry, um, nearly every person on the csm, the people have spoken. political parties in my eve aren't cool."
"i thaugt the obj when you present candidates is to vote for you oponent... makes sens no? double"
"you say 'become' like 0.0 isn't already populated by carebears."
"clearly decisions about 0.0 sovereignty are best left to highsec nobodies and roaming npc-space wulfpaxxers."
"if it does come down to this, it is indeed time for csm to go."
"i wonder what wow is like."
"vovcsm hasn't represented the 0.0 playerbase and now we're getting involved. as evidenced by a recent draconian smoking ban in my current city of residence, democracy doesn't always work the way you want it to."
"should be easy enough to require candidates to write which bloc they are in/represent and restrict them to 1 per bloc.benefit is that we get a far greater diversity on the panel. null carebears have no clue as to what goes on in low/high and vice-versa so having an actual \"democracy\" is counter productive."
"t,fifyso, counterproductive to you, but you're provably a jerk so we don't really care what you think :)also, stuff goes on in lowsec?"
"thanks for proving our (collective) point."
"does that even count as language i swear, humanity is getting dumber by the second."
"lol? o.o tears?"
"having mittens as csm would be fantastic and hilarious."
"that you're all jerks? you're welcome. :)good to see we have you in the vanguard."
"clearly eve is all about 0.0 naping, number warfare and rmt, everything else is worthless :phaving nc in control of the csm is like having ankh in control of the csm, in the end nc are no different than mission running carebears"
"but i though dt was a major 0.0 sov holding allia-ohwait [/troll]also, if you're not familiar with mancur olson, read the rise and decline of nations and you too shall see the light"
"it seems part of his ceo update was cut off. did he give any other information about what game changes he would push for if he was on csm? (beside keeping jump bridges)or is the entire platform to be \"you are a null sec lemming in my alliance, therefore you will vote as you are told!\""
"i believe local should be nuked utterly, but failing that:instead of a leaving the ordering alphabetical, why not base it on when you entered the channel?current local:alpha dawgbait brickbooster brocloaker altdrake pilot 001drake pilot 002drake pilot 003...drake pilot 579drake pilot 580fleet commandergeorge wtf bushlogistics altnyx hotdropperminer bot 001...miner bot 969obama barack (lol, not at the top!)profit!revelation stalwartsecondary targetsurprise ihas leviathonskillbookthat guyou hatethis isnottheplayer youizscrollingfornew local:jumbled blobby mess.basically the natives would stand out more near the top, while the 'traffic' would only show up near the bottom. to get to the top, you would have to remain in local after anyone that was in it when you entered. so roamers get a little buff, bots/static players get a little nerf, and players whose names begin with a... well they don't have to fly bait ships anymore."
"roamers do not need it easier with their local chat while their targets get it harder. that said, this would achieve exactly the opposite. the great advantage of 0.0 wastelands is that it is easy to see if a red arrives, you would almost think ccp prefers that above populated 0.0. anyway with this change i could when carebearing in a busy system easily keep local chat completely scrolled down, so i only have to look if newly arrived is blue or red, instead having to scroll through the entire list continiously."
"well, since removing immediate mode from local causes so much carebear rage, there has to be a way to change it from being so overpowered to being reasonable. so how do you propose to fix local?"
"1. make a 10 times better directional scanner. one which is not a worse clickfest than pi ever was, the directional scanner has to take over alot of the intel that local provided: if you dont do that it will just cause exodus 3.0 to empire leaving you with fewer targets, and the only ones profiting from that are macros. i kinda like the submarine idea (since we are playing subs in space anyway), with active and passive mode, where active gives far more intel but also gives away far more intel (and should not be usuable inside pos shields, also giving standard 1 minute docking timer when using it doesnt seem unreasonable to me).2. all npcs -> sleeper ai (or similar, doesnt necesarily mean they should nuke all your drones) + more towards omni tank + omni dps (doesnt need to be 25/25/25/25, but for example for sanshas 35/35/15/15), and then balanced such that from pve pov it does not become significantly harder. why? simple to make the dynamic between pve'er and pvp'er based on more than the current situation, which pretty much ends up to: if tackled, you die, if not tackled, you survive. sure there are some differences, especially (super) caps have enough time when tackled while pve'ing for backup to arrive, or when you get lucky with ecm drones (really together with warpstabs they are by far best pirate tear factories in eve), but in general it is just when tackled in pve ship you die.the result with sleeper ai is that you can actually get a fight from it, instead of a completely one-sided gank. example: handfull of times i have done c3 wormholes in my brick drake (with sleepers now neuting i think that is pretty much over). once i saw a tengu on scan, even though due to range issues i couldnt stay perma alligned i decided to continue my carebearing, since at least i knew it wouldnt be that trivial for the tengu to kill me with sleepers. in normal space i would either be perma alligned out or if not possible i would have warped out, not a chance in hell i would stay unalligned. as murphy decides, the tengu arrived exactly when i wasnt alligned, and i couldnt warp in time, so the fight was on, and since the sleepers decided a tengu was nicer km than my drake in the end the tengu had to warp off (in hull, one more volley and he would have been down).some time later same situation, except this time i didnt even plan to run but just decided to fight the tengu when he would arrive. no one with active brain cells would ever do this in normal space. even though i was in a brick drake without propulsion mods, about worst ship to be in if you want a fun pvp fight, the fight was still quite fun to have. both were permatanking each other until i hit a sleeper trigger to get more npcs on the field, forced tengu to warp off in hull exactly when his buddy in a raven appeared and i considered i had enough fun for a while, so warped out. this is quite a wall of text i realise, but the tl;dr is: with better ai pvp ship vs pve ship becomes more than completely one sided gank, which means pve ships dont need to run for safety the moment an enemy appears within 5 jumps.3. now we have done this, local chat can be nuked from orbit.pfew i c/p'd (copy paste, not that other meaning pervert) this since forums decided to eat it instead of posting it."
"last time i suggested improvements to things that would make removing local less painful, people slammed me for putting it all together in one topic.you can't win. you either post small changes that nobody will agree with due to needing other changes to make it work or post a compilation of changes designed to work together and have people slam you for not posting them separately.so which is it? do people want real solutions or not? i've even had people slam an idea simply because i posted it.things like that remind me why i'm glad the csm has no real say in anything ccp decides to do.but i can't help it. i get ideas, good ones. and i'm not selfish enough to not share them./shrug"
"this man is talking busyness. that is it."
"having a wall of ideas doesn't suffice, you need them to be good ideas.why not have options to sort local? that would make sense and i'd be behind itatm there is no way to remove local. and from the alternate suggestions, local still looks like the best solution."
"that is misleading, because it is patently false.local can be nerfed next downtime. but the carebears of eve (usually don't understand how it also helps them to nerf local) will revolt and cause a instanerf level of forum trolling.is there any valid defense for keeping local? no. but ccp isn't stupid, they know that the playerbase needs their fix, and won't accept cold turkey without a major change in subscription revenue."
"and you wonder why you don't get any traction? you post patently biased stuff that doesn't correlate to reality and merely sings to the choir.no reason to keep local? you will see plenty in this forum. do your research."
"i didn't say there was no reason to keep local, i said there was no valid defense of keeping local.local is an absolute in a game that should have none."
"ok, let's take a look at this option. suppose we introduce denser versions of ore in nullsec. where would it be placed? put it in belts and you have massive boost to macro mining profitability - big no. put it in gravimetric sites and we have two scenarios. if there is enough miners in nullsec to fill in the demand of the local market, gravimeric sites would be occupied right after the downtime (just like signatures are now). if you don't have enough miners to queue up all gravimetric sites, then you don't have enough resources extracted to keep the local market healthy.that's exactly i've explicitly said \"but i leave that to you.\" about the power projection. separating industrial supply routes from combat routes opens much space for experimenting with combat power projection. that's the whole point of this proposal - make changes so that localized production in nullsec can happen even if you go as far as removing combat jump bridges from the game.like, i've said. this is about indy side of things and the current connection between industrial and combat routes that should be separated in order to have localized production. moon goo is another problem and is out of the scope for this proposal. what i'm suggesting is just a ground stone to a larger set of changes that can be implemented later, including modifications to moon goo production process.increasing the number of slots in stations involves corporate bureaucracy that can be very complicated or not possible at all in some cases. the cost of amarr advanced outpost factory is 3.6 bil, requires a freighter hauling op and a green light from ceo or some director of the corporation that owns the station. in some corporations this is simply not going to happen (monopolized production, dictatorship, even not enough isk for an investment like that in smaller alliances... i know several corporation ceos that wouldn't give a green light for something like that). besides, some alliances are not lucky enough to own an amarr factory outpost. the only way to seed nullsec market with locally produced stuff is to give the initiative to simple members to contribute while avoiding corporate bureaucracy, adding personal effort and personal investment.if we really want to go far with expanding this idea, how about an ability to anchor one industrial jump bridge in lowsec that can only be connected to one in 0.0 space? constantly camped nullsec entry points would not be a supply route \"firewall\" that can not be passed while at the same time we are spreading pvp through wider lowsec area and making lowsec a little more interesting."
"those industrial jb will only be used to bring in supply's from high sec not to bring in low end mineralsthe reason for this is mainly that minerals are bigger then the finished modules and that most fit's in 0.0 are t2 fittedthe only way to increase 0.0 production is to cut the supply line from high sec completelya boost to low end ore in 0.0 might be a good idea but only in grav sitesthere are no problems with lack of roids once you have a system with an industrial upgrade as that gives you a small grav site at all timesif you clear that small site it will respawn within 5 min so there are more roids then you can dream of :) btw i am an industrial player in 0.0atm i mainly bring in stuff from high sec (mainly t2 mod's)and for productiona large pos can hold a lot of assembly arrays with a lot of production slotseve is an mmo so work with your corp to get a production pos up and you have all the slots you want"
"low-ends can be gotten through reproc, mining and loot. you can up the frequency of the npc hauler spawns, increase base yields of roids, add roids to places like sanctums, tweak loot tables etc. plus the requirements can tweaked on bpo level and i am guessing on a production line level, imagine if the null facilities had a more granular material modifier that eased the low-end requirement.not doing something out of fear of the bots is silly, they'll latch onto anything with a bottom-line and are currently present on the market, in pi, in belts, in missions, in sanctums, in .... you get the idea.sooner or later ccp will come up with a plan that taps into the community and alienates the bot handlers, witch hunts can be quite effective if directed but there will always be bots so we shouldn't be yielding game improvement options due to them.since we are already talking a major overhaul then why not update stations to 2010 as well? the individual racial flavours would still be there on the basic level, but why can't a large production annex be slapped onto a matari station?prices can also be adjusted, hell you can take your array idea, make is even beefier and add an external target to shoot so insurgents can shut down extra manufacturing temporarily.if you haven't familiarized yourself with the dead horse yet then i can only recommend it. a similar modular system would be downright awesome for outposts (pos are secondary now)you are still clinging to the unbilical, time to let mother dearest have her life back. as long as the majority of manufacture can be done locally you don't need high-sec for anything but rarities. instead of moving 100 freighters with items and low-ends you move 2-3 jf's with bottleneck materials for t2/t3 production .. trick is to make null self-sufficient if they put in the :effort: and trade them vulnerable supply lines if they refuse to work for a living .. seems a fair trade, no?"
"that's a strange line of thinking. are 0.0 alliances more likely to use bots than to import miners from empire? is warrior only kind of \"workforce\" that should be required in 0.0? in that case, why not remove all economy except isk for npc built ships and modules? or, redesign mining to be more interactive and require 0.0 to be built on local-resource self-sufficiency. it only depends on what kind of game eve is supposed to be.besides, with removal of jump bridges and buff of local production, any profitability of bulk materials would be local. sure, you could mine lots of trit, but you wouldn't move it. you would use it locally. only reason why trit is moved now is cost effectiveness. it's cheaper to haul it across the eve cluster than mine it locally."
"yes.timecards aside, you don't have to do anything to compensate your own botting alt."
"drop that. you don't need to make producing in 0.0 even less competitive compared to empire. you could even go for a reduced production time bonus instead.separate industrial jump bridge networks is silly, honestly.the proposal is well intended, but i don't see it achieving the stated goals, so can't support it.increasing ore/mineral availability is not a buff, but a nerf, because their value drops with increased supply (not mentioning worse volume/isk ratio is bad for logistics). for reference, check what happened to hi ends after dominion.if you want to buff 0.0 mining by increasing output, you have to reduce the output from other sources to at least balance out the overall supply."
"or.... make jita 4-4 cnap an amarr station."
"lol, problem of overpopulation in jita solved =lol"
"the amarr stations give me flashbacks of being father o'malley's altar boy. not happy times. its why i avoid amarr space completely, please let me shut off the creepy kid-touching music!"
"afaik currently the only things that use defenders are rats, remove the almost pointless things from the game. due to the processing time missiles take i would have thought we would gain something from that then grouped missiles can be treated as 1 entity rather than, how many missiles you have grouped, reducing further load. the theory being that missiles don't need to be individual if one of them can't get hexploded by a defender. smart bombs would blow the whole lot up anyway as they where all launched at the exact same moment so they should all be in smart bomb range or not.also if not already all other weapons should be treated as 1 entity further reducing the load. so no real reason why this shouldn't happen, but as always i am open to discussion not trolls. this won't effect anyone greatly but should improve performance across the whole of eve in theory anyway..while we are it remove all ewar (except tackle) from standard belt rats it serves only to annoy not deter, making it pointless."
"making ratting easier is not the answer. ewar is fine...if anything it needs to be improved upon. maybe just make it so rats follow the same rules as players and can't ewar from 150km like they can right now. as for defender missiles...who cares. nobody uses them at all...i seriously doubt that their existence is an issue at all. grouped missiles are already treated as one entity in space. you would know this if you read the dev blogs. being a missile junkie myself i would like to see missile load on the server be reduced...removing defender missiles will not do that. although in the years i have played i have never once fired a defender missile."
"ok, but removing the defenders would stop the thousands of npc's from firing thousands of them, and as i said npc belt rats ewar except tackle is pointless and irritating.."
"ok, the fact that alot of npcs use defenders and that mitigates missile spamming ships' dps. if you remove defenders from the picture then caldari missile boats will practically be the only option for any pve combat do too the fact that they have no falloff or optimal range.turret based systems are good but missiles already outperform in many areas in pve, this mainly due to the fact of the long range of missiles and that they always hit. missiles do not need this buff in pve keep defenders on npc's, take them out as an option for players, and adapt the new ai to all pve content, it will actually lengthen the time it takes to start soloing lvl 4's and encourage teamwork (maybe even have the side effect of making it impossible to solo 4's in a drake).put all standard ewar (webs & scrams, plus the ewar type for the race) on the pve ships with the new ai, see how much pve content changes, and then i would say feel free to remove defenders.tl;dr buff npc's add ewar and new ai to all npc factions"
"supported."
"supported.eve is too unforgiving a game to be casualized down for the younger crowd."
"supported."
"i am not asking for naked boobs, but gimme a fking minishirt!"
"supported as uzi's clash with t-shirts."
"first i would like to state that i don't intend this thread to argue the merits/faults of the new ecu pi system. what i'm hoping to get is vote support and perhaps draw some attention to ccps lack of community response to questions myself and others are having with the new pi system.questions like:is deletion working as intended?are the ecu's working as intended?are you currently looking into or troubleshooting any issues regarding this topic?personally, i'm not having issues with the new pi system, but i have read some very detailed topic's of people expressing rational concern and only wanted an answer from ccp. some have submitted bug reports and support tickets without response. i think the lack of response has served to escalate an issue that could have been prevented with pro-active interaction from ccp with either the csm and/or the community. i am disappointed in the lack of response from ccp.it is my hope that support of this thread will help the community get a response from ccp, either by the volition or by prompting from the csm. while i find this may be a long shot as most gambles like this on the forums are, \"you miss every ball you don't swing at\"(baseball reference)cheers!"
"instead you should demand that ccp stop wasting your time in-game in unneeded travel times, by reducing the distances between all gates by half"
"just tweak the warp speeds so you get at your max warp faster and decelerate from warp faster."
"as a truck driver is rl, yes, the route can get boring and repetitive at times, but you still have to be at the wheel, and have to pay attention.not supported. we need proposals to decrease afk players, not increase."
"increase autopilot warp-to range to 20km. that'll sort the sheep from the goats.as for ganking freighters who are wtz - all freighters still take a very long time (is it about 35-40 seconds?) to align, during which the wtz pilots are just as gankable as the ap zombies."
"ok im sure anyone here who pops into the \"test server feeback\" section of the forums will no doubt notice that 90% of the threads in that section is of course not feedback but one of either two things, either \"ban request\". probably by far the most common thread name in that section to date.or \"cannot connect to server/(insert currant most popular connection error message here)\" happens alot even though there are many thread duplicates of the exact same problem which are even in the thread titles.i am essentialy proposing removing the test server feedback section from the eve technology and research center and giving it its own section with 3 subsections including : feedback, ban requests and test server connection issues.its a simple change which i hope could come in with the new forums we are supposed to be getting soon ( hopefully with working search bar that searches the forum and not the entire internet)"
"yes i wish we did have more forum for the test server..."
"why the heck do we keep settling for less. i had these icons and it helped me to see clearly how many people were on the overview, now from the diving decision making process handled without anyones permission, they're suddenly gone and only appy to the personal contact list. no doubt something \"team gridlock\" came up with to remove strain from the server. we must bow to performance, bow, everyone bow. can i please have my game back as i one played it? please?"
"rather counter intuitive, i'd suggest you simply don't bring your bpos to null at all, a more simple solution. and putting such basic things as core industry into the volitile environment of giant nullsec blobs can do nothing more then hurt the market and put even more power into even bigger nullsec blobs, which ccp is actually attemtping to avoid.yaaay all around. except for those in nullsec manufacturing i guess."
"this. if you use the 'stop' command at any point between 'dock' and being accepted to dock, the docking is canceled, even if used while in warp."
"i'll rephrase myself for you.1: an adjustment to already existant mechanics, can be tuned however ccp feels the crap like, it doesn't actually change anything, thus i don't particularly care either way.2: if people want to do something in the stupidest way possible, they're allowed to, its their problem not yours. if you manage to be 'harmed' by this its your problem, not theirs. and i rather think ccp made it pretty transparently obvious they wanted at least a specific amount of people to work together for incursions, they even made it so there's no reason to not bring more within the allotted amount. if you want to go leet-pro and feel special doing an incursion site with less then the recommended, which is just as 'bad' as overkilling it with a giant blob just harder, you can, and get paid less.3: this sounds about as intelligent as \"we should get increased rat bounties when fleeting with corp/alliance!\" if you want to farm incursions, fine, i encourage you to. if you want to get paid more then others because you're farming incursions, go die in a fire.4: see point 1.5: if you can't see how this makes no difference at all, is easily bypassed, and in fact encourages the blobing you hate so much...6: see point 1.my indifference to the adjustment of details doesn't make the other bad ideas any better."
"no one replied in 2 weeks, i guess i could elabroate:any decent pilot has a skill plan, and it generaly involves training skills that are affected by 2 attributes for a few months at a time, so instead of leaving the other 3 implant slots empty, create skill hardiwirings that will fill these first 5 slots, pvp hardwirings prefferably"
"no"
"the disable engine button is more so to stop drifting, sentry drone users would appreciate it this the most, but not drifting in any situation would be nice."
"when ccp stated they may remove jump bridges from 0.0 to encourage pvp and activity, you would expect people to be happy, but you cant please everyone.with simple changes such as jump bridge removal or supercap changes, high ranking dictators of a certain coalition have made it their ambition now to control all seats in the csm.now normally i would post this in caod, but considering how csm elections affect everyone and the plan is to \"punish non sov holding alliance, including lowsec pirates and empire\" i figured i would post it here.all this because jump bridges might get removed \"in this election, there will be no 'democracy'.\""
"edit: ok, so i see evelopedia is not up to date. ignore this!where would one get the new csm rules or whatever they are called? can't find a neat up-to-date .pdf anywhere.while we're at it.. why is vuk lau on his third term right now? to quote evelopedia here"
"jump bridges won't get removed. they are population enablers, flat out removing them is not good for the effective niche. once ccp realises that, and i am pretty sure they already have in their discussions with the csm 5, they will look at factors and variables related to what is commonly referred to as \"f*ck jumpbridges omg wtf do not touch\".it's a topic of projection of force. and that is pretty much the scope of it. nothing more.as for \"control\" over the csm. heh. there is no social engineering ccp as long as there is transparancy at ccp and from the csm towards players. when transparancy is absent, you see special interests.ccp does what it wants either way. no matter how cool a csm member can be with them, or how \"brosefs\" or \"awesome\". the only way to influence ccp's decisions through providing them with well argumented, metrics founded and properly communicated actions with accountability, is to really treat it as a job. in that way csm is no different from playing eve, some would say :pso yes, there will be two goon candidates, one or two candidates from morsus mihi, there will be one or two candidates from russian backgrounds, so what. either way, this is really a topic for jit park, and not something to throw around elsewhere, as it is a csm topic. evelopedia is not up to date, often. ccp changed the term length, and removed the term limit, for csm 5 and onwards."
"perhaps only consecutive counts.or he sold his char to his brother or something and it isn't the same person anymore officially ;)"
"no, when people apply they have to also provide personal info such as their name. i'm sure ccp would let their userbase know that the character running for election that had a previous post isn't the same person anymore, for the sake of those that voted for the other person previously."
"if the csm actually mattered, i might be concerned.still, having said that, most of the leadership of the nc are whiny, self-entitled egotists, and the south are no better. player-owned nullsec has just turned people into elitist ****ers who think that \"their way\" is better than everyone else's, and anyone wanting to do anything else is a \"pubbie\" or \"carebear\" or whatever derogatory term is flavour of the month now.mittens can do whatever the hell he likes (kinda of the point i'm trying to make here tbh), but if you start forcing your gameplay onto others then you're straying into the bounds of \"delusions of grandeur\", and it might be time to step back and think about what you're doing for a while."
"incursions nerfed jump bridges.plus most 0.0 alliance leaders are hated by the majority non 0.0 eve."
"ccp already know the jump bridges are bad for pvp.it doesn't matter what csm think"
"wts my vote."
"players as a whole never have the welfare of the entire game in mind, which is why the csm can only ever be advisory."
"this tbh"
"the issues that are brought to csm and actually supported are not law.ccp will notice this, and nothing dramatic would actually happen if one party controlled all of the council.this is an ego-maniac's fantasy. nothing more."
"csm is currently only used as a think-tank to prioritise a shortlist of minor updates designed to placate angry subscribers while ccp work on other games.it will be many years before ccp look to the csm for actual game ideas or fix any of the issues the csm has been bumping for years now."
"they gotta secure their rmt income somehow, you know."
"moved from 'eve general discussion'."
"hahahahaha props for beating me in making that char. i am ****ing lazy lately."
"i fail to see any problem with 0.0 ...."
"you must be blind mate...also, hi marlona."
"some of my corpmates have been talking about pi being worse now... but, i disagree. i tried pi before, and quit--the clickfest was too much to even care about how much was being produced. now, though, i actually have restarted my pi stuff and have expanded. 1) thing to notice on the new system is links are not instant, you have to upgrade links to move not just more m3, but more m3 per hour. the new time interval has made me have to make adjustments in how i manage and upgrade them. 2) i too have had to put less refineries on mining planets, but this just makes the importance of dedicated production planets more critical. people who don't specilize what colonies are doing are going to cause unavoidable bottlenecks resulting in less production. 3) consider that the new limitations might be somewhat intended to get people to actually lvl5 some of their pi skills to get more advantage. before the new system i wasn't planning on lvl'5ing any of them, but with the new system i just might. i personally don't want pi to be mindless, if it's mindless and easy everyone is going to do it and none of the products will be of value. the new system i think is a step in the right direction, and i expect future updates to make pi more engaging and entertaining and profitable. (accomplishing that doesn't necessarily mandate more production... as the most plentiful resource in eve is veldspar, and mining it is probably the least fun and profitable thing you can do in eve.)"
"i've also had to rejigger my pi networks since the change, and clearly some things are easier and some things are more difficult, but i don't necessarily think this is a bad idea. for the stuff i was doing, i personally like the new pi better.pi 1.0 front-loaded all the thinking; once you had your colony designed and set up, it was all mindless clicking. pi 1.1 moves some of the thinking into the day-to-day operations, and also makes colony/ecu positioning more challenging (because of depletion, and the ability to extract more than one resource with an ecu).in one of the industry threads, there's a mention of the 80/20 rule, and pi 1.1 seems to be a step towards that. it is obviously going to be disruptive to some established ways of doing things.if you feel that the changes are too disruptive, and need some tweaking, then by all means raise a proposal in ah so it can be debated and possibly addressed by the csm. a good starting point might be taking the current planetary interaction omnibus proposal and reworking it to bring it in line with pi 1.1"
"one way that this could be achieved with for example station services is giving them a very low hp amount but decent resists - somewhere along the lines of 90 - 95%, but only 5-10.000 or so hp. this means that a very small gang can incap them, but also that a single logistics pilot will be able to rep it back up in a matter of minutes. this would mean that even very small gangs would have a way of disrupting the enemies home base, luring them out to defend themselves and or repair the damage, but bringing a much larger gang would have no real advantage other than the fact that they probably would not come out as easy. it would also mean that if they do bring a large gang and kill everything, they would probably get bored and leave without a response, enabling even a handful of players to quickly repair the damage."
"to me this sounds like the same situation with fleet shield boosts after fleet jumping to a new system. your max shields go up but your current stays the same. its more ccp is afraid to fix this for fear of opening up an exploit due to gate jumping. too lazy to fix the issue with real code, so working as intended even though the mechanic is obviously broken.. ccp, htfu and fix the issues instead of dodging the issues?dl"
"whoever would have thought that a panel made up largely of clueless nobodies would fail to produce anything of value.can't wait for the next csm where the wannabes get kicked out and people from 0.0 who know how eve works are calling the shots."
"you forget eve isnt about 0.0 only and you delude yourself in believing having csm 100% nc will change anything, considering your strategy in game is to make everything safe, i would say having a 100% nc panel is like having a 100% ankh panel.besides mittani rejects any opinion (even elvenlord's) that goes against his, i cant wait to hear what he wants changing in 0.0, already he has briefly mentioned that he wants 0.0 to be safer, he wants jump bridges to be buffed and wants to punish non sov holding alliances careless of where or what they do."
"soup-ported! (enjoy your lunches everyone )"
"/signed"
"realistic police is fine. if concord was realistic, they'd pod suicide gankers and blockade clones in stations until they undergo trial / pay a fine for damage caused :dlosing insurance for concordonken make sense. it doesn't make ganking impossible, it just make it more expensive."
"first, it's about time warping gets an upgrade. we all spend a fair chunk of our time in warp so make it feel and look good! give it a pace that is worth the many hundred times the speed of light we attain. we fly stupidly fast, it's got to be mind blowing cool. a web is meant to slow a ship down, right? yet some people appear concerned about loosing the ability of using them to make things go faster... to me, it's just... wat?"
"i think all the changes are good. maybe have a sound coming from ships charging there warp drives to a bit like destiny in sgu."
"no."
"nohonestly when i think of microtransactions i think of bad games, and eve is not that. please don't cheapen eve with them. it will hurt my soul."
"yes for cosmetics. tbh idc."
"support."
"completely supported. i have been waiting for quite some time."
"supported."
"the problem with the \"because of market\" schtick is that it can only be used if all other things are equal, which they are demonstratively not .. angel lp is considerably easier to get by and thus supply is not 'limited' as much as the alternatives.regardless, price is not balance, never will be and never should be.my initial assessment still stands: reduce fittings to a point where tank+dual prop becomes impossible without sever gimpage and it is balanced."
"what about rasing other faction frigs to the level of the dramiel instead of nerfing this one?"
"all the others are actually pretty well balanced within the class and against destroyers.if everything were brought on par with the dramiel the entire class (20+ hulls) would need to be looked at."
"if you would even consider forgoing a 20% hybrid bonus to opt for projectiles there is something majorly wrong with hybrids.the balance point should be that the weapons would be a toss-up without bonuses and the bonus should make their use a no-brainer.perfection might not be possible but thats a pretty broad target where improvement should be pretty easy...."
"yeah, it's pretty hard to miss the target for improvement here."
"the proteus's wake limiter subsystem should have its bonus increased to 10% per level if not 15% as it is not really useful right nowthe gravitational capacitor wap speed bonus of the tengu and the proteus should be increased to 40% per level to make a difference in combat"
"whoa, optimist spotted! still supporting this, despite i expect absolutely nothing to come out of it. not for at least ~18 months~. i mean, there was a faint light at the horizon, ccp did revamp rockets after how many years...?"
"can i get a fuel catalyst for my proteus? :("
"diz thread, it needzes suppawrt. ^^"
"i share your sentiments, yet, it wouldn't hurt to just check the support box."
"some subsystems are treated like stepchildren... give em e reason to live!supported"
"some of the subsystems are unfairly forgotten.supported."
"supporting this, while other stuff needs attention as well, these proposals are fair for the most part."
"i support this!(since they don't have a thumbs-up icon..."
"hellz to the yeahz"
"god forbid t3s be as good as t2 ships."
"to the top again. i realise this isn't a glamorous change, but so far almost unanimous support."
"i propose that with the launch of incarna, ccp make use of a semi-open source format to allow players to create new clothing and station items.the system would work something like this:ccp publishes the base design specs for clothing and station items, and the acceptable format for submissions.players create clothing and station items and submit them in the approved format to ccp.ccp vets the design to insure that it is consistent with the overall aesthetic of eve. this could be done through a panel of developers, designers, and artists.items accepted into the program become the intellectual property of ccp.the player is provided with a blueprint of the item which could then be manufactured and sold in game.advantages of this system:1. allows for a much larger variety of in-game vanity items.2. allows players to directly contribute to the atmosphere of the game in a way that does not unbalance game play.3. frees up ccp staff to develop the game rather than spending time on minutiae.4. designs are turn key, implementation costs are near zero.disadvantages of this system:you tell me."
"heh... i once tried second life... the amount of garbage there is simply repulsive. other bad sides include: not enough people in ccp to deal with all the garbage players will make (imagine forum trolls with power to \"create\" in game items... that'll end well ), increased server load, increased bandwidth requirements, etc."
"are you talkling about in stations?because i could get behind that."
"i don't think you would get a glut of garbage. ccp would provide the format, not the tools. the creator would still have to be fluent in 3d design, and have access to some fairly expensive software. this would weed out most of the crap. the rest could be taken care of through a design council which would still be less labor intensive than bottom up design by ccp...bandwidth wouldn't be an issue as all the items could reside clientside."
"+1 for more cool stuff"
"so something like sto's modifiable uniforms and ships then?"
"second life is filled with rubish because there is no vetting. this system could work."
"anyone play apb? i know i know, fail game. but the character/item creator was very impressive. i'm all for customization of vanity items. course i'd love custom decals for our ships too... i'm all about figureheads."
"why is **** bad word?its only physiological need... xd"
"according to a recent/most recent csm meeting with ccp, they openly admitted that gallante was broken.however, it's not going to be fixed because it's an issue which affects no one, because no one flies gallente."
"yeah, it's just a second most popular race in eve after caldary what happend to the attitudehere? a couple months ago this was a serious forum where people where determined to get things straight. now half the poests i se are along \"boobie phyzix for spacebarbies\". trolls are nice and fun, but common."
"no they didn't. they only returned back to csm members, witch weren't even agreed anyway, questioning if blasters were suffering from a knockback effect...well, nerfing webs is what we can call \"knowkback\" effet, nerfing plates is another \"knockback\" effect, speed drawbacks of armor tanking mods are another \"knockback\" effect, tracking issues are another \"knockback\" effect and so on.now does the feedback sent by players after two+ years of different posts about blasters rails gallente ships bonus etc is realy worthy, when you read that 3rd party csm text?franckly, no. is this gonna change after the csm changes personnel? -no of corse not, those guys don't care about anything else than their own objectives and wishes they are not there to properly select and point what is going wrong if it doesn't serve/help their cause.the absolute silence from dev's team at each thread only demonstrates the point above. either they don't have the feedback, wich is impossible since they read forums at what they say, either they don't know how to fix the problem when your read that coment \"knockback effect\", seriously all the possible solutions and ideas coming from players are already there is not our job to start writing code lines to adress the situation, is it?"
"proof reading is a wonderful skill to have when publicizing things."
"i(we) consider the response time for handling petitions is unacceptable slow.this thread demands that a significant improvement is made in this regard. specifically, that ccp provide a clearly stated service level agreement which includes a pledge that a stated minimum percentage of petitions will be handled within a stated specific maximum time frame.this thread suggest an initial target of at least 80% of petitions receive an initial human gm response within 24 hours.the sla be subject to continuous improvement over time. the csm vigorously pursues an improvement from ccp in this matter."
"supporting my own proposal."
"i'm afraid i can't support this. i'd love to see faster petition response times, as i'm sure we all would, but there's only so many gm's and only so many hours in the day. what i would like to see, however, is a censure system for fradulent/frivolous petitions, whereby those people who abuse the system (either my miscategorizing to get a reply faster, or by petitioning over blatently petty and stupid things) are given a lower priority than the law-abiding citizens with genuine issues and enquiries."
"waiting days (sometimes weeks) for a petition response is inexcusable. you cannot excuse such poor customer service, ccp should hire more gm's if that's what it takes.most games, even ftp respond within hours."
"i recently saw a proposal by vaerah vahrokha on md to create a 'charity corp':"
"i support the proposal on the grounds that ccp don't have to monitor the account, just whenever a plex-for-aid chance comes up they could check on the accounts on the list of donors to make sure they are active and maybe even prod them into action ;) whoever runs the plex-for-aid thing could just make a note of the accounts involved and check them at the right time. it's in their interest to do this, and would help mobilise this a bit more."
"i like the modifications, caldari. that would leave the oversight of graft and corruption in the hands of the players and ask ccp to handle what we can't (e.g. hit by a bus)."
"already suggested many times, but can't hurt to support it once more."
"i wonder why it wasn`t implemented already since it shouldn`t be hard at all ..."
"bumpseems like an interesting way to fix up the coming boredom of 0.0"
"pizza on earth .. goodwill towards man"
"supported"
"it's back! <3"
"still no action on this?seriously?"
"i'm actually thinking of ordering a pizza right now... where's my plex?"
"i can haz plex for hookers?"
"while doing excavations at the archaeological site called \"eve forums\", i dug out the great work of an ancient scholar. i dusted it out, restored it to its previous glory, and brought his magnus opus here for you to relish.the proposition is simple, its about bringing stations closer to planets so they don't look like standalone objects that just somehow hang out there. you can enjoy the stunning view of such a great deed right here:example 1example 2example 3example 4hope you like it as much as i did."
"your ancient scholar is obviously biased against the minmatar people, and therefore i cannot support his previous works and i recommend diversity training for you."
"i feel smashed and completely devastated by the deep thought and flawless logic of your countless arguments.also supporting my own proposal."
"supported"
"so you're suggesting 50 interconnected changes to the game where the adoption of any strict subset of them will **** it to hell and back? awesome.-liang"
"you really are a tool.do battleships need neuts to handle frigates? no, they never have and still don't.do i think battleships should be helpless against frigates? not at all.do i think neuts are overpowered? absolutely.do i think cap batteries are largely pointless most of the time currently? you bet.so let's cut to the chase, the sky is not going to fall, the world is not going to end. unless you are incapable of adapting."
"yay, i knew you could resort to personal attacks!yeah, they really do. drones are nom nom nom food.then why are you suggesting frigate immunity to one of the only things that can actually stop them?then you're wrong.you're only somewhat right.its not exactly hard to adapt when the only ship skills you'll ever need are \"racial frigate 5\" and \"racial cruiser 5\".-liang"
"the truth is what it is.neuts are just one method. and those only started being popular after the nos nerf.i'm not suggesting frigate immunity to anything. i'm suggesting a reasonable amount of cap protection for any ship that wants to fit a battery. will frigates do it? probably not, since the smart ones can't be neuted anyway. how do you kill those incidently? or do you just log off when that happens?nope, i leave that to you.thus the 'most' word, it is very useful for not conveying an absolute condition. but average people mostly never get that, so i don't blame you.demonstrate this. show us the overpowered neut proof ship and setup with this idea that actually does the job it needs to do and isn't just handicapped in some other way."
"you are under the mistaken illusion that i have to prove you wrong. however, seeing as how this has rightly has a 0% chance of ever making it into the game, i don't have to. all i am going to say on the matter is that one of the very few counters to nano ships is a curse or heavy neut. ships with so few counters will make the sacrifice to fit a cap battery.you say that neuts weren't ever used until nos was nerfed... but this is false. cap warfare was always used.you say a lot of things that are either outright untrue or skirt the edges of the truth.and none of it matters because this has no chance of making it into the game. enjoy your last free bump. /shrug-liang"
"thats where you lost any credibility you still had alright, op, let's stop feeding the trolls."
"as a matter of fact, the one suggesting/lobbying for a change should have to prove his/her point. not someone claiming the current state is fine. otherwise we could just resort to... \"l2p\" - \"no you!\" - \"your mum!\"...style of argumentation. especially when the line of argumentation is as... hmm... shady as here. but yeah, whatever, not gonna happen most likely anyway."
"wrong, the person making the point has to prove their own point. liang has no point if he isn't willing to back it up."
"i'll re-emphasize that battleship vs frigate relationship is not significantly influenced by the proposed battery change.why?because frigate can equip small cap injector, which will work nicely against 24 second heavy neut cycles. the only point where small cap injector will start failing on a frigate is when there's more than 2 neuts on the frigate.it is also worth noting that we rarely see any frigates equipped with small cap injectors. in fact, i haven't seen any such setups in pvp. that suggests frigates are not willing to sacrifice mid slot of anti-neut protection.i believe the most concern with this battery change is the effect on cruisers and larger ships. talking about frigates with regard to these changes is just stupid, they are the least effected."
"what do you lose other than a killmail? i think some people play to win pvp fights. if you can't, then that is rather dumb. and beyond that, you can easily lose your ship as ceptors would suddenly be invincible to larger ships. drams are already fairly overpowered, if no one could neut them they would simply become even more powerful.i've mentioned this before, i'll mention it again, neuts should be more chance based. just like everything else with an optimal/falloff (guns/ewar), they shouldn't do a uniform damage to cap. if that change occurred, the defenses against neuts already in the game would be more than acceptable.a lot and not true. i've been in quite a few bs v bc fights recently. i remember several ceptors pinning people down in these fights as well. i'm not sure if the mods will allow this to stay linked, but here is a battle from two weeks ago. i vividly remember those drams/daredevil causing all sorts of trouble. partially because they were instrumental in killing off the dictors, thus becoming the primary tacklers.we haven't yet, mostly because it does very little for them. if this change went live they would become more important than a dcu ever has been."
"which will make them easier to kill by more mundane means. most nano ships are going to have to give up substantial shield tank if they want to fit a cap battery, which may or may not be useful to them. some people will go for it, others won't, and gameplay becomes more varied than 'i haz neut and you don't? i win!'"
"nano ship counters?ccp destroyed all nano ships. the current nano ships are nothing compared to the old days. nano tactics were completely destroyed.and even before they were destroyed by ccp, there were more counters than a curse, they died by the 100s every day just fine.let us reverse the nano nerf, then i'll completely support neuts and nos without any counters like this battery idea."
"newsflash, the other guy running away means you won the fight.what dram pilot is going to fit a battery? and what are they going to not fit in its place?how do you even make this happen without totally changing what a neut does? the main premise to this thread is not to nerf neuts, it is to buff cap batteries.wait, so you think every frigate will be fitting not only a cap battery but a cap booster too? i think reality has left you."
"not only have i been neuted, i've been ecm'ed by a falcon, webbed by a rapier and tackled by an arazu.nerf neuts, scrams, webs and ecm. nerf everything that i can't use and buff the things that i can!"
"oh look, a straw man.ecm has a counter, webbing somewhat has a counter (tbh i kind of think overdrives should provide a little web resistance), and warp disruption also has a counter."
"cool idea br0/supported"
"not supported.why?1) i don't care about internal conversations between csm members and csm <-> ccp as long as stuff gets done.2) only a handful of people would read that anyway. it's basically a transcript that you can only read and not join the discussion. only beneficial to eve addicts that doesn't have a life out of the game.3) for any conversation purposes, information about candidates and active csm members there's already a pretty good place where you can actually have direct conversation with your csm member of choice or discuss topics that happen between csm members and between csm and ccp."
"crowd control has been tackled by ccp already by sending people farther away for missions.i would say ccp should turn this a bit smarter. the actual system population will still contribute on how far you will be send away. but in addition the amount of missions in a system on a day will be taken into consideration.like a overworked trafficer at the airport the quality of the agents should lower themselvs, when they got too much to do. and the quality should raise, when they havent got any missioners who take their missions on.on how many missions a day are given out by a mission hub agent i dont know. but for the easy example take 200. with 200 missions a day a agent would have only a quality of q-20. with max 10 missions a day his quality would raise to q20. the social skills like labour connections could contribute more activly to negate a bit the quality loss. tell me what you think. its only a first thought but i think this could spread people a bit. one advantage could be the boosting of low sec a bit. the agents there wont be giving away many missions a day. in addition low sec agents quality should be able to raise to 25 or 30 according to their status."
"i think that you should pay more attention on how you play your game instead of looking how other people play theirs. i also think that you are not in this game long enough or not informed enough to know that the quality of missions decrease already if you use one agent too much."
"i wonder why in this forum there are so many who start with insults instead of contributing in a normal way.i am in the game for about 2,5 years now. that the quality of missions decrease i didnt know of, except that you still get another faction mission even if you just delined one.oh and i was talking about the quality level of the agent, not the missions. meaning you get less lp's."
"the more people run for a certain agent reduces the amount of lp, isk and standing given as a reward for a mission already."
"i really never heard this. do have the wiki entry or the dev blog for me? i couldnt find it in here:"
"nah... i didn't mean to insult you. the first sentence is meant to give you a general advice about posting any suggestion anywhere, including eve online. suggestions that will benefit the majority of players affected by the change are generally accepted, while most of the suggestions that are targeted to nerf a specific group without any benefit for the affected players is either heavily biased, troll or not formed well enough. replies to such suggestions will be formed around assumption that the original poster belongs in one of those three groups. i've picked #1: biased randomly.the second sentence is just an assumption based on what you've requested in your original post. since quality of missions already decrease if you use the same agent too much to the point that after some time that agent becomes practically useless to you, adding a modifier that would have an even bigger impact would be just too much.i'm sorry if you felt that i insulted you, but i'm still not supporting this proposal."
"oh allright then. well i am heavily on your side not to nerf missions as they got nerfed quite much already. still i must admit my idea was it to make the \"milk sour\", so you wont stay forever in one system. also based on the probability that no system would ever stay alone long enough to get q20 i'd say that there could be a small nerf to missioners in high sec. but as there are already no non faction mission agents in high sec that gives you higher then q18 one could say that there will be several q16,17 or 18 then, which could be a buff for missioning compared to the situation now.would you have and supportive suggestions on how to make my basic idea to spread people to meet your views? also what do you say to a positive influence on low sec when there would be base on the system suddenly 25er agents or even 30er? this could be long awaited boost on low sec without nerfing high sec (keyword: risk vs. reward)"
"more epic mission arcs. the players must want to spread, not be forced to do so.the amount of lp and isk you get already depends on a security status of a system the agent is in. for example the lvl4 q18 agent in 0.3 system will give more lp and more isk per mission than the agent with same properties in 0.8 system. faction warfare missions give even more rewards and items that are unique to fw loyalty points stores. lowsec is rewarding enough, but most players are just not willing to take the risk."
"what with the epic mission arcs would bring a solid lvl 4 missioneer to start running around the universe? standings will hardly be the reason as they have usually good standings.about the sec status and the reward i did know of. that is why some systems are overrun with missioneers. imaginge you dont have to be in 0,5 to get most lp's.if lowsec is rewarding enough i cant say. personally i havent done them yet. but i think when you consider standard market rules of supply and demand one could argue that the rewards arent as tempting that they meet the demand."
"rewards and refreshing new gameplay and content. the story (actual fiction in mission descriptions) in epic arcs that are already implemented is pretty good too. it's a shame hardly anyone reads it.you already don't have to be there. there are some pretty profitable agents in highsec that are almost forgotten just because people rush to the agent with the best attributes. for example, there are level 4 thukker tribe agents in altrinur and their lp store offers nomad set of implants. pretty cool for highsec.forgot to mention cosmos agents and missions spread through a whole constellation in each race.i haven't done any regular missions in lowsec either... was too busy hunting pirates i did run fw missions for a couple of months when they first appeared and i must admit that i liked the rewards. but then i moved to nullsec and stayed there ever since (for the pvp content in 0.0, not the pve)."
"i believe in jumpbridges, they are real."
"i am ready!!!free the little defencless nc!"
"my cat ran for csm once."
"please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"i hope next csm will bring up more issues with lo sec and non o.o alliance pvp whatever... its not like mining etc couldnt use improvement either... like making it more exciting whatever...couldnt really care less about fleet lag"
"lol isk farmers"
"i suggested it because of role-playing! what will all those right-click-freed slaves do?they need counseling, and a slow re-integration into society. they need to learn a trade so they can support themselves and become fully appreciated among their tribesmen.i don't intend to just hand them a datacore (certificate) of freedom, and send 'em on their way.\"so long, now get lost!\" -that's not me. i feel responsible for the slaves i keep in my hangar, waiting for the bureaucracy to settle on how to handle them.i believe we have a nice opportunity to free the slaves, and to add a mechanic to cycle through different personages via pi (or whatever) convert slaves to citizens & janitors etc. fueled by various now useless trade goods as seen here.and i don't want to deny the amarr-players the chance to redeem themselves by freeing their slaves, but they should have a choice. that's what makes eve great. choice. (it's not like wow where i'd be sol as an orc if i see the error in my ways.)the beauty of such a system is that evil guys start at a base 'free folks', and invest tons of training to convert them to slaves, whereas the good guys start at a base 'enslaved folks'."
"freeing slaves should be an option, but i think a little thought/discussion needs to go into the mechanics.it used to be possible through important missions, i think this is the best route. it would be necessary to include similar enslavement missions for for amarr characters for captured tourists, refugees, etc.1) any standing gain should be minuscule, allowing the side stepping the existing standing mechanics should not be the primary objective.it should be a logarithmic return so that at low levels of standing it requires few slaves, but once a character has achieved higher standing freeing many more slaves is necessary.standing < 1.0 - single digit numbers make a difference.1.0 > standing < 2.0 - tens2.0 > standing < 3.0 - hundreds3.0 > standing < 4.0 - thousands.etc.standing gain should be countered by corresponding loss with amarr.balance suggests that the same mechanic should exist for gallente and caldari, but how ?"
"support !+1"
"bump this ****to he dude above, jsut noticed your post. my question is, what change will that make? i want to be able to wap ammo to that appropriate for the range i am engaging at with ease. that's a small buff. and gerarding your other points- speed penalty will make webs obsolete, they should still have a purpose. if it is per hit, then i fit hyperion with 8 electron blasters that fire every second, and i get a mega webber when firing them seperately? you make a huge number of assumption in your post. first of all, why did you decide that rof/tracking should be the advantage of hybrids? is that your personal opinion? where did that come from? lastly, if this pos is about looking at guns, it is unreasonable to criticize me for not looking at ships. that simply is not withing the scope of this post. no, there is not, because there is no reason amarr ships should be able to run missions for hours on small cap boosters. but gallente should be bale to run long on active tanks in pvpv, because that's their racial feature."
"it isn't point blank. this doesn't change the actual issues, your proposal is a tweek not a solution for the issues actually.if you had read enough about gallente issues in all dedicated threads, if you had already contacted gm's about this, if you had already read the answer from them about the fact that hybrids advantage is the tracking/rof then you shouldn't even ask that question. what's your point? yes it is, once again read the forums and the threads, all of them and all posts!! - and you will mabe understand that gallente ships, since you compare them with amarr ones, have lesser cap/power than amarr ones, you see where the problem is? -again, not the cargo space but the ships cpu/pg/cap base vs amarr counterparts in the same tier same fitting.edit: before you compare with minies - they don't have that problem neither because of their capless weapon system, as you can see the problem is not the cargo space but energy."
"1 (ammo size) i think this one isn't really needed. i agree that sizes make no sense currently from a rp perspective. but quite honestly i don't think all hybrid boats need smaller ammo. only the ones designed to actively tank might need the cargo space to bring enough booster charges. so easy fix there might be to just increase their cargo space. is anyone using those at all?2 (reload time) this is very much needed. as long as hybrid guns - well, mostly blasters - have to switch ammo in order to do anything useful the current 10 seconds a huge timesink, that is totally unfair. the problem here is, that you have two cases. either you roam around with am loaded and thus cannot apply any damage at all during the first few seconds of a fight. or you're roaming around with null loaded and have to accept a big decrease in dps, because of null's tracking malus or the 10 seconds to reload; whichever you opt to do.3 (increased tracking for blasters) this one depends. actually the tracking would be perfectly fine if the blasterboats could dictate range once they got ahold of their victim. following djego's input of giving blasterboats the old 90% web there would be no need to tweak blaster tracking. then the blaster user would have to make sure to use them at the correct range - i.e. not going to point blank completely but keeping them at optimal. what people try to claim sometimes (as could be seen in the argument between djego and the other guy who hides behind an alt) is that ultra high tracking or 90% web mean certain death especially to anything without substantial hp buffer that gets in range. imho that's not a problem. if people drive their frigs into this position it's their own fault. don't go rubbing hulls with a blasterboat if you cant take a beating.4 (bigger range for null) i strongly disagree on this one. blasterboats should not be all-round gank platforms. giving null more range is not needed. it wouldn't help the blaster frigs. it would be like a better version of barrack, especially in cruiser size. and it might unbalance the caldari boats with range bonuses.5 (rating?!?) didn't follow the link. i suppose it is some stats comparison? what are you suggesting here?!6 (more tracking + damage for rails) i don't think we need a tracking bonus on rails. what are long range guns used for? essentially their purpose is to hit at ranges. now artillery has alpha. beam lasers have damage. so the only niche left would be range, which would be ok for rails. rails don't have to be equal to the other long-range guns. so why not give rails the ability to easily outrange other guns without having to use tracking enhancers/computers or range rigs? i know, i know, nobody is fighting at extreme ranges as they used to. there was a time when fleets engaged at 180km+. those times are over. but think of it more like a way to make it easier to fit a railboat. or more precisely make rail fittings be more flexible as they would not need the range mods. does that make any sense? hm.anyways, supporting your suggestion as a great way to get those freaking hybrids fixed already. *thumbs up*"
"large railguns can easily have over 150km of range with t2 ammo. this means enemies can just warp to on grid. rail's range advantage is useless for battleship sized guns (and for eagle).what's wrong with rof increase and a clip size reduction."
"i've always though that adding signal to noise is a far better solution.have people appearing in local who are not there.. and their ghost ships showing up on scan but not showing in your overview because they weren't really there.you'd get the cried wolf mentality but even better, it would give advanatages to those who knew about each others corps, read other players bios and made a gut call whether the ship was a fake or not. (there might need to be some fake covert cyno's appear whenever a ghost ship spawned but didnt' jump from gate to gate.)this keeps all the great multi player sustained universe sense that local helps along by giving us more ways to see each other whether we want to or not, while still greatly reducing the \"free inteligence\" aspect ... and allowing characters to run at any sign of danger because there would far more frequesntly be a sign of danger.i think with constant tweaking it could give a great way to make botting far harder to pull off too, while player intelligence might be given more tip-offs......and real players could imitate the ghost ship behavior to trip the bots into believeing they were ghost ships."
"we own the space, we build the stations and pay for the sov. why the heck can't people who own space have a sense of security?removing local from nullsec, that is a really terrible idea.all these gentlemen who have chosen to live in highsec, who primarily gank morons on the jita undock, are suddenly these great armchair generals on how to improve where we live in this game. they are the same gentlemen who cry about the death of honorable 1v1s and solo pvping. meanwhile they have no risk where they live, no chance that all of their assets could get trapped in stations, an endless supply of lvl 4 missions and we're supposed to somehow feel bad that they can't gank our logistics, ratters and other people?seriously, how the heck does always feeling not safe improve nullsec at all? the investments for living out here are enormous, the risks for having a lot of assets out here pretty high and so why should we be suddenly punished by living in a wasteland?"
"1) if you scroll down local it stay scrolled down. so you would see immediately when someone enter a busy system if he is placed at the bottom of local. it will be a roamer nerf. 2) if i want to locate someone in chat having a alphabetic horder is way better than searchig him/her in a random position."
"failed utterly to read the thread.not if it adds the newcomers below the viewable part of the list. moving the scroll up as people leave etc.that is rather the point. it should not be so easy to use local as an intel tool. but eve is 95% carebears these days and nobody wants excitement or a thrill of danger anymore."
"you know what the consequence of removing local in nullsec would be? cloaked gatecamps in every pipe that is regularly used. it would last for a few days and then nullsec population would go down faster than a 5 dollar hooker. what would be the point of that? better come up with a feasible solution instead of some rubbish like that.also your suggestion in the op is counter-productive for your intentions too as has been pointed out already. not supported."
"the point of 0.0 isn't that its supposed to be 'unsafe', the point is that the only safety should be that created by the players themselves, not by npc space police shooting the bad guys for you or arbitrary wizard hat restrictions against certain types of combat or behaviours. a 0.0 with no local where you could be tackled and blown up without warning at any moment is a 0.0 that will be totally deserted except for moon mining alts afk-orbiting the pos at 500m and the occasional stealth bomber/recon gang stumbling around blindly searching for ratters to gank, because the ratters will all be back in highsec running l4s like a sensible person (or more likely, unsubscribed and playing a better game). dominion may have been a hilarious failure in many ways, but one of its specific aims was to increase the amount of people living in 0.0 vs those in empire, and just because it didn't succeed particularly well is no reason to believe that ccp are going to suddenly decide 'the heck with this nullsec bull, everybody go to motsu' and turn 0.0 into an unlivable hellhole."
"heh... don't fall on trolls, m8.anyway +1"
"well, i don't want to nerf the forums so, i probably shouldn't support the thread.. i don't want to see forum threads snuffed just because they're redundant (well they should try to take a slightly different tact )but,i feel strongly that seeing players names in local adds so much to the sense of a multi-player environment that eliminating it would be devasting for my sense of place. 10 second delays...adding some fals information in addition to the real information... hey, those could be ok ... just let me see the people who are inhabiting a system so i can take the time when i have a chance to click on their names ... see corp discriptions bios etc"
"and the players created local which allows them to rat/mine in perfect safety amirite? no? then maybe they should have to create their own safety like you said, without the use of local3/10 for the doom and gloom though, especially when there's wspace to prove you wrong"
"i can't wait till ccp finally nerfs localthe big alliance people have grown too fat and lazy, and in need of serious purging back to empire.the no-local would come with scanner improvements. if overview can show scanner results, people will have 15 au warning radius, that's at least 10 seconds for fast enemy frigs - enough for carebear battleship to warp off. about 15-20 seconds for most other hostiles. in cases where people jump in and the carebear is less 1 au away, the carebear still have time to warp off his battleship before people scan it down with directional scanner, initiate warp, exit warp, finish lock, activate mods. so if that's enough, 15 au scanner radius is also enough."
"the only people that are afraid of local being nerfed are also the people that should have stayed in high sec."
"hello there i work have a family and play eve. so when i log in eve i dont have much time on my hands of course but why is it so hard to make isk unless you spend hours at it.surely ccp can make it easier for new and older pilots to make isk faster for example put bountys on rats to 5 mill or 10 mill im getting bored of spending a few hours in missions, plex, wh,to just get enough to buy a battlecruiser only to lose it in 30 seconds to a gate camp, surley if players could get more isk in less time it will make eve a better fun enviroment as everyone likes to be rich and there will be more pvp and less running away ps if i was unemployed yes eve is great i can spend all days in it lolbut for the rest of us 1 or 2 hours is all we can spare so i think my idea a simple raise on bountys will help corps ( tax) help retain new players as a lot just throw in the towell the first few weeks as they cant buy anything and get bored and help with the fun part as people will be out pvping againg instead of spending days making isk lets pull eve back into fun and less hum drum"
"there's this thing called insurance.you might want to check into it, at least for those pesky battlecruiser losses."
"get smart. make profit work for you."
"passive income sources that require half an hour a day (or even less):- r&d agents. you spend time just to pick datacores from agents and sell it on the market. depending on datacore type, your standing with agent's corporation and your skills in research area, it could bring you around 150mil a month- t1 manufacturing. you spend time just to buy minerals and blueprint copies, create a courier contract to your freighter service of choice (my recommendation goes to red frog freight) and start the manufacturing job. when it's done, put it on market or hire freight service again to haul it for you to the nearest trade hub- planetary interaction. you spend as much time as you can afford which dictates how much isk you will get from it. worst case scenario, you'll have to haul the stuff yourself every day for 10-15 minutes- invention, research of original blueprints and making copies of blueprints. requires an investment in a pos, but pays off easily if you know what you are doing. everything you need to do is log in every 2-10 days to set a new research job (depending of what blueprint you are researching) and haul pos fuel every 15 days.combine those and you'll have pretty solid passive income. for more information about what else can you do and how its done, take a look at the best free guide around:"
"that's a good point. if ccp introduced comets like they said they might a while back (heck, look on chruker's site and you can see that the stuff is all there in the database), then this would alleviate that problem and make the proposition much more viable."
"supported"
"theres a lot good in the op an the above.i really like the idea of jump briges because they give players a way of shaping space... and a sense of improving their little nation the way romans built their aqueducts etc... and something valuable to take away from someone too ! ...no fun if you can't hurt someone and valuable bridges are somthing you can destroy.but, making them for only industrial ships (and maybe a smattering of others if they gimp themselves with special hard to fit moduless) keeps the neat part of improving space while vastly nerfing the short response miltiary value.one issue with a move to black ops is that they really take somoene with clost to 30 million sp to operate....you could have specialty alts of course, but that stll hits the same problem.. groups of people who're canny gamers and have played for 6 months to a year, should being able to gang effectively without needing a big buddy ... they could go along in sb's fine with lower sp, but they need a friend with bs v jump cal iv (with prereq jump v) , cnyno v.... thats like 3 months of specialized training above and beyond any general competence people need to get first ...maybe its no different than it is now... its not like a bunch of people a year into the game are builiding themselves jump bridge networks....but they can make pledges and alliances, and get access to other , longer time players resources in return....even though they can't do it on their own now without renting or doing a bit real-politic(kissing but?) they can get started that way."
"it shouldn't be dropped for the sake of pi market. it also adds effort from the players (required) and regulates cost. for example, if i remember correctly, the minimum cost per hour in an npc station for a single manufacturing slot is 333 isk. on a monthly level that's roughly 240,000 isk + job installation cost of 1,000 isk per job. (in jita, for example, this is 807 isk per hour or roughly 581k isk). industrial arrays that last for a month could have a price tag between 250 and 600k isk - enough space to make a difference between different types of arrays without adding up to the cost of the final product. no, not alliances. individuals are more likely to use bots for their own profit if it's profitable enough."
"the problem with localised mining and increasing profitability/yield of low end ore in nullsec is capital/supercapital production spam that could get even worse than it is now. why industrial jump bridges? because they can maintain the supply for sub-capital production, but would require almost impossible amount of effort for transporting enough materials to add to capital production spam. taking out freighters from industrial jbs would make that happen. the biggest ship that could pass is an orca - just enough cargo to keep your personal manufacturing business running and not enough to spam supercap production. but then again, there's always a possibility to haul modules, like bartos102 said and avoid production completely.however, hirana yoshida pointed out one very interesting alternative - modifiers to production requirements of low-end minerals in nullsec factories. if the modifiers are blueprint specific or applied to the sub capital personal industrial arrays only, that would eliminate the possibility of capital production spam and solve the low end material requirements problem in nullsec for everything sub capital. these modifiers, if tweaked properly, make even the whole idea of industrial jbs obsolete. this could be implemented in pair with logistical modifications that should make exporting modules/ships from nullsec to empire not possible, not easy or not profitable.---concerning industrial arrays, poses and station upgrades, one thing needs to be pointed out: there should be enough manufacturing slots for everyone without role requirements for market to be even remotely competitive to highsec one (relatively cheap stuff is essential for more pvp). let's take a quick look on options in two different situations: big corporation and a small one:- poses & big corp: security issues. you can't just give roles to everyone, especially if you have supercapital production line. every big corporation have spies and thieves, so making stuff in a public corporate pos is not going to happen. private production poses can't be owned by everyone in a big corporation, because of two possible things - monopoly and security issues with privately owned poses. a great amount of trust must be on both sides (player and the corporation) to make private poses possible in a big corporation, which is very rare in eve and again makes only the handful rich while the others can't use the resources and doesn't produce enough stuff to keep the market healthy. privately owned poses also add fuel costs that must be calculated in the price of a final product, which makes the stuff not competitive to the imported one.- poses & small corp: again, we have security issues and metagaming problems (thieves, spies) but to smaller extent. there's also the fuel cost problem, a big one.- station upgrades & big corp: great solutions for huge entities that own whole region(s) of space and multiple stations. it would make people create more (or even bigger) coalitions in order to be competitive. (i don't really think that's a good idea )- station upgrades & small corp: well, what good is of station upgrades if you don't have (at least a couple of) stations. it will again make blobbing and coalitions favourable, which is not really going to help gang pvp (instead of fleet one). if we boost manufacturing slot numbers just a little, smaller corps can't be competitive because they don't have enough slots. if we boost it a lot, again small corps can't be competitive because a big corp will have even more.one way to solve all presented problems: security issues (player <-> corporation), not favouring creation of coalitions even more, balanced production cost, elimination of monopoly and competitive smaller entities is by adding personal industrial arrays in stations. that way all entities are given an equal chance as far as they have skilled and capable individuals that can contribute."
"think of it in a military/police context. do you (or should you) really want every john and jane doe running around with assault rifles to keep the peace?with the dominant power historically monopolizing the use of force, the requirement of training/experience becomes an obvious bar .. the higher it is the more validity you give the peace keepers.oh dear lord, my name mentioned and not a single personal attack, first time that ever happened *swoon* when i think of null i think of victorian age european expansion in particular to n.america.started small with a very real dependency on the motherland, but as time passed production/innovation picked and it went from import to export to what we know today as the usa .. that is the basis of almost all my suggestions, including the nasty ones regarding bridges.by far the biggest change will be to the industrial side of things. to allow for self-sufficiency and ultimately export without making it too easy .. just as the great american project has cost a lot of blood, sweat and tears.once you move a majority of the daily traffic from the private gate network to the public, security will force the very hard decision of yielding space to increase security or \"hire\" new partners .with more independent factions working together the drama-llama will have a chance to do its magic, especially if help from allies is not instantaneous as it essentially is now.as for the concerns about the boosts required not helping the little guy: don't worry about it.null was never a place where he thrived without assistance from others. over time a minimum size to viable null entities has emerged, mostly determined by capital assets but also plain active numbers.even if he has all the slots he could ever use, who is going to buy it? who will escort the freight trains if he exports it? .. again, think of the early n.am. venture, collaboration and common purpose was the only reason why it even survived.primary focus should be to find the tools needed for subsistence, after that most everything else will fall into place."
"(this should have been posted in feautures and ideas.. its not near a proposal.. i thought i was in the other forum)i've enjoyed both the griefer and blob kills well enough(have dozens and hundreds)... but, come-on.. i don't see those type of kills being the paragon of pvp that need to be found more frequently(and good part of the antil local and anti jump bridge sentiment just wants hopes to at least make more of those types of petty kills)here's an idea to stimulate more feisty struggles, fairly spontaneous and random , creating incentives for people to put themselves in harms way and maybe take a few more chances against the odds.have a pve activity trigger the opportunity for pvper's to make some isk but give the pve'r a short window to reship and rally a pitchfork gang to fight for his loot.so, lets say when you get a faction spawn in a belt or anomalies...if a faction ship gets popped the event opportunity is triggered.the faction ships have some special piece of equipment that creates a little forcefield of untargetablity around the wreck for 15 minutes and have that field appear in the overview like a cyno field would. (wreck should have a huge number of hp to prevent the if i can't have it you can't either avoidance strategy )so, the guy pops the faction guys, and he'd got to make a choice whether he's going to reship and rally friends to support a possible fight for it, or risk that some roving gang will come through before the timer is up and steal his pricey loot. there is some juicy opportunity for in-corp tension of traitors in your own corp trying to bogart your loot... a chance to reveal people for who they really are.sure care bears will qq about the risk to their very best part of income...yet they'll have a true chance to fight for it. it will also give another source of income to those people preferring to pvp and taking the risk of roaming hostile systems.some pve groups might pitchfork well, others might not, and given the fairly short time frame but high reward, you'd have guys go wtf and fight for the wreck with even odds rather than waiting for a sure win. (i'd make the wrecks un-poppable to prevent the if i can't have it neither can you scenario and have them spawn a large warp disruption bubble around the field too to prevent an easy quick loot and warp off situation)"
"i have a better idea: why don't ccp just give you free carebear kms?not supported."
"i vote for term limits and ccp can either back someone it likes and agrees with, or immediately disqualify them.this is ccp's game, they do and have done a damn good job at what they do. term limits though, allow the game to grow and continue to engage new players. no one wants the same old chronies calling the shots, i thought that was the point of electing csm's"
"sovereignty needs a complete overhaul, an overhaul that includes changes to pos, outposts, system upgrades and finally sovereignty itself. otherwise it'll always be about massing 1 overpowered ship type.i don't see ccp doing any real work towards 0.0, so we'll end up with more and more (s)capitals. even if they nerf it, as the time goes by capital numbers will only increase.even if you \"secure\" all the seats, it won't ever matter, because both ccp and csm won't have the balls to fix that is beyond broken. the jacket we're wearing is a jacket no more, its a carnival of patches made to patch the patches.be happy if they nerf sc within 2 years."
"disallow all people mentioned in those communications for planning to rig the election, however inconsequential it may be, and by coercion no less.huh? are incursions everywhere now? does an incursion prevent a by-pass from from being thrown up temporarily?you can be fairly sure that most 0.0 people hate the leaders too, but they suck it up and muddle along like with real world politicians"
"wth? you must be new to this game...and what makes you think the majority of older/veteran players cares a whit about csm? you are being soooo wrong, m8. we love our high&mighty leader in so many ways that romeo&juliet looks like a cheap b-movie in comparison."
"this is quite possibly the worst post i have read today. congratulations, sir."
"is it? i see people giving up crying on forums about things that aint get fixed anyway this here"
"csm are pets of sov null alliances. thank god they're ineffective, otherwise all of us who are not sanctum chaining moogoo sucking kb humping blobers will be in big trouble."
"yep, pretty much.they're not representatives, they are lobbyists."
"lol in general"
"allowing the csm much more influence could allow those who can con their way on the csm too much personal influence; if not already.probably not good for most of us."
"it's called prioritization or making the best use of your time and resources. it means things get fixed and new things get added all the time, but in all likelyhood your pet peeve isn't going to be among the things that get fixed and your brilliant idea isn't going to get implemented. it's one of those necessities of real life, so get used to it.the value of the csm is filtering, helping with that priorization and help negotiate acceptable solutions to issues. while they do represent the people who voted for them, and i have been pleased with the representatives i voted, they naturally use the opportunity to get their pet peeves fixed too."
"aight dig it small version is:ccposse took away old kuzim face dig, an them sayin a dawg gotta go back wit a new face.they new face be aight wit a dawg, but a dawg need dreads or rows. they rows be aight but no good light means a dawg with his complexion can be seen proper, like a lights too close dig. so a dawg made mad raps to talk about they issues (its how i express, at my best, when a dawg is feeling under duress): dig it dawg i make this in a rush ain no time to re-read it, so a dawg come back later an take more looks at it dig, sorry if they be hard reading.sup wit removin dreads from da game?wit out them, kuzim neva gonan be da sameto make dis move is inaneto da top dawgs, dig it, its y'all i blame.dig it dawg, i got somethin to say:a dawg was gonan login the other day.but dig it dawg, they changed my face!they say to a dawg that its time to replacemy form, my figure, my look, my shaveso i started my changes but i didn't save,you see, long ago before the patch,when re-re was running in curse an catcha dawg had dreads, and a fist that was redbut now those options? they're gone dawg, deadas a door nail or a blood near da cripsan a dawgs almost naked (but she got fine hips)in short, csm, could y'all save mi face?tell them ccp krew them gotta replace:mi big red fist, kuz mi may be mellowda re-re posse do all kins of bellowsan mi dreads, dawg, dig it, an dawg please say helloto da ccposse, dem be mi fellowsbe safe dawgps a dawg be down wit corn rows but a dawg need good lights for they else them dont show an a dawg him jus look like him got mad bruisen all over, ain no way to be dig.thanks for reading it dawg."
"as the csm applications are about to begin, i thought it would only be logical to start my campaign for csm. we all know that eve has its problems, in fact the only people who say that there are no problems in eve benefit from these problems themselves. i'm talking about broken market mechanics, marcos, ganking, abuse of wardec mechanics, etc. in fact every day i see posts based on these ideas, which ofcourse only seem to attract the trolls, adding such enlightening comments as..\"lol carebear\"\"mmmm cry some more!\"\"tears fuel my ship\"and so on..as csm i would work towards a future where players opinions matter and allowing us to mold the game around the community.a wise man once said \" a reasonable man will change to suit his surroundings, an unreasonable man will change his surroundings to suit himself \".i believe in this idea, but i obviously don't mean for my own personal gain. i am talking about the gamer community as a whole. it's time that we took control of our game, it's time me made the choices!so vote for me, and be unreasonable! an outline of my referendum.introduction of mechanics that will destroy the macro armies and restore stability to the market.replace the mechanics of ganking in order to stabilize trade and make the game more entertaining for criminals.modifications to the wardec system to prevent unwanted griefing.increased system defense mechanics that will allow smaller alliances to secure space.i am of course willing to answer all questions you may have.thanks you for reading.p.s i know a load of you want me to do my avatar, i just haven't got it right yet!"
"/me sighs"
"not until you have a face at least"
"what's your opinion on bloodline change for free/isk/plex?"
"griefing is unwanted?"
"well i certainly don't feel using rl money is right, our characters belong to us and we should be able to decide what they are like. i would say that something like a bloodline or ancestry should be able to be manipulated at will, maybe for an ingame isk pay out. on a side note our avatars should also be changeable at will in game. maybe we could even start buying bling for our characters?"
"may want to rethink your choice of quotation here.unless you mean to say you are unreasonable....oh wait."
"their is a reason why they call it griefing..."
"seconding this.bullet, meet foot."
"thats exactly what i mean.think about it, do you want a perfectly acceptable and agreeable csm who isn't going to get anything done and be a complete waste of space, or do you want to make your vote mean something by voting for someone who will fight your corner?"
"not if you were the only candidate and voting was mandatory..."
"wasn't there like a special forum or something where junk like this can be dumped?"
"i found your problem."
"two worst ideas ive come across in a long time.you cannot replace the mechanics of anything, it would amount to replacing combat mechanics (read: soe, nge, starwars galaxies) and that is bad at its core.also, attempting to goes against eve's entire core of being 'cold and harsh'."
"i'd actually prefer a nice plant for my corner, to help the feng shui.maybe you can fight the snowdrifts outside instead?"
"i think there might be people who want it.griefing and being griefed, loosing and winning - people sometimes call it \"playing a game\"."
"you must hang out with some very weird people..."
"i am sure mr. zedrik cayne will have something to say about this.also, get out."
"it's never griefing anyway."
"ha i am sure he will write an essay as soon as he can!"
"i play eve after all."
"sad thing is, most mongs will probably vote for it. rememeber that clueless dutch woman whose manifesto basically amounted to \"let's destroy eve\"? if she got voted in...."
"nobody is talking about destroying eve, calm down."
"and then that morally superior player got booted because of an nda breach. yeah, carebears are better humans, eh?"
"really depends on your definition of pvp. i will respect a pirate over a scammer any day..."
"clever diplomatic hint: unreasonable people get ignored. this is especially true with the csm, which continues to exist only because ccp wills it - they are under no obligation to reveal anything or discuss anything with you. raging at them will only hamper the ability of the csm and ccp to actually get anything donebasically, i won't vote for you, and no one should vote for you. good day sir~"
"moved from general discussion"
"well you have basically just said csm's are useless and hense nobody should waste their time voting? ccp wants to improve their game, it makes business sense."
"no, i just said that your particular (extreme) position is useless. there are moderate positions between being an spineless ccp fanboy and being a disagreeable douchebag."
"well obviously i'm not going to be a \"disagreeable douchebag\" because that would just waste everyones time.."
"your logic = so much fail."
"how so? from what i can see i didn't even use any reasoning and as such logic wouldn't even apply to it. one is a statement of fact and the other is merely poking some fun at ank and her 'holier than you' attitude. but never stop posting! it's hilarious."
"who the hell is ank?"
"i don't understand the point of csm at all. who really listens to them at ccp or cares what they say???"
"somebody who didn't get tired explaining to everyone how much better than everyone else she was. that got her voted into the csm at least i dunno three times in a row. she wanted to remove scamming, suicide ganking, wardecs etc. from the game and insisted that pvp'ers are psychopaths. then as if to prove how good she is she broke a real life non-disclosure agreement with ccp and subsequently got booted from the csm - never to be seen again in eve. her platform site still exist google for 'take care' - maybe it contains some useful information for your own political adventures.if you meant to ask why we're discussing another person in your platform thread: somebody likened her programme to yours. and sorry for the derail but i can't let some tool question my forum e-logic. i will try to meditate and just let it go. no promises though! edit: ok breasts were also a big factor in getting her into the csm - i don't want to keep important facts to me"
"maybe that just shows how lots of people don't like the physcos in the game... either that or it was all down to the *******."
"how dare you attempt to invalidate the generalization i ascribe myself to. your logic must be fail or it's entirely possible that being good or bad is an individual choice... which will cause me to actually have to do good things...i'd rather just enjoy the fruits of my generalization pls."
"uhm, you said that you were going to be unreasonable in dealing with ccp, that's a pretty big warning sign towards being a disagreeable douchebag right there. honestly, you can't even represent your own opinions faithfully, how can anyone expect you to represent them?"
"it would appear that c&p are, by nature very unreasonable, hence it should be a wonderful relationship."
"how much isk do you pay for 1 vote?"
"anyone gonna vote for me? hehe"
"no thanks."
"depends. are you running as a republican or a democrat?"
"what's your platform?"
"how much isk are you paying for a vote?"
"none. someone's bet me i can't get above 3 votes so i guess i'd spread the isk from the bet evenly if i do win.campaign message: atheistoffail stands for the sandbox. ninja salvaging, afk cloaking, hulkaggedon and many other shows of the freedom of the sandbox must be protected. we will fight for your right to blow stuff up and play however you wish (within the eula) in this sandbox.copied right for my app. some people might like what i'm running for.ps: only made thread since it asked for a website. i figure people can critize me here as easily for running."
"with such towering and moving rhetoric, who wouldn't?"
"i cannot in good conscience support a candidate who has such a fondness for afk cloaking."
"i know which is why i'm sure noone will vote for me. it's the perfect plan. it's called \"reverse psychology\"/me submits an application yet makes it so noone will vote for him./me changes his english proficiency level to \"poor\".i think that was an insult."
"proficiency, you know there is an in built spell checker. i also would never vote for you and i don't understand why anyone would use your \"lottery secure server,\" it kind of made me laugh to be honest."
"thanks for spelling help. /me is in your debt.in regard to the security thing, maybe that's what i want you to think?"
"your also a 2010 player, who fly's terrible mission ravens. you would be a terrible csm."
"nondenominational failure, obviously"
"/me looks around.i'm not flying that, just holding it for a friend ps: just upgraded from drake to raven. can't blame me.pps: 2009 player also."
"run in another 3 years time when ccp has time to write code and has been forced to start listening to existing customers rather then marketing deparment."
"at the current rate, there may not be a ccp or an eve online."
"nope."
"vote for plex. seriously."
"i'm going to be voting for cat."
"will vote for lady #10, whoever that be..."
"who will vote for me if i stand the election? i will fight for you. your voice is my voice and my voice is your voice.good enough?"
"moved from general discussion"
"depends on the kickback i will receive."
"when software is designed, there are a series of steps taken even before a line of code is written. one of these is the creation of the specifications that the software will follow. in this case, ccp created a spec for wormholes and control towers.having worked for a major software company, sometimes \"bugs\" are discovered that are debated. questions, such as whether the alleged defect breaks a part of the specification, are raised. often heated debates break out. in many cases, bugs are stomped. but some are found not to be bugs at all; they are a part of the design specification.these are therefore said to be \"working by design\".what you've discovered is something that you think might be a bug, but is, according to ccp, by design. thus you are correct to bring the issue up here, but not for the reasons that you think. if you think that this is a game breaker, bring it up as such. it's not a bug, however - it's working within the game's target specifications. if you find that it's a potential balance issue, you can bring it up as such. cheerio!"
"appreciation thread for greyscale, doing his best to make this game more fun and to do the right thing :respect:i hope you have the resolve to see it through, esp with what is about to happen in the next csm elections."
"link?"
"what microtransaction drahma?"
"man it's like you don't even know how hard you're getting trolled."
"yes it is (deal with it)"
"yes, yes, yes, trolling etcsomeone says something, gets called out and suddenly people say 'troll' to defend him / her, its been happening in goons for years now.the funny thing is, when a person mentions someone is getting trolled it always means that they werent trolling in the first place and they are so threatened by what bull**** they came out with their only defence is to mark it as humour.goons may as well just criticise people who died in rl again then after getting flamed at go \"im trolling\" >.> worst damage control ever."
"im finding myself in the uncomfortable position of agreeing with mng"
"although the thin clients allow devs to \"play the sansha\", and kick our asses that way.. instead of infiltrate our (players) corporations. i have been told that it was boring for them, as most players cant ever even deal with the sleeper ai, let alone what 1 dev controlling a fleet of sansha could do...."
"worth supporting over and over and over (...) again."
"yes yes yes"
"these threads are always funny. the big, bad boys go oh-so high and mighty on you when it comes to choices in eve having consequences and such... except, of course, when they're ganking folks: then the insurance company needs to pick up the check for their misdeeds, along with, if you please, virtually no security standing loss at all.soooo supported. +1"
"not that i necessarily disagree with removing insurance, but i am confused by the original post. can someone explain the, evidently, important distinction between an itty 5 pilot with 5bil in his hold and a shiny mission boat pilot with 5bil in fittings? i am sure there is a great deal of difference, otherwise the poster would not have problems with the mission-runner getting blown up, but i cant figure out exactly what that difference is. please help."
"no real insurance company would insure ships in eve"
"a web reduces a ship's maximum velocity, but not its acceleration. when a freighter is webbed, this allows it to enter warp sooner as it reaches 75% speed faster and is able to align faster due to being at a slower speed."
"your original post on changes to sc's is reasonable and well thought out. i'll tentatively support it, but i really prefer the following two counter suggestions, as i think they accomplish the same goal of making supers more susceptible to subcaps: 1.) make f/fb's more vulnerable to bs weapons so they can be declawed. although a pos mod for drone storage would probably be needed for refilling drones. 2.) a cruiser anti-super citadel bomber ships to provide a subcapital counter to super-capitals."
"/signed."
"bump for great justice."
"definitely need doing"
"it is only fair that all t2 ships should get 7 bonuses like bombers.interceptors need 2 more bonuses (they only have 5), recons need 1 more (they get 6 already), hac's + hic's + bo's should get 3 more (they only have 4), and mauraders should get 1 more (they have 6 right now). then all t2 ships would be treated fairly and get the same number of bonuses.if you want to nitpik and claim that unlisted bonuses to resists (that are over t1 resists for that race) then the number of additional bonuses will be reduced by 1 for those ships with built in higher resists. doing this is stoopid though, because they are not really bonuses but merely different ship attributes.totally support giving all t2 ships 7 bonuses to make things fair"
"you have my full support."
"bump. i am just going to quit eve until they fix those. kthxbye."
"/support"
"ha, canceling subscription until hybrid / gallente is fixed.that has to be some incentive for eve if enough people do it."
"can i have your stuff?"
"no, you can have your stuff."
"yay!!wait..."
"this is the best way forward as far as i can see. it wont harm actual human players, fill the screen with popups, or create piles of never-ending work for devs.the first step isnt to scan accounts or client memory; its to remove all asteroid belts, ice fields, and re-spawning rats (stay with me for a second). next, make asteroid sites scannable via probes and have rats guarding them. with a small number of roids at each site (30 hulk minutes worththink mission duration), and a few rats to shoot. adjust the spawn rate and quality of both to diminish as the frequency of harvesting increases. this encourages people to spread out and cripples macros & macro like behavior.with no ice fields, belts, or systems with 7+ belts to chain spawns, macros as we know them today will die. yes, macros will adapt; but the boring tasks are improved (+1 players) the macro income has been greatly reduced (+1 players) and the never ending supply of isk, liquid or mineral has diminishing returns (+1 players). beating market bots is much, much easier. all market bots rely on an infinite number of market updates per day. the solution.either put a limit on the total number of times a player can update orders per day, or greatly increase the cool-down timer of making updates. the former would hurt actual traders much less.note: there are so many anti-bot this and that in the assembly hall that i accidentally quoted and posted this in the wrong thread when re-logging. double post not intentional."
"when i first started playing eve many years ago, 0.0 was a scary place. it was far from the safety of empire, where one could go many jumps without seeing another soul or another player made object. this was how 0.0 was meant to be. high rewards for high risks. unfortunately today, the opposite is true. there are no risks if you're paying attention and you can live just about anywhere without any hassle due to the station proliferation that has overcome eve in recent times.personally, i think building stations is great. it's quite like building your own alliance supercap, it's something everyone can work towards. however, unlike everything else you build in eve, it's indestructable. you can ping pong it around between alliances, remove clones and corp hangars, but apart from that, nothing. the station will remain there forever. so what happens when your space is invaded?over the last few years, a trend has been emerging. one alliance loses it's space, waits a few months, then retakes it, with all it's assets intact, ready to be re-used again, sitting in a station. see for example mc vs nc, goons vs bob (and it). there's no real problem with losing all your sov. if your patient and your alliance isn't some paper tiger, the chances are you will retake your station some day, then build more stations.i know it has been discussed before, and deemed impossible, but it needs to change. this should be a major priority for ccp, and if its required, code should be rewritten. stations need to be destructable. i'm not gonna go over how i think they should be made destructable, as that's another days discussion. currently there are at least 10 regions with more than 25% station coverage in space. this, frankly is ridiculous.some data:in order of station coverage (%)providence52 stations84 systems61% station coveragedeklein28 stations68 systems41% station coveragedelve (not including blood raiders npc space) 34 stations85 systems40% station coveragetribute 21 stations54 systems39% station coverageperiod basis 13 stations40 systems33% station coveragetotal stations in these regions: 148average station coverage: 42.5%these are just 5 regions (admittedly ones that looked most station crowded on map) in all of 0.0. not only do stations provide sanctuary for pilots and assets, but they also provide huge defensive advantage as you have to reinforce each one three (3) times, which the defender gets to set timers for.finally, this would allow alliances to go on a \"scorched earth\" campaign and actually inflict some damage on hostile infrastructure."
"supported, burn them all"
"most definately supporting this. it's not something that will be easy to implement and, if it is, it shouldn't be a trivial act to destroy a station, requiring a good time and manpower investment to get the job done."
"i support the general idea of destroying stations.however, i don't like the way strategic fleet battles are done in eve. it wouldn't be fair to allow stations be destroyed under current sov mechanics.maybe something like this: the current owner of the outpost can self destruct the outpost after 30 days of ownership. self destruct timer 24 hours.that gives people enough time to try reclaim it."
"big support. something like this needs to happen if 0.0 is every going to break away from the 'go ahead and knock it down, we'll just rebuild it later and lose nothing' mentality it has right now.i'd even go so far as to say if stations were destructable ccp should allow multiple player stations in systems. the biggest problem i see with this is the person who unsubbed 2 years ago and has all their stuff sitting in a station in delve will not be amused if he resubs now to find it has all been welped. destroy stations, sure, but some form of asset preservation or even compemsation needs to be in place. this is one of those things that eve desperately needs, but it needs to work the first time and it needs to be implemented in full(not like the halfassed and still broken lolsov changes)."
"i just want the bisons roam free. ****ing farmers and railroads."
"i agree with this i like that 0.0 is hard to live in it should not be made to easy. the challenge is half the fun."
"just curious: if there is nobody around to make the sexee time on you, how risky can it really be? seems, to me, that you have it backwards m8."
"while i agree that stations should be made destructable, you argument carries no weight, does not propose a solution and highlight something that isnt even an issue. i have no problem wiht null having 200% station coverage, it's not like those stations just spontaneously appeared there, people worked their butts off for them, you know."
"i think you're missing the point where evil griefers are hopefully supposed to be able to rob/destroy player made structures, like in said dark world (tm) (quote from some random ccp interview i cannot recall now) they would.currently stations cannot be destroyed or even looted, even pos's are pretty difficult to loot since, well, ppl can just warp out their stuff, even if someone has time to waste to shoot pos two times. currently practical way to rob people is just join corp and get a password/hangar access."
"while i'm not entirely convinced by your argument about proliferation, i certainly do agree that non-npc 0.0 stations should be vulnerable to destruction just like everything else there."
"only if npc 0.0 and lowsec stations can be destroyed too."
"this thread isn't the propose a solution on how to design the mechanics of how you destroy stations. ccp have stated it is impossible with current coding, so this thread is to highlight that that needs to be changed soon.people work their butts off for titans too, but they're destructable. stations go against the grain in eve."
"i'd like to comment that i also think 0.0 should have delayed local like wormhole space, an entirely different gate mechanic and be twice as large."
"kill them with fire"
"don't count the votes of folks whos alliance didn't build any stations while they were in it"
"some things will be more or less popular than other things. that's the way of the universe. never ending balancing to try to change that can not work.as a counter proposal, have different subsystems have different balance of material costs, so the less popular subsystems and their materials can drop in price to match their lack of popularity. allowing less popular subsystems to cost less may increase their popularity. a rise in popularity would also allow the bpcs to be somewhat useful instead of being trashable garbage.there is one reason i can think of to balance the ships themselves. when t3 was first announced it was observed that there would be thousands of possible variations. with some of those ships, there are only 1 or 2 actual viable loadouts."
"i support making t3 ships more versatile and better than t2 for pvp purposes. i like the idea of people losing more expensive ships in pvp, and suffering some skillpoint loss.i wouldn't mind if t3 replaced t2 completely, and only reason to use t2 would be to save on cost.on other hand, i don't like when cheap ships are made more powerful. like battlecruisers. either raise the price or nerf them."
"thing thing with making some of these subsystems more powerful is that they will leave some t2 ships as serving no purpose.i agree with: coolant injector really needs a buff. your idea is cool, but still not enough to pique my interest in it as a viable choice.adaptive augmenter/shielding - this idea is cool, but there was also the original plan of having 5 different subsystems for each slot, and one designed specifically for rr could move that amount bonus over in tandem with range and replace the secondary bonus on the adaptive's to more resistance?proteus - covert: yes on falloff.i disagree with:warfare processor: as it stands they give an awesome bonus, and making them have an additional tank bonus would make command ships role pointless.tengu - rifling: giving it too much jam power eliminates role of falcons/rooksproteus - drone synth: makes ishtar pointless if you give a proteus 125m/bits.proteus - hybrid prop: used with the scram range electronics subsystem, the damps eliminate the arazu's role.legion - parasitic: rules out use of curseas far as the rest, i haven't looked into the matters enough to have a strong opinion one way or the other. but ccp has stated specifically in the past that they won't give the proteus the 125 bandwith since it would make there no point for ishtars anymore, and buffing any of the other subsystems too much would make a lot of the recons or command ships or even hac's useless. its why they won't introduce an interdiction bubble subsystem.i do think they should consider a propulsion subsystem that allows jump-drive capability without it being on a ship with the covertops subsystems, however."
"that's exactly why i want it, tho. because if people use t3 instead of t2, they lose much more when they die. i want people to put more on the line when they pvp. losses should hurt."
"haha, i get the motivation, but there are already too many useless ships in the game. i'd like to see a day where everything has its nice little role.in the case of t3, they have the massive advantage simply by being modular with each subsystem using its own skill set to modify bonuses. i don't want to see any ship be cast to the wayside while t3's become massively op. t3's versitility is their strength, and a massively plated proteus with the scram range, a mwd, and a full rack of neutrons ****s face as is and pretty much make a deimos look like a really useless item as is (more than it currently is).the last thing we need to have happen is all recons and command ships to get put in the same heap with destroyers."
"yeah, the tendency to forge ahead and leave the \"old\" features behind; not a good thing. while i can appreciate that there are more important issues around than this one, a balance pass on tech iii seems like a relatively \"small fix\" (to me anyway, i'm not a tech/programmer kinda guy)."
"@ burseg sardaukar:yup, i agree. would not want to \"phase out\" tech ii and this is part of the reason why i stated the examples were only \"guidelines\" and in no way \"absolute truth\", nor part of the actual proposal (which was simply to divert some attenti"
"t1, t2, t3 - there's a bunch of different unpopular things that need to be reviewed and fixed. these seem like appropriate fixes to me."
"versatility is all great and good... just so long as you don't end up with thousands of mediocre variations to choose from. and t3 is very close to exactly that.t3 absolutely should put t2 to shame. it should be a much more effective and flexible option, but one that comes at great cost.the way things should be:t1: reasonable effectiveness, little flexibility, low cost, always available.t2: good effectiveness, decent flexibility, medium-high cost, mostly available.t3: excellent effectiveness, excellent flexibility, very high cost, may not always be available.obviously, this is not the way it is now. the vast majority of t3 fits are less effective than their t2 counterparts and come at far greater cost. there are really only a couple of effective t3 fits, which is exactly why you don't see masses of t3 ships, and the one you do see are almost always fitted in entirely predictable and common configurations. kinda defeats the entire purpose of what t3 was supposed to be all about."
"oh hell yes! now that would be a good use for that subsystem."
"i have spent some time evaluating the benefit of using that subsystem and it's indeed useless - compared to other choices.being able to overload things 50% more effectively would make it desirable (so 20% overheat bonus on hardener becomes 30%) - that's actually a very neat. given the time limited nature of overheating, it wouldn't cause serious imbalance issues."
"sounds like a good idea. anyone know what design software ccp uses?"
"i want to see an armani store in jita. supported."
"i'd love a chance to make my own designs of outfits.. i'd probably give up flying around in my spaceship and open a boutique in jita ;)edit: forgot to click support"
"or perhaps a player elected capsuleers council to address issues like this, player advertising, affairs and it'd be regional, eg amarr council for amarr style clothing etcthat would free up ccp staff to develop moar and filter less and it would immerses players a lot more imo/support"
"while this has been suggested before, the need for more isk sinks in the game is becoming more and more apparent, and i believe player-controlled advertising on the billboards would be an excellent idea to do so.basically, players should be able to place ads, in either either system-, constellation- or regional-wide ad campaigns. the costs should be paid in isk, and be low enough to encourage wide-spread yet large enough to have an impact."
"yeah, i think this would be nice. particularly for someone selling services, prerigged ships, etc."
"90% of the ads would contain scams. business as usual, literally. well, at least they would have to pay for itregards, lax"
"since this would complement my idea about open source vanity items, i support it fully."
"this idea been proposed since eve was released, 5 years for sure.ccp just don't care. or they are paranoid. they don't want goons showing dirty pictures and nasty messages to timid empire carebears."
"now that team bff has some free time, how about another look at this feature?"
"yes please."
"this is the best way forward as far as i can see. it wont harm actual human players, fill the screen with popups, or create piles of never-ending work for devs.the first step isnt to scan accounts or client memory; its to remove all asteroid belts, ice fields, and re-spawning rats (stay with me for a second). next, make asteroid sites scannable via probes and have rats guarding them. with a small number of roids at each site (30 hulk minutes worththink mission duration), and a few rats to shoot. adjust the spawn rate and quality of both to diminish as the frequency of harvesting increases. this encourages people to spread out and cripples macros & macro like behavior.with no ice fields, belts, or systems with 7+ belts to chain spawns, macros as we know them today will die. yes, macros will adapt; but the boring tasks are improved (+1 players) the macro income has been greatly reduced (+1 players) and the never ending supply of isk, liquid or mineral has diminishing returns (+1 players). beating market bots is much, much easier. all market bots rely on an infinite number of market updates per day. the solution.either put a limit on the total number of times a player can update orders per day, or greatly increase the cool-down timer of making updates. the former would hurt actual traders much less."
"the eve client could be configured to exam other .exe files running and interacting with the client. much like poker software or other anti cheat software. i'd also like the names of banned players to be published along with the corp so that they can be named and shamed."
"1.0"
"for what it's worth...+1"
"this particular solutio (petition) will not workccp will be flooded with thousands of reports, who will answer them? and how will they detect a real bot? ban everyone who plays 23/7? yeah it's going to work for some time (2 days?) until people figure out that they need to re-arrange their bots so that they rat/mine 8 hours.eve online has terrible pve and mining, it's super easy to bot. unfortunately they are too busy creating space barbies and have no time to create dynamic content."
"gallente need love."
"its not just the ships and guns. guys.its our high sec and our factional warfare as well.playing gallente is like playing 'dante must die' in devil may cry 3."
"i support fixes to hybrids but what needs fixing about the ishtar?"
"erm.. read the document if you want to find out???"
"my bad thought that was part of your sig, reading nowedit. having just read that, i would say that the ishtar doesnt need more cpu, i mean i wont say no to more but its not a drastic need.on the other changes, i think the numbers you propose needs to be tweaked as some would be a massive overboost. the brutix bonus you propose wouldnt fix the ship as e-war has never been the brutixes major weakness. i would prefer repper bonuses being changed to hp bonuses as it would lower the reliance of blaster boats on trimarks for tank. however having said all that i would support a damage and tracking increase to the point where its dangerous for ships of similar size to be in scram range of a blaster boat.i will also support a lowering of the fitting requirements for blasters in general as i think this would go a long way to improving blaster pvp.rails i would prefer to be the middle ground between artillery(high alpha) and lasers(high dps). not like they have at the moment with crappy damage, tracking and dps."
"ok, here are my thoughs. i agree that ishtar is not horribly wrong, it's one of the few gallente ships that actally works. i am not asking for a massive boost, but give it just enough to fit adrone upgrade or two. bring it in like wiht another gallente hac. numbers i proposed are examples only. i leave it up to ccp to decide exact values. yup, some might be an overboost indeed. with the ecm resistance i was trying to get an original ship, where no equivalent exists in game yet. my fear is that a straight hp boost will just give people more incentive to buffer tank it and trimark it, so they can get a brick or a bait. if we give it a ecm resistance boost, it becomes an e-war ship killer. iprefer this due to following:ecm ships usually have virtually no tankbritux has a massive damage output-> this would mean that it can kill off large part of your fleet's ecm force quickly, and means that ecm ships must be guarded and introduces one more counter. -> this makes sence from rp perspective for gallente to develop a ship that is speshialised at taking out caldary's e-war support. -> weakens position of a falcon as the ultimate reckon ship-> adds something interesting and unique to the gamein the document i propose increasing powergrid of most gallente ships, but reducing fitting requirements of blaster would achieve the same goal. i have no preference in this regard. so, it can be done either way."
"did you forget to mention that scorch gets no falloff bonus? or that barrage gets no optimal bonus? its is well balanced, hybrids gets both optimal and falloff in half the amounts of the other 2.i dont follow you here... because autocannons get longer falloff blasters need tracking? if you are complaining about your lack of an engagement range then say so and ask for more falloff.and the fact that minmatar ships have smaller cargoholds than any of their gallente counter parts does not come into play? maybe they should boost minmatar hold size and ammo size so they can more effectively fit capboosters?wait, so all other faction cruisers dont have to downgrade their guns to the mid sized ones to fit? so it can be the fastest cruiser in game, beating even the vaga and cynabal? no thanks. while we're at it, lets put a dd on it, give it 50 million ehp and make it have to cyno. or do we have ship like that?actually not half bad changed but the cargo hold.web range is a minmatar bouns. gtfo with that idea.actually not half bad changed but the cargo hold.first off its spelled deimos. secondly, speed bonus is too op, as stated above for thorax. web bonus, i could agree with though and the vigilant and kronos get them.you want more shield tanked ishtars in game?all good but ewar bonus.while that would be a nice bonus, i cant behind it cause you're practiclly giving the gallente 2 feild command ships. it needs to have its links fixed and survivability in fleets reworked.you trolling me on the kronos bro? it is competive with the others, its just the golem that needs a nerf to bring it in line."
"the reason i suggest lowering the overall powergrid for hybrids rather than increasing gallente grid is so that it boosts the caldari hybrid boats as well as the gallente ones"
"ok, i agree with that, will adjust paper tomorrow. no, it is not. you are criticizing me without any basic, as you did not even bother to do the maths. 25% + 25% does not add up to 50% bonus in this case. since for lasers faloff represents a tiny percentage of their effective range, they don't care that faloff was not boosted. same is true for artillery. so i will spell it out for you:weapon optimal falloff effective range:neutron blaster canon 7.2 km 10 km 17.2 kmmega pulse laser 24 km 8 km 36 km800mm repeating art. 4.8 km 19.2 km 24 kmwith appropriate long-range ammo fitted: weapon optimal falloff effective range:neutron blaster canon 9 km 12.5 km 21.5 kmmega pulse laser 36 km 8 km 42 km800mm repeating art. 4.8 km 28.8 km 33.6 kmso effective range was increased by:barrage: 33.6/24 km = 40% bonus to effective rangescorch: 42/36 km= 37.5% effective range bonusnull: 21.5/17.2 km= 25% range bonusas a gallente pilot i demand racial equality, and demand that null should be as good as any other long-range ammunition, and it's bonus should be swapped to 37.% at least. no, we don't need longer falloff because short blaster range is what makes gallente blaster unique. not that i would mind getting op autocanons, but i am trying to be fair here. tracking required is proportional to the rnage a target is at. so if you whant to track the same object at twice shorter range, you need twice the tracking. autocanons have shoter range than lasers, but they need to track smae targets, thats why they have almost three times (!) higher tracking speed. the same should apply for blasters, i don't know why it does not at the moment. i did not check cargo-hold of every single minmatar ship and i don't know whether this is an issue for them. it is irrelevant to this thread anyway, it is beyond my capabilities to check every single ship in game, that's something ccp is payed for. if you whant to make a suggestion, go ahead. but the simple fact is that gallente where designed as an active tanking race. to active tank you need cap. the only feasible way to get cap in pvp is cap boosters. cap boosters take a lot of space. so logically, if you want gallente to work, give them more space. not rocket science. you are complaining that thorax get's to be the fastest cruiser in the game. it does not really. it only get's the speed bonus while overloading the mwd, so that speed bonus only works for 30 seconds or so, after that you burn your mwd and you have a cruiser without propulsion.it has one chance to catch a cynabal, but aif the cynabal pilot outmaneuvers the thorax, the mwd burns and the thorax is stuck there. i am not sure if i made it clear enough."
"please explain me what eggzactly is the problem with the e-war resistance? it's made of paper and is the worst bc in game except for maybe ferox. it will still be weak, you just can't jamm it, so you have to shoot it. not really a big deal considering it can't fit a tank. i personally like armor ones for pvp, but what exactly is a problem with shield-tanked ishtars? i don't see why it should not be a valid tactics. besides, web them and battleships can hit it for full damage because of bloated signature radius. well, yes, but there is a difference between being a field command ship and being a useless ship. and yes, link must me fixed indeed, i agree. maximum tank on a kronos, cap stable: ~1080maximum tank on a vargur, cap stable: ~1450yeah, kronos is alright. ^ ^"
"so i noticed that the sign up for candidates for the next csm election is starting.but the csm has always suffered from one chief sin: lack of legitimacy. csms have been elected in the past by as little as 7% turnout and the best we've ever managed is 12%.that promotes the image of csm as a joke or pr stunt where the interests of voting blocks dominate (right or wrong). nowhere except in eve would an election with 7% turnout be considered valid.my proposal is this: you have made a working ingame browser now, right ? so when the election starts make it so that the first time you dock or login in a station during the election period on an account, the voting page is opened in the ingame browser for that account. ofcourse the voting page would also be revamped to look prettier and give a better overview of what the csm is and of each candidate. the player can close it and never be bothered by it again until the next election.there you go. trivial to implement, minimal hassle for the player, no more newbies missing the election because they didn't click on the tiny link on the login screen and don't know why the csm might be important to them.i belive with such small changes we might even double the number of voters. ofcourse some groups would rather we didn't but it's in the interest of eve as a whole."
"i support this, as it would create more awareness for the election. showing the voting page when logging into the game while in a station would be preferable for me, so that it does not cause lag when i am docking while in a hurry.what i would suggest as an extension of this suggestion:- randomize the sequence of candidates each time this page is shown, so that no candidate gets all the votes from those players who do not care, and choose the candidate at the top.- give the player a \"show this again\" option, to be reminded later. this would help players who, while being interested in the csm per se, do not pay much attention to the voting period."
"would be pretty awesome of they used the api ident system of the igb to facilitate voting. would go even further though and spam pop-ups like they did with the avatar creator. got to keep in mind that not all people ever open the igb, instead using external applications.the whole voluntary democracy is a stupid notion as people are too damn lazy for their own good, proven by previous elections both in eve and real world. should be mandatory or at least \"encouraged\"."
"thanks for the support.i tried to keep my ideea as simple as possible so it can be quickly implemented rather than delayed forever and so there's little reason to object. also supporting my own proposal ofcourse."
"let's not have people who neither know nor care much about the game deciding who should influence its development."
"i'm on for this."
"i agree 100%. this should be implemented with the current election. give each candidate a few sentences to describe their positions."
"i agree.ccp should also establish some rudimentary policy outlining quorum for elections as well. there should be some established minimum of electorate turn out before results can be considered official."
"please fix any exploits or problems and get this in a future release soon<U+FFFD>."
"atm game allows players to jump supercaps/caps to cynofield at onlining pos. what happens is when pos 10sec from been online you can jump any cap sized ship 100% safetly. (you) 0.o dont get it... how exactly?little example, lets say i want to go from x point to y. in order to do it i need jump low sec system full pirates and hotdropers. so all i need to do is grab pos, anchor and then online it. when there's 10 sec left on timer, i cyno up, jump my jf uber fleet and after few seconds pos goes online and noone can hit me since i'm inside shields.therefore, disable cynofield function at least 40km from onlining poses. just don't say on grid because that would not be good for hotdropersrablys"
"or make them bump when pos onlines ^-^supported"
"afk nuisancing: fitting a cloaked ship with a covert cyno (to negate cyno jammed systems) and being logged in 23/7 in the same system with little to no activity.the problem:this has become an absurdly obnoxious way to completely shutdown almost all industrial activity in a 0.0 system. it is virtually 0 risk and is done afk with great rewards, which is the opposite of what ccp claim to want for the game. on the occasion that the person is actually at the keyboard they can quickly scan the system to see if there is anything for them to hot drop and after 1 hot drop almost all activity will have to be stopped in the system because you can never tell when the person is actually there or not. there is no way to attack, decloak, scan down, or in any way counter this except when the cyno is lit. this means you would have to scan down the cyno form a fleet and hope that the fleet could get to and pop the cyno ship before it could cloak back up, which you would have to do under fire. even if you did manage to pop it, it would take almost no time for the pilot to refit another claoky with a covert cyno and get right back there.solution:i'm sure there are a lot of players who have thought of ways to remedy this, the most compelling i have heard so far is simply making the cloaking devise shut off every so often, perhaps giving it a very long cycle time but requiring it to be reactivated. another idea might be might be using a pos mod to decloak all the ships in system allowing an afker to be scanned down but an active player to cloak back up before they can be located. or, bring back the system scanning pos mod and allowing it to scan down cloaked ships.i'm sure there are many other solutions and i don't know which one should be used. but i do know that this is not something that should be allowed to continue. it is completely impossible to defend against, requires little skill, is no risk to the person doing it, and offers massive rewards by either giving easy kills, or shutting down a system that would otherwise be producing isk, or both.-i'm not saying you shouldn't be able to sit in a system all day long cloaked up if you want, i'm saying you should have to actually sit there, not log on once a day then go about your business in rl or on another character."
"the main problem here is the hot drop mechanics, not afk cloakingcurrent cyno hot drops are completely overpowered - they are instantenous and unscoutable. there needs to be some delay between cyno activation and ships appearing. there needs to be some way to know what's coming - at least as soon as cyno activates. and there should be options for mobile cyno jammers, that can block even cov ops cynos.this isn't about cloaking at all."
"what's cloaked, can't hurt you.use this as an opportunity to protect your industrial assets while they are at risk in space."
"@ ephemeron: this thread is about the inability to decloak or scan down a cloaked ship that has no one behind the wheel, if you feel cynos are over powered feel free to make your own thread explaining why.@ kryhane: what? if your asking what being cloaked"
"i agreeits complete crap that someone can just sit in a system cloaked all day every day and never actually be there."
"nerfing scouts isn't particularly fair, but i feel ships fit with cloaks (non-covert ops) should possibly require some type of fuel or be able to be scanned after sitting still for too long. this allows covert ops ships to do their jobs, while ratting drake bots can't warp to a planet and perma-cloak on every person entering a system.i think a better solution to the heightened alert would truly be a spin-up cycle needed for cynos, or even a cyno mass limit. i understand that in the role-play sense a cyno is a \"beacon\" that the drives of the ships lock onto, but i feel that as a ship jumps to the becon, its mass should start to be reduced. this would make cynos deployment and jumping more tactical and less \"everything i have is coming through at you in 1 second.\"on top of that, supercaps should require a special cyno to bring them to the scene, like a 1 minute spin-up on a module that must be fit to a carrier @ least."
"i agree that cloaking scouts should not be affected at all (or at least very little) by whatever mechanic is implemented. the decloaking pos mod would absolutely be able to be used for decloaking scouts so perhaps it could have a long cool down timer, maybe 6 hours, this would limit its ability to disrupt scouts pretty considerablythe issue isn't with cloaking drake botters (another subject all together) its with covert ops ships fitted with covert ops cloaking devices and either a cyno or a covert cyno. they are impossible to counter and cause huge problems for the people they are harassing without having to even be there while they do so, much less having to put anything on the line. is a great tactic to employ but i feel that you should at least have to be paying a little attention to the client while you do so, not out shopping for groceries.again, not talking about cyno mechanics. talking about the ability of a player to log on, cloak, and walk away. disrupting the ability of other players to play without having to actually be playing himself. cyno mechanics is an interesting subject, but not of this thread. this thread is for ideas about countering afk cloaking, and support/criticism of those ideas"
"ashofski, how about this then: if you gain the ability to scan down and decloak people in deep 0.0i should gain the ability to eject carebears out of stations and pos shields, especially when they are afk.fair deal?"
"pooped on because scouts have already gotten the shaft enough from ccp..."
"maybe removing all mention of cyno lighting and being hotdropped from your post would be a better way to articulate your problem. having a nuetral in sys wreaks havoc on a botting operation. this should be done away with. just out of curiosity: do you regularly have to scan down the cyno-lighter whilst being hot dropped? i would think that if your being hot dropped the cyno ship would be there on grid with you."
"so someone docked in a station or clearly visible inside of a pos is somehow causing you, your corp, or your alliance damage how? in the mean time you have a mechanic for killing people as a single bomber or by cynoing in friendlies at any time of your choosing with little to no warning depending upon the location of the people in system since you rarely have to use probes to find someone and even then if you bookmark the plex's, hidden belts, and exploration sites after downtime you still get free easy kills with no warning.cloaker griefing is the biggest carebear profession in eve. hell its riskier to undock from jita in a hauler that's empty."
"no."
"no fueled cloaks.no cycle time.ccp thinks afk nuisancing is working as intended and for once i totally believe them - this thread proves it."
"i am all for a player flying his ship into a system that has people in it to disrupt what ever it is they are doing, be it botting or running anoms or mining or whatever else. the issue is that currently, once you have moved your ship to that system you can simply cloak and walk out of the room, logging back in and cloaking after down time. effectively costing other players hundreds of millions of isk with absolutely no risk or even interaction on your part. if you want to sit in a system and disrupt what other players are doing i think you should at least have to be at the computer reactivating your cloaking device or something. it isn't right that people can just walk away from the computer with no fear of dieing in 0.0.as far as scanning, a fleet would not be able to warp to a covert cyno and would likely not be put together fast enough to warp to the pilot that was being hot dropped.1. i'm not the one to be bargaining with since i'm just pointing out what i think is an issue with the game not the one who would be fixing it.2. you are again bring up a subject that has absolutely nothing to do with the subject of this thread, start a thread regarding your ideas and i will comment on them there.3. feel free to continue to bump this thread to the top while making yourself look stupid"
"like in a station?oh you dont protect your corp m8's by having combat capable ships on grid? nice corp. the commraderie (sp?) is heartwarming."
"not possible for a neut to dock in a player station, and even if they were you would know where they were and when they were actively trying to kill you as apposed to afk.no i don't routinely assemble fleets large enough to take on a 15+ man fleet and stage them on grid with me just for the purpose of running a few sanctums. but that has nothing to do with the point of the thread. if you have an actual point to make in regards to your opinion of the subject of the thread, ie. i think afk cloaking should continue to be aloud because..., please make it. your assumptions of how my corp operates and your comparison of cloaking and docking are completely irrelevant."
"the proposed changes are straight up bad if taken on their own. they would not do anything to fix the issues with force projection and would in fact exacerbate the problems. removing them altogether is better than the proposal, however a few modifications might make that proposal workable.i'd say go with these changes, except make jump bridges extremely easy to reinforce/shutdown by small gangs, but require dreads to kill. make it so jump bridges have a 1 week cooldown timer before they can change destinations. that would give small gangs a target, make supply lines disruptable, moderate force projection but still allow some logistics.make lowsec smuggler bridges usable by anyone but give anyone who uses them a gcc. smuggler bridges should show up with the on-board scanner, but maybe not the overview.reduce the range of all jump bridges to be short enough to not cover inter-region travel. this, along with rebalancing super carriers should limit force projection while still making logistics possible but not invulnerable."
"force projection is hard to control, if you decrease the range of jumps bridges the simple answer is put more in. eve is to easy for the blob to win or have the advantage."
"what if some wh mechanics were added? maybe a jump bridge is a semi-stable wormhole that will collapse for 24 hours if a certain mass goes through? limit jump bridges 1 per system. make jump bridges show their destination system on the overview like regular stargates. it should be easy to scout out someone's jump bridge network and easy to disrupt it."
"i feel like alone it would work, however the gcc for lowsec idea and the wh-like idea above i love."
"why is it that you are fighting for the personal teleportation grid, aka. bridges, so furiously? linked \"solution\" does nothing: better (low-sec bridge, hahaha!) force projection, albeit slightly more vulnerable, and no downsides.even if they can be reinforced by a single frigate, it will be as today's jammers with a million of them anchored, ready to online when needed. adds nothing but aggravation to tenders with little to no impact on the issue of projection.how about bridges available anywhere you want, anchored away from deathstars and usable by anyone?you get all the benefits but also get the shaft in times of war if you 'forget' to dismantle the grid or guard the stations.- terrorists of today happily use local infrastructure and logistic hubs (trains/planes mostly) are often a priority target for capture when armies invade.ps: low-sec smuggler gates have been brought up previously and have nothing to do with bridges, they were mentioned as a way to complete the low-sec circuit."
"they should only be anchorable at planets, and only those of a certain (fairly rare) type, such as plasma. one bridge per planet.this way most systems can't get more than 1 bridge in them and a conventional jump will also be neeeded. a few rare systems however might be able to fit more than two.dust mercs will be able to mess with jb operation in some way as a high-ish level objective. perhaps greatly increasing fuel use of size of fuel bay, a cooldown on jumps or something along those lines - completely disabling would be too much though."
"the problem jump clone timers are indiscriminately 24 hours, regardless on how far they have jumped you. most players jump in and out of implanted sets more than for distance, leaving them with 24 hours where they will have a strong desire not to enter nullsec, or for some not to even engage in pvp. medical clones are expensive when you start accumulating sp. there is no direct correlation between personal wealth and skill point total. there are rich new players and poor old players. at some point, it becomes foolish for high sp characters to use ships that are prone to dying - destroyers in comedy gangs, tackling frigates, interdictors and heavy interdictors. the solutions base jump clone timer on ly distance from origin and destination, +2 hours every ly. minimum timer being 2 hours, maximum being the current 24 hour. this allows for people to swap in and out of highly implanted sets into empty or cheaply implanted easily that are in the same station. remove medical clone cost and the need to upgrade them. the possibility to kill someones skillpoints is funny, but seldom happens. in reality its just an extra cost that discourages high sp players from using riskier ships or situations. implants are the discouragement for podding, as implants can run 100mil for a normal set to billions for pirate sets."
"medical clones are a good isk sink. they should stay."
"jump clones are not meant for risk aversion. they are fine as they are."
"i stongly agree with the op> the entire idea of 24 hours time is to stop people jumping around the univerce, where one would have jumplones all over the place and would simply jump into one closes to where he wants to go. there 24 hour times is reasonable. however if one switches a close on the same station just to go to pvp, there is no reason to penalize them with a 24 hour timer. i agree wiht the second point even more, i have a number of mates for whom costs of the close exceed 20 million, which is higher then the price of most t2 frigates. this makes flying this ship silly for them. in my opinion age of a character should not be forcing a centrain placetyle. and you don't die nearly enough to make this a viable isk sink. in entire lifetime of this character, i have spent more on ship repairs then on clone replacements. and a few hundred time more isk where spent in lp store on implants. fullest support."
"sounds ok. and if not make the jc timer 23 hours not 24."
"supporting my own proposal."
"arbitrary jump clone timers are a relic."
"good ideas."
"this is awesome. just yesterday i couldn't fly my slicer bc i had jumped into a different clone set (w/o cpu implants). frig combat in t1 frigs is kinda silly since my pod implantless is often more then the fit on the ship."
"supporting this"
"awesome idea"
"people would be even less inclined to pvp without medical clones.so no.- z"
"he's not saying no med clones, he's saying no increase in cost for higher sp med clones. there would be one medical clone, if you have it you don't lose sp on death. if you don't have a medclone, you do."
"no, the need to do this gives stations with cloning a strategic advantage. basing out of a station with it means you can jump straight into a new ship and go rejoin the fight, while if you don't, bubbling up your hostiles main cloning station/the route from it to their staging can help prevent them from bringing new reinforcements.i don't really care about the cost, but the need to update them should stay."
"true they were meant to be used for moving long distances. in reality, people use them for specific implant sets. i have a slave, nomad, jackal and +3 normal set. i swap between them for different ships and situations. if i am in a nomad or slave set, i do not enter nullsec.you will wake up in a station, same as normal. no sp loss. no cost to get another clone. basically that free 800k sp clone will now hold 800 million sp.no implants = no reason to avoid being podded unless you care dearly for killboard stats.maybe killed the medical bay should make people wake up in another station, one that has an active medical bay. rather than having a fleet of people wake up in a station where they can choose to lose sp or lose a system.anyway, aren't you arguing that you want less fights and less resistance? as long as they have assets to dedicate to the battle, surely they should be allowed to fight if they want."
"+1 supporting"
"jumpclones: good idea, 100% support. make it 3 hours / ly even.medclones: no, its a good thing podding hurts high sp characters more regardless of implants."
"just curious: why is it a good thing that high sp characters should have higher costs?"
"it would make a lot people mad and ruin a lot of setups, but i feel like the game would be more fun. it would 'nerf' the overpowered ships to a normal level, and the rest of the ships would fit in place naturally. the only ships i think any of us are bothered by are only strong because of module stacking. certain unnamed ships have a nerf coming anyways, even if it hasn't been mentioned, we all know it.i think it would add more variation and fun in ship setups as well."
"i think the current system of diminishing returns works just fine.."
"while we're at it, lets make it so resistance mods can get you to 100% resistance across the board./not supported"
"it just doesn't work, when there are bonuses which give percentage bonuses. such bonuses grow insanely huge very quickly and become gamebreaking. i've seen many games start without a stacking penalty system, eve included, and without fail a short time later they all either have a stacking penalty or a hard limit on how many similar affects a person can have./not supported."
"i too think that 4000 dps abaddons are a good idea.no, wait mind you, this could make dreadnaughts relevent again..."
"i don't like it. it's too shiny for a deep, cold and dark eve universe.hows that for an argument? it's as good as yours - you like it, i don't"
"everything that makes eve look prettier and more realistic has my blessing. :)heartedly supported. +1"
"actually that view looks pretty bad and i would prefer the current stations. many of them have planets already in the background anyway and look better than in your pics.i also don't see why a station can't just hang out in space. it's not like space travel is hard for us in eve, so we don't have any reason to build stations so close to the planets, that you need orbital corrections to prevent it from crashing down on the planet. might even be dangerous, since such a huge block of metal isn't exactly going to crash gracefully if something were to go wrong./do not want"
"this looks immensely cool."
"not sure i want this. on the one hand they look cool. but on the other hand half the time when you'd warp to/from a station you'd go straight through the nearby planet and i hate when that happens."
"thats the stupidest argument i've ever seen. why dont downgrade the graphic and screw up the sound of the game a little aswell, so you know, to make the game less \"shiny\" and more \"dark and cold\" supported"
"i disagree here liang, the battleships would still have a counter here in this case, they could fit a mwd and try to burn to gate, or through pos shields. disruptor wouldn't help here and you'd have to choose between a scrambler and a web in case of the 4th medslot, which only a few interceptors are blessed with. the point is, i only really see the cap battery viable on 1 or 2 hac's (ishtar and zealot) and the active tanking t3's and viable and useful on no frigates, battleships or any other class. they need a boost, as to whether cap-drain immunity is one of them i don't know, but your example here was a bit daft tbh."
"with absolute neut immunity range becomes a non-issue so fitting a disruptor rather than a scram becomes the exception outside of fleet bashes.properly flown frigates and some cruisers could care less about webs/drones on ships larger than themselves and only fear neuts .. remove that an small > big (more than it is currently that is ).keep in mind that a battery would not only give the immunity but a bigger pool and the associated regen, that is right up there with what a damage control offers -> instant mandatory module.even if you removed the capacitor part of the equation and only kept neut immunity it would be borderline criminal but heaps more \"reasonable\" than what is proposed."
"two things:- if you want cap batteries boosted, consider modifying their fittings to be more friendly or increasing the amount of cap. neut immunity would prove to be an extraordinarily overpowered mechanic.- your own example, leaving battleships with only having the option to disengage and run away when faced with a frigate, has no semblance to balance. i am confused that you'd seriously put it forward.-liang"
"you have not proven that this mechanic is overpowered. in fact, you where proven wrong.that renders the second point you are trying to make invalid and your post irrelevant to the topic. thank you."
"can you please point to the post where i was proven wrong? i must have totally missed something other than an incorrect conjecture that neuts were overpowered?here are the arguments that i've seen to cite that a cap immune cap batter is somehow magically ok:- it costs a slot and fittings. yes, but meaningless. everything costs a slot, including nos. however, nos doesn't provide you with absolute neut immunity, and is furthermore constrained by range.- drones still counter frigs. not really true - many frigs will destroy a full set of drones before being meaningfully inconvenienced. hell, even a kitsune can kill a full flight of warriors before being taken down.- webs still counter frigs. somewhat true - close range frig setups are more than capable of living inside web range even today.- neuts are overpowered. this is not true at all. first of all, no other ewar has a \"fit me and be 100% immune\" module. second, neuts take time to be effective unless you're being hit by neuts much larger than you are. third, i would argue that cap boosters are a more proper counter to neuts because they are a limited counter in a similar way as all the other ewar counters. fourth, not all ewars even have counters ... and that is ok.- cap batteries are underpowerd. ok, fine. feel free to boost them by reducing fittings and/or increasing cap amount.ultimately, a lot of it comes down to beliefs... but what isn't up for debate is that adding a mechanic that even has the potential of ****ing the game up in a big way is ******ed beyond comprehension. this is why he has the burden of proof and i do not.-liang"
"less fitting requirements is a nice idea, and might be enough of a boost to make them somewhat useful. for battleship defence, well most tackle on battleship happens in scramble range (otherwise the battleship will just run back to gate, or turtle through pos shields), and there you could fit a nos to power your scrambler, having cap immune frigates would only help in the situation where you have more than 1 source neuting you and when using long range disruptors, at which point the battleship could run away rendering your point moot.it's kobayashi maru all over again, why should we omit a no win situation?"
"even with the battery, most frigs would still cap out against a neuting ship... if they don't fit a nos. if they fit a nos, they are essentially cap immune already.so they could care less? and no properly flown frigate actually fears a larger ship not specifically suited to killing them. none.the bigger pool only matters when not being neuted and the mildly improved regen is negligible.i disagree.no it wouldn't. it would greatly increase the viability of the vast majority of cap dependent ships.how do abaddons, apocs, rokhs, maelstroms, and hyperions kill frigates without nuets?nobody has stated that neuts are 'overpowered', but that they have no actual counter.significant fittings. especially on those small ships you claim (and have not backed up that claim) will be impossible to kill.nos is also far easier to fit and on the vast majority of frigs does not do anything to gimp the fit.carry spares or manage your drones better.which is also neut range incidently.nobody has claimed it is.this change doesn't make anyone 100% immune to neuts. neuts are also not ewar.you made the claim that this will lead to the era of the unkillable frigate. i and others have called you on it, because it is patently false. the burden of the defense of your claim is on you."
"how? tackle is hardly going to draw more than regen and even lasers on off-race ships will not draw enough (off-race because amarr guns ships dont have the mids to spare )are you basing the proposal on all ships fitting dual-rep tanks when using the battery or something silly like that?have you even tried looking at the numbers involved? cruisers fitting a large peroxide get up to a whopping +50% regen and frigates get around +30% with a small. negligible is not the first word that comes to mind .. and that is on top of roughly equal percentages added to pool."
"lets try it on sisi at least.i predict the real impact on general pvp will be small.we can try small gang fights with generic and neut heavy setups, and also see if using battery equipped ships puts people at disadvantage against gangs that don't depend on neuts."
"no. i want them dead.i fly a dram. if this goes through, i will ditch almost any module so i can't get neuted. don't get me wrong, i enjoy running into enemy space and ganking ratters and haulers with a dram/daredevil fleet. i don't want every single roam to be composed of drams/daredevils though. as they are currently, there are risks to flying them (such as people fitting neuts). making them a straight out \"i win\" button is dumb.by providing something that makes ships unable to be fully drained of cap, you have nerfed neuts pretty heavily.who fits a cap booster on a frigate? i didn't mention such a thing. all you need is to not be zeroed out of cap so your recharge rate isn't completely shot and you'll be fine."
"sisi doesn't exactly have a good history of being indicative of finding broken mechanics. i predict that the change can't be meaningfully tested on sisi as long as it is the subject of testing.-liang"
"if you fit a micro cap battery, your regen won't go up much at all. and a small cap battery pretty much makes the frigate completely unable to fit anything it actually needs to perform. such as tackle. 50 cpu is not a small thing.all that regen and they can barely fit what they need to fight. large batteries on cruisers is called lolfitting. then kill him.what does this alleged dram fit look like?a module to counter another module... eve is built around this concept.once you get neuted down to the immunity, that is the new total size of your capacitor. it doesn't take long to drain that down with just your own modules.why not? it shouldn't be hard for you to come up with a fit that proves your point... oh... nvm."
"oh hold on, let me fit the guns that can track a dram, oh wait, those don't exist (i've tried many times). let me fit the web that will allow me to get into range and stay in range (oh wait, that'd be a daredevil and the dram scrams them back and abs away). drams die because they make mistakes or get neuted currently. i would love to kill them more, but if you kill my curse, it is going to be a lot more difficult.4 mid slots. 1 mwd, 1 ab, 1 scram... you guess.there is no other place where there is a perfect counter. eccm doesn't stop ecm from being effective. tank modules don't stop guns from killing you. there are plenty of modules which mitigate neuts, like eccm mitigates ecm and tanks mitigate the damage from weapons.going back to the dram, a counter to the dram has 1 chance to neut them if they want to kill them and the cycle time on a heavy neut is pretty long, giving them plenty of time to stabilize again.just as you argued that liang should prove a point on sisi, the burden of proof lies with you. you are asking for a change. you have to prove it won't unbalance the game."
"lol? what you seem to be missing is that many frigs will not be able to be neuted below peak capacitor recharge rate. while that provides less cap than a cap booster (and i do have a cap booster on a couple of my frig fits), it also provides fully neut immune cap.not very well, most of the time. ;-)see comments 34 and 51 for people directly saying that neuts are overpowered.i said it would tip the balance of power even more away from bigger ships towards smaller ships. it's very possible to kill even an overpowered ship... but it may be a lot more hassle than it \"should be\".fitting a nos takes a high slot... that's a pretty damn big sacrifice!i'm not going to go line for line, but basically you asserting things yes, it does make them immune to neuts, and yes neuts are ewar.three things:- the burden of proof is on you because you are the one suggesting a change to the game.- you have yet to address any of my counter points in a realistic and credible manner.- where the facts don't suit you, you either misrepresent them or outright lie.-liangi actually *do* have a fit that proves my point. i have refrained from posting it, but it absolutely exists. there's a reason i keep pointing at tackle inties, dramiels, and such."
"i just wanted to point out that all other ewar has counters which either work against all incoming ewar (ecm) or has stacking penalties which prevent too much ewar being stacked on one target. why should neuts be different?"
"comments:- neuts are not guaranteed to immediately work in the same way other ewar does. if you're neuting a similarly sized target, for example, you may not see any effect before the fight is reasonably expected to be over.- painters, scrams, and neuts do not have counters in the sense that you refer to them.- tds and rsds can still be quite effective - bringing the engagement range of even close range battleships below where they can be effectively used. i'm not sure a 2km optimal geddon is terribly useful.- ecm is special, because its chance based. this means that bringing additional ewar to the fight doesn't have quite the same implications as other ewars. this is why so many people complain about ecm drones.but ultimately, i want to repeat your question to you - should you actually support this: why should neuts be different? why should they be the only ewar that you are quite literally immune to the ewar no matter how much of it they bring? why should it change from the way it is now?-liang"
"i don't think it'll be very interesting because1) the juicy stuff (ccps failures and sensitive internals) would never be declassified2) the stuff that gets declassified would be the stuff players already know about through csm minutes, blogs, dev blogs and actual game changes.however, as a transparency mechanism i approve of this."
"supporting an obviously good idea.transparency is good. let the voters see what their representatives have been doing for them."
"aye"
"i agree. currently we get far too little information to really differentiate candidates. the minutes are pretty much worthless for this and raw logs of the votes rarely contain any decent information. it would be great if csm internal forums could be *always* viewable by the public but only csm and ccp can post on them. sort of like senate debates are public so that voters can be informed. but i suppose that is impossible due to the nda. we need to have more information to properly differentiate what candidates views are on issues relevant to what we do. in the meantime csm elections will have more to do with deciding who is a bigger celebrity than setting forth any sort of mandate as to what players think will actually make eve better."
"real time communication is not feasible. the actual communications are going to have to be delayed by a few months at most, but i don't think that there have been any communications that should never come out.(all for nda reasons of course)"
"since when?"
"this is a bad idea. plunging the effective quality of agents = more net isk faucet. it's the last thing eve economy needs.here's why:for a good mission, top quality highsec lvl4 agent in sec 0.5 pays:~12 mil bounty, ~2 mil reward, ~2 mil bonus, 8.5k lp.for the same mission, crap quality highsec lvl4 agent pays:~12 mil bounty, ~1 mil reward, ~1 mil bonus, 2k lp.a batch of faction cruise missile costs 4.2 mil isk to exchange in lp shop. lp shop = isk sink. after lp cashed in, this results in:~7.5 mil net isk faucet for top quality agent~12 mil net isk faucet for nerfed quality agentthe above was based on killing all rats. blitzing usually results in a net isk sink in eve economy for the top quality agent, but never the crap quality agent. people are more likely to farm instead of blitz for crap quality agents anyway.this nerf you're suggesting will harm eve as a whole in addition to harming the carebears. the right kind of nerf would be the exact opposite of what you're proposing: boosting effective quality of agents, thus lp payout, while gimping rat bounty.not sure why you want to nerf highsec missioning more than it already had been. but if it's to populate lowsec, it's misguided. running typical lvl4s in a big fat bs in lowsec usually results in you getting caught, and thus failing the mission, often enough that you soon lose enough standings to lose agent access. this is the barrier that stands regardless of rewards. key to populate lowsec is improve safety, not boosting rewards.lastly, your initial assumption that tyrannis load balancing changes spread carebears out is false. they abandoned boarder 0.5 sec agents that sends them to lowsec for deep highsec hubs that's nowhere near lowsec, resulting in population spike."
"can't find the exact quote from devblog, but it was implemented somewhere around apocrypha.yeah... but they even made it easier for mission runners - t3 ships were added that can be fitted to be immune to probing (as long as you don't use drones)."
"not everyone can fly or afford t3. unprobable fit greatly gimps gank and tank, to the point where it can't tank some of the harder missions. rat tps will make unprobable fits probable. lowsec camps are not reliant on bubbles. unlike covop/sb, t3 is sluggish enough that a fast scout can burn to location of last contact during gap in cloak and decloak it before it warps off. if it's such a convenient solution lowsec wouldn't be as empty as it is now.converting all lowsec missions to fw style missions would help. not to mention high lp and no bounty is good for the economy."
"its not my intention to nerf highsec missioning. i am with you that highsec has seen one to many nerfes in the last two years. i am open to changes that make it only necessary to spread but not loose income. its only the spreading which i think could be good.and i dont know where you have looked but i know 0.5 border systems that are still populated by 100-130 people, mainly missioneers."
"i too would be very interested in seeing something to this effect in patchnotes/devblogs."
"qft. otherwise it rotates in some direction faster then others.the lines of action of major thrusters also must pass through center of mass or it cannot accelerate without rotating.but arguing physics in a game where ship bounce off each other harmlessly kind of defeats the point :p"
"they need skin jobs?"
"pandemic raaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaggggggggggggggggggggeeeeeeeee"
"i like the idea in principle, but have a couple of differences i'd like to see.way back when, ccp implemented the new lp system. doing that got rid of the only way to 'free' slaves. there were rewards that would allow you to trade in x amount of slaves and get militants, science grads, and other human based trade goods. when they did this there was talk of there being a new pos mod that would allow us to change slaves into freed slaves, militants and whatnot.this is what i personally would like to see. a rehabilitation module and its opposite, an enslavement module."
"as a long term minmatar loyalist, ex minmatar militia member and gallente by origin i must support this."
"1.0"
"once again, supported."
"supported, as long as 'enslave' is added for other types of people."
"this would help add some personality to a very bland marketplace within eve. it doesn't replace any current aspects of the game either. merely provides an optional enhancement."
"service-oriented corporations who are in any way using contracts would benefit from this - and their customers would, as well."
"it would be more useful if you bumped it here, or asked csm directly what is happening with this idea. i can see csm already voted for it. that means that the suggestion is already presented to ccp."
"oh hi vuk, surprised to see you on here, how you doing, still playing once every two weeks i see :( you gotta tell me how your coalition is still alive when major players like you and fred0 are inactive.whats your secret?"
"actually, _your_ awful post is the worst one in the thread thus far. you denigrate without identifying the aspects with which you take issue. so, good job failposting about failposts. next time consider pointing at yourself, because your exhibited ability to both reason and communicate is an arrogant embarrassment, though, prototypically, you don't seem to realize it.that being said, removing jumpbridges seems like an overreaction and a bad idea because doing so removes a facet of the game with the capacity to be used in a variety of interesting, strategic ways. if there is a nerf solution to more variety in pvp, entirely removing jumpbridges may be said to go too far.goons and nullsec dwellers with a similar csm agenda represent not only a substantial part of the player base, but a portion of the player base that may be said to be very actively engaged in the full measure of the game. they have every right and reason to take as much of the csm as they can, and they will represent a large body of reasonably like-minded constituents beyond their own membership if they do. there's nothing sinister about it. if you fail to persuade enough votes against them, a reasonable majority will have spoken."
"no we're not. check how many people are in 0.0 alliances... also check the latest minutes of the csm-ccp meeting in iceland to get a big awakening.as far as how effective we are, it depends on what. if one expects the csm to dictate what ccp does, not very. if one expects the csm to provide meaningful feedback on suggested changes and helping ccp determine where the priorities of the current playerbase as a whole stands, then we're very effective.the fact is that developers spend less time playing the game than we do, as a whole, and not to the extent we're playing it. as such our input is very valuable.as far as that linked thread is concerned it's always a question of priorities. there's a finite amount of developer resources. ccp has its own plans, wishes and vision, we have ours. sometimes they coincide, sometimes not. so we have to find compromises and make the best use of the resources available. black ops have been put on the table, ccp has heard it, now you have to give them time to take all we've said into account and decide what to do. there's so many things that need improving/fixing/rebalancing...that doesn't mean steps cannot be taken into improving things, one step at a time. resource allocation is not necessarily easy, that's what we're most helpful with (and feedback)."
"csm is good for fun posts in buy/sell. always get the i have 5 votes for sale threads.also good for a sideline i have though about but never carried through (others can run it since sharing this idea, hard enough to play of late let alone run a pool/lottery setup lol). my idea: an isk betting pool. for the elections...how many reps from blob alliances do we get. some chance in this pool, last csm varied from prior runs and not all 0.0 alliance members iirc. after the election though, the real fun pool begins....pool to see which csm member gets kicked out and banned for eula violations. this has been batting about 100 so far. make an pool bet option for no kicks at higher odds for good money in the off chance the next csm doesn't get one idiot who speculates in the billions on the market after thier trip to iceland lol."
"csm is a joke. if ccp really wanted to hear what their playerbase think about this and that they would have server-wide polls/questionnaires built in the client, performed on regular bases.but one thing is certain: csm looks cool in ccp's portfolio."
"... which is why most null-sec alliances are seriously ****ed at the csm proposals for a null-sec revamp?"
"what do you think when elected representatives of a whiny, fickle and never sastified player base flies out and talks to the developers.csm \"do want\"ccp \"u cant haz\""
"actually, the current csm seem to have been doing a really good job. now, lets make sure to keep mittani's puppets out of there this time, so that we can finally get that jump bridge nerf!"
"i think if the csm built a working spaceship out of duct tape and old kitchen utensils, half the eve-o fora would still declare that they hadn't achieved anything."
"maybe they did?"
"csm is just for show. no really influence on ccp actions.for how long csm asking to rebalance hybrid weapons? year? two? and after all ccp just says \"well... yeah.. maybe when we will add fancy laces into incarna and if there will be nothing to do else, than we will think about thinking about doing hybrid rebalance in 18 months\""
"i remember when the csm argued with ccp for hours over microtransactions.it was something like csm: no you don't!ccp: yes we are!csm: you better not!ccp: we going to!csm: nuh uh!ccp: ya huh!so yea. csm are there to give solid customer feedback, but that doesn't mean the customer is always right.actually, from a retail standpoint, the customer is almost always wrong.it's just about making them think they are right."
"while technical support is all about them realising they're wrong?"
"and in the end ccp thought it over and adjusted their microtransaction policy. no one says that the csm is always useless!and regarding the \"pet\" stuff? well, it only means that the majority of the voters care about certain things more than about others. if you don't like it, then start a campaign to convince voters to vote for someone else!"
"i'm sorry, our logs show nothing..."
"at best, you could say the csm efforts merely delayed microtransactions. just wait until (if) incarna rolls around."
"you mad bro?mad you don't have sanctums to chain?mad you don't have moon goo to suck?mad your kb sucks arse?"
"the power of the csm is limited to providing face to face feedback to ccp on issues that the vocal elements of the player base bring up, and providing some focus group feedback on any nda items that ccp chooses to bring to their attention. that's really all they are empowered to do. they can't force ccp to respond to that feedback, or force ccp to make any changes to eve or the direction they plan to take it in.given what they are empowered to do, i think this has been the most effective csm yet.until a game company is founded on the business model of the player base as an invested stakeholder and 'owner' of the product or company, rather than a customer or a marketing target, i don't expect that it'll get much better than this."
"yeah i lost all confidence in the csm process when ccp failed to deal with certain individual joke csm members who were doing nothing but clowning around.as far as i'm concerned, the whole csm process is just as broken and useless as faction warfare."
"this thread is now about finding an amusing bacronym for csm."
"moved to jpsc from eve general."
"not all csms are in 0.0sec alliances, nor the candidates.vote for one of these candidates and get some support from your corps and friends to help get them a spot.goodluck.sip."
"if i get it, it will be an honest victory, i will not buy my way in, sorry."
"i already made a deal with general windybutt.he is our chosen one."
"goodluck and makesure you include your goals in your campaign application, using the editing supplied above.yours,serious."
"no."
"my question is simplewhy are a bunch of selfish arragont 0.0 pet's, representing the eve population? influencing empire activities?why is there not a way where players can handle a way, i don't know, a way where real suggestions for the empire side of the game be handled properly and not dismissed by 0.0 players.i know this is abit weird, im just curious."
"the people in the csm are in the csm because they were voted into the csm."
"if you're curious, you should probably read the csm minutes. they'll answer your questions quite nicely."
"why are people in the csm chosen only between a portion of the players demographics and not all of them?(yes, i have paraphrased the op to make it reasonable and not a troll post)it is relatively simple: those demographics have high visibility figures, while there arent equivalent figures in most of the other demographics. there arent lists of famous mission runners or miners while between 0.0 alliances there are widely known figures, the same between pirates and so on. so most segment of the high sec population havent a figure that will rally enough voters to get a seat, even if the high sec players are a majority of the eve active accounts. some market forum guru has been elected in the past as they are the people with the highest visibility between those interested in high sec, but they represent only a section of the high sec interests. the best option for high sec voters is to read carefully the candidates agenda and try to vote the people with the more balanced agenda, hoping to get a seat to one or two of them."
"because the empire players voted for an obviously unstable, proven liar, who was also a self-obsessed egomaniac who was thoroughly ignorant of the game to represent them. when she extended her talents to breaking the nda, she was kicked from the csm. which was probably the single best thing she ever did for eve."
"could you maybe provide some evidence of this? so far this is not my impression. i'd be happy to answer your question when your facts is backed up by some hard evidence. no you're not, you just feel like ranting"
"it's because so few vote in the csm election (biggest turnout was 12% lowest as little as 7%), that any large alliance can mobilise voters and guarantee a spot.why not have a private seat at the ccp table to promote your interests and maybe, just maybe get your hands on some juicy nda protected information ahead of everyone else ?i've written a proposal on the issue as well:"
"because 90% of players are casuals who don't bother with reading walls of text csm candidates are putting on web, or don't even know about csm. while 0.0 population, although being comparably small, is naturally dedicated/hardcore and therefore very interested to vote and push their guys to the top.ironically, ccp's income is also coming mostly from those casual players but so far ccp didn't show much interest to hear their opinion about the game they are playing (ad paying for)."
"fyp"
"qft. empire carebear i may be (most of the time) but i did a happy dance when she got kicked. her ideas would have killed eve as we know it."
"no, you have to ask players, to give each one of them chance to state their opinion - directly. that's, of course, if you really care about it."
"this. people can ***** all they want about how the few hardcore can dictate how the game is developed, but those few are the people who really care what happens to the game and are willing to put effort into achieving their goals. the majority are simply here to play a game and either don't care or can't be bothered with politics. if you think you can represent them, apply for the csm and get them to support you and your ideas."
"sure they cannot dictate anything. you are missing my point."
"no, you don't. nobody comes to my house to collect my vote irl - if i can't be bothered to find out what's what and then turn at the polling station, that's my problem. the same holds true for eve.the fact that so few bother to vote simply tells us something we already knew - most people don't care that much about a game."
"0.0 powerbloc csm : keep jumpbridges or we'll quitccp : f*** you all, incarna will pump us full of money to last until we have the twilight mmo released"
"fixed.you'd suppose that if the csm is just a bunch of self-serving 0.0 reps, they wouldn't be the ones who said jump bridges could go diaf"
"i was more refering to this upcoming csm which the tinfoil hatters seem to think would 0.0 powerbloc controlled...the only thing of note the current csm did was ok micro-transactions for the game. while they did shoot down remaps for plex, they certainly allowed cash for vanity item bull.. so all the features that should have in the character creator will now cost rl money.bless them"
"moved to jpsc from eve general."
"mazz, make sure to do that by the deadline. a wiki page is part of the requirement to raise an issue. just copy and paste an existing proposal that was already raised and change the details."
"escalate it to a senior gm. and its not an exploit, its a bug so bug report it. (actually taking advantage of it is an exploit)if that doesn't get it fixed escalate it again.it seems blatantly obvious to most sane people that this isn't working as intended. the pos shields before and after dt should be the same."
"clear case of unintended consequenses of wh effects that have broken a previous existing system. this isn't the first case when these wh effects have broken the game. the effects themselves are great, but ccp didn't bother to put safeguards in the system to prevent exploits and the breaking of existing systems. just keep pestering them about it and continue to post bug reports. don't accept their canned answers and keep explaining your points clearly and calmly. all these issues the wh effects keep causing need to be fixed instead of being ignored, but as usual ccp needs to have their snout firmly shoved in their own crap before they will admit there might be a problem."
"sorry i ran out of characters in the subject line. i shall do the last letter here.\"u\"and that's appropriate really because \"u\" are the most important thing in this thread. well i am actually, but \"u\" are important too. here this graphic shows how important \"u\" are to me.linkageplease visit your user settings to re-enable images.i have 5 core policies so far, but ccp locked the thread, which kind of sapped my energy for the whole thing.basically i will be your voice on the csm. no - not your actual voice. my own voice is deep, rich, well-educated and booming. i don't think that applies to many of you, you squeaky voiced little adolescents. but i will be your voice in as much as i have absolutely no policies at all yet, and when elected i will campaign on the basis of whatever 5 policies are you the plebs tell me to campaign for.additionally i will campaign for:1) introduction of a 'sobriety test' - when logging on after a certain time in the evening you are forced to complete a complex series of keystrokes before you're allowed access to the market, open a private convo or hit the undock button. posting on caod is compulsory before you're able to spin your ship.2) ummmm3) implementation of a killboard system for forum warfare4) compulsory poasts by dastommy, one a day.5) i can only think of 4 things so far.6) introduction of a 'guest voiceover' where every week a lucky player gets to re-record the \"warp drive active\" thingy in whatever style they choose, and every played has to endure it for a week.so anyway, it's over to you. stick your half arsed campaign policies below, and at some point i'll put them on one of those social media websites on the information superhighway that allow the common man to upvote and downvote policies. right i'm done now, i really can't be arsed with all this."
"this would have saved me a lot of heartache in the past."
"/support!ed"
"i like the idea of an update to the way going to warp appears. i like the idea of there being some sort of visual indication that a ship is about to go to warp (change in thruster colour, robotic hampsters being deployed to start pushing, whatever).but no change to the actual mechanics; ie changes to the amount of time to warp etc.didnt ccp recently hire an effects artist? perhaps this should be on their priority list.so changes to graphics = supported.changes to machanics = not supported."
"to further expand on this...currently ship warp speed doesn't count for toffee unless your making loooooong (30au+ warps). how about your ship near instantly accelerates to top speed instead of the ~10 seconds of acceleration and decceleration at either end of the journey."
"supported!!"
"i also tried to get my alt fatter. i was aiming for paunchy male drill sergeant, and did get the face right, but i couldn't get his beer belly right. i mean really. he spends all day in a badger, he should be paunchy. i also had trouble in getting my female alt's nose bigger. yes, i know fine facial features what people want, but honestly, i was using my beautiful wife as a model, and she does have an above average nose size for a female.tldr: can we get fatter figures? i guess it is too much to be able to actually model within normal limits of humans."
"what about man boobs? for the larger capsuleer?moobs ftw!"
"oh and please ccp do not implement bouncie boobiesi don't want to go into a station and be greated by hundreds of women characters jumping up and down so that their 16 year old players can watch and touch themself."
"it has already been stated that no jumping and running will be available for characters in stations. so jumping just to make boobs bounce is not a concern."
"this thread was posted a year ago? oh god, i'm screwedwish i hadn't put 7m sp in rails.they don't even look or sound as cool as the other guns. c'mon ccp, do something."
"yeah, thats a list of botters. yes, its that easy to point them out. edit: thats about 50 billion isk per day, 1.5 trillion isk per month, not counting any drops. these are the bots that players with limited resources could find out. i suspect trillions more are made by bots every month, whether for the rmt or personal use. the list contains only a fraction of null space, there's tons of other null sec regions, not to mention high sec. with limited resources, we have no idea how many more there is.edit 2: link"
"this is one of the aspects addressed by my giant sovereignty reform proposal. basically, stations would be rolled into colonies in planets/moons/belts, which would be built by alliances at great expense in time and effort (more so than outposts). these colonies would be the battle sites of sovereignty, and would be fully destructible (but not by dps).theoretically, based on the system i've set up, you would see a lot of infrastructure build up in the cores of larger alliances during peace time, and a lot of destruction between alliances during war."
"...i see what you did there.+1, anything to see cva whining more about how the sov system is imbalanced against their former holdings"
"hell no!!!players didn't left to nullsec to risk everything they own even when they are not logged in."
"in that case, supported."
"a similar proposal, made by my humble self, has already been passed by the csm."
"for anything player created, there should be a way for other players to destroy it. that's the reset button on a sandbox game.outpost proliferation was a point of concern shortly after they were 1st introduced. at the time, ccp did acknowledge the potential for an issue and said they were not opposed to making them destroyable if it did become an issue.i won't say that it's a problem yet, but i think we're close enough that it's time to start talking seriously about it. if absolutely nothing else, rebuilding after a scorched earth campaign would certainly revitalize the economy."
"qft.the rifling launcher pattern is probably the weakest in-game. and the capacitor regeneration matrix actually gives more pg than the power core multiplier -- go figure. :) all-in-all, i'm happy with my tengu the way it is."
"have you compared prices recently? this is like complaining that navy raven makes normal raven obsolete.and no, fixing the proteus drone bandwidth would not make the ishtar obsolete because the ishtar would still have a bigger drone bay!supported, make proteus and legion relevant."
"you guys have no fuel catelyst?! lol. you know, as caldari i'm supposed to hate gallente sc*m, but, seriously, i feel you deserve one nonetheless: speed tanking is a big thing on a t3."
"i support this !!!!!"
"for sure there's a need to review some subs.what seems the more obvious for me is the proteus drone setup not even able to fit 5 heavy drones... seems ridiculous.a range bonus on all rr subs would be heaven also."
"when you board a ship from a pos you should start out at full shields as if you just unlocked from a station. currently, when you board a ship at a pos you will start with around 30-50% shields (when i board my onyx i start at 21% shields). because of this pvp combat based out of a pos currently gives armor tanked ships an unbalanced advantage. take a real life example that happens to me on a regular basis: you are scanning in your wh when you see someone pop up on your d-scan and they start clearing sleepers. you are currently cloaked and they have no idea you are there. you run to your pos and grab your pvp ship (whatever it may be). now you run into a problem, you are a shield tanker and your shields are currently around 40%. you have two choices, wait for your shields to recharge (and as pvp shield tanked ships generally rely on hp-buffers, and not recharge rates, this can take a very long time) or go attack the intruder immediately with your severely crippled shields. the first option of waiting will likely result in the intruder seeing you and fleeing almost every time. resulting in you never getting a kill. the second option of attacking immediately will have a very high probability of you dying quite often.currently armor tanked ships have a greatly unbalanced advantage over shield tanked ships in pvp combat based out of a pos. when you get a chance to kill someone you generally need to act immediately. this means running back to your pos, grabbing your pvp ship, and running right back into action, not grabbing your pvp ship and then sitting in your pos for 5 minutes waiting on your shields to recharge. this is a problem that really needs to be fixed."
"i propose a second filter:first player approval via the forum. a posted screen shot of the proposed vanity item.second ccp council (could be elected players) approval via a submission after player approval in the forum.the op's idea does make an interesting new profession. \"oh, you are wearing last season's atreides shoes? fluh.\""
"if it can be done, i'm all for it"
"this would take the dull out of manufacturing"
"as i've said before. i'd love the idea of putting up advertising messages on billboards.maybe also put more billboards and bigger ones around too.. like say at station undock, so people can't go around and drop a truckload of secure cans anchored some distance away from a station just to advertise themselves.might have to put in some quality control for the adds themselves, but otherwise, ccp go for it!i'll easily pay 10-20m a week for having my face plastered on a billboard telling you to buy my stuff ;)ofcourse, the price of billboards would depend on the system ofc, just like station office prices. a billboard at jita 4-4 is prime realestate, so should be comparatively expensive."
"it'd be fun."
"this is one area where microtransactions are both harmless and can be applied in a really useful manner.supported. +1(n.b. i wonder how long it will take ccp to figure out that they can have actual, real-life companies do in-game ads)."
"like"
"clever.this allows blasters to fill their intended role as a unique weapon.+1."
"i think the idea is perfect"
"btw. if ccp implement this, a new turret effect would be nice bonus."
"please give the miners a nice optical effect. the amarr have her colored lasers, why not the miners?i think my idea is low complexity to implement this.colored rays of strip miners for the different types of mining crystals. a nice amplification for the atmosphere.an example for the different types of mining crystals:please visit your user settings to re-enable images.and here an example for a situation in a high sec belt with veldspar, mexallon, scordite and pyroxeres:please visit your user settings to re-enable images.i hope you like my idea. i speak for many miners!"
"awesome!"
"we are only asking them to so something... and untill now we only see ignore mode activated...there are many solutions on this forum... and ccp can look at them and decide what is the best thing to do... or they have something better...is it bot recognizing software in client, is it changes in game mechanics, is it something else, or combination of all... its up to them...just please do something..."
"unconditionally support!"
"great attitude. then why are you here?"
"imolocal- fine as ismap- fine as isdscan- fine as iskillmails- fine as iscloaking- fine as isnot knowing what is waiting at the undock- fine as isnot having deathstars at gates- fine as isprobing mechanics- not entirely fine, but needs a nerf not a buff. willing to keep as ishaving whine threads about too much \"intel\"- totally fine as is"
"support.op has stated why these things are not fine. if you think they are fine, it's best to explain why they are."
"actually he has only stated that they are not fine, but he has not give any reasoned justification for the claim. this holds true for both the individual proposals and the overall \"passive intell is bad...mmmkay\" context in which he has made the post."
"#ERROR!"
"you understand if we've got scripted magstabs, inevitably we'd have to have scripted heat sinks, scripted gyrostabs and scripted bcus as well, right? i'm not neccessarily objecting to that, by the way, i just want to make sure you see this."
"yes, that possibility exists. in this context i am considering it as a unique functionality of hybrids and their weapon upgrades."
"comments? suggestions?"
"seem to be a good idea :dit gives more ways to fit a ship, and thus more options to do stuff."
"hello csm,this is the first tyme ive tryed to contact you so im sorry if iv got this wrong.i am asking for any information to that thing that is passed around tyme and tyme again and seems to have become something of a joke to most players... the hybrid weapon systems, and in particular, blasters.(dont hurt me)there are posts with sujestions on how to fix them, whats wrong with them, ways of getting around them, everything except (and i appologise if iv missed it) anything with any hard facts. i read in the reports of when you went to iceland that you talked about them, but due to restrictions you couldnt say more. now i understand that fully, but as a topic that hasnt changed in many years, and with has had no more said about it than 'its under discusion', i am asking for any information you can tell us.if you cant for any reason could you say what that reason is?any reply to this will be welcome, and i hope i didnt go on too long... i dont even use blasters yours votingchrome"
"there are comparison between various ships fitted for same role in hybrid threads. these are as hard as facts will get. csm and ccp has not enacted any change on ccp or sisi. they probably have some kind of internal balance mechanism, but that's just my guess."
"ccp was \"aware\" of projectiles for a good 2+ years before coming out with a quite lovely fix. ccp has been \"aware\" of hybrids for over a year now. the fact that csm is gagged on saying anything about their discussions is probably a good sign that a change is coming fairly soon."
"sounds like a very clever use of mechanics, one that even takes a modicum of planning, preparation and isk.isn't that the kind of gameplay we want in eve?what you should ask for is for an offline tower to have poor ehp so it can be dropped relatively easy. bonus for helping to get rid of offline spires hogging moons all over the cluster."
"it is clever. but it's also incredibly carebearish. it's hard to believe cap ship owner in 0.0 can be that much of a pussy.this definitely deserves a change. 0.0 travel should not be 100% safe, even for supercaps.i also agree that offlined pos should have poor ehp, so even 1 battleship can kill it in half hour."
"exploit yeah, clever yeah, practical no. just jump to the damn station, it's 100% safe as you can't be targeted for 30s after jumping if you don't activate any mods/navigate and virtually all stations have huge dock ranges these days. if people want to expose their pos's to attack needlessly like this, i'm inclined to let them. admittedly super caps can't dock but there are easier ways to get them, namely killing them in battle."
"thats not my point. imagine i have 6 pos low sec that let me go from north to south... i just need to move my alt to tower, offline it and online it again. in last 10 seg i jump my 9000 titans knowing i cant be killed.probably alot people dont know this but it kinda sucks if everyone starts doing this. nobody will be able to kill any supercap lowsec/0.0 that jumps to cynofield"
"its not exploit. cyno is open before tower goes online.and its 100% practical if u do it corp level."
"yeah noone does it"
"a pos requires 30 minutes to anchor, and 30 minutes to online, during which time the pos is completely vulnerable to attack. just kill the pos!"
"i am fully capable of seeing what it is you are talking about, but your solution is inelegant to say the least.reduce offline ehp and you can knock out any of the towers thus stranding any ships in transit.hell, even making all ships except the active pos manager bounce on bubble-up is more elegant than a base \"no cyno for you!\""
"tell me non mercenary corp/allaince that cares about random pos. if u destroy it they will just put another one up... if u put poses all over moons, they will just pop one of them. if you really want system full of your poses, they will just use another low sec systemthere isn't way to counter it."
"reduce offline ehp? poses are online... they only offline it for just 1 hour to jump their expensive stuff.if you got issue about offline tower ehp just create new topic with valid arguments."
"his solution of reducing the offline ehp was pretty good. something that would allow a smallish group of bs's to kill it within 15-30 minutes would be awesome. if someone wants to take an hour per cyno, risk an undefended 50-300m in assets, just to move something \"safely\", then let them. i don't see anything overpowered or broken with their actions. please explain how it is adversely affecting the game."
"if people want to move something cheap and insignificant by spending 50 mil in assets, then i have no problembut when people can move something very important and expensive in 100% safety, then there's a big problem.big isk = big risk"
"last update, ccp changed current cyno distant from poses to 15km. that means when you jump to pos you will always appear 15km from shields.what im starting see more, is people using this method i mentioned at begining post. there's big risk when you jump to pos in low sec because at 15km from sheilds you're vunerable to hotdrops."
"hotdrop their tower and blow it up. while you might not get the satisfaction of a 4b isk jf killmail, if you kill two or three of their towers they'll reconsider using this method! their still risking something moderate valuable for the safety of something extremely valuable, hence i don't really see the big deal."
"i will expand on my previous point. given the penchant for people running industrial or ratting ops in 0.0 to hide behind cyno jammers and jb networks at the end of a single pipe dogleg with 30 bubbles on the in gate there is literally no other way to have an affect on day to day alliance operations or get the chance of a kill.black ops don't have a long range, good intel channels and regular patrols will warn of threats as they emerge, not when they drop on you. add enemy black ops pilots to your address books. find out where they live. have an afk cloaker watching them so you know if they're forming up to come and get you.here i made you a handy flow chart of actions and options to take in the event of an afk cloaker entering local"
"can't wait till local is finally nerfedthese 0.0 carebears need to be purged back to high sec. just reading these whines makes me want to strangle them with my bare hands."
"you do realize that a cloak change will not solve the problem of afk camping a system. people can also camp it with an unprobeable cyno ship. that's why many of the best solutions to these attacks revolve more on the cyno mechanic rather than cloaking! for every cloaky ratter camper there are 3 mostly afk cloaky intel eyes which your going to mess with. additionally, given the potential awards from living in null sec there aught to be plenty of risks!!!! try to find a solutions that provides a middle ground between the hunter and the hunted."
"i agree that cloaking up in a system is a very good way to disrupt industrial operation. i believe this is the 3rd time that i have said that i think its a perfectly legitimate tactic. the use of black ops and covert cynos has been a great addition to the game imo. but being able to walk away from your computer knowing that you are in no danger of losing your ship while it floats out in 0.0 space is garbage. if you are logged on to eve and your ship isn't in a station you should be in danger of losing it. the players running anoms, mining, doing patrols, sitting in fleets, gate camping, pos bashing, and doing whatever else are at the computer while doing it, why don't you have to be? and its doesn't matter if there are 1,000 bubbles on a gate that wouldn't add any more danger to a cloaky ship getting into the system than 1.haven't run into an issue with unprobeable ships before but a very good point that i hadn't thought about before. thank youand the reason i started this thread was to not only bring attention to the issue but to allow a forum for discussion of what the fairest way would be to deal with the problem. i feel that forcing the cloaker to have to press f1 to reactivate his cloak occasionally shouldn't disrupt anyone from using a cloaking ship unless they are doing so without actually being at the keyboardmaybe you should spend less time trolling the forums and afking waiting for someone to give you an easy kill of a pve ship and more time actually fighting pvpers, it would make you seem much less lame, both on the forums and the killboards. its pretty entertaining to see how the people doing most of the pointless complaining are the ones saying those with pointed issues are whiners."
"because they can't kill***** people that see them log on. there is no warning however that they sat down at their computer and god forbid they fight within the same confines everyone else does."
"not supported. cloaking is fine. afking is fine. local and cynos are overpowered."
"is it me or does this thread appear every other week with the same exact numbers of responses heavily favoring not changing the mechanic?"
"the funny thing is that if you were some how able to force those players you don't like (ie the \"carebears\") back in to high sec you'd then be whining to ccp to force them back to you so you could viagra-up your killboard.your idiotic inference that docked afk players are some how causing a combat threat on a system shows that eithera) you don't understand the problem, orb) you do, and are pusrposely red-herring the issue.my bet is on (b), but meh. you never can really tell on these forums.on a different note, maybe if ccp were to remove local and make it so that predator has the overwhelming avantage over prey then predators can sooner (rather than later) over-hunt lo/null sec space leaving them bored out of their minds and with nothing else to pump up their epeens, eventually driving them out of the game.either way, carebears win ."
"matrixskye mk2, personally i don't care much for killboardthe main point i was making is that staying afk cloaked in space is exactly same thing as staying afk docked, or afk at posin all cases you appear in local chat channel but you are 100% safe and don't need to be at the keyboard.the root of the issue here is the face in local, that's what it all boils down to. no face in local - no afk cloaker problem.and as i also said: if you are willing to give tools to kill afk cloakers in space, then it would make sense to also provide tools to kill afk docked people and afk posed up people. as long as they are afk, it should be possible to kill them. right?on other hand, if you don't think that's right, if you don't think that afk docked people should be forced out of their stations and die, then you have no right to demand the same thing to be done to afk cloakers."
"i think a rather eloquent solution would be to have a spool up timer for regular cyno's once a ship decloaks.the argument has been made that while a cloaker is afk in a system he can't hurt you. this is a valid point, but the fact remains that you can never tell when a cloaker is simply scouting or preparing to hot-drop you. the cloak mechanic seems fine the way that it is, and griefing is working as intended, but it seems rather silly that someone can go into enemy territory, cloak up and then drop a cyno almost immediately upon decloaking. this gives the defender no real opportunity to counter a hot drop.i say, change the cyno mechanic in relation to cloaking, not cloaking itself.p.s. i feel that covert cyno's should be able to be lit immediately upon decloaking."
"delayed from entering 'local' for 60 seconds after entering a system. characters in cloaked ships no longer show up in local.no need to worry about afk cloakers bro."
"afk in station is definitely not the same thing, as a person in station poses no threat and is only applicable to a relatively small number of npc systems. a person afk in a pos leaves a potential avenue for recourse (kill the pos). there is no avenue for recourse from an afk cloaker, and they do represents a legitimate threat to carebear as soon as they return to the keyboard. while your vulgar solution would solve the problem, it is not the root of the issue. the root of the issue is the balance between risk and reward. anyone that has carebeared in nullsec knows that it provides the easiest venue for isk generation. to balance it, it is supposed to be fairly dangerous with a significant amount of risk. since it is hard to both carebear and pewpew at the same time, the carebears want an avenue of recourse against all forms of risk. a good solution needs to be a middle ground where the cattle with horns can fend off a wolf. local is the largest intel tool in the game, which provides benefits far beyond protecting nullsec carebears. before you remove it, we'd need a much better alternative to intel gather beyond the onboard scanner. i very much support a 10-20s delay between entering local and appearing in local, but not the removal of local. covert ops, stealth bombers, recons, and covert t3's are not extremely powerful ships. two ratting bs's can make short work of any one of these ship types. this is why a spool up timer on a cyno is a huge boon to the defenders. if you can't kill an immobile cyno target in 30-45s, then you deserve to die. you don't have complete safety (and you shouldn't given null sec rewards), but you can have a reasonable recourse to a hotdrop, especially when you carebear in groups!!!another reasonable solution i can think of that doesn't involve nerfing cloaks is to increase the intel from local. create an \"inactive\" icon that appears on all inactive members in system. it would appear on anyone docked in a station and anyone that doesn't interact with their ui for 10+ minutes. it would disappear whenever someone undocks, or whenever someone interacts with their ui (i.e. warps, scans, changes course, etc.). i think either of these solutions are better than forcing a covert ship to be at the keyboard and alert most of the time they are online."
"i havent been involved in faction warfare at all but i really like the idea of it. ive heard that it needs some work though and i have had a few thoughts on what i would like to see it become. my idea would require a whole revamp on what faction warfare is. what i think could be a fun idea is to create a new type of space; 1.1 or faction space, war space, fact space whatever we want to call it. it would comprise of 20 border zone systems 10 between amarr and minmatar, and 10 between caldari and gallente. faction warfare would only take place in these 20 systems. if you sign up to participate you are still allowed access through all empire regions, just the opposing side npcs will shoot you on sight in these new 1.1 systems. your free to shoot other players that also participate only in 1.1 systems, and you dont need to be in a special corp anyone can sign up regardless of the corp you are currently in. think of it as a tag that you enable. this way you can do your normal thing with your friends, and not be excluded allowing for more participation.these systems would be objective based similar to the new sansha incursion sites. a new fleet format would be introduced. each system acquires its own automatic fleet formation. if you are on a faction side and you enter a 1.1 system you are asked in a pop up window if you want to join the battle. selecting yes leaves any current fleet your in and places you in an npc fleet, with an npc as the fleet boss. free move would be on and no leadership skills take effect in order to prevent exploiting from the other team in case they filled up a side with alts in leadership roles.each system will have areas warpable on the overview and can vary in objectives. one idea would be to have two weapon manufacturing outposts. you would warp to your own faction outpost bringing you to an acceleration gate which places you 75k from the outpost, and loot a bomb item from it. a new bomb item would not spawn until the first one has been destroyed. you can jettison the bomb but if not picked up in 30 seconds the can will despawn. if an enemy picks up your bomb it will blow up their ship. the objective is to destroy the enemy outpost by looting it and placing a bomb which will drop the outposts health by 10%. so you need 10 bombs to win. one catch is that surrounding the weapons outpost is a new stasis webifyer bubble that only affects the opposing team. it would be 10  7.5k in radius allowing for more tactics. once one side wins the outposts are immune for 1-2 hours and no bombs are spawned giving that side temporary control over the system. bonus lp is awarded for the victors. the map will reflect who has control. holding 75% of the systems will grant you a bonus to lp gain, holding 100% of the systems will give you an even higher bonus. destroying the opposing faction player ships will grant lp and isk by size of ship, small, med, large.another scenario would apply to only 2 systems. with each side having 5 initial areas, across the bordered systems on one end of the line is each teams main staging system. you would have to control all 4 of the middle systems for a dreadnaught to spawn in the final system. only when defeated will you gain control of the last area which then after 2-3 hours your dreadnaught will spawn. this allows the other side to attack it to press on; the attackers will also get additional npc battleships as reinforcement to encourage constant flipping of control. the bonuses are meant to just be temporary rewards for players who were recently active. this idea is more for casual players where systems are constantly being flipped and short term bonuses apply allowing for casual pvp with minimal organization. you should be able to log in if you only have a short time for 30 mins to 2 hours and get right in on the action.im sure it would need a lot of tweaking but thats the general outline of the idea."
"so you know nothing about fw but are suggesting \"improvements\" to it? i suggest trying fw first, then coming up with ideas.as for the ideas themselves, i think they're terrible. not supported."
"i'm just throwing ideas out there to gauge an opinion. as to the ideas themselves i know it's very different from what it is now. i wasn't talking about a simple fix or tweak but a complete change to what faction warfare is. if it's as terrible as people say isn't that what needs to happen? what about these ideas do you think are terrible and why would they not work?"
"supported"
"jesus ****ing christ no!one of the main reasons removing jump bridges completely is to cut back on power projection. even if they were moved to a planet and made public it still would not cut back on a blob from zipping across the galaxy in a via a couple jump bridges to crush a seven man roaming gang and be back for tea.by removing jump bridges completely you dramatically reduce the amount of players who are willing to want to travel a ton of jumps just for a couple guys roaming three regions away because it is not worth the effort.you are also wanting to increase its hit points which means if someone wanted to offline/reinforce it before be blobed to hell and back, you need your own blob to do it quickly."
"jump bridges make 0.0 a lot more accessible as well. i think if you take them out, many people will simply leave, making for less pew pew."
"sure it will. very few systems would be able to have 2 jump bridges, you'd need additional conventional gate jumps and the jb network can be more easily interdicted by one's opponents."
"there is the solution. maybe add the ability for hostile forces to knock them offline and bob's your uncle (or aunt, who knows these days)."
"more options as far as ships go, higher efficiency with ships and weapons, bigger price to pay if you die. its reasonable the way it is."
"support for jump clone change, although i would prefer local switching to have a much shorter timer. something where i can log on, switch to a combat clone, go look for a fight and get killed and then return to my initial clone. the shorter the local switch cooldown is the better.i could live with your medical clone change and i can see why to do it, but i'm not really for it. no one really loses sp, so the only real consequense is the cost. my only problem with the current system is how it scales. my income earning has been pretty stable after the first year, but my clone costs keep scaling indefinitely. this is bs and i would be happy if it stopped after a certain point and if that point would keep flying in cheap frigate or lol gangs feasible.either way even the unaltered proposal in the op is preferable to the current situation."
"i think the poor old people are the exception and not the rule so wouldn't use that as an argument. isk and assets accumulate over time, especially assets.jumpclone: sounds good with one addition, a maximum of two jumps within a 24hr period.- pew and still have time to jump to ratting clone and back to pew as nauseum. null would be the ultimate carebear land (is bad now, but always room for \"improvement\" ).medicals: it is annoying to have to pay for a fitted bc if i lose a frigate. but since most people jump out of implant clones when going for pew, the cost of implants cannot be used as argument.keep costs (a little lower than they are). refund/rebate cost if lost clone had implants: ten slots so a nice even 10% per slot. - means you have to stock up on +1's for the suicide trips to get a -50% to clone upgrade. with reduced base cost it should be manageable even for the old \"paupers\"."
"agreed with cooldown reduction, don't care about clone cost."
"it's not reasonable the way it is. how does making pvp more expencive add t variety? what???? why?"
"\"what about no module stacking at all\"that means no stacking multiple modules of the same type. instead of diminishing returns, it is \"module doesn't stack with with the same effect\". he didn't say \"what about no module stacking penalty\".would this include having multiple armor/shield repair modules? what about capacitor modules? i know that when i do pve, you have to be cap stable while having an armor rep running. they would have to increase overall cap recharge and shield recharge, or totally revamp pve. i'm in favor of having more tools to use, instead of having all mid slots cap recharger ii's, but i'm wary of this proposal to overhaul the entire fitting system. i think it would make the game much easier to balance from a ccp perspective, but would require a complete rebalance of the entire system."
"what is the goal of your nerf exactly?- only 1 hp boosting module of each kind (1 shield extender, 1 armor plate, ecc)?- only 1 module affecting the same stat of the ship (cap recharger, hardener, tracking computer, ecc.)?- or what?and what will happen when 1 get to use only 1 tracking computer but my enemy bear 2 or 3 tracking disruptors against my ships (or ecm, or td, ecc.)?what will happen when more than one of my friends is rring me?only the strongest module will work? 1 from each ship? every module coming from other ships will be affecting me but only one of mine would affect me?give a reply to all the above and we will see if your idea has some merit."
"i just mean modules.i can fit one dcu, should be one hardener of each type (one kenetic, one em, etc), one invul field, one extender. basically just the stat boosting modules. if you think about it, very few ship configurations would actually change and those very few are considered overpowered and are going to get 'nerfed' in the future anyways.i just think hardeners and extenders/plates are too powerful, ccp has been fighting these modules since the game came into being. i'd say just kill shield extenders, but i think a lot of the damage mods screw up mechanics a bit too much.obviously not all modules. ecm ships with multiple ecms, webs, etc.. anything offensive doesn't really count as they're more lke mid-mounted weapons.and a lot of you think you wouldn't be able to adapt, i'd like to know some ships that would be totally ruined by this change. name 3 ships that will become useless in level 4 missions that aren't battlecruisers (who really shouldn't be solo in level4 missions) and i'll agree that this change would be stupid. or pvp ships that will become completely useless because of this change.on your point:\"and what will happen when 1 get to use only 1 tracking computer but my enemy bear 2 or 3 tracking disruptors against my ships (or ecm, or td, ecc.)?\"it's just a good point, i can't really think of a counter. there would obviously have to be rebalance for situations like this, or simply we could just live with it and figure out better ways to counter it, like uh, training more drone skills? for those who can, fit more launchers? i can get webbed and warp disrupted by multiple people and defending against those causes me to suffer harsh stat penalties, if i can defend against it at all."
"my abaddon requires 2 hardeners of each type to do hard level 4's. even sansha ones require 3 total hardeners. so that means dual repping, and no high capacitor lasers. i'd be back to dual heavy pulse lasers, and angel's don't take enough damage from those type (without 3 heat sinks) for me to complete the missions in a reasonable amount of time. however, if they were to implement this, they could scale back npc resistences and damage a bit to make them doable. [shamless prop]either that or they could remove the team killing aspect of fleeting, making level 4's take more than one person[/shameless prop]."
"what is funny about this entire thread is that everybody has completely misunderstood the op. he is not saying to \"remove stacking penalty\" of modules but to \"remove module stacking\" entirely. meaning you can only have one bcu on your drake...period. no need for a stacking penalty because you can't stack modules at all.personally i will not support this because it will then reduce the diversity of fits that we have right now and change the mechanics just a bit too much for my liking."
"what is funny is the lack of people reading the thread. the two people above the op's last post knew it was no stacking."
"i should mention that this was intended as a partial fix.problem: lots of people talking about re-balancing capital ship warfaregoal: to reinforce combined arms fleets and to get more dreadnoughts and carriers into the mix while further refining the role of the super carrieri agree with some of the things said in an earlier thread concerning reducing the amount of regular drones that super carriers can carry to make them more dependent on other ships, but i would like to give something back to super carriers to make it cool to fly them. all the numbers are for discussion only. i pulled them out of my arse for discussion. it would be necessary to allow dreadnoughts to receive some repair from carriers when in siege mode in order to balance out the carriers and super carriers fleet against the carriers and dreadnoughts fleet. the repair amount could be balanced by reducing the effectiveness of carrier rr on dreads in siege mode through some sort of diminishing returns or requiring carriers to be in triage mode.all super carriers99% reduction in cpu need for warfare link modules can fit projected electronic counter measures can deploy 3 additional fighters, fighter bombers or drones per level can fit 1 additional warfare link module per level 200% bonus to fighter or fighter bomber control range immune to all forms of electronic warfareaeon5% bonus to all armor resistances per level 5% bonus to capital energy and armor transfer range per level to all carriers in the scs unit2% increase in dreadnought weapon tracking with an equivalent increase in dreadnought missile explosion velocity per level to all dreadnoughts in the scs unitwyvern5% bonus to all shield resistances per level5% bonus to capital energy and shield transfer range per level to all carriers in the scs unit2% bonus to dreadnought weapon rate of fire per level to all dreadnoughts in the scs unitnyx5% bonus to deployed fighters or fighter bomber damage per level5% bonus to capital energy and armor transfer range per level to all carriers in the scs unit2% bonus to deployed fighter damage to all carriers in the scs unithel5% bonus to shield and armor transfer amount per level to all carriers in the sc's unit5% bonus to capital shield and armor transfer range per level to all carriers in the scs unit2% bonus to dreadnought weapon damage per level to all dreadnoughts in the scs unit"
"gief!!!"
"i've seen some rather complex ideas with regard to jump clones, of late. however, i've always been a proponent of a much simpler idea: allow 2x clone jumps per day, instead of just 1x... but have the second jump cost you 25% of the price of your current medical clone. that way ppl can go pvp in a cheap implant clone, and then go back to their all +5 clone.rationale: older characters can afford to lose a bit of training time: they can fly pretty much all they want, and time is simply pressing less on them. younger players, however, are still frantically trying to get to where they want to be, fast, and are thus less motivated to lose an entire day of full-speed training for each pvp op.the second jump should cost you a bit, but not insanely so. more like: \"if you're really that ocd about not losing training time, fork over that 5 mil then, if you really want it.\""
"the problem with this is that while simple it is also much worse than the more complex ideas. this retains the ability to teleport across the galaxy multiple times a day, which is something i don't really want to see and you are mixing medical clones with jump clones, something you might want to keep clearly separate, since new players seem to mix them up at times even now. i also don't see what is on principle wrong with allowing people to switch jump clones locally without limits, so why penalize people at all for doing it. it encourages more varied implant use and implant use in general, since you can easily switch between clones designed for different activities. it would also encourage more people to participate in pvp without affecting the existing risk vs reward equation. yes it won't turn a carebear into a lion or even be enough for everyone, but it removes one unnecessary obstacle from that path.the point is you can't get advantages from implants not in your current jump clone and people are unlikely to risk heavily implanted clones in combat. this especially if the implants aren't even combat related, so it goes from simple risk aversion to just not being grossly stupid. yes some people will risk it, but most people won't and there isn't a reason to retain this barrier. i'd like to see that block of casual/risk averse people or people whose main activity isn't combat, and who are therefore usually implanted for non-combat activities, doing more occasional pvp.what is the harm in that? since implants don't show on killmails, even killmail *****s can only benefit from this change. the only possible consequenses are seein more targets to shoot at and people retiring from combat to a carebearing/training clone for the night. so the only \"negative\" is people being able to retire to a better/more fitting clone after a pvp incursion and not be forced to stay in a crappy clone until the 24 cooldown is over.are people really so bitter, that they want to keep crappy old mechanics, because they can't stand the idea of people being able to get the best of both casual pvp and high grade implant use even when it won't change the game for the worse? you don't need to answer that, i took part in the remove learning skill -discussions for years, i know exactly how they are."
"good idea, however they would need to cost something significan as isk is no problem for big power-blocs wanting to defend multiple systems in different parts of the universe.e.g. make the extra jump cost a week's worth of skillpoints."
"i like many others think low sec isn't broken so much that its a perception issue preventing it from being populated. a thought i had on this would be to increase the travel through it by making it less risky. if the gate gun damage was increased by a large amount eliminating small gate camps. it would take many more ships to have a successful gate camp. a gate camp in low sec would be very rare but not impossible. if you weren't told \"don't even go to low sec its camped,\" instead hearing \"you can go there but just be careful when you do stuff\". people would travel through it with no fear; find a system with no one there and begin pi, mining, or rating as they please. so it brings people there with little risk to travel from gate to gate but still a large risk to mission or mine bringing the fights to take place in those areas. it encourages people to play smart and pay attention, a place you can't afk like high sec but can still have fun in for a slightly greater reward.i think once people are in low sec systems and see how they can access it easier. they will be tempted and get bolder, being active in the space and bringing a small group seems a lot easier without the worry of gate camps.another change i think should help encourage more low sec activity. would be to remove security loss for destroying someones ship, but increase the sec loss for podding someone. i know for many people the reduction of security status is a strong deterrent. especially if you are not making an income through ratting or missioning. this makes people primarily want to pvp in wormholes and 0.0."
"changing the sentry damage wont do what you hope m8, sorrry to say. camp composition/size will change to compensate for the new mechanics.the sec hit thing is not really that big of an issue for people who go looking for fights solo/small gang. the key there being looking for \"fights\". pop haulers all day and it drops faster. the hits are really more a problem for people in gangs and/or are too lazy (like i was) to shoot a few rats when things were quiet. i would be cool with lessening the hit, but that is merely preference and not something that i think is necessary.you are correct (imo) that perception is a large part of the issue, but this starts at the no0b corp level and good luck trying to speak rationally/realistically there. you will be shouted down by those who think they know stuff quickly."
"protip: those camps you're so afraid of? outside of a very small number of systems, they don't exist."
"the factual accuracy of your statement means very little to players who are terrified of lowsec and losing ships."
"enough of the obvious low sec entrance points are very often camped. if rookie jumps in and first thing he sees from low sec is also the last thing it will be very long before he goes there again (and yeah i live in low sec myself usually).upping gategun damage is best way to get low sec populated and more targets for the pirates, since contrary to what many pirates seem to think, making it easier to get killed in low sec does not actually give them more kills in the long run. but tbh it will never happen."
"low sec travel is 99% safe if you have mwd+cloak fittedreally the travel part isn't a problem. it's the lack of rewards. high sec level 4's can give 70 mil an hour, why bother low sec?and 0.0 has more rewards yet can be much safer than low sec if you join a big power block.so if you want very low risk - good rewards, you stay in high secif you want some risk - great rewards, you join 0.0 power block"
"i'd rather remove the aggression sec status penalty that way you still lose sec for ganking haulers and stuff but you don't lose anything by shooting first against someone that will fight back. another change i would like is to make anyone with <0.0 sec status to be a free target in lowsec so you don't go gcc shooting them. i would personally love for anyone in lowsec to be able to shoot me without penalty without having to go -5 and be barred from flying in highsec."
"that was my main point. i would hope it would change the larger the fleet the more rarer they would be. for example what if you made the gate gun damage so high that in order to have a successful gate camp you would need a carrier or dreadnaught, maybe two even."
"i'd love to see this implemented. there is quite a big eve blog community out there, and being able to use openid linked back to evegate would be awesome!"
"one reason to play a mmorpg is to play with other people. then you get to know them, and become friends, and stay with the game because your friends play it. however, in eve this can be harder because you should not fleet with people you don't trust. how can i trust someone if i don't do anything with them? suppose i'm suppose to find friends/fleet members in my own corp, what about small corps? are we going to continue to make starting a new corp hard, because we have to trust corp members? there is also a reality check here. in real life, at least in the usa, if i join up with someone, they don't automatically get rights to bash my face in, unless they want a conflict and say \"wanna take this outside?\" and then i agree. i propose a change to fleet rules, lets have an option to disable team attacking, or enable it. as is, i don't fleet with people to do missions, and this means less friends in game, and less attachment to the game. i do like doing missions with people, but i usually don't because i don't want to lose my ship to someone who wants a abaddon kill mail."
"errrr... last time i checked it was not possible to attack a fleetmember who was not in one's corp without incurring the wrath of concord (in high-sec at least)."
"they should add more outfits, the ones they have are lame. im a bussiness man and all there is for me is some stupid looking gaysha-man outfit, i want a pant suit set in multiple colors added in with the ability to customize a handchef thats folder in the breast pocket of my sportjacket. also a choice of pins to pin to my suit and a tasteful selection of ties. and maybe some albino aligator dress shoes. you have one week."
"*ahem*ps - not to be a fashionista, but are you posting from 1978?"
"what smaller alliances?"
"the fact that some existing features serve to screw over smaller alliances does not mean you're free to ignore the danger of further screwing them over when introducing new features.granting an outpost wrecker which megacoalitions can churn out in large numbers and hold over the heads of smaller groups to keep them on their knees is a powerful tool for maintaining the status quo. pretty much everyone seems in principle to be in favour of ccp reworking 0.0 to somehow incentivise smaller spaceholding alliances, but granting another tool which will more likely be used against them than by them clearly risks working against that aim.and of course, to ensure a level playing field its only fair that such a weapon should also be deployable against npc stations in lowsec and npc 0.0 (perhaps introduced as part of an expanded and revamped factional warfare review)."
"(1) there aren't any \"small alliances\" independantly holding space in sov 0.0. nor are there ever likely to be on anything except a very temporary basis.(2) even if there were, how could it worse for them to be kicked out of their space and the outpost to be wrecked - which allows them at least a chance to retrieve assets - than it is for them to simply be kicked and to be locked out of the outpost?(3) outpost wrecking is actually more dangerous for large alliances, since (as i said on page 1) they actually have to defend their peripheral outposts, rather than complacently assuming that they can let 1 or 2 fall to an insurgency, only to gain them back later."
"supported."
"this would be nice, but the actual icons need to be slimlined, becuase the red blue thing could be confused with standing to a new player.also, make it so that when you rr, you dont get the red flashy scquare but instead a blue square highlighting none threatening behaviour."
"i like the idea, supported. if you have to add manually the tags you keep the confusion in large battles while it will reduce the chance of stupid mishap that can be generated by lag when operating in small groups."
"epic idea!"
"as you all know the bounty hunting system is not used as intended. i have seen many ideas on how to fix this. i'm not quite sure how effective they would be, but after thinking on it for a while i came up with this idea.first off lets take a look on why the system fails its purpose. if someone were to place a bounty on my head, well that's just great. let me find a friend to kill me and we can split the payout. that is the root of the problem, the one with the bounty wants to be killed.here is my solution to that problem. we have to make it so that you do not want to be killed when you have a bounty on your head. this can be achieved through penalties upon your corpse being turned in. a couple thoughts i've had would be to have concord disable your implants preventing them from functioning for 30 or 60 days. or reduce your attributes by one or two points across the board temporally for 60 days. maybe even just limit it to one implant slot for 30 days per each corpse turn in to prevent to much griefing. you can refine it in many ways but i think this is a step in the right direction.this way you make it annoying to the point where i don't want to pod myself for any amount of money, without really making any game breaking changes. you wont get alliances placing bounties on every enemy alliance member in order to compete. it goes along with tech 3 penalties. i know when i'm about to lose a tech 3 ship as long as i eject i can breathe a sigh of relief. isk comes and goes but whats really valuable to players are skills. forgetting to update a clone is devestating, but losing a pile of isk happens to us all.one other deterrent for alliances to go at it with the bounty system would be to introduce a couple of skills with the primary attribute being charisma of course. you could have the first tier of skill provide a 1% bonus to the payout per level (5% not a huge isk faucet), and the second tier skill actually allow bounty collections. each level providing 1 extra turn in per month and unlimited at level 5. anyone without the collection or liscense skill couldn't turn a corpse into the bounty office."
"but they do work immediately on smaller targets, it was one of your primary reasons for shooting down the proposal in the first place. quote: \"better cap stability than now and total neut immunity at any range is unbelievably powerful. battleships - which are already pretty well useless - will have utterly no recourse against frigates. none, at all.\"painters are stacking penalized and require med slots, which is an important distinction. scrams you're right, but that only shuts off one cap-using module rather than all of themonly on a specialized ship with specialized skills using med slots with heavy stacking penalty. good luck talking people into giving up a med slot for mediocre ewar. 4 damps on non-bonused hulls against a geddon in a gang with no sensor boosters still bring it to 21.6km if all 4 damps have the specialization skill at v. you make this assumption based solely on a frigate, which i'd argue is already quite neut-immune thanks to small cap boosters and small nos. let's see you make a neut-immune active-tanked blasterthron, or really a neut-immune active-tanked anything"
"micro's are supposed to be phased out if i recall, the bpos were replaced with smalls some time ago.malediction:3x rocks (a whopping -1)mwdii, small peroxide, disruptiidcuii, 2xspeedneut immune tackler with more than enough firepower to clear drones. hardly unable to perform.same picture for pretty much all other ships, you can even make a mwd neut immune rifter that can itself neut for ten full minutes.today yes, with your suggested change:half-full tank (800rt) rupture with l.peroxide?how about a neut immune kiting omen/nomen or perhaps a thorax?what of the logistics? we have eccm implants now so reducing the number of counters to ecm only and then mitigating that.people are already more than happy to use fitting mods even with very low slot counts available if it will give them an edge.neuts are insanely powerful if you can afford the cap, giving not only immunity but more cap to use neuts yourself can only result in the batteries becoming as 'standard' as the neuts themselves.think about it. run the numbers. we did with the ab af suggestion from ccp and shot it down even before sisi results started trickling in .. the analytical mind can be a powerful tool."
"two things:- it helps to finish reading the point. i already addressed your concern.- that quote doesn't do anything to invalidate or change what i said.scrams don't just shut off one cap using module, they immediately and totally kill the mobility of any ship affected. the mobility is the important part. furthermore, painters still don't have a counter... and in many ways high slots are more important than mid slots. tracking disruptors are actually quite common on unbonused ships. furthermore, i'm not sure why you're focusing on unbonused ships, given that the change in question is specifically aimed at bonused ships. see the comments i pointed out earlier in the thread.no, i make the assumption based on having flown kiting/nano ships before. neuts are very nearly your only fear. furthermore, the malediction, sacrilege, and stabber fleet issue were all capable of having pretty reasonable active tanks under an infinite amount of neuts from bonused ships. i stopped trying after the first three ships worked out.-liang"
"if you're not going to see any effect before the fight is over, then why do nano ships fear neuts? when's the last time you tried to fly a ship with guns that take cap and fit to active tank? unless they have an afterburner, in which case it does nothing a warp disruptor wouldn't do better. hey, a tactical choice where having a scram isn't automatically the best idea!i haven't been affected by a tracking disruptor in 8 months. second, neuts are common on anything with spare utility highs. third, you brought up the point, and i quote, \"tds and rsds can still be quite effective - bringing the engagement range of even close range battleships below where they can be effectively used.\", which is not actually true unless you're using bonused rsds, and multiples at that. at least 3 for every enemy target. tds i honestly can't answer to, as again i haven't been affected by 1 let alone 3 in quite some timefourth, i'm more concerned about non-bonused ships and neut resistance rather than outright immunity. if batteries granted cap that couldn't be neuted, i wouldn't be opposed to a balance pass on neut ships to see if something gets broken. i just want there to be some reason for people to consider something other than stuffing neuts into every spare high slot and flying around in passive buffer tanks because anything else will get neuted to death. it gets tiring when every fight consists of mostly drakes and broadswords. i've even seen some buffer fit ravenspost those fits for me so we can put them to test, if you please. if they work under infinite neuts, i'll stop arguing the point since i would agree that a change which allowed that would be excessive"
"supported.i am especially interested in the csm mails where vuk goes completely mental when the other csm's and ccp takes about nerfing/removing jump bridges. should make for a very interesting drama bomb."
"i am declaring my candidacy for csm in 2011 under the campaign message:\"there have been too many content expansions. it is time ccp spend the time to tweak the current mechanics to balance the game and fix antiquated concepts. while the new content expansions are always fun and exciting when they are released, there are more important things that need to be done. it is time to fix the mechanics that ruin the reputation of eve. we need to stand to insure the current systems in eve get fixed and there repair is a priority. i will be the player that makes eve stronger.currently, my biggest concerns are to neutral remote reps, bounty hunting, and corp taxes.i will be available for conversation on my ideas as often as possible. i plan to make sure my ideas are completely developed and approved by my supporters in order to make sure that eve becomes a better more functional game.finally, even if i am an alternate i will not resign for any reason, especially to make a point.\"i plan on spending time on this forum but most of my content will be viewable with commentary on my campaign blog: dyco-eve.commanalapan daily lottoin hopes of encouraging my supporters to let me know of their support and get feedback on my ideas players that announce their support or provide constructive thoughts and feedback on my ideas in this thread or on my blog will be placed into a pool. every day there will be a drawing and the winner will receive a random prize. these prizes will be worth a minimum of 50m isk.first drawing will be at 3/5/11 02:00 eve time. this will go on until the announcement of the csm winners.for a list of those in the drawing and the list of winners go to the eve post or my campaign blog."
"would you not consider resigning if you could use it as a medium that could ultimately benefit the community or the game, if there was someone qualified to take your seat or alternate position, even if you had to give up your free trips to iceland?goodluck, and great choice of design for your website, it looks great.yours,serious."
"i am not denying that resigning could be used as a medium to benefit the community. my thoughts on that action is that i would be ultimately disappointing the community by surrendering my position to someone they felt was less qualified (less votes). my goal is represent the community interest and i feel that could always be best achieved by maintaining any position within csm even alternates."
"what is this? no mention of your previous scamming? why the heck would anyone vote for someone who was quite proud of their ability to scam people out of isk?granted, you did not force anyone to deposit isk with eve bank, but come on...you think we would not remember?hmm?"
"nope i take no attempt to hide my scam. i was very adamant in this on my campaign last year. scamming is integral part of eve that is one of the major elements that separates it from other mmos. my history in this aspect means i understand that realm of the player base and know what parts of it need to be fixed for the benefit of scammers and non-scammer alike."
"well said then :) good luck."
"you do understand the difference between lobbying for votes and rigging an election, right? no one's attempting to tamper with the actual voting process here."
"lol, everyone knows csm is just for show..."
"from ccp's standpoint the csm primarily exists to \"manage player expectations\". when ccp does something that is not well received by the players, like failing to fix something that's been broken for a long time, ccp leans on the csm to explain it to the players. since the explanations come from player elected people, they are more palatable to the players than something handed down from ccp directly.from the csms perspective the csm exists to advocate for player interests. some of this has been for special interests in eve and some has been for the benefit of the game in general. the recent history of the csm/ccp relationship suggests that some of the discussions have been heated. csm advocates changes the players want and/or the special interest of the csm want. ccp advocates changes they want the csm to forward to the players in a favorable light.ccp also resists doing anything that will not, in their view, provide a good return on investment of their resources. this last is why things remain broken. ccp believes that new content brings them more money, faster, than fixing the old things that are broken. thats why those things remain broken. the csm can, and evidence suggests that they do, yell about this all they want and ccp wont budge, relying upon phrases like the data doesnt support your conclusions.being a member of the csm involves a lot of work. work that is frustrating and has no return other than a trip to iceland (big yip), 15 minutes of fame and every once in a rare while making a positive change or prevention of a negative change to the game. i really dont know why they would want the job, but theyre welcome to it and im glad for whatever positive change they make or negative change they assist in preventing. an example of this is the csms adamant opposition to micro transactions of the type ccp wanted to put in. they apparently were able to give ccp the necessary feedback to prevent it. thus they helped the players and also helped ccp by preventing them from making a mistake which would have cost them money.i disagree with the csm at times, such is the way of politics, but im happier having them there than i would be without them. they do function. not fixing broken content should be laid at the feet of ccp, not the csm.best regards,windjammer"
"what y'all yappin about boy? dem dreds be fine!"
"a csm6 election page has been created on facebook to provide a one-stop smorgasbord of candidate information, blog feeds, status updates, etc. during the election cycle.if you are a prospective csm6 candidate and would like to have your blog added to the automatic feed, please visit the page and contact an admin so that your blog can be added. all members of the community with a facebook account are encouraged to \"like\" the page and participate in discussion there as well as comment on status updates, share photos (maybe a great campaign poster idea for your favorite candidate?), and participate in scheduled events during the campaign and election period. we hope to see you there!"
"i love that some people are saying price will rise, yet have they been checking the market, robotics supply is now down... and oh wait the prices have dropped... 58k start of the week 54k in all the hubs but jita now...."
"i still remember the old style cool looking helios"
"please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"while i still think that eve currently lacks the tools for enabling a really meaningful small gang warfare, i think that lowering a lot the ehps of station services would be a good start, but highening the resistances while keeping the ehps constant could discourage combat: the defender would pay less from not intervening.i mean, this must be balanced, but i like it.moreover, we could be able to fire on ihub upgrades and disable them, and it should not be possible to place jbs and cyno beacons near poses (at least, not deathstars).but the core of the problem is another.in my opinion, meaningful small gang warfare can only be done by small, independent political entities. the good reason for setting up a small gang is to have fun, but if you have a real objective you'd better set up a proper fleet/blob. the only situation where you don't make a blob is where you can't, because your side has just too few pilots.these measures would make possible for small gangs to create some damage, but small entities would lack the tools to survive anyway (and surviving does not mean winning over bigger forces). if ccp creates a logistical/production tool that allows small entities to survive in 0.0, they would encourage small gang warfare in 2 ways:1. first of all, populating 0.0 with small entities, that actually live on small scale stuff and small scale pvp;2. those logistical/production tools would be the natural targets for small gangs.the point of my thread is that such tools cannot be designed like poses or outposts just changing the numbers, we need something radically different in how \"safety\" is achieved."
"pulsar system with a pulsating shield bonuses. even if it was not intended, this is awesome :d"
"completely agree with op.+1"
"bump."
"increasing falloff of hybrids and reducing damage especially on blasters will bring them back into the game. peeps still use blasters though :zyes, i support a change for reasonable balance"
"hehe. let's compare railguns and missiles....i have 2.8 million in gunnery. i still can barely make my medium guns hit a cruiser, they can't hit a frigate, or break the tank of a battleship. i have 500k in missiles and i can hit everything from drones to battleships and take them out with medium guns. fix rails. i love flying my eagle -- but now i bought a cerebus because of the railgun fail."
"so you are asking for more dps but a dps increase is not a good solution? the analysis has been done, you add nothing to the discussion but only whine about blobs. the fact that 50% of the characters in the game can't properly use one of the dedicated weapon systems for their race doesn't help create 1:1 fights. if blasters and railguns aren't fixed, why should people use them and the ships that they are fitted on? their only option left for them is to fight in blobs. if i wanted to fit autocannons, i'd fly minmatar. if you don't like gallente or caldari, biomass your char and start again as minmatar. you seem to think they fit your playstyle."
"ok then... then there should be a way to destroy everything a highsec player owns in a station. you declare \"war\" on npc corporation and siege it. the station doesn't get completely destroyed, since it's not player built, but everything player owned in it gets blown up... including pods, clones, etc.since it's a sandbox, there's no reason why only players in nullsec should play in quicksand."
"you can destroy assets in high sec - when player moves them in a hauler/freighter. you can destroy player clones - every time you pod people, their clone is gone.but can you name 1 scenario in which it would be possible to destroy a station? there is none, and there should be"
"hmmm this could be the fix to the isk flow problem ccp feels there is right now. add an isk sink like and burn them all to the ground.i like it"
"\"admittedly ones that looked most station crowded on map\" .. do the others as well, it is still a barren wasteland for the most part.stations are dumped into regions prior to or immediately following an invasion to provide security (exception being providence which was developed for developments sake by cva + friends).if ships have nano-bots all over to facilitate repairs one can only imagine that stations have even more extensive systems for the same purpose.change the station mechanics in regards to what's \"allowed\" and how the capture mechanics function to introduce vulnerabilities rather than the uninspired \"shoot until wreck\".- remove ability to use rr within docking range (solves undock carriers and high-sec lameness in one swoop).- remove ability to anchor anything within docking range (want to bubble?, use a bloody ship!)- disable services while system is contested (ie. ihub reinforced)."
"isk sink??? bwahahahahahaha....you have absolutely no clue what you are talking about."
"there will be one more station in 0.0 very soon."
"t3 definitely needs to be expanded and/or balanced out. i recently posted a thought on how it might be done over in f&i.basically a 'let the market handle it' approach to new ship designs."
"it's interesting to note that in my 0.0 roaming, i almost never see proteus or legion. i see a lot of tengu's, and some loki's.however, in high sec empire i do see quite a few legions and proteus'. and it's not just the noobs that fly them. anyway, t3 setups are very predictable, anyone with some experience knows that. all that hype ccp built up about t3 being super versatile and unpredictable is false."
"woof woof !! good"
"i don't care much for pringles but this idea is a good one."
"legion:afterburner bonus is somewhat useless when you are heavily armor tanking speed penalty from plates somewhat nullify the afterburner bonus. so speed bonus is pretty much +/- 0. it's useful for missioning but everything else, meh. this is probably same for proteus. it's probably intended but well.. bleh.cloaking subsystem for legion is very weak. it is offensive subsystem so if you don't get any kind of damage bonus for anything you're better off flying anathema. damage output from cloak legion is ridiculous, especially when you can't kill even tackling npc elite frigates.ewar subsystem for legion is nice, but unlike similar setups with proteus or loki it has no range at all, and neut/nos takes hi slots so your damage output is pretty much doomed, unlike in ewar proteus for example which can still have full offensive capabilities. meh."
"bump, +1 also get t3 frigs, bc's and bs's in. i want to play with my sci-fi lego."
"approvin~"
"very yes."
"i'm sure this has been proposed at a previous time - very rarely does a truly original idea germinate - but i would love to see an option to show only those people in a system (in local chat) with a particular standing towards you, your corp, or your alliance. after applying the filter, only those people would be visible in the local list, though of course the messages of others would continue to be broadcast.what a happy place new eden could then become"
"yes i agree. you do realize however that this thread is bound to devolve into a \"remove local because piracy isn't easy enough\" thread right?"
"but of course! (i don't really want it to though)"
"that is an excellent idea! who'd want to buy advertising space in derelik anyway?"
"this will need a lot of tweaking, but it's an excellent idea. thumb applied!"
"like it!"
"sure, why not. . :)"
"it would be wonderful"
"this has been brought up before and in the thousand paper cut thread. i like it though."
"belt-party!"
"mine the rainbow. taste the rainbow!***warning!*** veldspar is toxic...please do not eat."
"nice variety. i like it."
"i award you 10 internet points."
"it's had a good response so far so bumping so more people can see it."
"i'd like that to happen too but i'm not sure the csm process is fast enough to alow it."
"it always made me laugh so hard whenever anyone talks about the voting having a good turn out. 7% turnout is the biggest joke! i am for anything to gives more access to voting."
"supported"
"yes, it's new to me and i would appreciate having such tool"
"bump for more support."
"no.not exactly.lol, no.nope.mostly.station games rock?not with the other changes.so, it doesn't need a nerf or a buff.intelligence is traditionally the most difficult part of strategy. for a reason."
"exactly.although you messed up the last one and tried to place a reason instead of mere opinion."
"i have found myself being stuck on the courier business. when ever i want to haul some cargo from a to b there are alot of contracts for courier that pay sometimes only a mere 1000 isk but with a collateral of 1.6 billion. isnt there a rule, or a possibility to make it a rule, that the payment should be about 10% of the collateral ? sometimes it exceeds over 160% and taken that its not just 8 jumps away its more often not worth it.can this be changed ?rhapsodaeps. as a fairly new player any feedback for discussion is welcome."
"gizznitt malikite, there's a reason low sec is littered with offlined towers. it is simply not cost-effective to kill them.the cost of a tower is much less than the opportunity cost for 10 cap pilots organizing and bashing poses.if it was possible for a single battleship to kill offlined pos within 20-30 minutes, then you'd see much cleaned up space. then people would actually hunt down all offlined poses. as it is now, just not worth it"
"clearly one of those ******ed game mechanics we have out there."
"which speaks for reducing offline ehp as a way to prevent this kind of escapism for the risk averse.any behavioural scientist (or mother) will tell you that prohibition is probably the worst method if you want to effect a change in behaviour.using obstacles or carrots are not only more reliable but give a lot more control over the direction of the change.reduce offline ehp.subtract capacitor % the closer you land to structure.cyno delay/jump spool-up on low-sec jumps.etc.there are loads of ways to make the offline/online trick described unattractive and non-viable without making the players feel like they just got fisted by god."
"if you think it needs change *thumbs up*"
"whether something is common or rare should not matter, as we are comparing effectiveness.what if every 0.0 system had npc station where hostile could stay afk docked? would that stop all carebear operations?you may argue that a docked person would not be the same threat cause you'll have buddies docked and keeping an eye on him, alerting you when he undocks. if that's the case, the same buddies could be sitting next to you in space in ecm or sensor damp ships, protecting you when afk cloaker suddenly decloaks. same thing.there is recourse - the afk cloaker has to enter the system using stargates, and probably more than 1 stargate. so you can kill him before he gets to his destination. that is much easier than actually killing a pos, especially when major power blocks are involved.anyway, i have faith that in the end, ccp will come around and nerf local. i believe that is much more likely to happen in next 2 years than any cloak changes. ccp will do it if they want to keep the game fresh and hardcore. they'll do it if they know what's good for them."
"returning to the keyboard is insufficient to be considered a threat. unless they changed things and you can scram/pewpew/cyno whilst cloaked now. once they uncloak they do represent a legitimate threat and you do have an \"avenue for recourse\".cloaks are a-ok from my perspective."
"remove local so you can whine and cry at empty space since you can't actually tell if there's someone afk out there or not.epic flow chart, you win the internet."
"nerf black-ops!best suggestion ever!mg"
"it seems appropriate"
"first!"
"as it stands this tab gives very little information. in fact, all it gives is the number of installations present. i'm proposing that each planet listed have a drop-down box that gives useful information without having to view the planet in planet mode.for example, it would be nice if i didn't have to switch to planetary view to:* see how much of the launcher cargo space is used, and by what( silos too i guess, but who uses them? )* see the program time remaining for the extractorsi would also like to:* see how much customs space is used"
"supported"
"supported"
"only the lazy will leave. the same lazy people that 'safe up' the second a non-blue enters system. the same people who will never risk anything unless they outnumber the enemy ten to one.this would be a welcome change."
"there's definetly enough bridging in low sec already. even titan bridges are too much. srs.i think divorcing jump bridges totally from pos's is cool idea though, i've been talking about similar kind of ideas for some time now. like jump bridge and cyno beacon would take so much cpu/grid from pos that you could only have only few guns there at best, no warp scrambler/neut/web/other ewar battery which are major reason why people cannot raid jump bridges and are using super capitals instead."
"you can have one races subcaps completely maxed out, and your clone is still cheaper than a fully fit frigate.also, what stops you from skilling up multiple characters on the same account for different races instead of cross-training everything on one character?you know, for the sake of variety. it also saves you money on clones seriously, make clone contracts like insurance contracts, have them expire after 6 weeks."
"i would not like to be inconvenienced in this way. and no, my clone already costs 2 mil, that more than a frigates,i am not cross-trained and i can't even fly half gallente t2 ships. theirfore your point is invalid."
"how about 2 jumps every 48 hours? it'd let you hop into and out of a clone briefly, but you'd still be stuck with one/24 hours ammortized"
"after fittings i'm sure your frigates cost more than 2mill unless they are all t1 fit. a high-end t1 frigate can easily run you like 7-8mill fully fit, let alone a t2 frigate.and how often do you lose clones anyways? in highsec or lowsec thats maybe once a year at most. even my cheap nullsec clones have a couple of hardwirings that are about 40mill in total...in the end it is just that, you want a character with good skills then the clone costs more, just the same as if you want the 5% hardwirings instead of the 3% ones."
"if your want your clone not to cost to much , stop training."
"make a proposal, and i'll support it. :)"
"i agree with either reducing medical cost or removing medical clone upgrade totally. it just takes out fun in game if you lose tens of millions (medical cost, not counting implants here gents!) just because you wanted to fly a 1 million isk rifter for a change. i think there is enough cost if you lose implants in case you used something which gives you real advantage, like pirate implants.jump clones i cannot agree. magical moving around is too easy. if we need something it's ability to change implant set on clone. srs."
"the invul won't stack with the hardener that way, though."
"so essentially for the sake of nerfing the drake you want to:- kill buffer tanks (no stacking of armour plates/shield exenders);- kill resist set ups (no stacking of hardeners); - kill gank set up (no stacking of damage and tracking buffing modules);- kill sniper set up (no stacking of range and sensor enhancing modules); - kill speed set up (no stacking of speed/agility mods).at the same time you:- want to allow staking of of webs, warp disruptors, ecm, target dampers, tracking disruptors, ecc. from the same ship because \"anything offensive doesn't really count as they're more like mid-mounted weapons\";- suggest to use drones as a counter (whait, my omidirectional tracking links and c. will stack? they are \"like mid-mounted weapons\" too);- \"fit more launchers?\", as there was plenty of people undrgunning theyr ships; - suggest to adapt after nerfing the tools to adapt.your hate for drakes is very strong if it cloud your judgement so much."
"op needs to show us where the drake of supercarrier touched him.just for fun i took a battlecruiser in eft and tried following the op's rules. its next to impossible to fit one how i want it. it resembles a noob fit tbh."
"so... just stat effecting modules. like every module in the game (other than weapons, and reppers). so for industrials, we could only fit 1 cargo expander?this is a bad, and not so thought out idea. also it would make killing sansha incursions take more than the beneficial fleet size, therefor removing the point of doing the incursion."
"i think stacking is a good thing, allowing for more diverse setups and choice.do you put on a different mod or take a stacking penalty to gain more of the same bonus you already have?"
"i like this idea, but the bonuses should be changed a little and applied as gang link bonuses so you can only get 3 sc's providing these bonuses per fleet.also wyvern and aeon should give shield with capacitor or armor with capacitor, and the nyx and hel should give bonuses that would fit their race."
"this does nothing to fix the real problem with sc's, witch is that they can 10k dps wile mobile. this allows a handful of people to tear apart pos defense's in less then 5 mins, and destroy blockade units in less then 60 secs. they've gone from useless to wtfpwnmobiles."
"there is nothing wrong super carriers, they do what they were meant to do, which is to be superior fire support. dreads are simply cheaper and weaker alternatives for those who don't have the isk or the power to use em. nerfing super carriers will destroy what made them super in the first place.the game needs more dps and less tank. the only thing i would support is if the hp of all ships would reduced by 25% and dps output increased by 25%. making killing easier and surviving harder will be a more hardcore element of the game."
"\"supper carrier\", at least you didn't call them soup carriers where is the combined arms part of the solution? all i see is capitals, capitals and more capitals. no inherent vulnerabilities and sc's becoming even better and more spamable than today.you need to make them weak against not only dreadnaughts but to sub-capitals. do that and you force them to lug around support fleets (ie. combined arms).not supported. sc's do not need even more power and reason to exist."
"lol@ supper carriers thought those were waiters and waitresses damn you spell checker!yeah. the bonuses listed are for discussion only. i actually copied them from the super carrier's old secondary bonuses. this is why they may not have the bonuses that you mentioned, and they are intended to transfer their bonuses like command ships. i may have been unclear about that.@ col callahan and hirana yoshida this was only intended to be a partial fix. i do not want super carriers to be nerfed back to pos ornaments. i want people to want to field them in fleets as well as solo. removing all of their remote repair and energy transfer bonuses and turning them into fleet bonuses passed to capital ships below them was intended to make them dependent on other capital ships.they now have a significantly weakened ability to form remote repair gangs with other super carriers. they also give significant buffs to carriers and dreadnoughts below them which should make people want to field them with these ships. i should have been more clear in my opening statement, but i was concerned only with the combined arms aspects of capital and super capital ships. i was not attempting to bring sub-capital ships up with these changes. others have discussed this already. i referred to some of these proposals in the beginning. some of them include:* reducing super carrier ehp* reducing super carriers ability to carry wave after wave of small drones* reducing super carrier fighter/fighter bomber bay size to force them to carry enough of them to fulfill a single role (i.e. anti-capital or anti sub-cap)* adding some sort of timer to super carriers when switching from fighter types (fighters and fighter bombers)* making them more vulnerable to ecmi do not necessarily support all of these. if changes are to come, i think it would be better to see a refining of the super carrier role and a drawing together of the other capitals rather than brute force hacking at ehp and damage. thanks for the replies."
"i support it only under the condition that some of the stations that are currently close to the lava planets are actually getting moved further away from them.some of the stations are so close to lava planets that i doubt anyone would want to live near a glowing hot and heat radiating ball of molten rock."
"switching jump-clones locally (in system), and without limits, sounds fine to me. it would, after a fashion, accomplish the same i want: to be able to pvp every once in a while, and go back to my regular training afterwards. only difference being that in your idea, i'd have to first fly to my pvp destination; but i don't see that as prohibitive per se.my point precisely! :) people (especially the newer ones) are not going to pvp in a very expensive impant set, no matter how hard ccp tries to 'force' pvp on them. i feel in this regard really something has to give. as in ccp laxing up a bit on jumping your clones. if someone were to have an actual poll as to why people won't pvp, i bet you'd be surprised how many folks consider their implants the nr. 1 inhibiting factor. i certainly do. losing a few reasonably fitted ships is something i can afford; losing 1bil in implants to boot, per incident, is something few new follks can really keep up for long.and, like you said, alllowing multiple jumps a day, locally, would boost the implant mechanics of the game: you can go mine in your miner clone, go rat in your ratting clone, etc.personally, i don't really mind people jumping across the galaxy multiple times a day, when the amount is strictly limited to once forth + once back a day, as per my proposal. linking the cost it to the medical clone is handy, as it were, because its isk value is directly proportional to one's skillpoints.yet perhaps it is really best if someone were to make a simple, non-convoluted proposal, which just states that jumping clones, locally, is to be allowed an unlimited amount of times per day. because, frankly, i can't for the life of me imagine what horrible game-breaking consequences that might bring."
"what we need is less magical clone jumping around. implants are totally another story."
"i'd say the two are kinda related. :)"
"problem is not gate camps. there's very little to camp at first place. pi is pretty much riskless, pi products are generally not that expensive that it makes any sense to try ganking a pi hauler, and even if they were it's pretty difficult to predict when someone's gonna pick up their ****. missions can be done in unprobeable ships and even if you didn't have one you can just keep watching out for probes and align, or just join some naptrain corp.it is just that with same effort it's easier to join 0.0 naptrains and make many times more money.imho. they key here is that low sec is not treated as unique sandbox like it should. low sec is where you go when you don't give a crap about 0.0 fleet fights and stuff and just want to do your own stuff in small groups or solo were it piracy, mining or industry. this is counting out fw whoring."
"give it a unique identity or don't bother. more of the same makes for **** poor gameplay and is the root cause for low-sec being as lifeless as it is."
"i am ripard teg, running for csm6.this csm needs serious candidates to keep the momentum from csm5 going. i am a three-year eve player with broad experience in game, but i also have a strong rl business and communications background. ccp will take me seriously, and i'll take my responsibility to bring them your concerns seriously. i ask for your vote.why do i want to serve on the sixth csm?because i love eve online and i don't want ccp to break the game we love trying to expand its audience with incarna. i am excited about incarna, but it needs to be introduced in a way that respects us: ccp's current customers. why now? because csm5 did a fantastic job opening the door for communications with ccp, and i want to keep that momentum going.who do i represent?i've been playing eve for three years plus. in that time, i've been a miner and a mission-runner. i understand and do industry and invention. i was in faction warfare for six months (so i know how badly it's broken). i've lived in a wh. i teach pvp classes and i fc. i'm in the thick of 0.0 sov warfare. i understand a lot of different eve players, because i've been where you are. ultimately, i represent all eve players, not just the ones that play the way i do.what do i bring to the party?make no mistake: being on the csm is a job! i will take that job seriously and will commit to doing it well. i have a very strong real-world business and communications background in the it industry. in essence, i'm a professional negotiator. but i've also been a gamer for more than 20 years, and have represented player concerns before, as a consultant and a play-tester for rpg/miniature war game companies. i'm not going to iceland for lols. ccp will take me seriously.what changes or issues will i champion?my first duty is to bring ccp your concerns and suggestions. there are already a ton of these, and i will hold ccp accountable to see this list is worked on, and their agreements with previous csms are honored. however, some personal goals that i will push for: iterative development! ccp currently has a dev team called \"team best friends forever\" fixing easy bugs, issues, and suggestions. it's a good first step, and they've made a few important fixes. but there are so many issues that this team could be fixing, both now and in the future. i will work with ccp to encourage them to make this team permanent and expand its scope. ccp needs to keep their past promises to us. like treaties. like fixes to faction warfare. like bounty-hunting. like some love for freakin' low-sec. it's time!let players have more control! we're an enthusiastic bunch. given the chance, i think many of the problems in eve could be solved by the players. more contests to design (and redesign!) ships. contests to design clothes or environments for incarna. more functionality and openness for the api, for industry, market, corps, and couriers. the designers of capsuleer should not have to beg ccp for a year just to get the tools they need to help other eve online players.smite anything that is not fun! ratting and plexing and mining and wormholing is one thing. we all need isk, and that's how we get it. but so many things in eve are simply not fun. like anchoring and on-lining poss. like swapping bookmarks. like having to move 30 jumps with 15 ships and 20 cans just because you want to join a new corp. eve is a game! it should be fun. anything that is not fun should be mercilessly crushed.i ask for your vote!i will use a position on csm6 to bring ccp your concerns. i want to make eve online the best game it can be. please give me your vote.more information:jester's trek, my blog, wherein i ramble about eve online and my run for csm6.follow me on twitter as i document my run."
"i am one of three candidates endorsed by mynxee, chair of csm5. thank you, mynxee!i am the only candidate endorsed by marcel devereux, the developer of aura for android phones. thank you, marcel!i am part of the slate of nine candidates endorsed by eve tribune. thanks, guys!questions, below:how do i feel about bots? i am not a bot-user, and i feel that bots are a cancer upon eve that needs to be crushed. however, i am very open to player suggestions as to how to do it. i've made one suggestion, below, that might be a good way to address chaining bots. i don't currently buy the theory that ccp could destroy all the bots if they wanted to, and they just don't want to (though if someone has evidence to the contrary, show me ).what are my ideas for low-sec? i've written a long post about it below, but in general, of the ideas bandied around for low-sec, i really like the idea of low-sec being a smuggling and pirate mission haven. if i had my way, all the pirate mission agents would be moved to low-sec.what is my position on micro-transactions? i own the toon named \"no microtransactions\". that's my default position on the issue. however, if ccp must include mts in eve, then i would insist that they be for vanity items only. no (more) in-game advantages just because you can buy them."
"what do you think is wrong with the idea?"
"if you have to ask what's right with it you're pretty bad at making balance decisions.also tma yourr scam."
"alright here is my thought on it. it makes the hic more useful in empire space when generally it is typically just heavily used in 0.0.i was asking for your opinion against the idea or for the idea i suppose i could have just been assuming based on your smiley."
"this thread is lols."
"yeah i am extremely inactive. on this char only (and i have like...20+ i am playing on):i would poorly rate your troll, but sadly its a not troll, you are just plain dumb."
"i read tamper as somethign else and was slightly startled that you knew about my cunning plan.yours,serious"
"greetings everyone, it has come to my attention and many others that faction control towers no longer seem to be dropping as loot in the game, and as a result the prices for these towers has skyrocketed. i am hoping that the current csm (or soon to be csm) can look into this and ask ccp what happened and if this is intended. as far as anyone can tell there is no note in the patch saying their supposed to be dissapearing, and as such many of us are hoping this is a bug."
"i agree, some information regarding what has happened to the drop rate would be nice, if csm or ccp can give us some information regarding what happened it would be greatly appreciated"
"the purpose of this thread is to announce a csm working meeting and permit delegates to identify the issues and other csm business matters they wish to raise at that meeting. csm5 meeting 016 will take place sunday 6 march 2011 @ 18:00 eve time. all csm5 delegates and alternates are invited to attend. the deadline for delegates to submit issues for the agenda is saturday 5 march 2011 at 20:00. to get an issue added to the agenda, csm delegates must post the issue title in this thread and link it to the the issue's csm wiki page (not its thread in these forums). a maximum of 9 issues will be considered in the meeting. delegates are encouraged to post multiple issues; issues will be addressed in rotating order, 1 per delegate, until the max is reached.note to community: csm working meetings generally rotate between 2nd saturday/4th sunday dates unless circumstances force a variance. csm meeting 015 was cancelled because not enough csm5 members were able to attend to form a quorum (quorum requires 7 members).=============================agendaa. introduction-- roll call-- remindersb. issues-- group market orders wikic. other business-- csm elections blog"
"after a long break from faction warfare, i came back to help turn systems back to caldari, only to see what it have been depraved to.first off, faction/pirate friggs boost... - should not be allowed into minor plexes, since they are much more powerfull then dessys and t1 friggs, and thous render t1 friggs/dessys useless and makes plex pvp very hard for newcommers.same with pirate/faction cruisers, they belong in majors with hac's.plex spawn mechanics...before i gave up facwar i decontested a system before dt, only to see it flipped the next day i logged inn. - cmon, it should never be that easy to flip/retake systems. - and for the love off eve, give some reward to plexers, lp insted off vp or something. - i agree i should be equal for all tz's to plex, and not have the dt shuffel.npc unbalance - caldari have ecm, and win. vs minnie, amarr, gallente, all u need is a rifter to speed tank it (correct me if i am wrong about minnie/amarr plexes) - imo plexing should be hard, npc's should web, neut, and force ppl to go in gangs, forcing other side to bring gang, and not haveing ppl fly arond in drams soloing all plexes.as for ccp, i've heard many times that, \"fixes\" and that facwar would be looked on, but that's a few years ago, and their \"fixes\" have made facwar even worse.the flaws i know off: plex gliches, standing agro glith, if ur in the alliance militia you don't get plex respawn, alliance militia does not show as \"blue\" and much more.fixes i think should be implamented: -wardeccing a facwar corp, u wardec the militia.-npc rebalance-plex reward-changing occupacy must have an effect on other militia-fix all glitches-remove pirate/faction ships from the plexes as said abovefacwar have 20 000 players, and deserves to be heard.imo the potesial of facwar is awsome, if given love."
"i like that."
"why is it that not alone ccp but now also the csm tries to force people onto failbook.just look at the number of responces of people who rejected the whole failbook idea when it came to voring in the starship design competition.facebook is a horrible feature which a lot of people want to steer clear away from, yet in order to participate deeper into the eve community this somehow get's thrusted upon you.are you people deliberately doing crap like this to exclude a large chunk of the playerbase or are you just ignorant?"
"this is a player initiative, in a venue favored by the players who set it up. it has absolutely zero to do with ccp. they are not involved in the csm6 facebook page whatsoever. nor is there the intention of trying to force anyone there who does not care for the venue. if you don't like what is offered as a result of volunteer initiative, then take your own initiative to go make a csm6 site, page, or whatever in a venue that suits you. when you're done, come back here to tell people about it."
"i will not be able to attend, friends gave me a voucher for an advanced driving training which is tonight."
"no"
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"support"
"better than what we have now =)"
"looks good."
"and here is link to complete article:the rise of the isk printing machines: a case study on bots. ."
"i'm feeling more and more like an idiot for not running bots myself since you can obviously do so without any real risk and with great benefits.act on the rampant botting ccp. nao!1!"
"+1this.but:since most t3 with that subsystem are just sitting unprobable in safe spots, i'd say it's a bit unnecessary.supported though. edit: yes!"
"bumping to keep alive."
"my proposal is to be able to put for a claim for salvage to concord against a pos that has been achored in space and left for a length of time off line. my proposal for this is simple:salvage rights: disputed assets must have been:in its place unpowered.must wait for 30 days before concord declares it as yours.after it is declared yours, to have one of the following to occur:a) concord gives a temporary increase to standing to put the tower online and to unachor the pos structures only. b) civilian data core with temporary permissions to put it online to unanchor only. c) the entire pos is contracted to you in space by concord. when you accept the contract, concord then unanchors the entire pos for you to scoop up in a hauler. disclaimer: when you put the salvage claim in, you have to wait 30 days before you find out if your claim went through. during that time, a notification is sent to the corp about the salvage claim. the corp can then put the pos online or to take it down to nullify the claim. if and when the salvage claim goes through you have 5 days to get the disputed assets removed from space. during that time the owner can still put the disputed assets back online provided that he/she is the first one there."
"on the plus side, this would remove the millions of old poses that are no longer in use (as many corps have vanished or ceased to care about an old pos).i'll leave it to someone else to come up with a negative or two. support reserved until then."
"sound like a good idea."
"very good idea, it will help newere corps with growing and expanding and as mention \"recycle\" the old poses that isnt in use anymore"
"i'll support anything that makes mining less boring!also rorq bonuses, the tractor bonus f.ex is useless 99.9% of the time because they are never in a belt..."
"well, sure, do it, but i can't see how a scrambling frigate will be a problem, a retiever with a bunch of hobgoblins can kill it. get scrabling crusiers/battlecruisers, then that's gonnabe interesting."
"the % of shield depend on your modules and skills, when you board a ship from a pos the shield value is what you would have without modules and skills."
"way around this. use the fitting tool of the pos to deactivate and reactivate all the shield buffers.full shields (or close too it, there will still be the gap of your skill level, which will still exist when you undock from a station or get a boost from a fleet member who just warped into the system)."
"i know this. but it doesn't change the fact that it is not balanced."
"ummm, deactivating and then reactivating your shield buffers will not change anything. your shields will just jump up to full with them off, then jump back to almost empty when you bring them back online.the bottom line is: i undock from a npc station, my shields are at full. i undock from a player owned station and my shields are almost empty. or another example, my friend jumps into his phobos and his tank is at 100%. i jump into my onyx and my tank is at 21%. yet if we were to do this at a station both out tanks would be at 100%.the easiest fix would be for a ship that goes into a hangar at 60% shields, it comes out at 60% shields. if it goes in at 100%, it comes out at 100%. ccp needs to either fix this problem or be consistent and make all ships that undock from everything start off with no tank. that will probably get some attention."
"next time i'm at my pos i'll test this, adding extenders, to see the effects. you might be right, in which case i'll support the issue."
"i'd like to see something done about this. i like the solution as mentioned of having shields come out at whatever % they went in at. even though it supports all those dirty shield tankers"
"ok, i tested this, and you are indeed correct. so i fully support this."
"1.0"
"as long as it is hisec only, that would be an idea.if its lowsec and nullsec as well, you'd need to put those local channels in delayed mode or you make it too easy to spot hostiles (as if it isnt trivial already)."
"yes, globallyand even in wh space!"
"the point is though, it would have the greatest effect in high sec space, and be of very limited use elsewhere - though of course i would support its introduction across all of new eden. as population densities in high are generally far higher than low or null, spotting wts can be a right pain in the bumble if you're in a particularly busy hub (tried looking for a target in jita when there are 1800 people in system? not fun lol)"
"support"
"i guess it would be cool but takes them forever just to get a new alliance logo in so it would take like 3 years for them to approve and make available one player made oversized dong."
"very cool. i like."
"supported"
"how can someone not agree witht this?rails tho need lovegallente ships bonus/fitting need some close look so."
"i like the ideas of blasters as a high alpha short range weapon, and rails as low damage armour piercing long range weapon."
"1.0"
"cloaking + scanning is broken to ****...four turret slots, each gun does 36 dps without dmg mods and with close ranged ammo. what the **** is this thing designed to kill immobile capsules? if i want the damage to go up i have to sacrifice 1/5th of my tank with every heat sink cause it has like no low slots. ffs what the hell were you thinking?"
"even after two heat sinks and all level 5 skills 213 dps! wow that's respectable i mean it totally makes up for having no drone bay and a 5/4/6 layout."
"the problem is the covert sub.all the other t3 get some sort of dps bonus. whether it's straight damage, or rof. legion gets a cap usage bonus, and that's it.i completely agree, it needs something... more."
"plus it's a great way to boost mining without increasing yield!"
"damn,i like this great proposition"
"dont suspend or ban bot accoounts, delete them then ban by ip address."
"look man. the problem is pretty simple and you all are pretty dumb if you agree with the first post. 90% of the people in this channel are too stupid to use botting, so they ***** that they have to make money the old fashioned way. ccp allows bots and as such you should learn to move with the times"
"supported. going further, it should really be a no-brainer for ccp to introduce an automatic \"report botter\" petition, much the same way they introduced a \"report isk spammer\" petition, that is accessible from the right-click menu. anyone reported as a botter enough times should automatically be flagged for review by ccp staff, and perchance added to a public list of suspected botters."
"signed with all my 8 tentac...errr, i meant my 2 armsseriously ccp, for me you could drop the next expansion in favor of this."
"supported."
"bump"
"why it's important to use intelligent language: final solution."
"i know what it means, i just d not realize it when i was writing this"
"thumbs up for greater awareness. 7% turnout is a joke and renders any notion of the csm election being a \"democratic process\" completely innacurate."
"so you agree that the op and i are correct."
"i loled so hard."
"we all hate big alliances, with the exception of the drones in the big alliances, and want to see some more spontaneous small combat in 0.0. my proposal is to change the aspects of moon-mining. the reason for this is that most big alliances use the numbers to take high value moons away from much smaller alliances. my proposal is simple... make moon miners either be outside of the pos or be independent of a pos altogether. in the latter case they would be solo anchored objects with an ehp buff, as well as storage for a week or two. in a way to make this more fair for the moon miner, would be to allow one moon miner to harvest all objects on the moon instead of just one.the reason for this would be to provide a target for small alliances to harass the larger alliances. guerilla warfare must be implemented... i don't care how much of a bother it is to the small alliance, i feel that an insurgency must be a viable game mechanic against the large alliance ****stars."
"i support lower ehp1 bs in 20-30 min sounds good."
"this ^^cloaking is fine.what you can do, how fast you can do it and how effective it is when you decloak is the issue."
"sorry but i disagree with this.if you're in a system with low enough security status to be in danger its up to you to protect yourself from that danger. low sec and in particular 0.0 is supposed to be a dangerous place not a industrial haven. 0.0 in my eyes should always be rewarding but extremely dangerous, empire should be safe but less rewarding. unpredictability of hotdrops make the game more interesting and also give some small advantage to the smaller alliances or corporations (hit and run tactics) which are dwindling with every patch released."
"cloaking is fine, i frankly do not understand how a single cloaker, active or not, can cause this kind of havoc. we have cloakers in our ratting systems non-stop, that does not stop us from ratting. no disrespect meant, but if you cannot learn to cope with such a simple threat, then perhaps you are not ready for nullsec life.something that does need an overlook, however, are hotdrop mechanics."
"it wouldn't hurt to have."
"would be very usefull as you can't go check up on your stuff while that window is open, making it quite a drag./support"
":3"
"why not"
"yes!"
"i support this. it is simple and useful addition to the ui. i will be confirming my support for this on my campaign blog."
"yea ... pretty weird"
"the whole lp store interface gotta be reworked.. completely."
"so i was thinking it would be sweet if for every kill that you were a part of in a specific ship you would receive a \"hash mark\" on the side of the ship. hash marks would stick with the specific ship to show how long that ship has survived in pvp battles. obviously they go away when the ship is destroyed or if the ship changes hands. maybe it would be cool if for every hash mark the value of your ship goes up similar to a bounty. say 100k for each hash mark and if you had 10 total the person who killed you gets a million isk. anyway...rough idea but it sounds really cool to me. discuss!"
"so i could kill 100 newb ships on an alt and then let the alt kill my ship for a net gain of 10 million isk? sweet deal! totally support."
"ok so maybe that part wasn't a good idea...its the hash mark idea that is important here!"
"if you think waiting for the docking manager to let you undock/explode/redock/changeship (2 minutes at least) is worth 100k then you need to find a better source of income."
"this actually is a cool ideai just don't see how other people could see such hash marks given eve graphics setup. all the ships are rendered small, and even if you set \"look at\" it'd still be too small to see hash marks. most ship textures don't have room for such markings either.it would have to be some kind of show info thing"
"your proposal is to move fw to special high sec systems and restrict it to only those systems. that itself flies in the face of the spirit of fw. the problems with fw currently are bugs in the standing system and a poorly implemented mission/plexing system.first of all the standings bugs. currently if you remote rep a war target shooting your fleet, you don't get a standing penalty. but if you remote rep an outlaw member of your own militia, aside from getting gcc, you also take a standing hit with your faction. it's a known bug and if you petition it, you'll get the standing loss back. but it's silly having to do this every weekend for all logistics/rr bs/carrier pilots. i'm sure the gm's don't appreciate it either. poor gm libra luna, he needs a vacation from me alone thanks to those petitions.the plexing system is flawed because you get absolutely nothing for doing them. there is no incentive to run them beyond looking for a fight. and plex fights are getting increasingly rare. instead all the rewards for fw are piled into special lvl4 missions. and as with any mission, the best way to approach it is to evade pvp if at all possible. and so the missioners do. thus fw zones are filled with solo/duo stealth bombers sniping their mission objectives from 100km away and bailing if a wt even enters system, never mind actually attacking them.one solution to the plex/mission problem is to remove the missions entirely and instead put the fw lp into the plex's. the plex's themselves need to be altered. currently all you have to do is sit on a \"button\" and wait out the timer. it's basically capture the flag. that's fine of course, but the npc's are pretty stupid so they need to add the requirement of killing all npc's present instead of just running down the timer. i would place a reward on the sites that is awarded to the most significant gang, this is an idea from incursions. however, the optimal gang size should be set between 1 and 10 depending on the site. none of the sites should be set larger.flipping systems also needs to do something other than changing the name of who has occupancy. maybe free repairs in friendly controlled systems. finally the npc's in the plex's need to be balanced out. minmatar npc's tp frigates to the size of bs's and pummel them with 120km ranged torpedos, amarr npc's can't hit a stationary carrier from 5km away but they will td the hell out of it. gallente are just as bad as amarr and caldari i honestly don't know about.in any case, i stand by my previous point of learn the current mechanics before proposing new ones. your proposal would likely remove 99% of current active militia pilots from the militia."
"fw isn't 'terrible'... 'lacking' it might be (especially when it comes to the whole plexing system as rothgar explained)... but certainly not 'terrible.' some of us like fw simply because it's a massive, unrestricted war dec with little structure and/or organization. we don't care to 'win'... we just want to kill things."
"that is all i've read.not supported..."
"first off, op has no idea what he is talking about.as king said, the main to problems w/ fw is the lack of motivation for conquering systems due to the crappy mechanics involved, ie dumb npcs and no rewards. and fw missions are equally as bad.king you should flesh out some of your points in a new proposal. maybe if we beat the fw dead horse a bit more ccp could give us some love. i mean it wouldn't take but 1 dev a week or so to implement changes that would make fw (low sec too) much better."
"1.0"
"abo****ely"
"more info on the planetary tab would be great. maybe also see how busy your factories are or something./support"
"please"
"hi. i didn't see a thread about this, but i think it's a problem.i don't think i'm the only person with this problem, but every time i log into a station or load grid after jumping into a system, i get lag because of all the character portraits that are now force-loaded. this causes people to constantly disconnect in market hubs because of the sheer number of portraits that need to unnecessary load now.and, on top of that lag problem, a lot of people, even in hisec use it to see who is a new person in local, so having all the portraits loaded already means that you can't tell who is new.please revert character portrait loading back to not-forced, or provide that option because all it does is cause lag and makes local watching a pain (not strictly for nullsec).thanks"
"cross poasting my thoughts on bridges from shcjust poasting to voice my support in nerfing jump bridges in the ass. main reason being:they have taken the depth out of 0.0. instead of nullsec being the dangerous and logistically challenging far reaches of space its a goldmine for sov holders and death trap for any visitors. bridges are rather absurd when you can hop into ec- in pure blind and travel to branch or tenal with maybe 3-4 conventional jumps, something that otherwise would be a dangerous 30-40 jump trek.takes the challenge out defending space on a day to day basis. if anyones familiar with the nc jump bridge map it is an utter cluster****. every third system seems to have a jump bridge. it means you can have an entire constellation of people descending on your position to blob you out in a minute or two. null sec is meant to be dangerous, instead its now get sov >> entirely safe unless you get full scale invaded. there has to be an effort in upkeep to match the huge wealth and benefits of holding the space. currently the upkeep is largely in isk/time etc. pilots should be required to fight to use their space to its fullest. as it stands the vast majority of any alliance membership can essentially opt out of pvp while a tiny part of their number can bridge across multiple regions in whatever ships are needed to destroy any threat.right now sov holders can sit in bubbled dead ends bearing at 50-100mil isk an hr and at the site of a roaming gang reship to 50 drakes and bridge ahead of the bad guys to kill/force them out. things are way too heavily weighted in favour of the defenders. i'll cite deklein in particular as an example. in deklein core there is a jump bridge at every major chokepoint and all one corp does (sup jsr1) is follow intel and bridge around to chokepoints with an instalock gang of 5-10 with bubbles/ashimmu/lach etc and instakill any soloer or small gang. for the attacker there is a huge risk to being out and roaming but for the defender they can move around huge distances in total safety and press f1 >> recieve killmail, stay safe.what i'd like to see- reduce bridges to 1 per constellation maximum- make bridges alliance use onlychanges such as these would but the effort back into everday space holding. people would have to be prepared to fight to enjoy the benefits of sov space (its ****ing nullsec, thats how it should be) and large scale logistics would require a co-ordinated effort from a fleet.* having read the above suggestions divorcing them from pos's could be very cool as well. it only makes sense that there be some risk associated with the speed and range of movement that bridges provide."
"this is a good summary of the types of ideas i'm trying to get passed."
"my avast! shows an issue with that web address. false positive?"
"jump clone timer - should be based on distance or empire vs nullsec. i've had multiple times where i've wanted to hop up to empire/down to nullsec base to grab skillbooks and the like and had to wait a whole day to move again. it's a day of my time wasted because i'm in the wrong place to do what i want to do.med clone cost - still needs to have some cost, but paying over 1m each time you get podded is dumb. a lot of older players aren't poor, but when you come back from an unsub after giving stuff away, including your isk, getting a new clone can be a major problem."
"trolling comment removed"
"actually the hic is very useful in empire space (hi and low). in some cases it is too useful.for starters, with damps the way they are you are completely destroying the raison d'etre for training gallente recons outside of a few circumstances where having a cov ops cloak on them is good.secondly you are adding functionality to a whole class of ship that is, essentially, the sole preserve of one race and improving upon it so unless the other chap wants to shell out on a faction scram and a gang booster he's going to be outclassed.now, long range scrams on gallente ewar ships are pretty powerful tools. they are mitigated by the fact that these vessels are relatively weak in terms of ehp and deeps and have terrible cap and fitting. hics tank like a brute and can still be capable of putting out deeps equivilant to (or in some cases greater than) a gallente recon (and yes, they should probably be looked at at some point in time, sooner rather than later i hope)."
"oh man, that collection of people totally want to get elected so they can advocate policies they favor.how nefarious!!!"
"i'll make an inquiry about this."
"you spend a lot of time talking about balancing and improving plexing, but the underlying fact is that plexing doesn't matter. in my experience, most players don't do it at all, and why should they? unless plexing means something, it's not worth either doing, or 'fixing.'"
"well, i don't know any other game mechanic that makes t1 friggs/dessys and t1 cruiser usefull.now days not many ppl plex, becuse it's a broken game mechanic(glitches, flipping a system can be retaken inn less than a day, it have no real rewards)but in my experiance, before gliches and bugs where known, and ppl thought ccp would give reward(as they did talk about at the time)lots of ppl plexed, there where bunker fights, also u got very good fights in plexes.i belive, if it where looked on, and fixes, reward given etc.it would grow again."
"hey evocationz/xanthia sarn. i bet with your charm and genteel ways you could get a lot of votes and represent high sec carebears quite nicely. you certainly seem to be pro at this game. lets face it, no one gets voted in because of their experience of the game and anyone living in 0.0 couldn't possibly know anything about high sec right?"
"i think you might have the cause and effect mixed up.the people who play in 0.0 are more meta-game oriented and understand that the game extends beyond the boundaries of the screen and keyboard. the are politically driven with power blocs, organizations and, yes, the occasional epic failures. in 0.0 reputations and names become important. in hisec . . . not so much. oh there are a few known folks but heroes? villains? hisec inhabitants keep more to themselves, mining or missioning in small groups. as a result there probably is a lot more of the vote sourced from null than high and that results in them electing the people they know.that is the why of it. it would be lovely if the hisec players actually read campaign platforms and voted, but i would be very willing to be that not many of them even come to the forums. this, right here, is meta game and in the same basket as the election itself. if the only people who care enough to read, listen, or vote are the politically active 0.0 folk then that is how it is.yeah, i am running.yeah, i would love more hisec players to get involved. might even send some votes my way.no, i am not whining or complaining. just answering your question.m"
"ok, i know ccp upgraded their \"node\" for jita, so that the old pilot cap of 700ish would be a lot more enjoyable. +1 to you ccpbut then you make the player cap 1600 with the new upgrades, and it lags pretty much just as bad as before. why not make the pilot cap 1200 for jita?if i missed something about this, please let me know.flame on"
"why not give out 1 weeks bans on scammers?that would clear up jita pretty fast, and no need for a upgrade.in real life, if u scam someone, you will be penalised...why not eve?"
"because scammers are not breaking any rules"
"well, eve rules no, but in most other sosiaties, selling a objekt under a better or something is ageins the law.but if they changed that in eve = jita lag solved, and real traders would could actually link their goods.(no point now in jita local, cuz most ppl ignore it)"
"following suite with your example of real world, and eve. in the real world, those who cannot put together sentence in an orderly fashion, where through grammar or correct spelling, is not seen as someone to take seriously.so ccp, i give you this, test jita with a 1000 or 1200 pilot cap for a couple days see how it goes. just a thought."
"this bump is much like my other bump, its not the same bump, but it is still my own."
"no x7 accounts."
"a very huge no!"
"never.everytime someone clicks that support button, a kitten dies"
"no."
"no , or in the worst case , cosmetic only ... though that would be a really good isk sink , and there is no need for us to pay for clothes with real money , when for the ships we pay with isk ."
"i am against microtransactions. my primary thought of this is how it has effectively destroyed other games i used to play team fortress 2 comes to mind. now things i would like to see along this note though would be changing the transfer character, change character portrait, and other elements that already exist for purchase to be able to spend plex to get it the process done in addition to the current straight payment."
"yesh!"
"morning bump."
"bigger is better ;)"
"the **** we stay in is even deeper :new bot revelationsit seems all these assembly hall threads dont get any recognition from ccp"
"ok so now i got you reading the topic :)i am a char of over 70mil sp i really have no need for newbie ships (apart from events) but each time i pod around (which sometimes you do) i get a free one in each station i dock at...i have a lot of newbie ships i need need so i just trash them all surely all this trashing of newbie ships is a big waste of database keys for each object so what i propose is quite simple in the menu for there to be a button/tick box/option to allow a player the choice of wether they want a newbie ship or not when they dock when it is unticked player gets none (ever) ofc the box will be ticked automaticly from any new client intall or player but as time wares on (ooo god wasted 4 years of my life) players will find out (be told about) this option and untick it (and if you need a noob ship just tick it again and redock)so is it just me that gets annoyed with about 10 stations on my assets windown with just noob ships or do more people agree with me zamahave a free ship...new idea layad out by othersits been noted meny times just to ass a button to the station menu (or another menu) that lets you \"request a new ship\" which gives you a noob ship. ofc to stop people then spaming loads of noob ships would need to make it so thay dont get one if thye already have a ship.i like the idea... more so than my own loland to stop people from keep on recomending it i add it to my proposal so you will stop posting about it lol :)"
"you usually never need one for just traveling. it warps with 3 au/s just like your pod, but takes time to align and has a larger sig. also, is monitored by faction police, etc. there are more maneuverable and faster things to move in. for transporting small but valuable items, bet even the newbies have something properly fit to use. so yeah, it's not like we need them every time we dock in a pod."
"i support this idea.the only issue with it though is the current process where if you get podded you appear in your clone station and say it has no ships. you are currently unable to undock and need that rookie ship or some ships available for purchase in station. this is the only currently existing mechanic that creates a problem.i support this completely and will be adding it to my campaign."
"seems that to succeed in eve you have to cheat. that's not what i had in mind when i subscribed to the game."
"make it possible to use nanite paste to repair drones and you can avoid all the added work of making new stuff.benefits all drone carriers and balances itself by making drones unavailable for launch while being treated."
"i would say just add it this way. utilize nanite paste and make it not unique to motherships and carriers but obviously have timer specifics benefited in the direction of motherships based on drone bay size, so it takes much longer relatively to repair a 50% damaged warrior in an imicus as compared with a dominix and and even more so compared with a mothership.the important part on this idea though is how the numbers work out so as not to overly buff drone based ships, make it take a while but be viable. i will be formulating some numbers and posting them on my campaign blog later."
"yeah i would like this."
"drone based ships (incl. carrier classes) should if anything have a faster repair rate than all others. their primary damage is drone based and as long as you make the drones unavailable for the duration it is hardly a buff .. gun/missile ships have been able to repair heat damage since it was introduced after all. combined with the ideas to balance carrier classes to reduce \"regular\" drone count it would merely serve to bring drone users up to par with the direct damage crowd"
"sounds logical"
"alright i do think that cynos need a change. here are my thoughts on the issue they are similar to the op with a few additions.1. there needs to be several sized cynos, 3 at least.starting with the most exclusive, the covert ops cyno would only allow the jumping of black ops ships (and their covert jump portal.)next is the general cyno we are all familiar with. it can be fit to any ship, and will allow black ops, carriers, dreads, rorquals, and jump freighters to jump to it.lastly, there is the supercapital cyno. this must be fit to a carrier sized craft or bigger. this is only what titans and motherships can jump to, but any other ship down the line can jump to them as well. 2. mass limits on cyno fields.each ship, starting with the black ops fleets will consume so much percentage of a certain field. the black ops will have the smallest mass, and it scales up to the supercapital cyno, which will have the most mass. every time a ship jumps through, the field diminishes similar to the function of wormholes.3. spool-up time on jumpdrives.this will make the deploying of a cyno for \"hot-dropping\" a more strategic job. the distance from the capital ship the target field will factor into the equation, as well as the class of ship. the farther away, the longer the spool time, the bigger the ship, the longer the spool time. this can be capped at a certain interval, possibly for a titan, at max distance, with no skills could take up to 3 minutes."
"supported."
"hey csm!i am sitting at a train right now and checking my email at my mobile phone. and it got me thinking. what about an evegate smartphone app?am i the only one who feels an urge to an app like this? ofc, if this sounds redicilus then tell me best regards sing jai"
"i'm for this. i've got a droid x, and for whatever reason when i try to log into evegate via the browser, it never lets me get past the \"enter a character on this account\" security screen."
"yes for making it compatible with mobile browsers (which should be no problem if they just follow standards).no for making an app to effectively view a website (which is what a browser is already for) for wm6.0, wm7.0, android, iphone, symbian, etc."
"agree with furb killerneed an app that will be formatted for the phone, not a browsers. i would like to see it but i'm not going to hold my breath. go figure..."
"are you using a custom rom? the site loads just fine on my galaxy s using both the default browser and dolphinhd.back on topic, not supported. with the amount of people now days using smart phones with built-in browsers that can handle rendering regular webpages very well, it seems like a real waste of dev time to make a special mevegate."
"nope, but i did see that they changed it to where the name checker is cap sensitive so that might be why (looks like around the time i was trying to get in)[update]just checked it, and it works fine on the native browser."
"same here, and btw - in c6 pulsar you usually logs in/get ship from sma at less than 10% shiled, way to go for caldari ships when you are in a harry for a pvp"
"supported."
"i support more filters generally. i think is a good simple addition that i will be adding to my csm campaign."
"great, thanks can i also have my dbank money back lol"
"supported..."
"true, maybe only some stations would allow free form and have some sort of warning."
"it would be nice but i can't support this for two reasons.1) lageveryone being able to create stuff would really increase the database dramatically and slow down emulation before it even gets started.2) this is not second-lifethis does not really make sense with the world of eve and does not support the desired play styles."
"suggestion to make planetary interaction with a corporation access option so that corporations could allow or have access to players planetary interactions to maintain and transpose as needed with player approval ie check a box and while your away your corp mates can look after things for you."
"i'll give my +1 for this.i havnt read the entire topic, maybe i will later, but if it hasnt already been brought up...this shotgun idea is cool infact i love it, but i'd like to have it coupled with a very very slow refire rate, like 6-10 seconds... think about how players would have to utilize timing and judgment to get their max dps. maybe not even having it on auto fire! so do you wana fire now, for 25-40% damage, or wait a few seconds to close in, and wreck them for a full blast... fire now while you have the shot, or watch your enemy drift away again.i think they, as a shotgun type weapon, should have no \"minimum\" distance to shoot from. farther distance would only mean a better time tracking, up to where the \"blast radius\" starts becoming greater then the sig radius of the ships... i like this for a few reasons...a) since the \"shotguns\" would always do some % of damage (until they just cant track are at a certain blast:sig ratio), they could always atleast put alittle hurt down on frigates, even battleships. meaning that a hyperion would act as an oversized destroyer, protecting the fleet from ships that would otherwise be too difficult to track, like a close orbiting frigate, while still being useful against larger ships at greater ranges. even if the damage isnt a ton, it would be enough to get the frig to back off...b) when the ship engaged a ship of the appropriate size, such as meds to a cruiser, larges to a battleship... they could effectively hit them at feasible pvp ranges... of course, as they start trying to fight smaller ships, they'd have to close the gap to be effective. frigates, for a large gun, should have to basically be point blank to receive full damage, and of course at which point they'd suffer tracking issues. honestly, if a bs caught a frigate at point blank that wasnt moving, lets be honest, they fail and deserve to get vaporized.c) would require the player to think about positioning and timing. would they wana shoot now, or wait to do more damage. the closer they got, the better they'd hit, and the cycle time would be enough to justify getting closer before you took a shot.d) could introduce a new, blaster weapon mod, a \"blaster choke\". basically, the equivalent of a tracking computer's range buff, for blasters, as the tracking computer range buff wouldnt make sense. how is aiming better gana help you hit farther if your ammo is the limiting factor? i'm sorry, if yoru shot is 100% dissipated at a certain range, being a better aim isnt gana change that...i hope ccp takes this idea and seriously considers it. its a unique idea that would give that little sparkle back to gallente weapon systems.a problem i see in this however, is that alot of hulls just do not support this kind of action. deimos could perhaps pull it off... thorax, most frigates... vexor? ehh... brutix? myrm? too clunky, and bs's compound on that issue. thats kinda how it is now which is another topic to discuss, though i've got some idea's..."
"i thought i read ccp does not consider the under usage of a module(or by assumption sun system) as a sign of a borken item. (from the csm minutes)sure ccp is well aware of the relative usage of t3 ships and mudules and how everyone use the tengue and at a distant second the loki.sure they also have stats on what modules are used...trouble is convincing them that it matters."
"i like it...that would be nice."
"no reason to keep mining any less exciting than it already is. bring on the colours."
"this would make it look even better when killing a barge."
"it's a double rainbow!!!!"
"supported. and the csm being upstanding members of the community, often affiliated with major alliances, and aware of much that happens in eve should publicly state their opposition to pilots, corps and alliances that benefit from bots."
"i'll tell you one thing ccp can do.hand out meaningful bans.caught once with a bot - one month ban.twice - 6 month ban.third time - permanent ban on all accounts the player holds.the \"bans\" they hand out to botters now are a joke and show ccp is not serious in any way about dealing with botting."
"put hands on work, now!!"
"this has to be one of the top two threats to long term player disaffection (along with lag) - we have a war on lag and we now need a war on bots.i for one will be voting for csm candidates who take this issue seriouslyif ccp are not taking this point seriously enough then we have to shout louder"
"the best idea is certainly to remove local. bots wouldn't be able to operate as easily, and 0.0 pvp would also be improved."
"+1what is the point of an mmo where you are playing against computers not players ??"
"supported"
"the words \"final solution\" were not intended to invoke images of the holocaust but were in reference to a solution to the various problems with the gallente. don't hijack this thread just to show your knowledge of history."
"history is something scientific. we'd better use term modern mythology."
"anyway, as far as on-topic discussion goes, the op's proposed too much to be discussed seriously.that kind of laundry list of game change requests can never work.the last time that was done was the great nano nerf, and it was a disaster."
"that's like me saying that your posts is too for meto take your opinion seriously. if you want to argue, give me solid feedback.\"th wall of text is too long\" does not cut it."
"it doesn't beat probing."
"of course it doesn't beat probing, you cant warp to 0km with it, but in many ways it has benefits probing don't have or require effort to accomplish:its instantits directionalit says ship type and ship name from the beginningit doesn't require any skills trainedit shows probes of your enemies, so you know when someone is probing youit allows you to say what forces are there without warning enemy with your probesit allows you to probe faster, by judging distance and direction of enemy shipit allows to fast finding of pos'es exact moon location, even if there are dozens of moons on one planetyou don't need to uncloak to use d-scan, less chance for enemy to spot youin w-space its as important as local is in 0.0and many, many moreso, all things together, you cant warp to 0km with d-scan, but other than that, it's great intel tool, don't tweak with it."
"yes they should openly show which alliances and corps to provide shelter or actively support bots.the corps and alliances should know the ebst themselves who are bots and who not.with this we could have much more pressure onto all corps and alliances to actively go against bots. they destroy their own game.- kill the bots -"
"really upset after"
"this would be a good and easy function to start the war against bots!i mean if somebody is reported by 10 different people and clearly acts like a bot - it is a bot!"
"i think we do need to take steps but am fair certain when i have my alt army mining it looks pretty bot like. my concern is mostly abuse and at the end of the day this would just result in more stuff for the gms to work through, slowing down the current petition process which would be worse than the bot issue currently."
"sounds like something that could be highly abused. ive been called a botter by some noob that thought it was cool to bump me like a ******, until i came back and melted his retriever. last i checked bots wernt that cool... but at the same time this brings up a point that people have a very low recognition differential for detecting bots, vs people who just afk mine like me.i'm also sure the \"report spammer\" function is worthless. never seen it usable, but \"report botter\" would get spammed every 5 minutes by some people.\"awe man, look, its our rival corp stealin our omber... report dat ****!!\" and suddenly the gm's have like 30+ reports on the same guys, despite if theyre legit or not. then there would be people who just reported every one who mined for more then half an hour in the same spot (because that never happens, specially not on ice belts or similar)not a bad suggestion but given our broken ass player base, it wouldnt work."
"they need to automate the function. that means the more a bot is reported the higher the character goes on the list the gm's have to check. i guess this is what they already do with the \"report isk spammer\" button."
"long ago ccp made the faction implants (crystal, halo, etc...) be +3 to attributes because at the time that was what there was. then we got +4s and +5s. i am suggesting that both low-grade and high-grade faction implants are a bit outdated and should be like this:high grade implants should give +5 to attributes with all other effects staying the same. low grade implants should give +3 to attributes with all other effects staying the same."
"supporting my own evil."
"when a bot is discovered concord should fine the bot pilot's corp 5% of the total funds in its wallets:why?corps currently benefit from bots through taxescorps can police their members, and kick out those using bots - they currently have to look out for spies and scammers as it iswould concentrate bots in npc corps where they might be easier to managewould prevent bots from benefiting major alliances and therefore impacting on everyone elsebut that isn't fair! my corp can't control whether a pilot uses a bot.corps currently benefit from bots, so it is reasonable that corps be punished for harbouring themcorps are at risk from member pilot activities currently anyways: corp thefts, scams and spies . i would like to see use of bots also presenting a threat to corps."
"oh heck yes and their names displayed for all to see"
"so why isnt happening anything. when they have \"several\" people working on this. why are whole regions full of bots? why do bots that i report come back after one day ban? botswhy can you read in eve bot forums(first page google) that ccp does nothing against bots?i heard nc is supporting bots to. like all other alliances! i dont think its only the \"bad\" russians.i guess you 0.0 alliances feel mighty with your big fleets financed by bots.yeah and i better post with my new alt cause otherwise i will end up wardecd by 10 merc corps financed from 1 hour of botting."
"if this and other forums become nothing but ban bots and ban the accounts benifiting from bots....then good."
"if you think about it, market bots cause an unnecessary load strain on the server with all their query activity."
"lol yeah csm, better listen, or he might do absolutely nothing in retaliation...sorry that made me laugh, as for the topic...i dont think bots are an \"impending threat\" of any form. they function rather well in a \"may as well\" macro game like eve. they sell cheap ore (because they can) and make everything more affordable as a consequence (on noe). its not like they cripple the market either... mining is probably the single safest, easiest profession in eve, and should pay out as such. however, i do think that mining in lowsec poses very little reward for the risk, but whatever not the topic.the only issues i have are people who do rmt, which is entirely unworth it, thanks to eve's... well i cant decide if its a good or bad thing, but their decision to sell plex's for cash, which return about the same isk as most rmt trades. i personally enjoy padding my wallet with plex i sell... i have over 2 billion isk and i didnt earn a damn penny, and honnestly i've enjoyed eve alot more as a consequence, since making isk is like watching paint dry, very exciting.on the flip side, you get alot of idiots, with too much isk on their hands that blow up more ships... hey guess what more economy because more ships are being circulated. sorry you industrial guys, we know you enjoyed selling about half the ships you do now.this could be fixed with something as simple as giving the eve regional markets their own, light weight server to query off of. thats if they dont already... its not like they dont have the money to expand their servers..."
"recurring themes can also be an indicator of people having nothing better to do with their time.there is a thread over in general discussion talking about who the botters actually are. rather than have ccp out their own intelligence, you could participate in the lynch mob :)"
"support the idea of little guy vs the big guy...but with hot drops they can and will hot drop anything....even had a stealth bomber gang hot droped on(did they really do that...wow yup...)"
"so either it is trivial to reinforce the moon mining arrays, or it takes quite some time and you added yet another structure grind that is just a poorly disguised supercap boost."
"part of the issue is that both sovereignty and disruption of infrastructure basically come down to dps contests, which small alliances will basically lose by definition. i made a pitch awhile ago on how to de-link sovereignty from dps contests and infrastructure from pos (bare-bones summary here).would that be along the lines of what you were thinking, matchete?"
"you do realize there are mechanics / methods already in game that will allow a small corp to all but cripple an alliance using \"gorilla warfare\" tactics...right?"
"the problem with a change like that is that it doesn't discriminate between blob and non-blob. there would be nothing preventing grief-hotdrops on big and small alike or even roaming gangs knocking out every array in a region.you need to add something that the blob can do that is outside the reach of the small entity/gang.they could kill the pos but why bother if you just whack the mining gear?"
"i like the idea of using scripts to make the hybrids more versatile, but i have to admit that the thought of taking a -25% hit to the capacitor for each mag stab that is fitted with the script is more than a little daunting. perhaps just more cap usage instead, maybe around 75% to make it still useful, but with a sufficient handicap.i have to note, however, that this proposal breaks the whole idea behind scripts because it adds an attribute to a module that it never had prior to the script. all other scripts merely redistribute the percentages that are applied to the bonuses they give. therefore i unfortunately cannot support the topic directly.however, since the purpose of the proposal is to give hybrids something unique, why not just have the scripts go directly onto the guns themselves. that would absolutely give hybrids something unique and very useful, and it wouldn't be game breaking since the scripts will merely redistribute the stats of the guns for whatever purpose they need at the time."
"the idea is interesting but it needs to be complete as in have some basic numbers for heat sinks, ballistic controls, and gyros. it is an unfair advantage to hybrids to have them uniquely with scripted damage buffers.also, your numbers are too high that much damage bonus is a lot. also, increased optimal range is a job for tracking enhancers and computers not the damage boost modules. i would say script to damage or rof but not both at the same time."
"post here if u would love the idea of jump cloning possible every 12 hours. feel free to discuss about the subject."
"hmm well im disapointed, i was hopeing for at least a 'no, now go away'"
"i do see that as a really small exploit so i do support this but might just have when the shield comes up to disable the cyno (but keep the immobile duration). i think that is a better solution than preventing it from a certain distance to the pos during this process."
"be prepaired for a non fail cloaker to arrive soon."
"my view is this. the worst a single cloaker can do is be a bomber and **** my ratting bs or hulk. the only reason it is a threat is because of the hot dropping mechanics. the cloaker himself is not much of a threat."
"can you send some my way as well?i'll be in delve, system pde-u3, the more the merrier"
"yes that would be nice to have, make it easier on some of us..."
"signed"
"+1 - decent and balanced \"platform\", well structured presentation.the whole campaign should be highlighted, on a separate page or something or at least with sticky forum topics...good luck!"
"how is your view on macros and bots?"
"it would make hics hugely overpowered."
"will you support this tread?"
"thank you larkonis,i didn't even think about how that would antiquate the use of the gallente recons (odd because my main ship is a lachesis). based on that i think i will be removing it from my campaign.winternight i too have nostalgia for many of the old textures and definitely do support that."
"select plex.sanshactrl+cselect plex.fwctrl+vinclude the whole lp mechanics (but now they dont go for concord lp shop but for racial fw lp shop, and you can exchange it for a certain rate for lp from corporations belonging to that faction) and ai. now you can be happy. oh and make it so that the amount of npcs and side they are on depends on uncloaked people in the plex. in other words: when gallente are fighting caldari npcs and the caldari fw comes in gallente reinforcements will come in."
"don't agree with some of the other points you have listed but yes occupancy needs attention.the whole plexing thing was designed to encourage fights - which it can and does still do. but sadly, as you state, the boost to pirate frigates has had a detrimental affect on plexing. it would be better if the pie frigs were restricted from the smaller plexes.also would like to see occupancy actually mean something, there have been many suggestions previously on what this could be such as giving system wide buffs to the sov holders or restricting station services from those not holding sov.sadly, this is post no# 8723262 on \"please ccp fix my fw\" and as yet we're nowhere near the top of the todo list."
"i definitely support this. i miss a lot of the old textures and would enjoy a way to acquire them as collections and this is a nice simple way of doing that."
"if you look at the issues raised by csm 5, you will see that a substantial majority of them are things that are either global in nature, or are aimed at improving empire and lowsec.the csm delegates who were active campaigners in the last election (because they were not depending on alliance bloc-votes to get in) tended to be very responsive to the concerns of non-0.0 players, because they got a substantial portion of their votes from hi-sec. in my case, while i got some votes from my alliance, it was the hi-sec vote that got me on the csm.heck, right now i'm gathering ideas for a proposal about mission-running tweaks.the bottom line is, if you have a concern you want raised, you should contact some of the csms and ask for their help getting a proposal properly raised. the squeaky pod gets the lube, so to speak."
"yes"
"the most recent attempt by ccp to fix insurance payouts by reducing them clearly did not solve the problem. return t1 insurance payouts to their pre-dominion levels. leave t2 insurance payouts as is.hi sec ganking is a huge problem in game, taking away insurance for concord destoryed ships is the largest incentive you can give in game to stop this practice. fully supported."
"removing insurance will have no effect on organised gankers"
"no, but at least, their \"profit\" will be reduced. current \"logic\" of insurance is weird. i insure my new car in case of fire. i set my car on fire in front of insurance company guy. \"heeey bravooo, here is your insurance money\"."
"considering their profit is never guaranteed due to the loot drop system, you would be surprised how little insurance would affect them. they would just get a little selective or gank more freighters instead of t1 haulers.the real life insurance argument doesnt really hold in this case either as no real life insurance company would insure a mission ship or mining vessel(outside 0.9-1.0 sec systems) either as you are willingly flying them in situations where they could get blown up. it only works when considering the complete removal of insurance.the only true way to stop suicide gankers is for the guys getting ganked to stop leaving themselves so open to it. the amount of times i have seen people lose billions because they decided it would be a good idea to fly it around in an untanked t1 hauler would make your mind boggle."
"funny how whiny pirates who hide behind their mining alts for isk-farming always use the term \"something that can fit a gun\", not \"pvp fitted\". apparently for some stupid reason, they think that farming ratting/missioning ships is any better and that only they should have safety and still be able to \"grief\"."
"i can't believe this hasn't died yet.anyway, no!insurance in eve isn't really insurance. its basically percentage scrap rights. concord gets the rights to 60% of the mineral scrap value of a wreck, and the owner gets 40%. you pay a slight amount more to get more of the scrap value.that is why it is payed out to everyone."
"absolutely supported 110%. only a pirate would not like this idea. it makes sense too. criminals who have their vehicle shot up by the police don't get covered by an insurance company for the damages. you don't get insured for setting your car on fire either.pirates just want their jobs to be as easy as possible, when in fact it should be one of the most difficult things to do in the game."
"supported.you can argue about what is better or worse about eve now compared to years ago until the end of time but people are in absolute, total agreement that this was a stupid, stupid move and the old effects (cynos, jump drives, jump portals and engine trails) need to return."
"supported, ccp bring back the old cyno jump effect !was for noobs so much awesomness to see their first cyno jump ,now its just pants."
"i'd love to see a better balance of ranges, the damages work out pretty well right now as is. fully supported."
"morning bump. wink"
"while this practically turns the game into a turn based cluster****, it is still better than the soul-crashing cluster**** we have.this thread just got approved by captain j.t. kirk!"
"yes"
"sounds good"
"supportedbut just one thought. there should be a limit on the time dilation. if the server ever gets to the point where its running at 20 or 30 sec gametime versus realtime, then ccp should just let the modulelag/server crash happen.overall its a brilliant idea."
"gallente ships need a serious boost. fully supported."
"+1 to this :)and it wouldn't be to much to ask for if gallente boats could run 1 extra drone.i mean with all races being able to use drones, and gallente is the drone race its strange that they don't get any special with their drones."
"what like drone bonuses or the ability to field a larger variety than equivalent ships. no that certainly isn't a current gallente trait.on a side note reducing the fitting of hybrids and making them insta reloading would improve both gallente and caldari hybrid boats (which seem to get forgotten in these discussions)"
"caldari boats look like they get forgotten because the hybrid issue is far more acute for gallente vessels, even though improving both blasters and railguns would benefit both races ships. caldari ships also have the use of missiles, which are arguably a better weapons system than drones."
"i would say the caldari hybrid boats have more of a problem applying damage than gallente ones due to a lack of midslots, being slow and having no damage bonus.the whole 'caldari have missile boats' doesnt really wash. minus the drake, tengu, hookbill most are crap or average at best. the nighthawk is good but not that much of an improvement over the drake. whereas the gallente drone boats are largely good. the ishkur, ishtar, vexor navy, vexor and domi are all good ships and the myrm is largely underrated. this is why it would be better to fix hybrids first as it helps benefit more crap ships than just a gallente ship fix."
"actually gallente ships are designed by person who thinks that hybrids are powerful.if hybrids were powerful, then it would be fair that ship carrying them are slow, have horrible cpu/pg, weird and useless bonuses and so on. this is how balance works (in eve)unfortunately hybrids are not powerful. they are badly underpowerd compared to other weapon systems.minmatar ships on the other hand are created keeping in mind that projectiles are bad (maybe they were bad before? not sure) so their ships are versatile, fast, and.. just good. so change the whole concept about hybrids being good. they are pretty much niche weapons and ship that carry them should be designet acordingly"
"this is ccp we're talking about. if you were around when nozh really ****ed up the ms design you'd know how badly i want to go to iceland and burn their offices down for not caring about hybrids.the one problem with hybrids is their lack of range. boost their range and you immediately boost their usability.i have seen many posts defending the lack of range of hybrids but none have explained why amarr can hit up to 50km, whilst having the highest tracking, minmatar can hit almost as far as amarr and caldari being able to hit up to 30km with torps (torp ravens are so rare they're rarer than platinum). an abaddon can match the dps of a mega whilst outclassing it in every scenario and let's not even talk about autocannons.the imbalance is ridiculous and infuriating because ccp have been notified of this many a time.i will vote for anyone who rebalances guns and adds more range to hybrids. adding extra damage will not do, as it's pointless. you can have a ship with a trillion dps but the moment you're webbed or your mwd gets shut off all your dps is useless and all you can do is wait to flee in your pod, because you're never going to reach your target anyway. the one thing that will help is, somehow, making them faster, but as i don't see it happening i want to see hubrids being able to hit at up to 40km."
"thats a stupid fix, making hybrids hit out to 40km replaces projectiles and means we end up with another essentially obsoleted weapon type."
"what's more stupid than unused guns with no niche? go ahead ask for total anihilation of gallente race/space since you are there. the only people sugestig things to make those weapons be usefull for a whole race are called \"stupids\" \"emoragers\" and so on... it's pathetic.i can also say that i wouldn't like any other weapon/ship to become another \"i win\" button like my minie stuff, but that would be too much honest wich is not on the game/players line.so what is your sugestion and please give some numbers realted to other weapon systems so we can see how you have found the best option and the way so that even newbbies stop using autocanons/artillery in theyr ships."
"im sorry there have been plenty of decent suggestions to fixing hybrids. lowering fitting requirements, increasing damage and tracking, instant reloads, however increasing hybrid range to that of projectiles and lasers only makes all the guns similar with hybrids(blasters) outdamaging both lasers and projectiles across the board.this all being whilst it would now have the best tracking anyway due to the improved hit chance from the now increased range.it is a stupid idea to make all the guns similar hence why i said making blasters have 40km range is a stupid fix.edit. i personally support a damage and tracking increase whilst lowering the fitting requirements, this would help both gallente and caldari hybrids and mean that you would still have to work to get people but the damage is now enough to make up from the tank you lost getting them in range"
"ccp, lots of your time (and our money) has been, and are continually waisted in combat of botting.there are a sh.. load of posts in the forums where players are demanding an end to botting.it's like combatting software & movie piracy - it's just not possible.you can copyprotect all you want - it will be hacked - thats a fact and we all know know it.we are fighting a lost cause.\"if you cant beat them, join them\"we need a new approach to the problem.lets even the ods out.i suggest making in-game botting possible and legal.a fully flexed macro language with all commands nessssary.commands like these: undock, warpto [nameofdestenation], activategate, dock [stationname], invitetofleet [charname], activateslot [slotname], ejectcargobaywhenfull, activatemodule, deactivatemodule, locktarget(#), unlocktarget(#) and so forth.if it's available to everyone in-game, there is no need to buy isk via rmt and no need to buy external botting software.if it's available to everyone in-game, it can be controlled and optimized by ccp, so as not to put exessive load on servers.i'm thinking in line of scripts you can manufacture.script command (sc) -> manufacturering -> ship command script (scs)each sc has to be added to the (same) scs, one line at a time by the help of manufacturering in order to create a fully working scsif not manufactured in correct order, scs will not work correctly = isk waisted (like invention) ... try again.one thing is important. in-game botting must not be limited in any way, or people start using external botting again.plenty of options to make this another industry in eveonline.ship command script can only be inserted/removed in station, pos or ship maintenance bays like any other module.scs is not destroyed when removed.one property of the sc could be manufacture time, and the more sc's put on a scs, the longer it takes to manufacture.new skills are needed.a scs cannot be copied.a scs gets worn down by usage and must be repaired, otherwize it will end up being destroyed - think of it as an old fashion punch card you put into ships auto pilot.there is a chance npc ewar will disrupt ships computer, halting a running scs.i'm not saying this is the final answer to botting and it's connection with rmt, but with in-game legal botting there is no need to buy at rmt.i'm not promoting afk play, but some things in eve are outright borring.and i'm all for keeping iskies in the game.all mmogs are having the same problem with rmt, and are fighting the same lost cause.eve online is different in having a csm, why not try this radical new approach.ccp dr. eyjog wants more isk sinks - here is one.ccp and csm, this is ment as a serious suggestion, please treat it as so.fly safe out there."
"hell no. there's a reason why games fight against botting, because allowing it unchecked vaporizes economies. rmt wont be stopped. if anything, legalizing bots makes it easier for them to produce, lowering their prices per isk amount even more, while making a sanctioned way for them to be unkillable like in 0.0 with ratters.what people need to do is stop cheating in games. everyone blames ccp about bots, but we need to start blaming players more. legalizing botting would do nothing except kill the economic side of the game, and make it dull to play."
"supported"
"i live in 0.0 atm and i like the idea of destructible stationsbut as stated earlier you can not just destroy everything in the station mainly because of inactive playersand nobody want's to run the risk of losing the 5 fitted carriers he has in a station"
"the return of risk for the reward."
"supported, and predicting epic lulz when a high level spy/director self-destructs a station."
"i would rather have more solar systems than less stations."
"i def support this. it does feel like there are some gaps and room for improvement with several t3 subsystems, all of which seem to have been addressed here. well thought out and seems like it would be a welcome improvement. sadly, i do believe this would drive the market prices of t3 ships back up to what they were right around the time we first saw them introduced. there is no such thing as a free lunch. i would be happy to pay the inflated price for a more versatile and useful t3 ship.thumbs up!"
"i dont particularly agree with the changes in the op, but i can support some love to t3, it seems tme you are paying 5 times as much for a ship equal to or lower in capabilities to the t2."
"i support this however to the people up above who claim otherwise .the legion most definatly needs the fuel catalyst subsystem. 100mn afterburner ftw!"
"forgot to officially support"
"thanks for all the support guys. i for one will happily skip into jita and stay there forever when the ability to filter out all of those thousands of people in favour of those two wts is deployed"
"local needs to be nerfed not buffed."
"it's hardly a massive buff, but please do explain why you said what you said. it's more of an adjustment in something that should have been present at the start but wasn't - filters (in any sense) are good, and the game would be better with more."
"i disagree. the items could be clientside (updated with each patch), which would not slow modern machines at all. if you did notice a speed hit, it would only be in station, and would not effect game play. remember also that not everybody would be able to create stuff. it would take a real life skill set and have to pass a vetting process before becoming part of the game, basically farming out the labor intensive graphics design process to the members of the player base that have those skills.also, though this isn't second life, the ambulation feature is going to attract a lot of people into the game, and this would enhance their play experience. i'm not quite sure how you define \"the desired play styles\". desired by who?"
"a massive massive burden on ccp staff as they have to trawl through 5 gazzillion crap and / or offensive clothing designs from wannabe'sunaceptable levels of censorship.clothing <> spaceships.the concept of having a \"look n feel\" for clothing is completelly irrelevant.look and feel and trends and styles develop because of what people like to wear.there would need to be massive choice for clothing to become \"realistic\" as there is in the world today.a better system would be to have the cloths designer in-game.have a system which makes sure nipples remain covered etc.and have it cost a crap load of isk to prototype clothing designs,polytextiles > prototype clothing bp > cloths, which can then be sold.allow survival of the fittest to take care of all the crap stuff , no-one wants."
"hello!i want to present idea to add percentage tax to any order change in the market the same way it is present in the contracts. for example you sell x for 100.000 isk you pay 1%. than if you want to set price 99.9999 you should pay another 1% from the whole price. this tax can be affected by skills but cannot be remove completely. why is it necessary?all we know that normal buy/sell operations now are totally screwed by market bots and no-life players which are going 0.01 isk game leaving no space for casual traders.it is good idea to have them think about their prices, not only mechanical outbid until they reach the bottom. this idea is widely supported in russian community. and i think it is the technique which can greatly helps to improve this part of the game and moreover is a very simple in realization. the original russian topic:"
"market bots are a problem indeed. this idea probably may become a little step on the big job of cleansing bots from eve. at least for market bots - to reduce a number of 0.01 isk order changings. if each change will be fined by a tax, it would be a bit easier to trade for non botting people."
"this topic should be moved to assembly hall. for the idea itself - i support it."
"moved to the assembly hall on the request of the op."
"unsupported.it's perfect how as is now, pretty same as real stock exchange market.lie. it's at least 50/50"
"we are not buying stock. selling merchandise in real life has real cost overhead and in this game the overhead is so small it's irrelevant. hence the .01 isk game. as it is now the person with ocd and no life wins.(unless a bot is in play)honestly they should be taxing highsec transaction a hell of a lot more than they do. both for the isk sink and to drive trade towards null allowing those willing to move the goods and take the risk to profit more than those that sit in the safety of high sec gaming a system that would never exist in real life."
"supported. it would kill alot of the .01 games by driving their margins to 0 for each change they make."
"im so sick of petitioning bots in high sec plexes like angel creo-mining. im so sick ccp !! hear me!"
"i know you asked for constructive criticism, but as i was reading through the pdf i realized that literally every clause had some sort of silly demand like doubling something or decreasing something by 50% or similar nonsense and just ended being thankful ccp don't listen to every random proposal they see."
"..thanks for stealing all our ideas and putting your name only on the document?"
"yes, you are right. however, i read most of the ideas i \"borrowed\" on this and other forums months ago. and even if i remember where i read it, this might not be the original author.that being said, if anyone shows up and says: \"this is my/this dude's idea\" i will add the name happily. there is no reason i should take credit for what i don't deserve."
"sorry, but, i love lengthy posts. :)i recently posted a thread entitled \"dear hulkageddoners\" which you can probably find in the \"events & gatherings\" forum. here is the link"
"partly a good idea though not original or unique.you're proposing 2 different ideas, so i can't support the thread.you sound like you're doing a stealth whine in the form of a suggestion.flaws with the idea of making killrights sellable is that nobody's going to buy them. 1) killrights do not apply to the pod, which is what's needed to collect the bounty. 2) the killrights would be made worthless if the suicide character is a throwaway toon. 3)the non-throwaway toons would have their sec status dropped fast enough that they probably spend most of their time in lowsec anyway.i've made a proposal in the past on how to fix the entire bounty system with a few simple changes, but i don't think enough people are interested. besides ccp's too busy for probably at least another year or two before they can even begin working on anything like this. it's been broken for 7 years now, it's not something anyone expects to be fixed any time soon, including ccp."
"1) let the market decide the value of a kill-right.2) there is no \"bounty\" involved, so there is no need to kill the pod. i am not proposing a new \"bounty\" system.3) isn't ccp supposed to be cracking down on the use of \"throwaway toons\"??? 4) the whole purpose of making kill-rights trade-able is make the enviornment uniform, so that even if a toon does hide in low-sec or null-sec, someone there will be able to buy the kill-rights, so it won't matter where they hide. (edit: and the mere fact that someone can \"hide from a kill-right\" only proves once more that the system as it stands coddles the gankers.)"
"simply making killrights tradable will not make them useful.1) market decides the value of a killright, but if the game mechanics give them no benefit to use, they have no value.2) bounty would be the only reasonable way to make killrights valuable. by neglecting bounties, they are still just as worthless as they are now.3) i haven't heard of anyone getting banned for using throwaway toons. have you?4) in 0.0 killrights mean absolutely nothing. they have absolutely zero value there. in lowsec killrights would mean you could have more legal aggression, and small ship combat on gates, but you don't really need them. killrights would have the most value in highsec, but since you have no way of knowing for sure if anyone (much less someone specific) has killrights on you, allowing them to be tradable would discourage people from occasional lowsec pvp.so, your idea needs work for it to actually be good. if you want to whine and cry like the tone of your posts have so far, you won't be getting much support here."
"i like hulkageddon but i also like the principle of this idea; however, as mkmin pointed out, some other game mechanics changes would be necessary and the implementation is very messy. but contrary to his point of view, i possess a different concern. while the average killright would hardly be worth much as he pointed out, there are always extremes in every system.one of my biggest worries would be the scenarios in which ganking becomes counterproductive. if you gank someone in highsec, you give them a license to kill which is worth money on the market. at some point, that license to kill can become worth more than the gank and in essence, by ganking people, you could actually be giving them free isk instead.overall i have to say no."
"signed/"
"not using plex so far, but like with cell phones you should be able to see any time how much time you got left."
"as of now there's no point what so ever to this tab. change it to something useful."
"changing what a module does on-the-fly is a very fun aspect of eve online. even when you're doing something as simple as changing a tracking computer to tracking speed instead of optimal when an enemy comes into default optimal range. it gives you something to do instead of just praying that your guns hit in the situations where you really can't do anything else.more modules should have script functions, these come to mind right away:armor repairers, shield boosters, damage mods, damage controls, cap boosters, long ranged variant guns/missiles, afterburners/mwd, siege/triage etc.of course every script would have a downside equal to the upside making them balanced, just like tracking scripts.discussion on script functions?feel free to add your own module type..."
"i like the general idea of scripts. but i was absolutely horrified when i saw the way ccp did it.it was a huge nerf to all scripted modules. 50% nerf. if adding scripts to these other modules will also result in 50% nerfs, then forget about it"
"the modules that have scripts are modules that affect 2 different things. the stuff you list only do 1 thing. guns are 'scriptable' with the kind of ammo you pick. if you could figure out something that would be better scripted than what you have listed then yeah, i'd support.consider current scripts:ewar are range, effectiveness, or half and halfhic bubble is either bubble or infinipoint.idea doesn't seem very well thought out as to what you'd like to script, what effect it would have, and why it wouldn't unbalance the game."
"in game so not much time to type, but...i was thinking scenario based scripts like for example an armor repair system would have a script that doubles duration but also doubles the amount repaired and visa versa. if you know you won't have cap for very long use the double repaired. etc..."
"yes!"
"i've just recently gotten into heavy trading and hauling. i've worked up my own very elaborate market quickbar folders to simplify this; however, searching my existing buy orders and sell orders is much more tedious, as there is no way to organise the items, and they have limited sorting options.i would like to propose adding a folder system to the market orders window. for simplicity, i would suggest making it identical to the mechanics in the market quickbar window. that way, there would be a minimal learning curve, and ccp could possibly just port over the code. i'm not a programmer, but i think this would just be a cosmetic, client-side modification, so it wouldn't add any extra load to the servers.this feature would be of greatest benefit to traders who have many, many orders open simultaneously. rather than settling for the default alphabetical sorting, it would allow us to sort orders in a way that mirrors the market browsing tab or our market quickbar. or, it could be used to mirror the sorting of items in the hangar.i did a search for similar suggestions in the assembly hall, but i couldn't find any. however, i did find many people asking for the quickbar folder feature several years ago, before i started playing. obviously, many people found that useful and it got implemented. i'm hoping people will also support market order folders.chris"
"nope there is no official rule. but usually you hear about 1% of the value to be transported. high sec transports are mostly capped in the payment. you wont find many transports go over 5 misk payment. the collateral should be usually around 110% of the value, to make it not worth stealing the cargo. t2 production can be higher, as for t2 you calculate with higher margins then 10%. the collateral shouldnt be higher then 1 billion isk as well, cause then the break even for ganking is reached. so 1.6 billion on a transport with a freighter is like a cross hair on your back. you shouldnt accept those anyway. i hope you dont accept those 1000 isk courier contracts. cause then you are responsible yourself for such kind of contracts. as long they get fulfilled, they will be set up like this."
"of course they don't get fulfilled, and of course they're still set up like this. it's same as all other scam contracts, you set up idle contract slots on all your toons, since the slots are wasted anyway if you don't use them. eventually some scrub bites."
"i'd like to see some action on this too."
"yes, absolutely."
"problem: currently, and against what some might feel is common sense, a corp member requires the role 'contract manager' in order to accept contracts 'for' their corporation. however they require no roles whatsoever to steal a contract that has been assigned to their corporation into their own possession.this means that it is impossible to securely send items or a courier job to a corporation, such that one of several trusted people could accept it as they are available, unless you are able to 100% trust every single member of your corp, even a 3 day old on probation with zero roles.proposed solution:add an option when contracting to a corporation that restricts the acceptance of that contract to 'for corp' without allowing members to accept it individually.alternative 1 (even more useful):add an option that restricts acceptance of a contract made to a corporation to those with contract manager roles for both accepting 'for corp' and for individual acceptance ('secure' contract option).alternative 2 (perhaps more intuitive and safer):make the default that contracts to a corportation can only be accepted by contract managers, but add an option which opens the contract out to all corp members ('open' contract option) - e.g. for sales of fitted ships at corporation prices to members, etc."
"just a bumphope to see it as a fix during one of the small patches."
"like the idea. do something about the bots already. i know this is one of a thousand topics on bots, but let me put it this way. this issue has not been touched by ccp during any other csm, it has been a known problem for years. after years of inaction, you bet you'll hear alot of uproar about it. fix it, and fix it correctly. supported."
"well one should think there are so many threads, cause people dont see much progress.but it is true that showing the name of the bots would support the bot-devs to fine tune the code. therefore i would support the topic but more generalized. the max info ccp could release is how many bots in which region where banned. but this is imo not of use to any player, so one could leave it complete.a monthly update on how many bots in total. how many in high, low or true sec. a dev blog on the bot bannings would be interesting, but contra productive to ccp's work on the work against bots. police doenst tell you how far they are catching the criminal as well. maybe some extra words in the eve quarter report."
"i hope this is the right place to post this sort of thing. i have a couple of suggestions that will definitely help trading and the market. if you feel like moving this post to a better, more proper place on the forums, please do so. 1. searchs done on the market should have sort by power requirements and also by size filters, to make it easier to fit out ships.2. when viewing the market, your orders should show up in red, or some other color than the current market colors, to make your orders distinct from others.i believe that both of these suggestions would greatly improve the efficiency of the marketplace and help people from getting more headaches. thank you for your time. hope this finds the right people soon. have care, fly safe :)"
"hi there. suggestions are right here, but i think there will be little hope for yours. both issues are already solved with external programs. about 1) - have you tried the eft (eve fitting tool) yet? its great for fitting tests. i think there is hardly anyone who makes a ship and is not trying the fitting first on that tool.about 2) it is solved by tools like eve-meep. your orders will be listed and highlighted in such tools. seeing your orders in a different highlighted color could help, but i doubt ccp will give it high priority, as there are so many things they currently work on. maybe the announced change in more little updates will bring some quick fixes like yours."
"1. i don't think that's really necessary - when you're looking though the market for a ship, you generally have some idea of the kind of ship you're looking for.2. this would be a good idea"
"read this:"
"most people who are at a level where they need/benefit from using these implants don't need the extra skill training speed and it would simply raise the cost of these modules way above their current value for people that pvp in them.you can also jump out of them during combat downtimes and the only real benefit would be to carebears who will only ever use them in a risk free environment and definitely push the price up to stupid levels through increased demand.no."
"won't work.bot creator adds line at end of cycle: transfer funds to x.wallet is perpetually close to zero = nothing done.also has no impact on mining bots as they work on roids and thus have no isk to begin with."
"i doubt he has any beyond \"bots are bad\" or he would have mentioned it."
"good luck in your campaign."
"good luck in your quest for a seat on csm6. from our discussions, i think you have the right mindset and would be a productive csm member."
"voting is open! it's time to roc the vote people! vote vote votecampaign page.campaign trail - factional warfarecampaign trail - third party appscampaign trail - eve apicampaign trail - microtransactionscampaign trail - expertisecampaign trail - jump bridgescampaign trail - communicatoncampaign trail - bpocampaign trail - directioncampaign trail - csm profitwant to know my opinion on a topic important to you? ask here, or at my blog campaign page. #rocthevote"
"my bothan spies have reported that \"game design will look into this.\"if anyone can contract me some more bothans in-game, it would be appreciated; i'm running low."
"i think that the current game system has some really strong limitations.if you want to keep sovereignty 1-system based, and the size of powerblocs does not change, the current situation is the best that can happen. in my opinion, two things must change:1. it does not make any sense that you can invade just a single system at a time. when a two entities fight, their goal is to control at least a constellation, usually a region, sometimes even multiple regions. i am completely confident that if sov warfare (not soevereignty itself) becomes constellation based, with constellation wide reinforcement timers, and some measures aimed to eencourage simultaneous fights on different solarsystems, splitting the load of the global fight onto different nodes, it will become far more enjoyable (less lag) and deep.2. people should stop thinking that small independent entities should be able to hold sov against stronger opponents. this is never going to happen without senseless game breaking changes.instead, small entities must be given the possibilities to live and do farming, logistics, industry ecc in hostile territory (thus supporting a guerrilla style pvp). not at all an \"i win\" button: tools for small entities to survive, to avoid direct confrontation (only to an extent) with a stronger opponent, tools to hide (up to a certain extent) without being a threat to poses, outpost and sovereignty. people must understand that sovereignty, outposts, poses are only for powerblocs, and not for the weaks. but the weaks deserve some way to survive in conquerable space."
"kruger i agree with everything you say except the above. so i am 90% on board with you. but this part i really think is a bad idea.you want fw occupancy to be *more* about pve. i want the opposite. i want the npcs removed and the actual players to be notified and fight for the plexes. as long as plexing is mainly a pve activity it will never get any respect in the game. it must be pvp if it is to be worth doing for anything other than isk.as for giving isk for plexing i agree there should be some reward. but i dont want plexxing to just be a new way to carebear. occupancy wars should motivate people because it is a challenging game. consider player sov systems and all the wars fought for that. do alliances take over space to make more isk, or do they make more isk to take over space? why do they fight for sov so much? you see the motivation to take over space is because that is how you succeed at a rewarding/challenging game. if the game is not rewarding or challenging it will not be respected. as long as fw is a fight against npcs it will not be a rewarding or a challenging game. it will only be worthy of luls from the eve community. perhaps you can clear out sansha or sleepers better than anyone in eve. who really cares? are we going to have an alliance tournament to see who can kill sleepers the fastest? would anyone watch? pvp is the thing that is most challenging and interesting in eve. but you are right about everything else. fw could truly be great. do the things you say and let the militias know exactly where plexes are entered, by whom, and ship types so they can go fight it out. fw will indeed be the best pvp in eve. and gaining occupancy will be challenging and worthwhile."
"on fw i would suggest some simple to impliment, but effective ways to buff the game:. split by category and ease to impliment.on plex'seasy:- improved ai implimented.- big lp reward for plexes.- faction ships to be counted as tech 2 (solves them all in one fell swoop).medium:- all sides get various e-warefare, generic plex rat introduced if needs be (so never again complaints about bias in sides).hard:- offensive plex's 70% defensive faction spawn, 30% offensive faction spawn. i want to be in a war zone, so lets see the navies fighting when you enter. it also immediately makes plex's more of a viable zone as both sides will be under fire when fighting in them.on missions:easy:- if big loyalty point reward for plex, mission lp reward toned down.medium:- missions to count towards sov just like plexes.hard:- new ai introduced, (all mission would need redoing).on fw in general:all hard i fear for development.- consequences. caldari conquered all of low sec, they got a badge. eve is meant to be about consequences so let see either a bonus to caldari space or a penalty to gallente in such circumstance.- annoucements in militia chat every five minutes when a bunker is vulnerable. would lead to everyone charging the system just to find fights, which is good for everyone.- war dec mechanics against militia to be revisited. either treat as alliance, or allow alliances. no ccp half arsed nature about this.- reward for rank. at the moment, ironically, you actually provide a reward to the opposition for your rank (you are worth more lp). simply apply a similar multiplier for rank. so if you are rank1 shooting a rank 10 general is worth 10 lp, but if you are a rank 10 general, then it's worth 100 lp to shoot rank 10's and 10 lp to shoot rank 1's."
"this comes up allot but the same objection often comes up. if you give some bonuses to the side that is winning and penalize the losing side why would anyone join the losing side? wars will quickly become lopsided won't they?"
"i've kept thinking about this since fw was introduced. it's needed to make people realise that there is a war going on. does it have to be something that ruins balance though, i'm not so sure. you could make it so that those losing get a buff to the offensive and defensive plexes whilst penalizing their missions (and rewarding their opponents). the question is making sure both happen and that if one is being penalised on the rewards, then they get help with the combat. a similar idea is taxes rise on the defensive team then they had better get more fw npc ships out there to reflect the extra spending. neither of these ideas really solves the problem, but it makes it less static and more dynamic. though lets be honest, this is just dreaming. i'd give anything just to see ccp actually remember factional warfare."
"manai see what you are saying. there are ways to make the game more dynamic without leading to a completely lopsided war. one thing that i have considered often is this. lets say caldari have taken over 70% of what was originally the gallente space. at that point the actual people on planets of these contested systems should be pretty solid gallente race. maybe they could have spies (behind the scene npc spies) make it so that at that point gallente could bring cruisers into the a minor and bcs into medium plexes etc. caldari would still have the original restrictions.if it gets to be the point that the gallente are down to their last few systems then all the plexes there allow bses for gallente. the idea is the gates would be \"bugged\" by the citizens who live in the last hold out systems for the race. and it would make for some pretty interesting game play. not only would have blobs of frigates trying to take down battleships, but perhaps races would try to take systems further from their base so that to capture the last holdout systems they could be close to their base.but again as long as fw occupancy is pve it will be lulworthy and not worth doing."
"i am admittedly a \"non-plexer\", i.e. i am in fw for the pvp and think plexing is utterly mind-numbingly boring, not to mention completely irrelevant to my game. though, i'll do it on occasion if there is no pvp at hand or if friendlies who do take plexing more seriously than i need assistance.however, having said that, i agree with the above suggestions with one addition: fix it so that the 'alternate' enemy faction also takes npc aggro when plexing - i.e. amarr in a gallente plex..."
"lovin the ganker tears, supported."
"anyone on board with this proposition has no idea of balance. if there was no risk to lazy feckless people in empire then more people would be boring carebears. and there would be less demand for building gank ships.the only scenario i would agree with no insurance paying out is if concord was tuned down. to the point where it was possible for a group to beat them. since concord means \"pwn\" then insurance has to be valid.you may as well make it a criminal offence to mount a pvp fit to a ship in empire.hulkageddon is coming up, happy hunting and yarrr!"
"i agree with you here. if 'insurance' is removed for concord related losses due to realism of insurance i say the police should be more realistic to maintain balance."
"same numbers caused projectiles being foty. i vote no! for more ignorant changes as such."
"perfect, let's all train minmatar or amarr and let gallente/caldari for noobs and fresh/easy killmails.works fine like this atm wy change it?"
"morning bump. wink"
"supported as a temp fix to the problem"
"+1 of course, only ccp can know for sure if it makes sense to go down this route, but hey, brilliant idea!"
"just weird enough to work."
"would be real nice to hear from ccp if this is feasable, and what they think of it.clever idea."
"bump. who else thinks this is a good idea?"
"supported.also, the legion can have 8 highs."
"lowering fitting requirements will do what? how will that solve the imbalance?how will increased tracking fix the problem, other than everyone fitting rails? great blaster fix: fit rails.while fitting requirement would help somewhat it won't solve any real problem.what you miss is that every race can match gallente for dps, whilst having more range. you are proposing to increase tracking to hit what a webbed ship? if your blasters are unable to hit a webbed ship you are either shooting the wrong target (too small) or you need to level your skills more.i have 10m in hybrids alone and i haven't flown a blaster ship in years. what's the point in having these guns when everyone uses rails. there was a time when blasters meant something and a blaster boat instilled fear. now a blaster boat causes laughter. \"look at that fool flying a ship with '04 fittings\"the last two options are ccp refund all the sp we've put in hybrids so we can put them in more useful guns, like lasers and lasers and lasers (ac's if you want to fly machs but otherwise lasers) or they add mid slots to gallente ships, allowing us to fit several tracking computers."
"the main issue imo is ccp nozh or whoever is responsible for balancing changes. this person/people simply do not posses enough knowledge, rational thinking and understanding of the game mechanics to make such changes.until there is some radical change in the balancing procedure or people in charge, i do not believe there will be any positive move in terms of game balance.small example of t1 cruiser comparison:maller, 5x hpl: 85.5 pg and 218.75 cpu leftthorax, 5x hnb: 71 pg and 243.75 cpu leftrupture, 4x 425mm + 2x ham: 293.8 pg 256.25 cpuleftweapons make fitting difference for the most part as remaining modules are about the same on all three ships. question is: what do you want to fit on your thorax with 71 pg left? balancing fitting requirements is essential part of blaster issue as the problem is mostly the ships and less the weapons."
"you may have 10m in hybrid sp but evidently you have 0 skill in reading as i actually proposed a damage and tracking buff for hybrids. range is the one thing that definitely shouldn't change.edit. also as the above poster pointed out the ability to actually fit a full rack of medium guns, an mwd and a 1600mm plate on a thorax without an acr would go a long way to helping rebalance the guns"
"\"it would be nice to fly my own race's ships, with hybrids, and an armor tank and not have to worry about being constantly out gunned.\"what he said, +1"
"sounds good, although the being unable to undock thing could be circumvented via the ability to purchase a noob ship for naf all."
"makes sense to me!"
"same here. but you see how ccp is listening to the community..."
"support"
"nowt will be done but hell, ccp have got to realise that gallente are just fricken screwed royally. mind you i think that ccp just love the squidheads!hint ccp, fixing this helps squidies too you know!"
"naga, i agree completely with your sentiment. as long as a popular mmo has atleast 2 players, you'll always find one player wanting to get ahead, which naturally leads to cheating. fighting against it only leads to restrictions and concessions that damage the end user more than anything (and by proxy, the host company as well).when we look at a similar situation, square enix's final fantasy xi (who i believe have had a couple of conferences with ccp discussing rmt); se took an incredibly agressive position against rmt. setting up an entire branch of employees dedicated to nothing but seeking out characters with large amounts of ingame currency and tracing it's flow, looking for rmt traders and holders and using programs that automatically (and permanently) banned accounts on a no appeal basis, tracked down the methods used by rmt to accumilate their wealth (generally legitimate strategies that normal players employed too) and annihilated them (e.g. gardening [a mechanic designed around passive incomes, used by normal players who also wrongly got caught up in mass bannings], bugard skins, mistletoe ect.). by the end of 2009 they had managed to alienate their already dwindling playerbase completely through heavy handed and almost ridiculous treatment of the situation, and only recently has the game had a renaissance due a completely new development team and the massive flop of their most recent mmo, final fantasy xiv, which almost all of the complaints can be drawn from their ridiculous anti rmt policies, e.g. horribly lagged serverbased ui(for antibotting) designed for controllers only, a system of character growth that lowers your exp gains as you clock more hours (to stop powerlevelers), no centralised trading resource (to stop rmt gaining an early foothold on the money side of things). ffxiv has slowly been regaining in popularity but the damage has already been done.now this is just an example of one company, but one that's very well known and respected company that managed to almost destroy themselves by tackling a problem in a very wrong way. i understand why you might want to legitimise botting, as it would effectively level the playing field completely; but what it also does (apart from devalue isk massively) is marginalise the actual reason why you're supposed to be playing the game, and that's to actually play it!one of the biggest problems i see with botting in eve online is that it's so easy to do, and there's very little reason not to. the biggest botted industry is without a doubt mining, and although it's alot less prevelant than it used to be, it still exists, and it exists because 1. it's so easy to bot 2. it's not fun 3. it's slow and tedious and lastly 4. because the time to isk ratio is rather low. the second most botted industry is belt ratting in nullsec, which to my knowledge requires relatively hightech programs to manage (compared to macromining atleast). the reason this industry is botted is because 1. it's astronomically profitable 2. it's not fun 3. it's slow and tedious.you said it yourself though, things simply aren't fun they way things are, and it certainly doesn't help ccp's case. thinking about how much work would be involved though (balancing and reforming the game's economy completely) all official macros would do is take us a step to the side, because even though we're not really working for our meals now, they still taste like ****. we really need to look at making the things being botted worthwhile to actually do in person first, and until then i think ccp's reactionary damage control is the best we're going to get for now.p.s. sorry for the difficult to read wall of text."
"janaren, that's full of crap. i played ffxi, and their anti-botting stance so helped the game it wasn't funny. when bots and exploits were rampant, things like scorpion harnesses cost 10 times what they did after, and rmt consistently botted and locked up virtually any notorious monster spawn. they did not alienate large parts of the playerbase, but managed to actually make the game less of a grind and fixed a lot of the issues.a lot of the mistakes were often because players imitated rmt style, by using massive numbers or alts to try to gain passive income. as someone who actually farmed bugard skins before rmt did, i can tell you virtually no one else legitimately did, because it was only profitable in large amounts through rmt. a lot of the ways legit players made money had zero to do with rmt at all, selling drops from enm and others.if you played ffxi, and think it was better before they cracked down, no offense but you never played during cop. you never saw the armies of fishing bots as well as the rmt monopolizing and hacking ulli or serket. you'll need to pick a better example, because se's anti-rmt saved the game."
"yeah a lot"
"we already have that. its called pi."
"here is a better idea, hell no. why should we make isk easier to make for the guys who will carry on botting external to this mechanism anyway? unholy rage worked well, hoefully th next hulkageddon will work well to kill some bots and as i am also an industrialist iut hurts me somewhat, but happy for it to go ahead. reduced supply, industrial stockpile == profit!rmt is the ban of a game liuke eve, and your proposal does not solve it. it just makes alliances which already have a lot of money able to fuel themselves a lot easier. your suggestion is entilerly about afk play and multiboxing. i like to know that the guys i am competing with are working hard for thier money, and more work needs to be done wrt unholy rage and rmt. not supported."
"centri: i never said ffxi was better before they got off their arses, how did you come to that assumption?stopping fishing botting was neccesary.switching rare/ex drops on nms was neccesary.banning of kings and sky rmt was neccesary.these things were all literally required in order to make the game playable in leui of the expansion of rmt, and i'm not arguing about those additions to the game. if you look at what my points were, i was arguing that the modification of sell prices to practically destroy any focused gil production in the game also destroyed any semblance of the economy. you say that the legit players made their money by selling drops from enm, but where did the money that they got for their haguns ect. come from? enms/bcnms became profitable precisely because of the inflation rmt caused. when the majority of the gil being introduced onto the market is by rmt there something is considerably wrong with your game; and this is where they killed the economy, through massive reductions of the amount of gil in circulation. they effectively placed their servers into a permanent recession where there was no way to build it back up.if se had thought about ways of balancing their actions to give legitimate players their own way of supporting the economy without being underpinned through rmt, then i'm sure all their attacks on skins, mistletoe, gardening and such would have been fine.did this stop rmt? no, they just developed more insideous strategies to get the money, through hacking and slashing, ingame scamming and trading accounts. they managed to alienate their customers through horrific customer services who regularly dismissed any allegations of incompetence when they accidentally rolled back a character 5 years or when they would outright refuse to discuss erroneous bannings. their gms and bizarro tos policies that could theoretically ban you for healing a player who wanted to bloodport or was chainpulling and dying (they could claim you were trying to harrass/steal their mobs respectively) or give more rights to scammers than to victims did not help them at all.and my points about ffxiv still hold strong. everything they did to try to make the game rmt proof also made it fun proof and se is still attempting to recover from the loss of stock value that happened after it's release. there is literally no way to curb the rmt activity of a popular game and to think so is beyond naive, i actually agreed with your post but i guess you didn't notice that because you were too busy misconstruing the point i was attempting to make (at face value to boot)."
"whilst i have some sympathy for the spirit in which the op makes his modest proposal, the solution to the problem remains what it has always been. let's try this one more time to see if it will stick:when pve (ie: making isk) is challenging, unpredictable and needs some actual intelligence, then we'll see a big falloff in botting. and not before.eg: rats that have faintly realistic fits and behave with a modicum of intelligence (sleeper ai is a big step forward here), including trying to escape when they're threatened.eg: rats that do not behave in very slow, completely predictable ways, and sometimes appear in unexpectedly large numbers, and pull stunts like try and decoy the ratter to one side of a site, so that hauler spawns or faction spawns can try and escape from another part.eg: belt and anomaly spawns that routinely escalate, where one has to solve a puzzle to work out where the escalation site is. the escalation sites have the real value.eg: asteroid belts where the miner has to use some skill and intelligence to find the ore-bearing rockseg: asteroids with unevenly distributed veins and concentrations of ore, so the miner has to skillfully aim his mining beams through a 3-dimensional volume to get the optimum efficiency out of them.changes like the above would make eve's pve much more engaging and fun, whilst making life very difficult indeed for the bots. double-win."
"**** no"
"what annoys is that botting can be done with equipment which is either low cost (haulers/insured ratting ship) or difficult to get to kill (hi sec activity).i am pretty sure if hauling missions would need tech 2 fitted hauler, preferrably transport, we would see much more people after them and much less botters. similar thing with ratting. at least if would annoy much less if you'd get some kind of reward for blowing them up, instead of 10k isk worth t1 loot and sec hit, in case it happened in low sec.mining again is just... repeat. you can blow up couple hulks but only one gaining anything is the guy selling suicide ships and hulks. if you mine 25mil/h? or more with hulk i doubt it hurts much to lose one per year or something.i think this suggestion is horrible though :d"
"no one had..."
"this!"
"actually drones do this too...all the time. but yeah...supported."
"or... let you assemble/swap subs in pos's...."
"this would be a stupid change. there is already plenty of room for \"casual traders\" to make billions of isk/month. i should know - i do it.-liang"
"stupid changehelps no one"
"signed.also wanna to see progressive tax for selling items when u setting a time for orders.concept: example if u set order for 3-7 days, tax will be \"100\" isk and if u set order for 3 month, it will be \"1000\" isk. coz now nothing changeing then set order for 3 days or 3 months.agree with u, my \"clever\" botowner ))))"
"i agree with this ideatrade bots to hell"
"support"
"i'm supporting the idea."
"agree with glkudr"
"lol, here we can see a trade bot owner. whazzup mr. botter?"
"this.all who supported this idea are latent carebears with no life and want to make the game a nobrainer and easy. go play wow."
"pwn those market bots"
"while i am all for going after market bots, i dont agree with the op.undermining the 0.01 game has only one result --> broken prices.its already happening to often, that some fool reduces his price by insane 500,000 isk, cutting the margin by 2/3. the next one follows and soon we have prices which are under 105% of the material value and no longer worth selling.doing the 0.01 helps keeping the prices stable over a long period and hence keeping up the earnings of all traders who do this. they have to update their prices more often, but thats the price to earn more isk.as a casual trader you should probably think of changing the product you want to sell. if it has a 0.01 change about 50 times an evening, one requirement to work with this product is obviously not to do it casually."
"i luv your butthurt. <U+263B>"
"bots must suffer +1"
"against this, and let me explain why.the idea that is offered is presented within the framework of war with trading bots. this motivation is a good one, but the actions that should be taken by the idea of the topic-starter make me shiver. seems like he didn't took even a minute to watch one step ahead to predict what is going to happen with present market regulation schematics. obvious that this will make the market more static. the rate of tax offered is irrelevantly huge and will make honest traders go away from the market. if this kind of change is going to be applied, some of the players will not ever find their place in eve university if they were attracted by live market regulations that are working now. i'm pretty sure that ccp knows about trading bots problem, but i'm also sure that this is not the right way to fix this problem.be careful before supporting dangerous ideas surrounded by loud disclaimers like \"this will remove trading bot problem\". this sounds funny.=p.s. it is strange to hear that all the people who are against this are \"bot users\". be honest with your arguements, please. (this is regarding \"widely supported in russian community\" (c) - these words are not true)."
"for this, and let me explain why.the idea that is offered is presented within the framework of war with trading bots. this motivation is a good one, and the actions that should be taken by the idea of the topic-starter make me hurrah. seems like he took many a minute to watch one step ahead to predict what is going to happen with present market regulation schematics. obvious that this will make the market more fluid. the rate of tax offered is relevantly huge and will make honest traders flock to the market. if this kind of change is going to be applied, some of the real players will find their place in eve university if they were attracted by live market regulations that are working now. i'm pretty sure that ccp knows about trading bots problem, and i'm also sure that this is the right way to fix this problem.be joyous before supporting excellent ideas surrounded by loud acclaimers like \"this will remove trading bot problem\". this sounds great.=p.s. it is not strange to hear that all the people who are against this are \"bot users\". be honest with your arguements, please. (this is regarding \"widely supported in russian community\" (c) - these words are absolutelly true)."
"i bet that 90% of market load is created by .01 erswith only about 10% of load being created by new orders.having the ability to freely reduce prices by .01 leads to a very static market where it takes forever for products to reach there equilibrium value.the markets are for everyone not just \"traders\" cough \"bots\".a proper solution would be to allow players to place managed orderswe pay a broker fee but the broker does nothing.i should be able to tell my broker.sell this much stuff.sell it in this amount of time.sell it for as much as possible but for not less than xxxthe broker should then manage the sell price until all the stuff is gone.this solution would make market bots irrelevant.having said that the above solution would require a server in the tranquility cluster to process the orders on a periodic basis.better this than the current situation of load inducing bots which are1) against the eula2) cause strain on all parts of tranq including proxies/sol nodes/and the db.the tax solution is not perfect but would be easier to implement.so this gets my support although i prefer to see a fuller solution( brokers that work for there fee's )"
"the idea is good, the frequent change of market orders should be followed with taxes."
"this really isn't necessary. there is plenty of profit in the market for the casual trader and there is nothing wrong with active market players having advantages. if you feel botting is a big problem than think of ways to fight the bots and not fudge up the normal market gameplay in the process. not suported."
"there are four problems here:- people expect \"passive trading\" to be equally lucrative with \"active trading\". this is stupid.- people believe it is the same person 0.01 isking them in jita, when in reality there are thousands of other real players involved in that market.- people believe that nobody sits there and monitors their buy/sell orders except bots. and themselves, of course. - people believe that \"market bots\" are taking over, yet i personally don't believe this to be true. market bots are pretty easy to discover, identify, and then manipulate for amazing amounts of profit. but for the sake of argument, i'm going to give you a quick tutorial in \"passive trading\" that makes sense, and isk. this is how i make billions on the market.first, you have to remember that the market has a natural fluctuation. it goes up, and it goes down... and because it goes up and down we know that static orders between the end points will get filled. the trick, then, is to find the upper and lower bounds and exploit them with \"afk buy/sell\" orders.when doing this, you have to remember that the majority of your isk is made from your buy orders - so margin trading and tycoon are really important to get a good wide spread on your buy orders. with a reasonable number of buy orders you'll see some market action on most days.you can immediately relist the stuff as lowest sell for usually 10-20% profit, but i tend to relist at the higher end of the curve for closer to 50-100% profit. it can take a week or more for the market to cycle back up that high, but you were wanting an afk passive income right?-liang"
"1.0"
"hell no, find other ways to kill bots."
"we are not buying stock. selling merchandise in real life has real cost overhead and in this game the overhead is so small it's irrelevant. hence the .01 isk game. as it is now the person with ocd and no life wins.(unless a bot is in play)honestly they should be taxing highsec transaction a hell of a lot more than they do. both for the isk sink and to drive trade towards null allowing those willing to move the goods and take the risk to profit more than those that sit in the safety of high sec gaming a system that would never exist in real life.i agree with your second point here but the first one is incorrect as while yes selling merchandise has overhead changing the price of merchandise has absolutely no overhead. also, if you want to reflect this on real life, taxes are not collected on anything until the transaction takes place and then the buyer pays for it like the current system. the current brokers fee of 100isk provides an already decent isk sink for every change in a market order. if you feel we need more isk sinks increase that number to 1000isk but a % fee on placing and changing a market order is wrong and will inevitably lead to huge inflation (prices will rise)."
"if i choose to list my goods at a price that gives incentive for them to sell quickly then i am taking a profit loss for a quicker return. i don't give a damn about your margin. it's pvp get used to it. if bots didn't mindlessly .01 isk then my stock would sell out at the price of my choosing and you could continue to get your inflated long term margins."
"if \"bots\" didn't 'mindlessly' 0.01 isk you, someone else would place another sell order 500k below yours. and another below theirs. and another below theirs. -lianged: the \"problem\" here is that two people like you are fully capable of crashing a market - and both of you are going to come to the forums *****ing about bots while a bot wasn't involved at all. and no, i don't care if you crash markets... just means that i can pick up the pieces on the cheap."
"that would be a healthier market, more responsive to market equilibrium. you can't \"crash\" a seller's market below highest buy order price. 0.01 isk war results in wide gaps between buy and sell orders and lower overall volume of actual trades."
"no, that would not be a healthier market. and no, they do not result in wide gaps between buy and sell orders. if anything, the suggested change would increase that gap as playing the market becomes more expensive.and make no mistake... that would be the only change. you'd still get under cut... but now you wouldn't be able to do anything about it.-liang"
"lol, supported"
"dschadir -this topic has already been submitted before and made the cut to be put in.november 2010 crowd sourcingit is item number 109 on the crowd sourcing list and received a total of 6.48% of the total votes. recommendation - mail one of the current csm representatives with the pictures and request that your visuals be added to the wiki article so everyone has a permanent visual reference along with links to the original post and your new post.oh and supported."
"it'll hardly make mining more interesting.that said, why not? aside from that, i don't know why different color beams isn't included in rats either. not just lasers, but also other weapon types shot by rats. why the yellow beam or brown puff of smoke for everything?"
"blow up rocks with the power of colors!"
"is anyone in that belt selling e?"
"ccp put objectives to achieve (i.e. conquering said moons). by circumventing the reward, you make 0.0 a stagnant sea of farmers. who bothers, if the money comes out without moving off your home?"
"1.0"
"since botting is getting completly out of hand and it is one of the most vicious threats to the game i have to support this."
"\"yeah the interface has a \"report isk spammer\" option, whatever that means. why not have a \"report botter\" menu option.\"^ what he said."
"here's a simple bit of economics, macro miners flood the market with cheaper mins. buy them up and build guns. shoot the macro miners. the miner loses a ship, the ganker losses a ship and both need replaced. (increasing the demand for minerals and decreasing the supply) slowly pushing the mineral prices up for honest mining folk...hulkageddon is coming. primary the macro users if you have such a big problem with them.the big problem with trying to stop macro users is that their programs have randomized keystrokes/delays added into there function making it harder to identify them from an efficient miner."
"thankyou :)"
"i don't know, longest i had to wait was 3 days... and that was a rather minor issue.considering that there is way more players (and petitions for that matter) than there are gms, i'm rather impressed with what they can do.i would love to see it to the point where i file a petition and a gm opens a chat right away... but thats just a dream.for reference, average petition time on wow is 6 days (among my friends, may be less or more for others)."
"supported."
"supported,would bring prey to many places instead of only a few."
"...come with those water-transfer vanity stickers that you apply to increase the awesomeness of your chosen instrument. thus, if i cannot apply some flame details to my mandolin, i will not be able to rock up the docking lounge of the cas station at bourynes as much as if i had been able to apply them to the instrument.i put it to you that this change is essential to the projected success of incarna. i thank you!"
"supporting this for some sweet stickers"
"make echelon frigate like zephyr (not targetted by sleepers) so echelon should be useful in override transfer array, because nobody wants to do overrides in this situation. but with echelon (not targetted by sansha), it would be good and popular site like others"
"1.0"
"hell yes"
"if ccp remodel it to look like a gigant disco ball in space, then i support this :d"
"+1mil thumbs up from me tharokha! if these sites were less of a pain in the exhaust pipe to do they wouldnt be the only ones left!!!ccp - do it"
"i have been wondering about the purpose of the echelon, atm it's not really useful for anything, it is just a vanity / collectors item.should those have a purpose? i'm not convinced. if it gets used for a practical purpose like hacking sansha sites, it should be targeted, but it's exceptional vulnerability means nobody every uses it.perhaps when fitted with the sansha decoder it should posses some kind of modifier to make it the low priority target of the ai rather that not targeted at all.i'm voting for further discussion and csm discussing it with ccp to irony out it's purpose."
"why? so you could have a ship going around doing the hacking sites with no risk of being shot at by the rats? not supported..."
"or use \"ye olde classic\" method of making something untargetablekill everything elsealso, unlike the sleepers, sansha pilots have eye-balls. i think they can tell when something is an enemy ship and not a flying hunk of rock."
"here's a similar idea, change the role of a current ship. to include hacking bonus as a skill.a ship that could be used for combat as well as code-breaking/archaeology/gas harvesting.this wouldn't just change the way the incursion site would work but also give dedicated ships for running cosmos sites.these dedicated \"exploration\" ships would have relative bonuses, such as x%to range, or reduction in cap cost, duration time, or effectivenissbalancing for someone else's job rather than mine. but ideally make them for cruiser/bc size hulls."
"you're yanking my chain, right? either that or you need to take a refresher speed reading class.in the midst of hulkageddon, you're going to say that no one would want to kill another ship unless there was a bounty or profit in it for them???where's the profit in outfitting a battlecruiser with smartbombs and heading into an ice-field full of mackinaws???how about can-flipping? where's the profit there??? can flipping is done all the time.the idea that players must be motivated by a shiney reward transforms the sandbox into the themepark.the idea that players are only motivated by shiney rewards is contrary to the evidence provided by daily life in eve online."
"don't want to read your post too closely, but you just said that ganking is productive and the system proposed by me would make it \"un-productive.\"ganking is productive because the gankers are coddled by ccp. and, you must have missed the point of my post. what i wanted to do was make the ganking un-productive, by exposing the gankers to the same risks that they expose everyone else to. as you point out, the current system protects and coddles the gankers and makes ganking a risk-free activity."
"this would not work cos evil griefers would just bait you to get kill rights with alts u know"
"lengthy post but not much of content or thought in there...trade-able kill rights aren't new idea, although i always liked it but it will never work, imo.problem is the bounty price. if it is too high, it will be exploited, if it is too low, it will be meaningless.any idea how to fix it?edit:possible fix:make the kill right price fixed based on hull destroyed. a) kill right payout will be subtracted for insurance pay out.b) selling your own kill rights won't be profitable.any other possible way to exploit it? would it be still interesting enough?"
"sure it does.it isn't in spirit of bounty hunting, it is definitely a reasonable(?) alternative.having kill rights trade-able cause a few things:a) if pirate wants to exploit the system by buying his own kill rights, he will have to pay to the victim. sweet isn't it?b) it will actually increase the risk for the pirate as he can be attacked anywhere, anytime and more kill rights further increase the risk as there will be more hunters.c) allow 'criminal hunters' to avoid their own security hits.the system(even current one) needs more improvements like being able to expand the kill right on your corp but the problem is as i pointed out the kill rights trading itself."
"actually smartbombing an ice belt can be very profitable if you have an alt in a salvage ship near by.killrights shouldn't be permanent.having said that i support a decent change to the bounty system that makes anti-piracy and bounty hunting decent professions. however this isn't it. also for the brief period i did can flip, i managed to make quite a bit of isk in ransoms, and can flipping isn't ganking and gives no kill rights as the person has to agro the flipper before they can do anything anyway."
"not really sure i understand the objection here, or if there is any real objection at all.your point is that someone would use an alt, bait you into killing him, then sell the kill-rights to his main, and descend on you with his main in a pvp tengu???how is that an objection to the proposed system??? because there was \"intent\" on the part of the player with the pvp tengu???lets say i create a mining alt, he's out in his retriever, minding his own business mining some veldspar. along comes a hulkageddoner, pops the alt in the retriever then takes off. with my mining alt i sell the kill-rights to my main, get into my pvp tengu and descend upon the hulkageddoner.where's the problem???if you are out there, engaged in any activity that results in kill-rights, those kill-rights would be trade-able. whether you were baited, goaded, or they flashed their *** at you doesn't matter.if your post contains any objection at all, it is that the proposed system would lead to gankers getting ganked. someone would be able to gank the ganker.the current system coddles the gankers. the current system makes ganking a risk-free activity. its one of the ten-commandments of eve: \"do unto others, then warp!\" and thus escape any and all conseqences.oh yeah, and let me not forget to point out; with can-flipping, one player baits another player into doing something that would give them the right to attack. there's no objection in your objection.seems negativity is its own reward."
"yet another post stuck on the concepts of \"bounty\" and \"insurance\"i did not propose a \"bounty\" system or a fix to the insurance system.make kill-rights trade-able.that's it. you sell the kill-rights. there's no bounty, no reward, no waiting to see if the person got killed or not. let the market determine the value of a kill-right.why would you try to fix the price of the kill-right??? obviously, so that ganking the gankers won't become too profitable.also, please explain to me how one player could get kill-rights on himself??? the only way i can think of is...<<\"...a) if pirate wants to exploit the system by buying his own kill rights, he will have to pay to the victim. sweet isn't it?...\">>seems negativity is its own reward."
"sorry for bad wording, it isn't 'bounty' in a matter of fact but very similar in mechanics, just it is not the victim placing it but market due trade-able kill right.the weakness i see is that pirate can generate his own kill rights by killing alts and selling acquired kill rights on the market.this mechanics will ruin the idea of kill-rights market, imo.if the price is too low, pirate can purchase the kill right himself.if the price is too high, pirate starts selling self-generated kill rights.fixing the price of the kill right of the destroyed hull removes any possible exploitation. whether such fix is needed or market will be able to handle the price at the right spot is a question, i pesonally do not think so."
"killrights (kr) as commodities:changes:- remove bounties entirely.- make kr contractable commodities (new contract type).- include isk value of loss as part of kr (multiply market value with a multiple of meta-level for faction stuff perhaps?)bounty office:- to be modelled like the militia offices and function as a separate contract interface.- has list of most notorious criminals (ie. active contract values).- has list of most efficient hunters (ie. earned contract values).kr contract:- seller can set price as normal and escrows sum to be paid on completion (think current courier contracts). escrowed amount appears on targets sheet as 'bounty'.- seller can stipulate minimum isk damage do be done to target for fulfilment of contract. until met the kr remains \"active\" and escrow unpaid.* isk damage value should have 2-3x original loss as maximum.- escrow and damage requirement must not deviate more than x% to minimize possible abuses.and presto; limited ability to abuse it with alts to score cheap isk, creation of a bounty hunting profession, potential severe backlash for suicide ganking.ps: for very large losses perhaps the ability to split kr so that one can sell multiple rights (within reason!) on single targets to really make them hunted prey."
"i see lots of scamming(think current courier contracts)."
"killrights should indeed be tradeable, but what we need is a whole reworked bounty mechanism to go with it. in fact as long as we're wishing for things we're not going to get, the whole \"crime in hi-sec\" system needs a rework: why do i get concorded for aggroing an ephemeral empty jet-can can, but i can steal the whole contents of that can with near impunity? - to name but one particularly egregious example.(in before torfi explaining why it would be a waste of resources to fix the bounty system, because no-one uses it.)"
"how? if you use the actual loss behind a kr as basis for what is possible to set as 'bounty', the ludicrousness of courier contracts will never happen.there is nothing to gain at all by setting up 'fake' contracts except if you set the price insanely high and log the target out of game (or go hide in null) for three months which is kr duration i think .. assuming someone is willing to pay the initial contract at all.alt a kills alt b, alt b pays to put contract on alt a.alt a either gets dead, gets some pew or gets most money back.where is the scam? there is no collateral system to abuse as there is with couriers."
"presentation could do with some work, and this has been suggested before (it's on the csm's proposal page)it is, however, still a really good idea.i would vote to skip any 'bounty office' and simply have it as a contract tradeable item. (make it like bookmarks except without the copy ability)player can sell kr and attach a price to it, it would need to be searchable so you can find that guy you don't like.another suggestion - kr should expire, don't remove that limitation - just make it something you can check before buying.also - your complaints about sisi are stupid, please stick to one topic per thread so we can praise you for putting forward (repeating) a good idea in one thread, and trash you for failing to comprehend in another."
"bounty hunting as such won't work ever due exploitation imo but here is a proposal i made as alternative:"
"i thought the bold part represent flat fee you have to pay/receive when accepting the contract. what the 'normal' and 'escarow' price is supposed to be then?if the contract has no collateral what stops pirate from picking up the contract and let it expire/dormant?1) the reward cannot exceed the loss of the target.2) when you make the pay out depending on isk loss, you need to subtract the insurance. then you are left with value of fitted modules and some extra for higher tier hull.3) because of 2&3, the rewards will need to be very low.4) having isk loss limit to fill your contract is making it very tedious.those are main points i can think of top of my head."
"the escrow would be similar in function to current bounties, but with a hard limit based on actual loss.the \"normal\" price is mostly to avoid a pirate buying rights on himself and letting it expire as that money is lost to him (and in victims wallet).one could have low normal and max. escrow, but the trick would be to find a balance between the urge to get some money and getting payback.the whole thing revolves around the meek buying help from the strong to get back at whomever wronged them.1-3: loss would be comprised of the whole package. three armour rigs for instance easily cost more than an uninsured hull and modules often 2/3rds+ of uninsured hull .. so there is plenty of \"room\" for reward through the escrow.4: alternative is to make a partial payout on first kill and return remainder. with modern pirates/suiciders being as cowardly as they are, chances are you get a sacrificial frig and thus lose money if they get wind of you hunting them.could be done (i think) by seller setting a minimum ship-type to be killed frig/cruiser/bc/bs and letting the \"normal\" price be set based on that."
"who is paying the 'normal' price? contractor or purchaser?the 'normal' price is indeed a collateral then?"
"contractor attaches the \"normal price\" (fee) at time of posting, it represents the actual purchase of the kr, and is the only part of it that allows the victim to recoup some of his loss.- you kill me. - i sell rights on you for cost based on what i lost or lower (insurance wise).- i submit escrow to be paid when conditions are met. could be insurance or loss based, as long as the benefit of you \"redeeming\" with an alt is minimal.a freighter being ganked for instance would leave a huge margin for the fee, but if set to high it will never move so one has to consider just how much one wants the person dead .. isk is lost either way, just as it is with the current useless system.tricky part is obviously the escrow/bounty part. it needs to be profitable enough for a 3rd party to want to \"buy in\", yet still leave as little as possible for a pirate buying his own rights. could be done by simply not allowing escrow to exceed fee but that leaves only loot/epeen for the 3rd party as payment (which could actually be enough in most cases (ref: 10-20% fee of modern day bounty hunters).concord might even want to sweeten the deal for the eager beavers by adding 1% per 25-50 completed contracts up to a max of +10% (grinding pirates! for isk )"
"being an eve fanatic and enjoying tabletop games. i'd love a cross over, eve-tabletop.much like warhammer, 40k and other strategy role play games. eve as a tabletop would be great for the nights when i feel the strain on my eyes.also, an additional thing. the delivery charges from the eve-store. i have bought some stuff, but i find it a bit painful throwing so much more money on delivery. opening a distribution office in the uk would be awesome... and i'd spend a lot more money in there."
"supported"
"without question."
"i though it would write something if plex is almost done, but even with char with only a few days nothing is written...so big +1"
"assuming you are looking in the right direction.thus the name.the type could be important, the name... rarely is unless the pilot is an idiot that doesn't change the default name.it requires the skills that don't require sp.until you meet a good prober.just add falcon.distance not as much as direction.plenty of other ways to do that, but that is useful.i do it with gate cloak too.although it doesn't save you from fast warping ships.except that it gets buffed in the op. cry moar."
"no.reducing information on kill mails solves nothing.removing kill mails removes bragging only, not actual 'blobbing and hotdrops'. no.no for reasons you posted yourself - you do not have any reasonable solution. no.map information like any public 'intel tool' swings both ways. if i can get accurate information where enemy is, enemy can get accurate info about my position as well. better map information provides better awareness about gate camps thus promotes active play.i call for more options on map such as multiply filters. no.bounding scan range to sensor strength is just horrible idea...especially coupled with your next proposal for probing changes. no.probing needs rather nerf/change than boost. i disagree with the idea but it gave me a new one:no local for ships with cloaking device - being affected by some structure or changed to device effect itself. that would actually require active intel gathering."
"pretty much a no to all of these.probing needs to be nerfed not buffed its already too easy to probe someone down. the directional scanners is fine as it is, as is cloaking.i can support removing local or changing it a little.killmails dont encourage blobbing, only bragging. blobbing is caused by people not willing to risk there isk flying ships solo, and by people wanting to make sure they win."
"thanks. if you have any questions for me, throw them out there.thanks, mynxee. your support and endorsement mean the world to me.tl;dr version: bots are a cancer on eve and need to be wiped out.longer version: campaign promises aside, i don't believe that the csm can actually do anything about bots and botting. the current csm has been presented with ccp's bot-fighting strategies, and those discussions are under nda. but if i'm selected for csm6 and i hear those strategies, i will listen to them with an ear toward both killing bots and protecting actual players. a lot of bot-fighting strategies hurt honest players just trying to make isk.an idea that occured to me that i'd love to get feedback on, though: the really scary player pirates don't hunt in lonely 0.0 systems in the middle of nowhere. they hunt in systems with a lot of traffic in them. so, rather than have officer spawns appear according to sec status, i think it'd be interesting to have them appear in crowded 0.0 systems instead. base it on the number of people that pass through that system during the previous 48 hours. that'd make it a lot more likely that officers would appear in pf-346 (sec status -0.35) than they would in pxf-rf (sec status -1.0).with no officers in those deep uninhabited systems, the reason for some of the botting there would go away. what do you think?"
"i think you have no idea how ludacrisly profitable botting is. if there aren't any officers, they will do normal battleships, if there aren't any normal battleships they will do battlecruisers, if there aren't any rats at all, they will run mining bots, if there aren't any roids, they will use market bots.the point is: there is so little effort in botting since it is almost a completely automated thing, that they will be used even if you slash the income of botter to 10% of what it is now in some way. even at 10%, your one bot (most pro botters run multiple though i reckon, i know i would if i was one) will most likely earn way more than a really active player. and even if it was only half the income of an active player, they would still run the bots cuz the effort/reward ratio would still be insanely good.you are not going to get rid of botters by trying to take away the incentive. as long as botting will just net you a t1 cruiser a week, botting will be done.nofi, but your view on bots seems to be nothing more than i already stated in this thread earlier: it does not really go beyond \"bots are bad, m'kay.\".... bots need to be dealt with in two ways:1) agressivly hunt them down, ccp has the monitoring capabillities to do so or the resources to make those.2) through their own software, it should be less bot friendly. many other games have anti-botting/cheating software that is highly effective."
"ripard. you seem to be a decent chap with a lot of drive, vision and knowledge of the game. but you're pretty clueless about the bot.the csm can't do much about the bot, in much the same way that it can't do much about anything. it can apply pressure and raise an all mighty ****storm if need be on any subject if ccp refuse to budge, but i digress.officers appearing in more 'crowded' systems may well see a fairer share of real people getting to enjoy those phat loots. given the (as yet undocumented) improvements to officers it could be that these almighty pirate lords become something of an npc anti bot device, although no doubt the software will evolve to the point where they are avoided. a conservative estimate would put botted income at around 30 mil per hour just for normal rats and not including loot or salvage. 12 hours a day and you have enough for a plex, anything over and above that is pure profit. even if you can lower this amount as long as the bot can provide a reasonable return given the investment it will still function.there's also the issue of the drone regions. by all accounts one of the most heavily botted areas of the game where there are no officers and commander spawns are hardly worth the extra ammunition investment in terms of loot.i agree with the chap above me. if ccp have the means to detect the bot then they should be pressured into employing them more rather than just targeting obvious rmters (although day by day the rmt trade is becoming smarter, and, i fear staying one step ahead of the gms. the rmt trade has been running micro transactions long before ccp even considered them), given the lack of updates i can only assume that the steam has run out of the unholy rage initiative. if they don't have the means then they should be pressured into investing some time and money into creating them.the bot is not just limited to the depths of 0.0. it infests all facets of eve, right to the heart of the jita market. it hurts all of us, from the industrialist to the pvper. rooting it out in a controlled manner which doesn't damage the economy will be no easy task but it is one that i hope you will take up if you're elected.i'd also like to know which anti bot strategies you think have been seriously suggested and considered which hurt normal players?apologies for length."
"i have no doubt that your amazing contributions to the eve community and your experience in working with ccp as one of capsuleer's developers will enable you to do a fine job of representing the community and being a productive member of csm6, so best wishes for success in your campaign!and don't say i didn't warn ya!"
"thanks babe, and you've given me sufficient and multiple warnings. don't worry, i'll be bugging ya all year long."
"roc the vote!"
"roc the vote!"
"lol your sense of humor is excellent as always, korvin."
"lol"
"i am hoping i can get some feedback on my ideas. campaign site your opinion matters to me and i want to make sure you agree with my ideas. i have also posted one of my ideas on the eve forums:bounty hunting fix"
"i think you misunderstood me, as i didn't want occupacy to bo more pve, there should be a bonus reward for killing other militia inside plexes.also, an idea for missions is, that u could choose to do a pvp mission, like a lobby, go there and fight 2x gall t1 friggs/dessys etc, and have a site, with acceleration gate, that only allows the players who have agreed on mission on both sides.(like given a acceleration gate key to the mission)it might be hard not to have it exploited, such with deadspace fits etc"
"then do away with npcs altogether. just let the players know in a seperate intel channel exactly where plexes have been entered and let them go fight for them - if they choose. if players don't want to leave the large fleets to fight for the plexes, then they will lose occupancy to an opponent that spreads out and does several plexes at once. it's really a pretty simple fix."
"fw, forgotten but not gone."
"reading the csm minutes for june '10:\"ccp stated that fw is not a priority and no fw-related changes will be considered until after incarna and dust.\"\"ccp responded that lack of focus was not due to lack of enthusiasm, but more to availability and prioritization of resources.\"so, more hurry up and wait..."
"how that should really read.fw was released half completed and has been left gathering dust since aside from the pve missions.i've dabbled a bit in fw. it stinks. no benefit for being on the winning side or possessing systems, monetary or otherwise. it's just fighting for the sake of fighting. while that may suit a lot of people to a t it doesn't really grip me. though i'm not much of an rper i was under the impression that eve was a game where the players drove the story. fw would have been a perfect opportunity if implemented and run properly to have allowed players to shape new eden outside of nullsec. it's definitely something worth raising."
"ok i have some concerns that consequences will lead to the fight becoming completely lopsided. who would want to join the losing side with all the disadvantages? but i suppose there could be some consequences that only indirectly effect play.consider this:lets say amarr gain occupancy of the system evati. right now there are a few minmatar npc stations there. well lets say that when amarr take over, there is a certain percentage chance that those stations become amarr npc stations. so a boundless creation might become a carthum conglomerate. the chance of this happening may depend on how long occupancy is held. say every 6 months you roll the dice on any enemy faction corps leaving. there may also be a chance (smaller chance) that a corp from the sister faction would move in  so perhaps lai dai (caldari) would move in. there would be new agents that go in to that etc. the rp story would be boundless decides to close down facilities in evati due to a sudden increase in taxes and sells station to carthum/lai dai. (or some such)now it would be an indirect benefit because you usually have high standings with the faction you fight for. so you would gain new agents and resources for those in your faction. but then again if one side loses many agents the value of that lp should see a slight rise because the goods are more scarce. so it would be a decent storyline consequence that wouldnt likely lead to a lopsided war. would this work for actual militia stations? that might be going too far  and lead to a lopsided war. but if they added some decent faction specific items to the fw lp store there would be a natural balance. those lp would be worth more. i certainly think many amarr mission runners would fight to keep huola. but right now the only after lunch in london plexing mechanics are so bad that i am hesitant to put much weight on it. just an idea. maybe it's bad."
"discuss, i dont want some lunatic stalking me just because i run, well, that and all the evil things i did to them in game.."
"oh yeah, and me for csm"
"can you cite examples of this happening?"
"it caused me a bit of trouble. it's quite amazing how upset some people can get over in game conflicts. this was all prior to larkonisgate though (never had any dramas during and since despite all the space rage it generated). @ the op, you shouldn't have much to worry about unless you have a particularly distinctive name and you've managed to upset a 40 year old manchild with a loose grip on reality."
"i agree here. danger makes eve work. but it is ridiculous they pay insurance on \"crimes\"."
"no.i'm against the principal of this, even for \"cosmetic\" goods.the only way i could be persuaded is to offer a 2 tier subscription method:1 lower price + micros = cosmetics from micros1 standard price with no micros = free cosmetics"
"no.mts are a rl money sink no sensible person needs. isk mts are the closest thing that should even be considered. in a space game, we really don't need cosmetic stuff, unless it's painting our ships (which isn't a good idea when you think about lag)it's sad t'amber resigned and left the game, but i can understand that. people love the game, but t'amber clearly loved the game enough that he decided to protest their proposed mts. i hope ccp realizes that's why he quit, because he needed to make them see that mts are not the way to go"
"yes i am tired of not being able to tell the difference between chars as i'm sure more than 80% of us arei,1 o,0 5,s 6,g 8,b as said, and sometimes 8,9 are hard to tell apart.i can't imagine anyone saying that it's fine, i don't see the problem in giving he font openly to people so they can try and make new fonts and submit for improvement ideas :\"
"i agree."
"it's morning again? i'd swear it's been only few minutes since i fell asleep.anyway: bump!"
"i have been saying something like this should happen for quite a while now, so supported. perhaps if they dropped the little improvements for a while and got this done things could get more interesting in eve. with this war would become less about how many resources you have and more about efficiently using those resources strategically. now people will be able to have absolutely massive fights where they will be using up their resources as fast as they can to destroy the other side. this would come as a pretty big boost to the economy, especially if they come up with an automated system for detecting bots. with this change the little people could matter a lot more then they do now edit: forgot to check support"
"yes please."
"i hardly ever fit neutrons, too much pg and cap drain. fittings are only part of the problem, but one that does need solving. but hey, we didn't want to fit those guns ccp introduced, because we're only being trolled anyway.ccp have no clue as to how to play the game. nozh is, simply put, an idiot. seleene worked hard on the ms/sc rebalancing and in come the clueless and sweep away the designs seen by the players as great and introduce his/her/it/their own stupid idea's that do nothing to stop the proliferation of ms/sc.relying on ccp to grasp the fundamental problems of the game is like expecting an alcoholic to decide that there's a problem with that kind of lifestyle.medium guns = rails. with improved tracking you won't need to web.thus we have solved the blaster problem, fit rails. how about no? when i say blasters i mean blasters, not rails. with a 1600mm plate a thorax may be faster than a bs but it's still too slow to web anything before it's either pounded to a wreck or the target's got away.well done, you've just solved the rail tracking problem.i have raised this problem at every csm election and i will only vote for the person who champions this. otherwise i don't see a point in even considering voting for people whose only goal is to advance their own selfish idea's."
"medium guns means just that medium guns. at the moment you cant fit a rack of electron blasters to a thorax with a 1600mm without a fitting mod of some kind.i think i will have to go through my idea step by step for you as you seem quite happy not reading the short versions.firstly the problems that gallente blaster boats face is hybrids are no longer the face melters of old, and do not have the dps to make up for there lack of range anymore. the old example of a geddon vs. mega damage wise comes to mind. the other problem is that due to slow ships and short range, by the time the gallente blaster boat has tackled its opponent and can start laying in the hurt its lost too much of its buffer already.there is a third problem in that even if hybrids were fixed alot of blaster boats cannot fit a tank equivalent to ships of the same tier (rupture vs. thorax) and have medium guns (thorax needs an acr to fit electrons, 1600mm plate and mwd).a fitting buff for blasters (and rails) would help both gallente blaster boats and caldari hybrid boats. i personally reckon an increase to the point where the standard armor thorax fit becomes:-[thorax, new setup 1]1600mm reinforced rolled tungsten plates ienergized adaptive nano membrane iidamage control iimagnetic field stabilizer iimagnetic field stabilizer iiy-t8 overcharged hydrocarbon i microwarpdrivefaint epsilon warp scrambler ifleeting propulsion inhibitor iheavy ion blaster ii, caldari navy antimatter charge mheavy ion blaster ii, caldari navy antimatter charge mheavy ion blaster ii, caldari navy antimatter charge mheavy ion blaster ii, caldari navy antimatter charge mheavy ion blaster ii, caldari navy antimatter charge mmedium trimark armor pump imedium trimark armor pump imedium trimark armor pump ivespa ec-600 x5this would increase the tank, dps and range of the current electron fit and put it closer to the level of the standard armor rupture fit. this would require a decrease in both the powergrid and cpu of hybrid guns (mainly powergrid though).the speed issue is a little more difficult to solve. a straight speed buff starts to obsolete minmatar kiting ships. as most minmatar kiting ships have low ehp and rely on speed to survive. i personally believe it should be a challenge to land that scram on people in a blaster boat but once you have your opponent scrammed it should be difficult to leave.this could be solved by making a gallente ship the fastest inside scram range so that its actually dangerous to get into scram range of a blaster boat and you cant just try a duke it out with them as you can now.(geddon vs mega example again)for the damage and tracking increases, an increase equivalent to one free mag stab would be good. this would mean that blasters have a clear advantage in the dps stakes. im not too sure what would be best as an actual number increase for the tracking as, i have to admit, am not to sure of the tracking formula.edit. tried to edit out any spelling errors"
"i agree with you that minmatar are highly overpowered in this regard but the other issue is the problem of having your mwd shut down. once that happens you're also dead, as you've either got to fit an ab (slow) or slowly make it back to the gate (death). prior to the mwd mechanics change i'd have agreed with you but blaster ships are slow and catching your prey is hard, when everyone else is faster.i am strictly talking solo pvp. a while ago i was flying around and got caught by a gang consisting of a vaga, two inties, a dictor and another ship or two i can't remember. the vaga flew off in hull. i waited for my timer and jumped through the gate i'd come. i held my cloak and waited for my shields to recharge a little, and mwd back to the gate. the inties pointed me and i slowly made my way back to the gate, all the while being shot at. then i jumped through again. had i been in anything but a drake i'd have been dead long before i'd made it to the gate the first time.it's impossible to try this with any other ship, let alone a gallente one. caldari may do little dps but their ridiculous tank, and their ability to fly at full speed is simply incredible.for solo pvp i would either fly a drake (incredible tank) or a zealot (range and dps). why shouldn't i be able to fly a diemost? i want to have the ability to fly a deimos, without it being a diemost. this is why i want to see ranges increase or something else done that will allow me to hit a target from range, without worrying that i will be in pod by the time a single shot's hit the hostile. maybe it's not so much the guns that need be changed but the ammo, i don't know but when a zealot can hit at 30 and a cerb can hit at 90 (lolmissiles) you have a problem (do i even need to mention minmatar?). even at the height of the nano***gotry era not many flew gallente, they were useless even then. deimos or nano zealot... hard choice there...i was just thinking, increasing gun range wouldn't hurt or make arties or ac's obsolete, simply due to the fact that they can swap ammo."
"increasing gun range to that of lasers and projectiles would obsolete projectiles whether they can select damage type or not as you would have more dps and better tracking as hybrids have a large optimal. the only reason it wouldn't obsolete lasers is because they have scorch and scorch is awesome.the ability to switch damage type whilst a handy things prior to fights if you dont have the right damage type in then you have to live with it as swapping during fights is rarely worth it.edit. no where in my post did i mention minmatar being overpowerededit 2. increasing the range of blasters to that of lasers or projectiles only serves to make this game more uniform and removes the traits that make the guns unique from each other.also lasers are better at range than projectiles"
"increasing gun range will never obsolete other close weapons systems, but will make gallente pilots use their racial guns.this will only make megas fit blasters to fight instead of autocanons whenever the pilot has understood that autos in a mega is \"pwnmobile\" like, while with blasters he's \"easykillmailmobile\"try it you'll get addict fast, and even more with shield buffer wich we\"ll agree it's the true nature of gallente race, use autocanons and shield tank... or not."
"please yes...especially when all you can do is trash the thing anyway..."
"oh god yes please, also turn the notification mails off when docking in a pod."
"what a great idea. please implement this ccp and save us all from the endless n00b ships."
"in a day and age of interstellar ships, the ability to not share data between them, especially at close range, seems rather silly. the whole process of having to copy bookmarks to cans in space for your corp/alliance mates to be able to get them is convoluted, laggy (opening a can full or bms takes anything from 30 to 60 seconds) and not really up to scratch for w-space users.my suggestion is the implementation of a central repository (read new screen with lots of nice buttons and lists), one for corp and one for alliance, that members with scanning/scouting role (new role to be implemented) can add and remove bookmarks to. this can be accessed from any station or pos, perhaps a new module for the pos that needs anchoring and onlining, and members can then click \"update bookmarks\" or something similar. instantly all their bookmarks are updated to the latest instead of having to take them from a can, then copy them back for the next person.people with the correct roles can remove old bookmarks and add new ones to the repository. the repository could know when they were last updated, and when the player last updated and a notification could appear when the repository is opened letting the player know new bookmarks are available.in addition, ships can \"trade\" bookmarks with each other, or simply select several bookmarks and then send to ships within certain range (50km perhaps?). those ships then get a popup saying someone is sending them bookmarks, do they want to accept? if so the new bookmarks appear.the current method is either poorly coded, or is responsible for a disproportionate amount of load on the servers for the cans to take so long to open. not only would this make things easier for people, it will save server power."
"even if you can see any negitive things to say about it, please show your support for it. :) tyvm"
"in the case of pos anchored simply to tie up a moon for future use or \"the lolz\", you idea does nothing.get notification -> toggle online -> 2-3 more months of bliss.makes sense for legitimately abandoned pos, but in that case a month is too short. i have had real life commitments and dubious internet availability that lasted significantly longer.reduce ehp of offline pos's to a level where a couple of bs can drop it in 45-60 minutes. declare war on owner (he is not around anyway ) -> remove tower -> salvage modules -> put up your own.solves your problem as well as countless other issues related to offline pos's"
"the point of this is to not just take the modules, but to take the faction/normal tower as well. and as for having to just have it online if you take it thats were the other options come in since all you can do to it is empty it and unanchor it. it also forces the owner to either take it down or keep it fueled. i just don't want an expensive kill mail and not get the tower. thats all."
"really this is not needed, the existing site works well in a modern mobile browser. i wish the android market was not stuffed with so many of these redundant 1 website in an app apps."
"an app is not necessarily needed i think. but eve gate and the forums could be programmed in a way, so they can adapt to mobile phones browsers."
"like other have said, a compatible browser could be sufficient.but having an app dedicated to eve gate (like facebook app on smartphones) could be also interesting.+1"
"after writing a post about a possible implementation of strategic frigate, i'v got a lot of support wich lead me to take my idea a step further and propose it to the csm.original threadthe idea is simple:-create t3 frigate that can be customized the way of a t3 cruiser can be.we know that t3 cruiser can tank and dps like a bs (or near to). then t3 frigs could tank and dps like a normal cruiser. they would not be overpowered cause they still have a limitation in pg and cpu wich remind that a frig has limitation.to see such idea implemented, we would need to see new skills to be added as well.in the original thread, i were thinking about small subsystem skill, a counterpart of standard one but wich have the same requirements. the difference is that the ''small'' skills is cheaper of course, and lead to the understanding of subsytems used in strategic frigate construction.frigate lvl 5 would be also a requirement.an other idea to make strategic frigate more skill intensive would be to make assault ship, covert op, interceptor and electronic attack ship trained to at least lvl 1.skills related to production would need to be added as well. there could be skills related to small t3 subsystems construction, hull construction but also invention and reverse engineering. why make new skill for these? this is surely not an obligation, as i think strategic frigate should be implemented whatever the skills needed for their production, but if we add specific skill for their production, we could make them easier to train than t3 cruiser. so if a t3 frigate would still be difficult to produce, at least it would be easier than a t3 cruiser. this would lead to consequence like:- new producers who will be interrested in t3 manufacturing- once they will have started in t3 frig, they will surely want to continue with t3 cruiser- this will make t3 frigates less expensive than t3 cruiserwhat is also important to think, is the (hypothetical i know) material requirement needed in t3 frigates construction. we must make sure that t3 frigate price would be proportional to t3 cruiser price. t3 frigates should be an investment, not something we buy every day. i imagine that t3 frigate should be the most expensive frigate (more than pirate faction) and maybe more than tier 3 battleship. but price are determined by the market who may change instantly so for that reasons, we must look into the material req more carefully.is there any advantage to this?- give new player a mid-term goal to achieve. give them a reason to continue playing. t3 frigates have the new player in their aim. t3 frigate would be less skills intensive than t3 cruiser, but offer the same degree of customization only at a smaller scale, the scale of a frigate. even older player like to hangs around in frigate so it would be the perfect toy to add in the game.- reward player who invest in frigate skilling.a lot of player skill t2 frigates cause they are a req for t2 cruiser. implementing a t3 frigate would lead these player (who maybe does'nt have the isk to have a t3 cruiser) to invest in t3 frigates. also, it would gives player who prefer frigates in combat, a more usefull role in fleet fight as well in small gang warfare.- sandbox for t3 cruisert3 cruiser are a major investment in a pod's pilot life. t3 frigates would permit carefull player to see what subsystems works well with their style of play.- let industrial a chance to start in t3 productionwith a easier to make t3 end product, industrials will maybe think it could be a good idea to start t3 production. i think about small corporation, or small alliance that maybe doesnt have the means to make t3 cruiser.- better gaming experiencet3 frigate would be the little brother of t3 cruiser. it would add a lot of surprise in any fight, as 2 t3 frigates can be fitted in a myriad of different ways."
"sorry for the long post.so is there any disadvantage?yes of course. but none that can't be take care of.-t1 frigate fight vs t3 frigate unbalancedt3 frigates would tank and dps like cruisers, so obviously it would be difficult for a t1 frig to win a fight vs a t3 frig.it's not a major issue when we know that t2 frigate and cruiser are also overpowered compared to their t1 counterpart. it's also normal that a ship that require a lot of investment in term of skilling and isk get's the better hand in case of an engagement. and, teamwork is the key of success, like t3 cruiser are destroyed every day at gate camp or trap, or fleet fight, t3 frigates would be much more vulnerable to these tactics.-t3 frigates price expected to be higheven if we plan to give a mid-term goal to new player, price of these new ships would require a lot of farming, missioning, or whatever you do to have isk. the good point in it is that we will see this ship in specific r<U+FFFD>le only (like pve, pvp as tackler, dps or bait) and not in overall use.so if a player decide to do piracy with his t3 frigate, he can. but he will not find very funny to be tackled by a inty and destroyed by an as.-t3 frigates vs faction cruiser (espescially pirate fac)i'm not talking about an eventual fight but about the market. what will happen to faction cruiser price? does player will overlook them in favor of t3 frigate?some of them, surely. but flying a frig is different than a cruiser. most player who prefer cruisers will stick to faction cruiser. also faction cruiser are a way less skills intensive that t3 frigates would be.so my post come to an end as i think i give many reason to why we should implement t3 frigate.customization is what really matter in eve. (fitting, subs, etc)if you want to debate the subject, fell free to go in the original thread linked in the first post. if you have already make up your mind, post it here and feel free to add to this, or explain why its not a good idea."
"there's really not much use for a t3 frigate...what is the point of flying around a t3 frigate?it's a nice idea...and as a pilot of small-sized ships, i don't mind the idea. but i really don't see a point or any motivation for ccp to make a t3 frigate...why?well, we have assault ships, we have interceptors, etc.they are all already focused on specific roles. it's great to have a customizable frigate to do certain jobs (just like a t3), however, you have to realize, if that frigate gets hit...it's instant pop (keyword on if)...then it wouldn't be so newb friendly anymore as...first of all af's run at around 10~15m and faction frigs 20m+...so...a t3 frig wud have to be priced around 30~50m?at that price, the battlecruiser would be a way better option and way more useful..keep in mind that many t3's are used for ratting and jewing...they're not used as often in fleet battles etc...with a t3 frig, you can't rat in that...and most likely you wouldn't want to take it out on a fleet battle/roam considering the fact that others who use regular t2 frigs aren't missing out too much on the bonuses...it's a great idea and your argument about helping out newbs is enticing...i just don't feel a need."
"i do feel a need, from interdiction nullifier alone. that plus frig size and lower cost, is just perfect. those residing deep within the blue ass of alliances need to be less comfortable."
"the frigate range is already completely saturated, there's over 60 different frigate class ships in game and only maybe a third of them are actually useful. introducing a further range of t3s into this would only make the problem worse."
"there is indeed a lot of frigate.i don't know if only the third are usefull, but i know that a t3 would surely be.please clarify, how a t3 frig would make the problem worse? what problem? and how worse?"
"good"
"i don't think there would be \"gazillions\" crap designs, since the creation of the item would require a knowlege of the software and could be pre vetted, as suggested above, by csm or a player elected board. it is rather more likely that no-one would take the time or effort to design anything at all..."
"i vote yes and demand my own sex toy shop in incarna"
"make another incursion spawn the moment an old one ends, instead of after an odd number of hours. since they spawn at odd hours instead of downtime anyway, there shouldn't be any technical limitations preventing this."
"my alt will be less visually boring."
"yeah, sure. but it's a bit hard to find enough distinctive hues for each roid type."
"this has been suggested before.... put to the csm..... passed and i believe presented to ccp who i think really liked the idea.however ccp haven't implemented it yet. i don't know why as i can't see why it would take much to do. probably an hour of work at the most.but supported to get it pushed through sooner"
"at the moment when you go to specific constellations in 0.0 (don't know if there are any in low/high sec) you get a pop up about gas clouds.there is no way to turn these pop ups off.if you leave in a region with them you will get those pop ups every time you go through the constellation. yes after 1 time we know it is there.if you don't know about it you can get caught with your pants down on gates because of the pop up message (yes we killed people because they warped to the close planet, then to the gate, landing before they can even click ok on the message. no chance for them.)tl;dr:give us an option to turn these gas cloud messages off"
"extremely valuable gas clouds"
"supporting this."
"tell me more about these extremely valuable gas clouds..."
"extremely valuable gas clouds have been discovered in the nether regions of various peoples's pants. while the serpentis corporation has quickly moved to take advantage of these clouds, o.r.e. has already claimed them as part of its territory. hurf blurf durf extremely valuable gas clouds"
"extremely valuable gas clouds have been discovered in the pegasus constellation which have created a gold rush. it was quick to claim 'ownership' as the constellation borders its sovereign space, but the goons and test, as well as multiple entrepeneurs from the cluster**** coalition, have all claimed their own piece of the pie. inevitably collisions have occurred and the constellation has become a sort of 'warzone' between various groups of greedy claimants."
"you can find the related topic in \"features and ideas discussion\" forum, here.put a slider in au next to the distance field. writing the distance in the appropriate field is just a waste of time in 90% of the timerevamp the angle slider to easily switch between 5 and 15 degrees (the two points are too close in the ui)add a visual help to see where the directional scanner is pointing - to be able to see scan angle limitsdisplayable previously scanned cones: make the visual help (scanner cone) persistent on the solar system map. so a pilot can pinpoint a position ship with a lot of time and effort. the firsts 3 points are self explanatory. the fourth idea need a little insight:it doesn't give any warpable bookmark. if the pilot succeed in pinpointing a ship position, he lands on the same grid after several warps/mid-warp bookmarking/etc... the pilot do everything by hand like now.unprobable ships (not covert ship) can be hunt with a lot of time and effort. however, this method is very limited and time consuming. but it is a counter to unprobable ships.traditional probing method (t2 frigates + combat scan probes) stay the best probing method. exception made with unprobable ships which appears on directional scanners but not on probe scan.doesn't seem powerfull, requires a lot of human skills, patience and time. seems \"easy\" to implement for ccp (from my point of view and yes, i am not a programmer...)thanks for reading me."
"if ccp accept just part of this ideas it will be great to be gallente again."
"you need to have l5 agents in low sec. that's part of the risk/reward theory the game works on.if you expanded the number of regions that had l5 agents in them, all you would be doing is making even more areas populated by gank fleets."
"it was a mistake to add them. take them off."
"why was it a mistake?"
"i have a better idea, why don't ccp just give you free kms?"
"never mind the 'all seeing eye' that is local to start. for one it takes actual effort to scan someone down, that is good. unfortunately it takes zero effort to find out if someone is scanning for you.you simply hit the scan button and you instantly know if they are or not. at least before you had to scroll through a list of everything to search for the probes.now it is simply too easy to avoid being probed down.and no, this is not some whine that i want kills to line up for me. that argument is simply ******ed.remove the ability to add scan probes to the overview and make the prey at least put forth some ****ing effort to know if they are being probed."
"or you can put forth some effort to get kms instead of whining about not being spoon-fed."
"probing people down is stupidly easy.basically you want to return us to the days of having no filter on the overview. this is stupidly frustrating and just bad game design.if you are clever (like a good hunter should be) you can still catch people pretty easily with probes."
"whaaa!i am a pirate! whaaa!pirating is too hard! whaaa!take away local so i am invincible! whaaa!people can tell when i am scanning them! whaaa!why can't i insta-pop people without them ever knowing i was coming?! whaaa!i thik i have made my point..."
"you do realize that probes could be added to the overview manually before. in fact, any item in space can be added to the overview if you know the item code."
"you're never going to satisfy everyone with changes made to the game, but marconus i think you're in the minority. i for one approve of being able to select probes in the filter list."
"in my opinion, it is truly horrible that you cannot determine what standings another corp or alliance has toward you.i was asked by another alliance to set them blue in exchange for blue with ours. i complied, but i have no way of verifiying if they've done it or not. i can't tell if someone has set us red, either.i'm aware that eve is built on player interactions and that they deliberately make parts of the game require trust. but in my opinion, this is ridiculous."
"create your alliance?can't see any reason to \"blue\" some corp just like that, trust is like respect you must deserve it and not be given without reason.what's the next step, ask you access to your assets?"
"please delete, accidental post"
"supporting this."
"hire em fire em improve em, give em escape pods in trade for cargo space , or not, develope a reputation for bringing crew back alive, or not, re hire if you lose members etc. the ships are veritable cities, a full crew would be better than a skeleton crew , a skeleton crew would be fatigued eaiser where as a full crew would have more endurance etc."
"i'm in awe by the eloquent and professional presentation of your proposal. you weren't satisfyed with just writing a few lines of barely coherent ramblings like some lesser plebeian, oh no. you went the extra mile and worked out all the fine details of your proposal in advance, so your idea would have no chance to be ignored or ridiculed in any way. your masterful analysis of all the prons and cons of this idea is so extensive and thorough, that it has left us with nothing to talk about. i truly wept tears of joy after witnessing such an exquisite display of the prowess of the human intellect. your proposal is perfectly balanced and has no possible negative affects on current gameplay. you sir are an intellectual giant that makes the rest of us unworthy to even lick your boots. i'm left speechless and can only humbly bow before a culmination of human excellence such as you.your fan 4ever, dsq."
"ok...i don't know who else has seen this...i just want to bring it up...cause it's been ****ing me off...i've been seeing this game all over the place advertised...and i looked at it..."
"wrong forum,dont care.eve is still #1"
"this, on all three counts."
"any other space based game is clearly a copycat, because space sim starts and ends with eve."
"moved from assembly hall"
"what is this i don't even..."
"supporting this"
"so until this point, you basically do the same as in my own proposal. you count the kill right price from insurance.if escrow price is calculated from hull, insurance will cover the loss and escrow price will be exploited.if escrow price is calculated from item loss, pirate will get the loss of the items covered by escrow price."
"hirana yoshida and kepakh are obviously having a filibuster.for those of you eve kiddies that don't know what a filibuster is, its when a legislator talks a bill to death by consuming all the debate time with absolute gibberish.i can't even make out what they're saying and i'm following the thread closely.as far as i can tell they are trying to fix an absolute price for kill-rights. why???here's another scenario to consider.i create a new character, i'm totally bored, and i'm just roaming around the eve universe looking for anything i haven't seen before. in some system i come across a pilot named chribba. fascinated, i begin to orbit him at 1000m. after a few minutes of this he becomes frustrated and sets off a smartbomb, my velator is destroyed instanted.i'm supposed to sell the kill-rights for chribba for the price of a velator hull plus insurance???what formula could you ever possibly come up with that could calculate the value of kill-rights on chribba??? if chribba's corpse is worth millions that i'm sure kill-rights on him are worth twice that much.and i'm sure there are quite a few people in the game whose kill-rights would also sell for a hefty amount. if a ganker kills someone then rushes to the kill-right market to buy up any kill-rights on him, that would mean that the system has value, which would drive up the prices for kill-rights. it would be something for the person selling the kill-right to take into consideration. unlike the current system where putting a bounty on someone is the same as giving that person money, selling a kill-right doesn't put money into the ganker's pocket. gankers buying their own kill-rights before anyone else can is not a problem."
"is reading too hard for you?"
"sometimes reading is hard. for example, here's what you say; <<\"...the weakness i see is that pirate can generate his own kill rights by killing alts and selling acquired kill rights on the market...\">> this idea causes you to put forward the idea that the only way to prevent this abuse is to have the price of a kill-right determined by the hull of the destroyed ship. is that correct? have i understood you thus far???let's take an infamous literal look at what you just said; <<\"...the weakness i see is that pirate can generate his own kill rights by killing alts and selling acquired kill rights on the market...\">> you said that a pirate, some underhanded eve player, would \"kill alts\" and \"generate his own kill-rights\" that is, kill-rights on himself, over and over and over again, and sell them on the market.ok, maybe what you meant to say was: that a pirate, some underhanded eve player, would create an alt and let that alt kill him over and over and over again and then sell the kill-rights on that alt. i don't think this would be a problem either, though, supposedly there were people who would scam the old insurance system by blowing themselves up over and over again, however the insurance system was 'dumb.' dumb in the sense that it didn't think. if someone came into the insurance office with a destroyed battleship claim the insurance officer didn't say things like; \"hey, weren't you just in here?\"using an alt to kill you and then selling those kill-rights on the market wouldn't be such a big problem that you'd do something moronic like fix the price of a kill-right to the hull of the ship destroyed, because there would be people, human-beings, thinking, feeling human-beings, watching and using this system.if the market had kill-rights available for a player named \"test dummy\", and that player was \"less than a day old\" or had a full page of kill-rights on him, who would buy those kill rights???maybe some other mechanic could be used. for example this forum alt of mine has no sp because he's an alt on my main account. perhaps ccp could include a mechanic that prevents kill-rights of toons with less than a certain amount of sp from being sold on the market. (similar to what other games do to keep gold-spammers out of general chat. impose a level requirement)perhaps another mechanic could be used. for example a graph or chart of that kept track of the number of times a kill-right had been sold on a character like \"test dummy\" and the number of times those kill-rights had actually been satisfied.or other similar information could be used to help an experienced player make a wise choice.let the market determine the value of a kill-right. and don't tell me i have to sell kill-rights on chribba for the price of a velator hull plus insurance!!!"
"why would anyone care if people sold killrights on themselves? i dont see why that would be a problem. unless they're also going to pay significant sums as bounty, then the only people who will be interested in buying those killrights would be people who have some other motivation to kill the seller.i dont see why this would be a problem for anyone."
"unfortunately you've mixed two related ideas and one completely unrelated idea into the one topic.test server - \"everyone must face and share the same risks.\" i can log on to the test server, you can log on to the test server, everyone can log on to the test server. how is this situation not the same for everyone? the test server is required to get a better idea of how well patches will perform on tranquility and investigate issues with the current code so it is absolutely required. rather than scrapping the test server ccp need to make it easier to get on to it. as a result of this i will not be supporting your topic.permanent kill rights - sounds like a reasonable idea but tbh people will just end up with a huge list of kill rights that they never look at. plus what if the target has turned over a new leaf, reformed their behaviour and become a saint since the kill rights were awarded? i can't support this idea.contractable kill rights - this is a good idea, especially as an auction, but it would allow exploitation in the same way the current bounty system does. if you sell kill rights on me what's to stop me using an alt to collect the reward? and, without a reward what's the point?properly thought through contractable kill rights could work but i can't support this thread."
"it wouldn't be a problem, if somebody would pay me to get rights to kill me i would be glad to sell those."
"make kill rights disappear when they are used (you get killed) or when you buy them back (you pay money to the victim)"
"yes, i bet. obviously i asked too much from you.../threadimo, the bounty system as such will never work but if you find some reasonable and non-exploitable(aka pirates cannot profit from it), it will be fun for both sides - hunters and hunted."
"gw is focusing on their 3 core games right now (and even lord of the rings is in something of a lull at the moment while they wait for the hobbit). they're not even offering any real support for their 2nd-line games like epic:armageddon, battlefleet gothic and mordheim. lord of the rings is the only time that the modern incarnation of gw has taken on someone else's ip, and i doubt they'd spring for a setting with a much smaller popular appeal like eve has, especially as gw's current business strategy seems to be to spread their own ip to other markets (see the ultramarines movie and warhammer online/dark millenium online). a smaller tabletop gaming company might go for it, though.i will say that its a shame the battleship models available in the eve-store are so out of scale with the battlefleet gothic models."
"i think there is an easy way to make eve bigger and to break up the \"power blocs\". make session timers 5 minutes instead of 30 seconds, make capital drives and jump portal generators spool up to something like 30 minutes before jumping. with the increase in travel time there won't be 30 minute responses half way across the galaxy anymore."
"you must be plain stupid. how about more solar systems?"
"eve already has far too much waiting around for things to happen, adding a vastly increased delay to every stargate and jump drive activation is crazy.may as well have named the thread 'make eve boring-er'"
"wanting to break up powerblocks i understand but this is not the way.not supporting this.go find some of the better ideas like making standings cost isk to alliances and corps. 1st one 1 mil, 2nd 10, 3rd 100 etc etc that was the geral idea, for both positive and negative."
"that is also plain stupid tbh."
"well, increasing session timers will change a few things. it means that when someone jumps into you they can no longer burn back to the gate. when going through systems you have to wait 5 minutes before you change systems so when you go into a system you'll have to warp to a safe and keep warping around or you'll get scanned down and killed (depending on the ship of course.) no more undocking and redocking without consequence. i'm not saying your ship should be invulnerable for 5 minutes, keep that at 30 seconds, i'm saying by increasing regular travel time you make travel more meaningful. the increase or \"spool up time\" for capitals is just a way to make sure people don't circumvent the increase in travel time by just taking titan bridges.i was just thinking by taking an action and having to commit to it without the safety net of burning back to the gate or redocking or having the ability to jump from one part of the galaxy to another in such short periods of time would really make the projection of power a lot more meaningful."
"no. that is not plain stupid. what is stupid is adding even more delays to a game that is already slow and unresponsive."
"well yes that is stupid, but adding more solar systems is also stupid. just gives the large powerblocks more space to install pets and macros."
"that's just stuuuupiiiiiiiiiid...what about traders, and logistics?it would take them hours to move stuff?it would make not lucrative enough to move stuff around... so, only one manufacturing and trading hub per region, maybe nothing in ls and nulls or horrible price increase...), since it would be even more dangerous to go there? it would mean no more small-size pvp fleet too, no more roaming, etc..."
"good idea"
"change it so it doesn't look like a 'more moneys for cpp plox' page."
"having flown with him in the past, i believe that he has the charisma and education to make a difference on the csm.in regards to the bots currently plaguing eve, i believe that in order to combat the sickness effectively, you must alter the dynamics of how a bots successfully function. such as changing the static nature of asteroid belts to be more akin to gravimetric sites, or adding a heat element which turns the mining lasers off at random intervals. things that would add degrees of variability, whilst not causing much more inconvenience to the active player. while these are not the complete answers, paving the way for much needed discussions, and not trolling, on the topic of bot prevention, will help lead to an answer in the future. my contemplations aside, vote ripard teg for csm6!!"
"other than the people who run them, who isn't? j/k seriously, if the bot problem were easy, it would have been solved long ago.i agree with you, and i'd love to hear suggestions on both, how to deal with bots, or how the csm could bring additional pressure on ccp on this issue. i'm glad to hear you think the one suggestion i have in this area has some merit. that's one way i think bots can be combated: by addressing the motivation. i know that chaining bots are one of the most popular types. i agree with both you and dirk that it doesn't address basic ratting bots or mining bots or any other type of bot, but you have to start somewhere! one of your own suggestions was to evolve the pve content to make it harder to automate, and i think that's also a good idea, though a lot more complicated from a dev stand-point.i'm not sure i believe that ccp has a magic wand that would eliminate bots that they can use, but they just choose not to. i'd want to see some evidence of that, but try me: i'm willing to be convinced.i'd love to hear player suggestions on how to address it. i think that's the key role the csm can play on this one, is collecting player ideas and putting them before ccp.thanks, redempt, ltns. your support means a lot to me."
"you don't solve the bot problem by just 'starting somewhere'. they will just move away to another part of the game. if you can crack mining bots, they will move to ratting or market bots or invent some other way to make money with bots. you need to crack down hard on all forms of botting and cheating. a full blown assault, nothing else is going to dimminish the bot problem. ccp banning ppl for 23 hours for instance is not a full blown assault.... i've been researching the bot issue a bit lately and it seems that that is your basic punishment for running a bot, if you get punished in the first place. yup, that's really gonna stop the major 0.0 alliances and rm-traders running their bots...."
"ho, and ripard, i just wan't to say i'm not here to pick on you specifically or something. i'm just an average joe who is miffed about all the botting while i'm trying to play the game fairly. it's just that the average csm-member/candidate is either clueless about botting, doesn't care or is completely fine with it. of course, nobody will admit to that last part but tons of ppl are fine with it cuz they do it themselves or profit from them indirectly cuz it funds their alliances for instance. alliances don't even have to run them themselves, renting out space to botters and turning a blind eye \"i had no idea! honestly!\" is also profiting from them."
"just so you know, this issue is not being ignored by the csm or ccp. at this moment, there is ongoing discussion in the internal csm forums about the problem of botting. as always, we are encouraging ccp to communicate with the community on the matter. it is clear they plan to do so. while it may be comforting for some to see \"we've got it covered\" messages in dev blogs, ccp clearly wants to provide more meaningful information than that to reassure the community about actions it is taking. messages of that type require a certain amount of progress on various fronts to happen first. so...just know, the issue of botting is not being ignored, and csm6 will hopefully be able to continue the discussions productively."
"well, i still want to know the vision of csm members on how to combat botting and how much of an effort they want ccp to make. there is a big difference between a gm sometimes banning bots for 1 day when they get petioned by players and ccp actively hunting them down and making software changes on a regular basis to twart botting.when i hear alliance members admitting they use bots and shrug off petitions cuz \"you only get a 24 hour ban at worse anyway and they won't touch your other accounts\" that sure as hell does not sound like ccp 'has things covered'. they've got **** covered and to the general public it even looks like they more or less condone botting. hell i'd be surprised if not at least some ccp-employees are turning a blind eye on purpose and/or are linked to botting/rmt themselves. they are only human and emotions like greed and envy live in all of us. and the lack of communication on the issue is disturbing too. i imagine if ccp released numbers on the impact bots are having on the economy public outcry would be tremendous. still we deserve to know stuff like that."
"truth 4 csmcampaign website - www.truth4csm.wordpress.coma little about mei am a 26yr old, married with one child living in the lake district in the uk.i have been playing eve for nearly 7 years now and have experienced pretty much every aspect of the game. from 0.0 alliance warfare and politics to wormhole exploration and market trading.i came across eve after i stopped playing another well know internet spaceship game, freelancer, and although i have taken the odd break from eve over the last 7 years, eve has defiantly always been at the center of my desktop, and will continue to do so for as many years as long as they keep the servers up (or till they blow up)why i love eve-onlinemost of my family and freinds (those who dont play eve) have said to me many many times over the years are you still playing that game? havent you completed it yet? once i have got my head out if my hands i try and explain why i love eve so much.the fact that their is no end game, some say it is being in a top pvp corp in the largest alliance in game, some say it is having massive wealth. but simply their isnt one. i have missioned, mined, pvped etc and still i go back to those things from time to time to do them, as a kind of break from what ever my main focus in on at the time. the fact that eve is a massive place where even tho everything is pretty much the same through out each system the community make is so vastly different. and you never quite know what will happen when you jump the next gate or un-dock from a station.-this will be the first time i run for csm, so i am a bit apprehensive about the response i will get from the public, but i feel that i can give something back to the community after playing for so long. so have a look at my website for more information on what i will be doing as csmthank you for taking the time to view this post and my website.eve truth"
"the csm has repeatedly asked ccp to iterate on it. we discussed in june the many problems fw faces:* sov gain/loss is meaningless* contesting sov is boring and opaque* fw pvp activity has no effect on sov* fw missions have no effect on sov* and moreoverall, i've always had the impression that to make fw ccp rolled a katamari damaci ball through the game design department and just implemented whatever stuck to it. there's no synergy between the various fw gameplay elements, no overall purpose to fw and a lot of gameplay that is needlessly boring (capture timers, etc).unfortunately, fw does not seem to have a very high priority while dust and incarna are being rolled out. i did get the sense that there is real willingness to iterate on fw, but only after they've finished rolling out dust and incarna and - as oveur said - go back over the older gameplay systems and iterate where needed. so fw iteration may happen, but not any time soon.if you feel ccp should put more effort on it sooner, vote for a csm candidate who you think will best bring that message to ccp."
"fw was actually one of the best things ccp has ever done. it is the only thing they ever did to actually promote small gang pvp, through the plexing system.the idea was players would pvp in plexes and lose ships. how would they get isk to replace them? they could no longer do afk missions in high sec because of the war dec. so they developed fw missions. fw missions need to be balanced between the faction no doubt, caldari can apparently solo in sb and that is too easy. for amarr you need 2 ships or at least a bc to run level 4s. but other than tweaking that ccp successfully made a whole new type of low sec mission system  successfully.the only thing that is really broken are the occupancy plexing mechanics. yes that is a big one i agree. why no action? well first of all players disagree about allot of things. some players want fw to put even *more* emphasis on shooting red crosses. others want fw to be more about pvp. some players want there to big consequences to occupancy. others tend to see that will just lead to everyone joining the winning team. yes we all agree that if the post downtime spawn mechanic is bad. this needs to be fixed and i think this has has been passed by csm. but the mechanics of how you most efficiently do plexes will remain the same. the rats will still be a huge disincentive to pvp for the vast majority of pvpers in eve. the other militia still wont know where you are plexing. some people dont mind taking rat damage while they pvp and they do get good fights in plexes. but most people think pvp while tanking rats sucks. in sum even if ccp implemented everything the csm proposed people still wouldnt plex. it would still be a mainly pve activity. players simply have not gotten on board as to what they would like to see that would really benefit plexxing."
"they have, we have. there was a furor of discussion in the first year of fw where all the rp, pvp and plexing parties participated .. eventually it just dawned on us that the small bug-fixes is all we are going to get for a long time and people stopped caring.goes back to the new = more customers vs. better = happier customers, ccp has started leaning heavily in favour of the almighty dollar so improvements on existing gameplay is forever stuck on the soon list."
"it is not a problem and of all the csm candidates i should be the most worried, i am too pretty. also, due to the importance of csm removing the anonymousness from it is critical to its success. i do not approve."
"i feel that all csm runners should have to post a picture attached to their name, as well, to prevent fat ugly chicks from winning just because they are female.lol?"
"this man has vision!"
"my questions are simple. how do you vote for csm candidates? i have seen some of the candidates posts but very few. the process seems like random luck if you happen to find information about candidates since it's mixed in with everything else. just as importantly, how do you vote? does it get it's own thread? is it off on a third party site? when can you vote?"
"voting isn't open yet.ccp will announce the final list of candidates and a week later open up voting via the website."
"voting will take place in the csm section of the main navigation bar on the left, under csm>candidates. normally people don't start campaigning heavily until after everyones been annouced.you will get a list in random order of the people you can vote for once they've shortened the list of illegal candidates. you'll see their name with their character portrait and a short campaign message + their url and once the voting opens you'll be able to click to vote for them straight from that same page (although it usually takes you to a \"are you sure\" page).the following not safe for work image will help with the dates.yours,serious."
"being involved in a current hisec war in which our aggressor corporation is using neutral reppers as part of there strategy. i can attest that the neutral reppers do not become red to us. and have petitioned ccp about this fact that we have no recourse in this matter.here is a quote which i cannot give the author or who the author may or may not work for or when it was written by rules of this forum.i am afraid that this is currently working as intended. when a neutral aids your wt, you will become flagged to him but he will not become flagged to you until he fires on you.i have to say this is very disturbing on many levels.1. why on earth would i the non aggressor become flagged to the neutral repper and not the other way around. it is their \"choice\" to enter the war! as such there should be a consequence for their choice of action.2. i do not know any logistics pilot that has mounted a weapon or even carries combat drones, thus they will never fire upon anyone.3. if ccp is considering warships fit with remote reppers, then this to should be considered as an act of war by the pilot beginning to repair one side or the other. they should get the same concord alert as any other non sanctioned act of aggression..are you sure you want to commit this act. it they select yes then they should be held accountable just like any other act. either by concord as normal or becoming \"red flashy\" to the other side of war not being repped. this can last for the normal aggression timer of 12-15 minutes, or for say 24 hours or the equivilant of kill rights for example. 4.ccp cant possibly continue to say it is to hard to fix this issue..they can add new really cool content which proves their true capabilities.and we the players must join together with one voice and say ..fix these old annoying issues first please.some of you may comment i am just another ceo who is whinning about an unfair game mechanics. i tell you i am voicing a truth in that this mechanics does not fit in any part of eve online concept..piracy,theft,corporate espionage, etc. all have a posibility of recourse from the player(s) who was the target of the offense. in this case the neutral reppers are in essence just like all the other games \"invulnerability cheat codes\" which to a true gamer is weak at best to use and frowned upon."
"high-sec: fifteen minutes, do you really think you are going to get more pvp out of that?number of actual engagements will drop like a stone and be replaced with insane amounts of log-on/bait ganks .. that is not pvp.neutral rr:at least it would mean they disappear completely, but is that how an open-ended game is supposed to be, draconian?equate remote assistance with everything else done remotely like shooting/jamming/etc. solves pretty much all issues regarding neutral rr. if they are used in high-sec concord removes them for you, no charge docking range: would be much better if ranges were normalised even if it means losing the few kick-out stations that exist .. most stations should be borderline kick-out, with just enough buffer to account for load-lag.ties in with the high-sec entry in that reducing the docking range makes a successful bump exceedingly easy making changes to docking timers irrelevant.@wraith: remove the gm blurp, it is against the posting rules."
"oh that looks better than the new version.can i have one :)"
"i approve!"
"not as ridiculous as asteroids that are mined to nothing yesterday reappearing tomorrow. that's unarguably totally unrealistic, so we had better ask ccp to stop that as well. heck, we could even put it in the same proposal! who wants to write this one up?"
"carebears must suffer, i do not support this."
"graphics change yes, mechanics change no. supported"
"i agree the current font sizes in eve are not sufficient. they are to small.i would very much agree that they need to be of a font size that will be easyier for the ganers to read. i also have reading difficulties even with the largest font size currently avaiable in eve.thank you"
"i don't even need a whole new font, just fix those letters that you can't tell apart.****, just put a slash through the zero and i'm happy."
"fully support - old animation was much better than pallid current one."
"support"
"at a minimum blasters need a tracking boost. there is not a single situation in which a mega out-damages a tempest or geddon beyond 12km yet there are plenty where those same ships out damage it under 12km.i can accept super limited range if that limitation comes with an advantage in applied dps at that range. pretty much all a laser or projectile boat needs to do to minimize your dps advantage is stop moving. then your massive dps advantage comes down to about 50dps.as far as i'm concerned blasters should have sufficient tracking to hit a similar sized target from 0-optimal perfectly at realistic traversal. and it should definitley always hit better than ac's or pulses at those ranges.yeah i get it nightmarex a really good pilot can make blasters work against a crappy pilot. a really good pilot can make industrial work in combat against a crappy dramiel that doesn't make an industrial a combat ship. blasters make a hell of a lot of sacrifices (cap usage, ammo consumption, reload time,limited damage type, range) for little or no advantages. and that's just broken."
"whenever you can see the return of ccp's about this matter well yes getting tired of mass useless dev's blogs.has sisi, deleted. i'm ok to be there if i win something usefull in tq like blasters/hybrids/gallente ships fix, some sp or just possibility of reallocation of some sp, but since feedback is useless better spend 15min playing any freee fps than spend time on that useless server for useless feeedback resulting in useless decisions that will need patches a few days latter and keep issues like those mentioned in this/other related threads unsolved."
"bump."
"supported"
"gallente supposed to be the advanced drone using race. give damage upgrade modules/rigs for normal drones too, not for just sentries."
"this. and increased pg across the board for gallente."
"this sounds perspective, either way most gallente subcapital boats are in deep ass in nowdays big fleet combat opses.. gallente have perfect capitals, their small ships are good as well, but middle classes and bss need some boost. be it a speed boost or pg boost - doesn't matter. in general i support this idea."
"lower mass does not help much blaster boats being kitied within scram range.that is a reasoning behind base speed buff as it would help blasters the most to fight within their weapon range."
"increasing range would be a bad idea. better to re-balance ammo a bit and reduce reload time so you can switch from am to something that can actually hit something more than a stone's throw away. in fact my proposal to to \"fix\" blasters would be increase tracking alot so you can actually hit a same sized hull for full damage out to optimal you already have a stupidly short range to work with why reduce it even further by cutting out the fist 20% of it. next adjust the fitting requirements on hybrids. they just take too much to fit a decent set of guns. fit electrons and you lose the bulk of that great dps advantage you are supposed to get and you get even more pathetic range. ideally a ship should be able to fit a full rack of 1st tier guns with a reasonable tank with low skill, a rack of mid tier with a reasonable tank at high skill and a full rack of top tier guns with a good tank with perfect skills and max 1 fitting mod. as noted before re-balance ammo and make it instant (or really fast ammo change) they are hybrid after all they already get disadvantages from their base systems (cap/ammo use as well as limited damage selection) why not give them a single advantage from one (quick ammo change)reduce ammo size. why does a 425mm round that requires no propellant take more room to store than 1400mm round that does? lower cap use, (or at least lower cap penalties on ammo) it's a hybrid system not a pure energy system it should use significantly less cap than a laser system particularly since it's meant to go with active tanks.change the penalty on active tanking rigs (nanopumps nonobot accelerators) to something other than reduction in speed. lower fitting requirements on active tanking mods particularly large armor reppers. omg 2300pg for a lar2? that's just stupid particularly since you have fit 2-3 of the damned things to put out enough rep to be useful. cut it in friggin half or boost the **** out of the pg on gal bs hulls. you can fit 3 1600mm plates and have room for a meta 4 heavy cap booster with the grid savings alone compared to a single lar2. hell do that alone and you might get away with leaving large hybrids alone.rails hell i don't even know where to start. there just doesn't seem to be a place for them in long range combat. beams get the best dps while arties get the alpha. they get slightly better optimal but by the time that starts to become an issue you're moving into warpable range (really aside from alpha strike any range beyond 150km is useless.)"
"yeah i find this more annoying than the noobship itselfit's always funny to see on next login you're flying a \"caldari station xx\"i'll say a pretty simple solution would be to be able to get a free noobship by hitting the help button ; on the petition and co ui, you add a line with \"ask for a noobship\"(with a timer / number limit to avoid abuse)"
"totally agree. at least give us an option to turn them off."
"the only thing this \"solution\" will result in, is the continued abuse of resource balances in favor of 0.0 space by the same, tired group of good ol' boys that have controlled it since day one. a multi-billion isk income with absolutely no effort breaks the system, and you know it. this in no way levels the playing field, it just makes it easier for pilots in 0.0 to break the game even further. not supported."
"i wanted to type something smart as an answer to the op, but saw that it could all be said with two words:not supported."
"as far as 0.0 stations are concerned yes, they should be destructible. though for the exact same reasons why you can't use bubbles or doomsday in empire space, this should be limited to 0.0 stations only. supported."
"i support this.player structure should be destructible.and destructible station are an isk sink too. couldn't hurt."
"the only problem are assets of inactive players, who left expensive ships docked and quited eve for a few months. they return and see, that their 100500 fraction-fitted tengus were destroyed with a station - what will they do? quit eve? most likely. if ccp will somehow resolve this issue, i'm sure, there will not be any other reasons of not doing this change: destructible outposts."
"this is going to be the biggest sticking point in the debate. it's less about the stations than it is about the stuff in the station. there's no good rp reason for anything in a destroyed station to survive, but there is good value in terms of player satisfaction and retention. somove all player owned contents of the destroyed station to the player's hanger area at the nearest 0.0 npc station; active players, inactive players, current residents, and residents in exile. all corp assets are delivered as a single corporate delivery to the same station, receivable per corp settings.research & manufacturing jobs are canceled and materials are lost. bps from these jobs are delivered as part of the corporate delivery, or to the player's hanger as appropriate.as posted earlier, all those items can be destroyed by other means. only the outposts are forever."
"forget destroying the stations. let people loot the station after they take it over. flipped the station: all your base are belong to us. all the ships, fittings, random junk are now lootable. that is the way it should be. if someone loses a station, make it hurt."
"that also makes perfect sense, within the scope of hardcore game ideals. tho perhaps not 100% of the items should be found. there's still the possibility of things being hidden or smuggled out. so there should be some random chance of 75% looting.but of course, it's too late to ask for such things now. the ccp people who made this game are not the same people who manage it now. the hardcore spirit is long gone. and the carebears who are in charge would never accept such ideas."
"i'm not that sure this is the best way to improve the sharing of bookmarks, but it definitely needs to be improved. i do like the idea of corporation bookmarks, that would be available to everyone in your corp to use and copy from, but only people with a specific role can add, edit and remove.i'd like to include some easier way to trasnmit bookmarks to a neutral party too. selling bookmarks or doing exploration for someone is unnecessarily painful because of how limited the bookmark transfer system is. i don't mind it being limited to prevent mass bookmark copying, but a limited number of bookmarks should be easily transferrable in a way, that doesn't require both people to be online at the same time or visit a specific place."
"tl:drlong live voice comms."
"long story short, we need this.supported"
"yes please. lack of ability to share bookmarks in corp is a never-ending headache in wormspace. exhaustively checking and re-checking for bookkeeping errors does not make for fun gameplay."
"this just got signed by saxton hale! linkoman!the ability to right-click copy bookmarks would be nice"
"supported."
"fof missles should not damage structutes and need some little boost for sure, supporting."
"1.0"
"not sure if this is the best way to go about it but there def. should be a faster way of removing ghost pos than assaulting them with a fleet. it's sort of absurd that there would still be fully-active local defenses running on a structure that's been derelict for months.personally, i'd love to see a mechanic where you can send marines to board the pos and get the salvage - and then play as the marines to fight whatever automated defenses remain. it's be a great use for incarna !"
"honestly, in high sec, the charters should continuously be consumed (regardless of whether it is online or offline and once they are all gone, the faction should come blow the tower up (or the faction militia should be allowed to pop it)."
"well for starters id hear way more whine about unprobeable ships....but look at it this wayt3 cruisers take the advantages of a cruiser and give it the dps of a bs (and higher)soooo, the question is do you really want a ship with all the advantages of a frig doing bc type damage? t3 frig would need to be pre-nerfed in so many ways im not sure the end result would be recognizable as a frig. would have to deal with its speed and sig at the very least.on the other hand- a ship with a sig of 40 that goes 1km/sec (with just an ab) and does 500 dps....i do kind of want but how do you make it suck enough to not make every other ship in the game obsolete?"
"i will not support this since it is inevitable that t3 frigates will be introduced to the game. just as it is inevitable that t3 battlecruisers and battleships will be."
"price.iv heard many rumors, but it's difficult to say what's true and what's not. i think that ccp must know if we want to see them."
"there have been 49 cruiser hulls in game, not counting various rarities that arent available in mass quantities, before they introduced 4 new t3 cruisers.and unlike with the cruiser class, there are quite a few roles that arent filled yet. for example no logistic frigates, no cloaky ewar frigates, no gang booster frigates just to name a few, so there are a few things that t3 frigates could do without stepping on the turf of existing ships like the t3 cruisers mainly did."
"1.0"
"t3 frigates i've been waiting for, for a long long time, ever since the introduction of strategic cruisers. t3 gets used all the time for support roles, i know that t3's are used as antifrigate platforms and commandships in black ops gangs. the ability to put a cloaky-inty through a bops bridge with out it being a bomber is a strategic advantage that i would gladly pay 50 mil for. it might even make black ops more useful on there current platform as you wouldn't have to send a cruiser to do a frigates job...+1 and thanks for all the fishas a side note my personal belief is that ccp won't do a thing in the t3 field until someone cracks the secret of the sleepers. see you in whiskeyspace"
"because the inevitable consequence of squeezing more frigate hulls into the range is that even more frigates will become outclassed. we're already seeing frigate-level pvp boiling down to dramiels, bombers, interceptors and the occasional rifter or minmatar assault frigate, with everything else left to spin in the station or used on gimmick ops to create amusing lossmails.what the frigate class needs is a major reworking so that more of the existing hulls are worth bothering with, so that assault frigates and electronic frigates are viable choices, so that dramiels are nerfed down to a level where other faction frigates can get a look in, and so that the t1 range is more closely balanced and newbies can be given advice other than 'crosstrain to minmatar, fly a rifter'.until that issue is dealt with, adding t3 to the mix and introducing a new range of super-frigs with the ability to outperform some of the already small number of viable pvp frigates (and with the amount of customisation available, some available combinations inevitably would do) only deepens the existing divide."
"if anything t3 frigates should be strategic ideed.cyno jammer.ability to scan ships while cloaked.many more things like that.etc"
"if the aim is to make a customizable frigate that is jack of all trades, master of none: do frigate types truly have enough roles among them that such a ship would be useful?if the aim is to make an expensive <U+FFFD>ber-frigate that beats everything else in its class: no way!i could get behind more customization in fitting ships, but not power creep for the sake of itself..."
"bugger frigates."
"t3 rr frigate pl0x!...!"
"why dont we skip that step and just nerf concord lp items?"
"not suporting, this is (in theory) random right now, and it should be. sometimes is mornin, sometimes its middle of the night.thats the gooooood thing"
"this idea is about introducing some new ships have the same role with the current ships.i got this idea on last time ccp changed the model of scorpion. many people may feel better with the current one but i have some people prefer the former. why can't we have both?rename the old scorpion with another bug, slightly change the attributes and/or bonus. personally i don't have a favor on the old scorpion. this is just an expample. my suggestion is having some very popular ships to get an alternative each. like raven, drake, dominix, hurricane, abadon, maelstrom, tempest, megathron, scorpion, harbinger and so on.i don't mean to add only t1 ships but have changes on the t2 system may need to have more consideration.the short of this idea would be:*expanding the client and more calculating in the server.*cost in design.the advantages are:*the starship contest could be a resource for the new modles,the player designers would have more chance to have their design be in the game, making the game more famous.*more ships in the same race, the same role will reduce the competition in the market, therefore reduce the frequency people modify their orders.*the direct and obvious advantage, people will have more choice to fly and and will get bored with a role slower. makes the game more attractive."
"i'm a bit iffy about this, especially since you referenced the recent contests as a positive example and most of them looked nothing like eve ships and certainly not like the current designs. many eve ships are already iconic and i want strict limits on what kind of alternative designs would be available. if this goes through, i wan't the vexor to look like a vexor in all variations and not to have any other ship design use any vexor designs. variations of the same ship are ofcourse excluded from this limitation, but a totally different looking ship should not be able to use it's name or attributes.i don't want the appearance of a ship to be totally separated from it's attributes and treated like a piece of cloth that you can change to something totally different than the original design. it isn't realistic and cheapens the game and the ships. these are industrially produced ships and so similar ships should have very similar hulls. this is why i would prefer infinately more to have options to paint the ship with alternative color schemes. it would bring a lot of variation to the existing ships without taking a huge crap on the current ship designs and game immersion.i think ccp should be careful when thinking about catering to their customers whims in this manner. some limited variation would be nice, but if you make ship appearance freely changeable, it cheapens eve and makes it feel like the universe is there just to cater to our every silly little whim instead of being a living, breathing world where we are the ones who have to adjust to it and it's rules. not supported in any form unless the variations are truly variations of a single theme. if you want entirely different desings for what would practically be identical ships, then a definite do not want from me.edit: if you want entirely different ships for all those alternative designs, it seems like a huge waste to not have proper roles for them in advance. you can't just ignore the affects they have on gamebalance. just implementing new ships with no plan will lead to a lot of trouble and you are forced to do that planning anyways afterwards, since the new ships are either overpowered making old ships obsolete or underpowered making them a huge waste of dev time."
"when an alliance conquers a station, they should be able to loot the stuff left behind in the station (ships, modules, random junk). this would require alliances to be able to close personal hangars as well as corp hangars.looting a station should be tied to the salvage skill (as that seems to be a reasonable skill to tie it to). sit outside the station and turn on the salvage module. success allows the character to \"open\" the station (like a can) and the level of success from the salvage randomizer determines what kind of loot from a random closed hangar is accessible. i don't know how the current salvage random generator works, but i assume it is a random number generator and i assume it isn't just 0 or 1. with those assumptions in mind, i think it would be sufficient to create different tiers of loot to pull out of the station.benefits to this:1. losing a station hurts more (as it should in my opinion).2. the conquerors will end up sitting around in ships outside the station for the next several days sucking the loot out of it, this allows small gangs to gank people (a much needed boost to small gang warfare).3. capturing stations will have more strategic value.4. discourages holding more stations than you have need for as dropping and flipping undefended stations would be much more common.5. less docking games as people will have a strong reason to get out and defend their station."
"not supported.*next!*"
"too much medium i agree.compare it with a pilgrim legion just work no worse than ecm tengu."
"the new planetary interaction scheme with the \"e.c.u.\" is not effective for the use it was designed for.simply stated is that it's power requirements are to high. what i was able to do before which was the makeing of organic mortar and a few pos fuels items i am now unable to do. specificly because of the power needs of the ecu and the extraction units that are issued from it to mine.this seriouly deters me from the continued use of \"pi\". and thats really irritating due to the ammount of training i put into it.\"paying\" (in power) for the use of ecu mutiple times is not desireable. you got the pay for it to get the ecu and then pay for it again for the tendril unit each time yet again to actually mine.this so far is my disagrements with the current pi system since the last update.edit - small spelling issues and grammer"
"this is ancient news, and has been brought up a hundred times. please, thanks for your input, but please search a bit to see if there are not threads already on the topic."
"heh you said erection"
"under fear of skitt's law, it's 'grammar'.also i've been wondering why the hell my power is always maxed out but my cpu is below 50% capacity."
"yap annoying as hell"
"agree very much a lot."
"so annoying."
"this warning as well as the \"some random faction is in the area... whole bunch of them... this could be important... forget about that gate camp shooting you, you should pay attention to this\" message. really could care less. why don't these just show up as a notification in local like the \"yet another wave of ships decided to warp into your gun sights in a futile attempt to protect whatever random facility you probably won't blow up as you are really only interested in killing the ships and if they'd just stop warping in, you would leave, but they're too stoopid to figure that out.\" that you get in plexes and missions?"
"oh... you mean those stupid messages you get when travelling through cosmos constellations? yeah, they are annoying and could be dangerous. a small checkbox with \"don't display this message again\" would be nice."
"anti-bot initiative supported.my proposal:- 15 day ban (half of monthly subscription) after being reported by players and account examined by gms- if the botting practice on that account continues after the temporary ban, 15 more days are applied, etc...reason: to be able to be profitable as it is now, a botter must double his botting army which is easier to spot, report, examine and ban. it would make their life much harder and hopefully, with the help of real players, their job not profitable/possible. for those that can't afford doubling the amount of bots or making botting profitable with 15 day bans, i'll just say don't let the doors hit you on your way out of this game. we didn't want you in the game anyway.harder to identify? it can't be easier that this:"
"i like the proposed ui changes, but not so much the warp in part. directional scanning is not probing, in that it gives you a players approximate direction, not exact location. still though, this should be talked about by the csm. supported."
"just to be clear. the mechanic of directional scanner is the same. the only difference is the visual help. but if the target is moving fast or is in a safe which is not between 2 celestials, the hunter will have to approach the target location \"at foot\". exactly like the target did to create the safe-spot. there is not warpable bookmark or precise point given at anytime. if you are skilled enough, you'll eventually land on the same grid as your target.some pilot already hunt like this. but without a visual help this is near to impossible to locate a target in a safe not between celestials.i see that as a counter to unprobable ship's.my two (more) cents"
"i like the idea of scaning cone, i wanted something like this for some time now."
"i like"
"an intractable board listing candidates and campaign messages would be a great idea. sort of how a voters guide in a newspaper works for real elections. supported."
"i think this is a great idea. it needs to be in such a way as to not intrude on players too much, but enough to make sure everyone is aware of what is going on."
"selecting 15 degrees on the dscanner is fiddley.selecting 30 degrees on the dscanner is a bit fiddley.adding difficulty through poor ui design is not good game design.the dscanner angle slider used to be better when it had equally spaced angle selectors.5 degs , 15 degs , 30 degs etc all used to have equal spacing between them.this was better please restore it."
"agreed"
"a mining based ui would be a good idea. supported."
"this is a small part of a larger problem with the petition system. but yes, it needs to be fixed. i currently have a petition sitting that has not received a response for two weeks. supported."
"low sec systems in every way need a re balancing in the value to risk ratio. supported."
"and that was a really horrible design. difficulty of avoiding of being scanned in particular, and other gameplay elements in general always may be a subject for discussion.but mimicking gameplay difficulty with poor ui is one of the most stupid and lazy things to do."
"1) using a bad ui to introduce 'fake' difficulty into a game is a terrible idea.2) if you're at all competent at probing, you only need one scan to get a 100% hit on any probeable target. that gives your target a window of at most 10 seconds in which to spot your probes. if you need multiple scans... that's your problem, isn't it?a better change if you wanted to boost mission-busting would be to integrate the mini-map indicator that shows the angle covered by your current d-scan settings into the current system map to make it easier to judge distances and angles when your target is significantly above or below the plane."
"unnecessary change that leaves players with no protection from being detected. not supported."
"go to evegate (gate.eveonline.com) and log in. select your main character and then go to \"profile settings\". on \"the following pilots have the ability to see my profile's mutual contacts:\" box, choose \"only contacts of good standing and above\". request from your ally's alliance leader to do the same.that should solve your problem.as for the proposal, not supported."
"supported"
"i will not copy and paste a unlinked urlcan anyone tell me whats the similarities of the games the op is talking about?"
"i will not tell you to get linkification, or your browser equivalent."
"i really do enjoy the like and hate we have going on ;)"
"so after reading some of the battlestar galactica online forums, looking at screenshots, watching the videos and reading the site itself...i fail to see how it is a cheap copy of eve in anyway at all? aside from them being both space based they have nothing in common. bsgo has far inferior graphic quality, it uses a wasd control system, it is more like wow in space...frankly it looks like crap.actually...it looks about as interesting as watching flies eat ****. which doesn't surprise me since the show had pretty much the same entertainment value. so in conclusion i do not think it is a copy of eve at all...if you think that then any game based in space is a copy of eve and there were many others before eve that were based in space. i seriously doubt they look up to eve for inspiration either. no threat to eve at all."
"its a cheap browser based game. it cannot even hold a candle next to eve."
"tl;dr: the game is in space, so it must be a copycat of eve!"
"i've actually been checking this game out, so i may be able to provide some insight...i've been \"scouting\" for a free space-based mmo, because within three months my eve subscription will unfortunately run out, with no chance of reactivation in the near future. i saw this and signed up.it's a beta, so there were naturally many bugs along the way (they just had an update today, and it fixed a lot). the combat is pretty fun, actually! the turrets don't use tracking like in eve, but rather in order to fire the enemy ship must be within so many degrees of the bow of your ship and must be within a certain range (preferably your optimal). missiles are similar, but unlike eve they won't fire if the enemy is too close (which caused me to get \"meh\", because i like spamming missiles ). so in a way, if you're smart and orbit correctly (just like in eve) you can get under the guns of an enemy. in pve this is fine but even then it's difficult, so kiting/facemelt dps ftw. the combat also feels more \"realistic\", i suppose, for a space-based game in that you don't have an overview to tell you the distance/speed/rad/s of a target; you're given a general radar and must figure it out for yourself. it's very easy to misjudge an enemy's position, which in the depths of space i'd imagine is quite accurate. eve's ships are more user friendly, you could say.one of the things about bsgo is that it's very grindish...even more so than running l4s in hisec. your ship needs fuel (\"tlyium\") in order to jump from system to system and to use afterburners, so you'll find yourself mining quite a bit to get it. oh, and while on the subject of mining, unlike eve (where every asteroid is neatly labeled and you know it will contain whatever minerals you need), you need to scan each asteroid to see if it even has resources at all (and most asteroids, don't). so mining is not an afk activity, but a grinding activity. luckily once you venture into more dangerous areas of space it gets more interesting, but then...so does eve.bsgo features a passive training system, similarly to eve. unlike eve though, you actually need to grind for xp points which you then invest into training a skill up. the bonuses are invariably a pathetic 1% per level, but then i do believe you can train the skills to up to 10, or something. not sure.one of the things that is in very stark contrast to eve is how long it takes to get a new ship. be prepared to stay in the same ship for quite awhile, unless you're willing to shell out real-life money for cubits (in-game currency). but then, if you're going to spend real money on an mmo, why not make it eve? so tl;dr, there's similarities to eve but in some ways it's quite a bit different. if you have money to spend on an mmo, play eve. if you're a college student who's just ran out of money for eve (such as myself), you may find bsgo a satisfying substitute until you can get back to eve."
"roc the vote! or failing that, the casbah."
"there is no nerf in pi, you just need to pay more attention to detail of how you set up your extractor nodes. also - resources depleteif other people are mining the same node as you, you will get diminished returnsbe sure to watch the returns on your program cycles and adjust the nodes accordingly so the far right side of the programs will have the highest bars for maximum output.you do have to change your pi layout about once a week otherwise you wont get good returns.also try doign the 2 planet thing, 1 with just mining and doing tier 1 refines then shipping it to a new planet to do all factory work."
"after writing this i did some searching and found the rules reguarding quotes and do so reluctantly remove the truth from my previous post..it does however hinders anyone reading this post to believe its authenticity since the rules remove the \"showing\" of proof to the player base."
"why?"
"this is missing on thle list:"
"hulkageddon it's a pure pawns joke.the only ones deserving to be podded with this fake hulkagedon are the gankers getting easy killmails from noctis/small haulers moving stuff.i've seen more small industrials killed than mining ships, but i'm not everywhere in the sandbox oc.the hulkageddon has it is today is the clear image of what you guys are capable of: not deal witht the real problem, just entretain pawns with and false ideas and hurt once more real players.what pain have the botters with this pathetic hulkageddon? -none, they must laugh realy hard on your account.nice success for your respective election campaigns, really pathetic."
"support +1"
"9 and 8 at my resolution are murder - which doesn't help pi...."
"bumping a good idea"
"supported until the tech evolves."
"bump for the win!"
"bump while waiting in 020-2x for my ship to target the buddy that asked for rep few minutes ago and was probably dead several more minutes before then."
"i like this idea very much!"
"supporting"
"yes please fix it"
"this"
"support"
"gah. i had worked up drones 5 so i could repair drones thinking i was gonna be this uber-awesome tank. what a downer. it doesn't make any sense. i also wish you could set parameters for drones to only auto-target certain types of ships in the absence of manual targetting, which would come in handy when fighting mixed company."
"interesting proposal, could add a few new combat strategies (for gallentte ships especially). support."
"janaren, i played through the wotg expansion. they did not destroy the economy with their measures. a lot of the stuff they changed were things that injected a lot of gil into the economy, and a lot of people banned were ones that were doing crazy things like having 20 alts and gardening grass to vend. people buy haguns with money they earned from other means. you still had a lot of gil entering from bcnm and other types of activities, and you still could farm. i was there, the impact was not as bad as you said it was. part of the reason cop-era was so bad was because se didn't catch gil sinks in time, and a lot of the bans and changes were to prevent a recurrence.i could bring up the hnm scene also and how allowing claimbotting led to a few shells dominating each server, and stagnated it. that's another story though. malcanis:keep in mind that any anti-bot measure will also impact players. making pve harder will make it so people never leave hi-sec or the npc corp. you can't make precision mining work when the player also has to spam the dscan every 5 seconds and be ready to warp. if you have smart rats at belts you are going to make ratters prey."
"ccp already allows this. its called getting your kids to mine for you."
"people who never build a station let alone have assets in the billions in sov-0.0 stations should the **** shut up.there are plenty of ways to destroy assets in the game as it is. just cuz you want some ppl to greave some more or because you're greedy for some more profit does'nt mean you acctualy have a good idea.risk vs rewards in 0.0 is fine as long as youre not a member of the nc.you lose plenty of ships defending your space and/or fighting for your overlords especialy in regions where there are zero usefull moons so ofc no replacement programs exist. not all of 0.0 is spilling technetium like a cow is milk.sure zero space gets more and more stations by the day but whats wrong with that eve is advanceing so is 0.0. ccp gave us the tools to grid thought these massiv amounts of hitpoints (supers). ofc the more stations a region has the more tireing it is to grid throught them but nothing wrong with that."
"i'll say it again, since no-one seems to have noticed the first time:the csm have already passed a proposal to wreck stations.there's no need for a new proposal."
"this would be very reasonable"
"do want!"
"signed.also i think that another useful feature would be mailing bookmarks (after all bookmarks are just numbers right?) or ability to put them in corporation or ally bulletins."
"i don't support this.this would allow for those that have genuinely simply gone offline for an extended period of time due to unforeseen events in their lives, such as hospitalization, a sudden, extended business trip or even incarceration, to come back and find that their pos and its contents were repossessed in full.if someone wants to get the goodies from a pos, they should firstly need to work for it (as little work as it may be with sufficient alts, consider that those alts need to all be paid for in game time as well as in system resources for the clients). more importantly, when you 'take down' a pos, you should be making a choice between blowing up structures as though they are lucky packets, the contents of which you aren't certain of nor of what portion of those contents you might receive, or unanchoring them in the hopes you might receive some blueprints, destroying any other contents they may have."
"[copied from a similar discussion where i was encouraged to repost this here]ok in this post i will do three things. first i will examine the current system and identify where it is broken. second, i will put forth my own suggestion.current mechanicsnpc stations:a shield tanker (st) is in a fleet fight and has taken some damage. he warps to the station, waits for aggression timer to expire docks and can immediately undock (i have tested this, for undocking you don't have to wait for the session change timer) and have full shields.an armor tanker (at) in the same situation has to warp, wait for aggression timer, dock, pay to repair, undock (still not waiting for session change). if the at does not pay to repair, he undocks with the same amount of damage he had going in.for both, if they both dock with full hp, then they undock with full hpposs:if the st stores damaged his ship in a maintenance array, he can board it again with full base hp. if he docks his undamaged ship, he still undocks it with base hp, far less than he put it in with and severely crippling his tank.if the at stores his damaged or undamaged ship it undocks with the same amount of armor damage as it had when it went in even if it was 0 damage. i have not tested this but i have a hunch it is based on % damage.this mechanic is broken in three ways. first my shields should not be fully recharged instantly upon docking at a station. second, i should not get free repair. lastly, if i store my ship with full shields in a maintenance array, i should get back full shields.my proposalnpc stationswhen a st docks his shields should only regenerate at the regenerate only at the speed you normally would in space, and if you change ships it should only regenerate at the base rate. if the st should want to recharge his shield faster, there will need to be a repair station available and he can pay to recharges his shield. cost should be comparable to cost of repairing armor. this removes the insta recharge that is broken and yet lets the player continue to get the auto recharge that is the shield's strength. just as they would if they were warping around safespots.possthe maintenance array should work pretty much the same. i can store my ship, and it will continue to charge at the base rate. and if i dock my ship at 0 damage, then i should undock it at 0 damage.this wouldn't be that hard to code, all you would need to pass the the function that handles the process the %damage and the time it was stored, after that, it would just be an algorithim to do the calculations and would just give the percent. i think thats what armor does anyway, percents, otherwise when you left your ship to put it in the array it would explode."
"price is not, and can not be, a balancing factor. just look at supercaps.if ccp is smart they will not look into t3 frigates, as that would obsolete many t1 and t2 frigates. power creep is bad. have to agree with goon here, do not support."
"we are not talking about the same frig i think. i am thinking about a frig that can be customized and have special role that would be reserved for it. some people have talked about cyno jammer, other thinks that it would be great only for interdiction nullifier. i don't mind an invicible frig. and we just can't make every frigate at the same power.in eve, some ship are better than other. caldari have ecm and are maybe the best ewar of all the race. gallente got huge drones cargo hold. minmatar got speed and amarr got good armor bonus. it's the way eve is planned to be. we don't need to nerf down faction frig cause they are powerfull. what we need is to add diversity. after that, don't worry about the fact t3 frigate would be too powerfull. it's not a jove ship idea. t3 frigate are not invincible just because they use sleepers tech.t3 cruiser doest have maked t2 or t1 cruiser obsolete. they are so much expensive that most people prefer t2 cruiser or even battleship. that's why i firstly said that price would have a balancing effect.sure, you can be a demi-god in a t3 cruiser. it's the way ccp wanted t3 cruiser to be. t3 frigate doesnt need to be like their big brother. that's the key of subsystems."
"there are also a lack of frigate if we compare to the cruiser.there is no ''logistic'' frigate. why not make a subsystems that could give some bonus to different sort of logistic?here is some example:-remote sensor booster-projected eccm-tracking linka subsystems that permit to fit gang module. (like 1 or 2)we doesn't need to make a copy/paste from t3 cruiser's subsystems. it's 100 miles away from my main idea.t3 frig should specialized as t3 cruiser can be, but in different field.if some feature must stays (cloaking, interdiction nullifier, etc)others should be removed (armor resist bonus, etc)and added (cyno jammer? warfare link? logistic? ewar counter measure?)of course, a t3 frig would do maybe more dps than a t1. would it be interresting if it were not the case? i think not.things been said, i'm not trying to convince anyone. i don't really care but i just think the t3 is a familly that need to be completed."
"we don't need frigates that can fit a gang module; we need more versatile frigates, for frigate specific tactics.frigates that can fit better tacklefrigates that can fit better cov op'sfrigates that can maneuver fasterfrigates that have higher warp speedsfrigates that can fit better dps and tankstrategic ships are about versatility in fitting; not granting abilities better suited to larger craft.remote-repping frigate = good idea; gang-link frigate = bad ideafrigates are support craft"
"that would be the interceptors.cov ops already fill that role.a vigil can pretty much come close to inti speeds already.this i can see, but it should have almost no dps and tank. you want a greayhound, you have to strip it down to make it fast.we already have assault frigates.rr frigate is a bad idea, and would get used about as much as the eas frigates. an exequror, or osprey, can do more, cheeper, than a rr figate could ever hope to acheve. if there is a role that isn't already filled by another craft, or isn't to nich, then by all means petition to put it in the game. just because it sounds cool and neat, doesn't make it good to put in the game."
"none of those matter, we need a frigate with interdiction nullifier."
"roles that t2 cruisers fulfill that t3 can do.ewar-recondps-hactank-hictors(with bonus of the bubble, a special exception)cloak-force reconrr-logisticsgang links-command shipsthe point is that the t3 ships can do all of these things and more with special cases as noted. they don't do it as well as any of there specific counterparts (again with exceptions), the strength lies in the fact that you can mix and match, versitility is key in this case.t3 tech in frigates would introduce a new era in frigate versitility and you wouldn't need to apply the standard cruiser roles either, you'd pull from the standard accepted frigate platforms as you've already aptly provided, a covops cloaky interceptor with decent dps/great tank would be amazing.i also wonder if you'd say the same things about t3 battleships?gerrick palivorn"
"ah, i know your type. please continue to yell and scream at ccp for the bright shiny toy that you want. i'm sure your next move is holding your breath? growing up i was promised vacations on the moon, flying cars, undersea hotels, and a lot of other neat spiffy things that sounded great, and still do. you say you want a \"new era of frigate versitility\", i say you want a new shiny pwnmobile, to show the scrubs who's boss. as for battleships, there is no versatillity to them.(unless you count smashing things with a brick versitile.) crusiers are the best option for t3 ships, as they would have the tank, and the versatility of the crusier line, without the fragillity of frigates, and lack of versatility of battleships."
"try not to derail topics with personal attacks, if you feel that you have a valid argument on why t3 frigates shouldn't be implimented, that is what you are supposed to do here.hope that this clears things up. still +1 for t3 frigs, a more effecient platform of stepping up from t2 to t3 is needed and the versatility of frigates alone makes them a perfect fit for the next t3 evolution. while i know that this won't happen for a while, seeing as i'm completely baffled by the whole sleeper thing, it'll be a great addition to eve when they do emerge(pun intended). gerrick palivorn"
"nonsence.your t3 frig is the dram,can a frig be even better?"
"yup."
"i would so love to see this implemented and use it in jita"
"proposals to 'improve' low-sec usually involve adding concord or other game-mechanic-based security improvements, but these are rejected because low-sec is supposed to be dangerous and because they would interfere with pvp. an alternative a few of us came up with over at f&i was to have a player-based security mechanism instead. this proposal would put concord bounties on pilots with negative sec status while they are in low-sec (amount calculated from the base price of their hull, like insurance). other players would then have an incentive to go into low-sec to hunt pirates (thus balancing out the incentives for pirating vs. anti-pirating). so this proposal would...1) make low-sec slightly safer for industrialists/miners without giving them any guarantee on safety.2) promote pvp between pirates and anti-pirates (and with carebears, to the extent that more move to low-sec).thanks for reading."
"so basically i could buy a ship, insure it, and then kill it with my alt to make a profit?proper way to do it would be to fix the bounty system. pay bounties for ship and pod kills from the total bounty pool that is set to the player, where only the market value of destroyed items or implants is paid out."
"there is no evidence that supports the conclusion lowsec needs improvement. second your proposal is totally exploitable.not supported."
"no, because the lost ship (taking into account insurance) costs more than the bounty. alternatively, the bounty could either be taken from the wallet of the pirate or out of the insurance compensation, the neutralizing any exploitability."
"carebears must suffer. what else safety do you expect from lows? it's dangerous territory, you can set some positive standings with local pirates and not to have any problems with them (for a price of course). not supporting."
"how would bounty payout amount be affected by how many people shoots the pirate? only person who dealt final blow collects, or everyone collects? make it pay full share for everyone who dealt dmg, out of the rat's wallet, incursion style, and i'll support. lowsec pirates are usually alone and fail. i'd love to farm them, but it's not worth the effort if bounty's divided among the blob to nothingness."
"high-sec is downtown with police, law&order and small time crooks.null-sec is the untamed wilds where the group/individual forges their own destinies.low-sec should be in between. it should the chinatowns and little italy's of eve where crime syndicates duke it out for supremacy, making money from skimming off the various business endeavours conducted on their turf.protection becomes player based, pirates tending \"their flocks\" while preying on the neighbours.keep concord restricted to gates/stations and let the players handle everything else."
"sorry i worry you misunderstand the op absolutely. just let me answer your questions below:any of the current ships will not be changed for my suggestion. and the new ships will not be variations of any current ships. they will be absolutely new ships. their relationship with old ships will be similar with the relationship between vexor and thorax, but with similar attributes.i didn't metioned color or making variations. the new ships will be real new ships not variations of any a ship. and attributes will be simalar with the old ones, only attributes. it would be something from another topic.as i metioned at first that their attributes will be similar or just the same, i admit it would costs much in design (and maybe the huge waste you mean), but the affect in game will be on the industrial aspect more than pvp or pve. actually it will has minor change in pvp for people might prefer to fly the new ships for their design, but not for the attributes, there is not really a defference with the old one."
"i told you there's 0 chance of it happening with the current ccp devs in charge.you should have suggested it 4 years ago when they still had balls."
"let's nerf the 0.0 and suggest people to carry thing back to low sec. good job man!"
"how is that a nerf to 0.0?with that feature you can loot your enemy's hangar. you get more stuff. that's a huge boost to people who fight in 0.0"
"not gonna happen. if they cba to re-code stuff to make outposts destroyable in order to counter the station spam in 0.0, why would they even bother with a completely new game mechanic? they'll just recap their argument about \"what about ppl afk/not subscribed? can't do that to them!\"as long as ccp holds a hand over afk players/assets/supercaps/whatever, not a chance, tbh."
"you will get absolutely nothing, as they'll obviously trash the stuff... which is, of course, a good thing. stuff needs to be destroyed to nerf sov null, not merely changing hands. supported."
"configurable options are always good."
"basically the idea is that the higher your sec status is the faster concord responds when a suicide gank is attempted on you. at 5.0 sec status would mean no one is allowed to shoot you at all.pros: hither quality game play for all and less idiots running around.cons: there is actually none for this proposal."
"cons:red text.i found it amusing that red text almost surely means highest level of nonsense packed in it. this one is no exception.very interesting phenomena, don't you think..."
"not supported. even though i like going about my business without interruption, i think it's a bad idea to make people immune to attack.p.s. oh god! mai eyes!!!!p.p.s you ought to know by now that [red] in the title fails.p.p.p.s. it burns!!!"
"no, won't happen."
"hi everyone,as per imigos suggestion, im breaking up the central points of my heroically-long proposal surrounding sovereignty mechanics and related topics, so as to allow for easier reading (and hopefully, more feedback).the main point of this proposal is to shift sovereignty warfare from shooting structures (boring, encourages blobs, and discourages smaller groups) to control of colony sites.coloniescolony sites are locations where humans can establish a population (usually at the behest of self-interested capsuleers), most commonly on planets or moons (worlds) or in stations in asteroid belts. in functionality, colonies would replace stations (e.g., docking, services, etc). below are some details on how the colonies and sovereignty mechanics would work.habitability, economics, and infrastructurenot all worlds would be capable of sustaining populations at the outset. based on a random distribution of habitability factors, worlds could be classified as one of three types: uninhabitable (vast majority), habitable (handful), and ideal (very rare). population seeded on a worlds surface would die (uninhabitable), remain static (habitable) or grow (ideal). belt station are habitable by default but require ice products to maintain life support (i.e., more expensive to maintain than world-based colonies). each type of colony site has a limited size in terms of surface area (planet  9x9, moon  6x6, belts  1x1), meaning that the different sites will be able to accommodate varying levels of infrastructure and development. a colonys population is important for two main reasons. first, the more population a colony has, the more infrastructure can be anchored in orbit or built on the surface. orbitals would be stand-alone infrastructure modules, which would take over most of the current operations of pos. on-the-ground infrastructure would allow for the construction of factories, labs, and other station services. second, population can be trained into troops, which can be used for sovereignty warfare. colony holders can either use their troops for their own military operations (defensive or offensive) or sell them for an easy profit. sovereignty warfaretroops can be deployed on the surface of a colony by the owner, acting as a defense against invasion (by enemy troops). troops can only kill each other off at a set rate, meaning that the number of troops the defender puts on the surface of the colony will determine the length of the battle (i.e., the timing mechanism). troops have a cyclical costs associated with ownership, meaning that stockpiling them to the point of a functionally-infinite timer is financially impossible. the costs also provide a pricing mechanism for sovereignty, meaning that the price of holding sovereignty over a site is equal to the cost of holding it (i.e., how much it is worth to the alliance). this battle mechanic has the advantage of divorcing sovereignty from dps.the sovereignty system itself would be hierarchical and scaled down. the smallest claimable unit would be individual colony sites, rather than whole systems. this means that overlapping sovereignty claims become possible, and in such cases the dominant holder can set restrictions on the lower-level holder, such as limiting the types of orbitals that can be anchored at their colony or charging fees for stargate use. the index system could be revised and linked to minimal troop-to-population ratios needed to claim sovereignty. this means that active space will have a lower minimal price of claiming than inactive space, and that alliances have a financial incentive to maximize the use of their space. this has the added benefit of making small raiding parties more relevant, as they can increase the cost of sovereignty or disrupt it entirely if indexes are sufficiently harmed. thoughts?"
"i don't see any mention of spaceships involved in your game. i think that concludes it."
"if i'm talking about sovereignty reform, why do i need to change how ships' work? in this proposal, ships are used to transport troops between colonies, as well as disrupt enemies' attempts to do the same."
"if i wanted to play an rts, i'd play an rts...not eve"
"i always support the removal of cheating from a game.however your proposal offers no implementable solution, just \"make it a priority\". what exactly are you suggesting ccp do?"
"yes. we shouldnt even be asking for this.ccp sort it out, no excuses any more."
"they are the developer who made the application which allows botting on there game and they wrote the eula which botting violates.we shouldn't have to propose anything on how this is implimented, its something only ccp can solve.put it like this, when guildwars had a bot problem ncsoft and arenanet dropped everything to solve the problem. they didn't ask for a customer solution but gave them tools to help."
"despide any problems might be in the topic the directional scan ui is need to be improved.althogh i don't agree the last stuff there lots people can't handle directional scan well.just try to get it more friendly please ccp"
"i rather like the fact that the people who do not want to put the effort into becoming really good with thier scanner are not able to use it efficiently. as it is already rediculously fast and easy to narrow down a ship at a celestial (or plain 5deg scan) for someone who is good with thier scanner,i see no reason why it should be made more efficient/ easier to do with less effort.not supported."
"i suggest adding a new notification type to the mail window, named calendar.here calendar notifications should be sent by the system when (or before) events start. it should be configurable by the user if he wants notifications, which notifications he wants and how long before the event starts they should be sent."
"supporting my own suggestion."
"sameless bump!"
"the gunsmassive boost to hybrid damage (we are talking at least 50%) as standard and include a small penalty if not fitted to a gallente/caldari ship.boost the tracking slightly for blasters, boost falloff massively for railsthe shipsadd a small penatly to ships (caldari too) if not fitted with hybridsnow remove most hybrid damage bonus' because blasters now spit out crazy levels of damagenow add an afterburner thrust bonus (instead of mwd) for blasterboats (solves pwg and cap)add a web bonus to kill ships speed to 90% ish because blasters need itadd a web range bonus for some shipsjust fix dampening for crying out loud!give the eos more bandwidthblasterboats now own up close but are balanced by poor tanks and other gallente issues, exaserbated by all nerfs over the last few years are fixedunique ships and nothing else gets messed withproblem solved in 10 minutes, what the heck is your excuse ccp!"
"simple idea here. all mission-important structures need to be their own type of object. you shouldn't have to dig through layers of overview settings to show forcefields so you can target and shoot the forcefield in the missing convoy. you shouldn't have to have all building structures listed on your overview just to target and shoot the pleasure hub in damsel in distress.if i'm doing a mission the only thing i want on my overview is mission critical structures, acceleration gates, enemy ships, player ships, wrecks, cargo, and if i choose stations & gates.that's it!"
"configure multiple overview tabs with different settings and switch between them.i find \"mission\" and \"everything\" helps quite nicely."
"don't worry about that. i don't feel picked on. i'm right there in the boat with you. with my market alt, i'm fighting a market bot every day, so i totally get your frustrations and share them. i bring up a way to deal with one type of bot because that's how i solve insanely complex problems irl: one step at a time.what do you think would be a good solution to the botting problem?"
"i couldn't agree more. a number of them really threw themselves into it."
"ho let me help you:2009 stuffanother thread about wallentethere are plenty like these to show up csm it's useless for what the game is about: spaceshipsbut: hulkageddon and jump bridges are so important i'm pretty sure all your eve lifes are completly changed and better with that stuff."
"well they are being honest. when you are honest sometimes that means telling customers some things they may not want to hear. i wasnt happy to hear this either. but from a business perspective and the work fw will require to do right i can understand. they are currently trying to do incarna right and that requires large amounts of resources. if they want to do fw right it will also require a large amount of resources. i just hope whne december 2011 rolls around they will be able to start making it as good as it should be. btw when they released apoc 1.5 they said they would continue to update fw. i think that was the intent, but i think they then realized they had to change some of the actual mechanics."
"bump"
"wtf with facecrap? eve gate is that useless or pointless that we must use the biggest p orn network in this planet to vote for spaceships?ridiculous."
"the csm6 facebook page has nothing to do with voting. it is a community page created by a few players interested in taking the initiative. don't wanna go there? don't go. voting in csm elections will take place on the eve-o website as it always has. as for eve gate, it offers no support for creating community pages right now or we might have considered using it."
"/signed"
"i support"
"the issues with black ops battleships, is either every one wants to give them a huge jump range for bridging the blockade runners or an insane damage out put with covert cloaking module.nether of these options fit the roll that the bo bs were intended to fill, and that was support.base changes to allhave the jump portal generation skill reduce isotope use by 10% per level on covert jump portal generator.give a base jump range 4 light years.give all bo bs t2 resistances.give all the use of the covert cloaking module.individual ship changesredeemeramarr battleship skill bonus: 10% reduction in large energy turret capacitor use and 5% bonus to large energy turret rate of fire per level.black ops skill bonus: 99% reduction in warfare link module cpu need. can use 3 warfare link modules simultaneously cloaked and -96% to -100% reduced cpu need for cloaking device per level.widowcaldari battleship skill bonus: 15% bonus to ecm target jammer strength per level, 20% bonus to ecm target jammer optimal and falloff range per level, 20% bonus to ecm burst range per level.black ops skill bonus: 99% reduction in warfare link module cpu need. can use 3 warfare link modules simultaneously cloaked and -96% to -100% reduced cpu need for cloaking device per level.singallente battleship skill bonus: 5% bonus to large hybrid turret damage and 10% bonus to drone hit points and damage per skill level.black ops skill bonus: 99% reduction in warfare link module cpu need. can use 3 warfare link modules simultaneously cloaked and -96% to -100% reduced cpu need for cloaking device per level.pantherminmatar battleship skill bonus: 5% bonus to large projectile turret rate of fire and 5% bonus to siege and cruise missile launcher rate of fire per level.black ops skill bonus: 99% reduction in warfare link module cpu need. can use 3 warfare link modules simultaneously cloaked and -96% to -100% reduced cpu need for cloaking device per level."
"yes."
"yes."
"1.0"
"bumpy"
"supported and bump"
"supported, though i wonder what good simply saying that there is a problem will do without actually discussing what said problem is."
"."
"yes"
"supported."
"this thread was originally posted here, and met universal praise from the people who commented. i figured i'd post it here and let the csm take a look at it._______________________________________________as of 2/23 this idea is being considered by csm5 and has a chance of being presented to ccp. thanks go out to csm5 and vice-chairman dierdra vaal for discussing the proposal with me. special thanks go out to the players for their support.as of 3/6 this idea was passed unanimously by csm5 and will be presented to ccp! hot dog! despite eve's constantly changing atmosphere, one thing has remained relatively constant: the wallet. increasing the usability of the interface is one of the stepping stones to ensuring the survivability of this game in the long term. i believe i have made some progress in that direction.introducing: tabbed wallet browsingas any market guru will tell you, keeping track of the dozens if not hundreds of orders can be a time consuming task. with the ability to sort and \"tab\" your orders under various categories, checking and updating your orders will go a long way to staying efficient.the ability to also search through orders, if one desires to update certain orders specifically, would also be a boon. adding a new tab is also easy, as all one has to do is click that little \"new tab\" button in the right-hand corner of the wallet, and a little window pops up for convenience.how to add an item/order to a tab?currently, i have developed two different avenues one may take to add an order to a particular tab.avenue 1: orders already placeda simple process. since we learned while playing eve that right-clicking practically everything is the #1 rule to follow, i wanted to follow this line of thinking here as well. simply right-click a particular order, as you usually would do when canceling or modifying it, and the usual context menu will appear but with a few extra choices. avenue 2: when placing new ordersto add a new order to a specific category, simply open up the custom sell order window and tabbing options are present. another nifty thing not present in this window would be the ability to \"save\" items so they automatically go into a tab that you designate. thank you for readingaddendum proposal:i had also developed a \"shopping cart\" idea, allowing players to view, update, and save shopping orders, but i have yet to decide if it should be included in this proposal. i am unsure of its usability."
"the ideas are well thought of, and make sense - would be stupid not to support."
"i like this, but only if they introduced tabbed asset management at the same time :)"
"looks good"
"this would make my lifef so much easier :)"
"definitely +1"
"in case there was any doubt. :)-liang"
"+1 yes please! i am also a big fan of the shopping cart concept, as long as:1. all loadouts can be right clicked >> add to cart, with saved loadouts being automatically setup in your saved shopping carts.2. before purchase, all items in the shopping cart "
"this is worth logging in the forum. :)fenix"
"blasters need a boost!"
"hehe! i so love this idea!ccp needs to get a small team checking this out as lag is an adapt or die situation that cant be conquerd by rl tech, no matter how fast. people will always chew up server response time in a big battle.to put it simply, activating a set of guns with lag appearing in the situation goes like this.you click to activate ur weapon on someone, the module cycles constantly until its out of ammo and reloads.you click again to activate and nothing happens... why? because according to the server thats trying to chew through all the other requests going on, your new activation request has been put on the back of the queue... which will probably take the server around 2 minutes to get to.so your module seems to stick/become unresponsive for 2 minutes... generally that tends to lead to reclicking, compounding the situation.what the op intends is to add a multiplyer in the range of 0 to 1 on the end of many of the formulas that govern time based elements of eves combat systems. slowing the pace of the onscreen game play (slowing module cycle times for example). so that you're not clicking on things that appear to have run their course client side but have not even begun to take effect server side.this is the only viable way of making lag battles understandable and playable in eves universe.im unsure if ccp are trying out ways to implement this but it would not be tooo hard to assume the sansha incursions are a testbed for adding additional exceptions to combat code to see if an augmentation of combat formulas can be achieved system wide, with neighbouring systems being affected too.changing formulas governing alpha damage potential and resist levels differ between formulas using time based variables only on context, and can be augmented just as easily. the only issue is scale. as time based variables are in sooo many formulas used in eve. so it is achievable, im very certain of that. the only issue i can see is the moments of misalignment and realignment of (true) server time and perceived (bullet-time) game time."
"bump."
"/sign"
"you have to check \"support this topic\" checkbox to actually support the idea (can be done only once per character). it's right bellow \"preview\".edit: (while replying to topic/editing your post)"
"sounds a lot better then the current solution"
"it makes so much sence! this has my support 100%!also, since the lagg is node-wide the slowmotion should also be node-wide. as it is you aren't able to play on the same node as a big fight anyway, so i don't see how that would be something bad."
"slow motion pvp is better than no pvp"
"support"
"1.0"
"sounds like a cool idea. not sure how easy/realistic it'd be to implement but does sound interesting"
"supported!try on sisi at the very least and see how it will pan out?"
"eve matrix :d*starts doing tricks in his frigate*"
"any fix to the lag situation is better than nothing ~ we all hate the current situation.support this."
"this would be great!"
"supported."
"great idea, would luv to see this incorporated into the game for large engangements"
"good idea! i'm not sure that it technically makes sense, but it could be tried."
"i fully support this new way of creating a new way to live with the lag.in this way we can reduce the incoming and outgoing commands which will slow down the game but also will reduce the lag.great idea"
"doing something is better than doing nothing at all."
"any idea that may help is worth trying."
"great ideea , honest im sick of playing \"who loads grid 1st wins\", if ur on the loser side u get the \"soul crashing lag\" pop-up window and ur basicly stuck in space for ....5mins to 12 hours.the \"incursion\" part of eve should be taken out, it only causes more lag. old things should be fixed before new things are implemented.8-10 months ago everything worked perfectly....2500 men fighting in 1 system with no lag, now u got 1000-1500 people and u cant do anything.i support the ideea and hope its getting implemented."
"supported!"
"x"
"if it solves lag i support it."
"there are a couple things here.. it appears most ppl missed the part about slowing down eve as a whole. there would be no realistic way to slow down just the area effected. this would cause a difference in time between the people involved in the fight and everyone else in eve. if 1 system time slows then all must. i would think there would be no easy way to regain the time difference between combatants and eve in whole.i think some people are thinking way to extreme in the slowdown as well. as it stands ccp has already stated that 1 tick in game = 1 second. if this were changed to 1 tick = 2 seconds this would double the amount of tasks the servers could accomplish in 1 tick. so realisticly a 2 or 3 second lag is barely noticable but would allow the servers to do 100 to 200% more.as for the servers not allowing clicks, someone already brought that up.. it would increase the server load to make that a server side responsibility. if it is client side it would do nothing but help server load."
"one word: awesome! ccp! let's test it!!!"
"the way it would work is not to slow down the server ticks compared to all other systems but augment the formulas that govern anything combat/navigation related that have a time element, so speed, dps, cycle times, lock times, tracking times, missile timers, explosion velocity etc... server speed and tick time doesnt slow down.. just things that govern combat and movement. so combat slows to allow the server time to catchup and not be overloaded with requests.edit: this would work system wide/multiple system wide or node wide much like the incursion effects that reduce dps and decrease damage resistance ;)"
"good stuff"
"i support this."
"i support anything trying to be made for a fair fight for everyone.also, how about using an alternate server for big fleet fights? i.e. if the number of people in system are over 300(or w/e), the solar system server will automaticly move to an upgraded server. idk if it is possible, just out of my head.."
"anything to fix the awfulness that is large fleet battle."
"supported, the legion gets a 4 mid and 6 low configuration when you try to use a 6 gun/missile configuration. the proteus however can get a 3 mid and 7 low configuration when using 6 guns which allows for better tank and/or dps. the proteus and loki also get drones for their gun/missile subsystems and the legion don't get any drones for its laser or missile subs, the drone synthesis is useless, you're better off in an arbitrator if that's the case. if the legion were to get no drones, it should get more dps bonus for its lasers and missiles subsystems.the legion in its ham configuration only does 6% more dps than a nonkinetic ham tengu. when using kinetic the tengu does 20% more dps than the legion and it also get a range bonus while the legion doesn't. the tengu gets a 7.5% rof, 5% kinetic dmg, and 10% velocity bonus. the legion only gets 5% rof and 5% damage bonus on the hams. there is something seriously wrong with this!the legion does only 8% more dps than the zealot while having the same weakness of having no drones!the legion does only 3% more dps than the harbinger when the harbinger doesn't use its drones!the legion definitely need a fix!"
"ham legion with 100 mn afterburner says hi."
"ive flown many different legion setups, best worked the ham one.now i have a drone legion, but controling only 2 ogre iis, thats a joke right?"
"just to make them realize there are problems"
"good."
"nice to see im not the only one :d"
"due to the lack of action ccp is taking against all the botting going on right now, it's pretty much already legal to do so."
"no.it can be stopped, ccp just hasn't prioritiesed it or let on they have."
"hmmmm, no?"
"supported. it is possible to reduce botting a great deal more than has been done without annoying those players who do not bot. ive seen this done in another game with a type of botting, botting similar to macro ratting, and it worked. also, in the very same game some types of botting, similar to macro mining, were allowed. the hybrid solution worked. i dont know how hard it hit the rmts, but it didnt seem to affect the player economy in a negative fashion. allowing macro mining while clamping down on macro ratting could work.if ccp cant or wont reduce the botting more than they have, they should make it legal for everyone. a level playing field is just. im tired of seeing players i know are macro mining doing nothing else in the game to earn the isk they spend on ships, etc. complaining about them through petition does nothing. they either stop for a week or two and resume or simply train up an alt and resume macro mining with the alt. ccp just isnt tough enough on these cheaters.the economy of eve would suffer an initial and possibly large hiccup, but it would also quickly settle and none of the more lucrative and legal isk earning activities would really suffer in the not so long run. there truly are people in eve that enjoy the activity of mining and they would find fulfillment in managing their new macro mining programs.regards,windjammer"
"i would quite like to see the same sort of thing rolled out to trading, allowing people to play the markets algorithmically instead of via the usual 0.01 isk games.this would need to be combined with a more dynamic price granularity, and possibly some other changes i haven't thought of yet."
"i endorse this product and/or service."
"thank you for the input. and i had failed to consider that. however, if ccp finds out that the offline poses are causing the massive lag, you know that they are going to do right? everyone with an off line pos thats been off for months will be gone regardless of war. no refunds for it or even the items back."
"dram don't have interdiction nullifier. interdiction nullifier is what t3 is all about. anything else can be done in other ships, yet no other ship can do what t3 can. whatever it is that you do, you can't do it if your ship is bubbled and blobbed. therefore, t3 can do everything, and everything else can do nothing. err... yeah."
"9 km/s overheated is your interdiction nullifier :d"
"guessing its too soon to add any more t3 in yet. they can easily unbalance the game even more. t3 wont be much of a use, the game already got alot of ships and some not even used much."
"this is a very specific argument but nobody is really talking reality here. the reality is that in all arms races new technologies and specializations result from the desire to overcome old technology and gain an advantage.nothing remains the same. ccp should allow for a natural progression of innovation and technology in spaceship design. not just for tech iii frigates but for all ship classes. this also goes for new weapons systems as well. think of the possibilities? it would completely open up the game as new configurations and tactics were applied to new designs and weapons.in the real world all aircraft eventually get \"retired\" even b-52's!!! i'd like to see that in eve as well. tech iii should only be the beginning."
"supported. randomness in some the game is fine, but when that randomness is a random decision on whether or not you actually get to play (assuming you're focusing on incursions) is a bad idea."
"agreed. we need moar incursions moaaaarrr"
"first of all, i can see why there is a limit to the number of incursions and why the delay between them. if there would be high sec ones all the time, people would not even think about wasting their time, trying to get to low sec ones.however, i do believe that the current system of randomness is not a perfect one. since people have no clue when the next incursion starts, those who focus on these tend to find themselves in a limbo, where they are waiting for a new spawn even though it is like 8+ hours away and they could easily have done something else in the meantime.there should be some predictabilty in the incursion spawns and possibly even an approximate timer to when incursions will vanish or how long before a new zero sec, low sec or high sec incursion spawns.not neccessarily the exact number, but something to give players an idea so they can plan around the events. i'm thinking something along the lines of:more than 12 hours, 6-12 hours, 3-6 hours, 1-3 hours, less than an hour.also it would be nice, if the reward curve for low sec could be a little less steep, so you would get similar rewards for a low sec site with 25%-30% more people, than a high sec site with the optimal number of people. it would help a lot with the organization of lowsec incursion gangs, as you can be more flexible in your fleet numbers while still receiving comparable rewards to runinng high sec ones.i realize this might upset site balance to an extent, but considering the time it takes to actually finish an incursion you have to be able to adjust your gang sizes in a wider range compared to high sec, as you are working from a severely limited pool of people who would be willing to go for lowsec incursion."
"if you give it a timer then everyone will just swarm, the incursion will be done quicker. it's zero sum. this boils down to supply vs demand, more specifically, too much demand and too little supply of highsec incursions. there is no demand for lolsec incursions no matter what you do. it has suffered enough already, instead of trying to revive it, have some mercy and let it die."
"there defiantly needs to be an incursion up all the time, right now we see more people in an incursion than there are sites to accommodate them. and as far as randomness goes, 3 weekends in a row of incursions spawning on an aussie schedule isn't exactly random in the least. (not trying to take anything from the aussies here we all know how often they get the short end of the stick)i for one am enjoying this new content when its available to me, witch is far less than id like. but between today and yesterday i have nearly 24 hours of chat logs of bummed out subscribers. dosent seem fair that they didn't get to participate in any incursions this weekend..or last weekend...or hell the one before that as well. as far as randomness (witch there is no such thing as random), seems kinda greedy to always be screwing someone just so things spawn a bit differently than you are used to. now if they could take over 100's of systems i could see where your coming from. but as it stand i think they can take over a total of approximately 42 systems out of over 5000 (7 possible incursions. average 6 systems per incursions). where they show up should give you that random feeling. so in the end we arnt asking for much, just enough content for everyone!"
"when you realize that people don't go to low sec for killing pirates and it's relatively safe for industrialists, you're on right track there. game mechanics already encourage fighting combat fitted ships (aka evil griefers) instead of haulers or miners because of general loot value, which is ridiculous."
"ivy league and electus matari seem to do just fine being anti-pirates in low sec without this. seems to me it might be a mental block as all research has indicated."
"citing the exception instead of the rule proves the exact opposite point."
"ivy and em are examples not exceptions. there are many anti-pirates running around these days.if you really want to make it so i can sit there and farm an alt endlessly to get all the isk i could ever ask for, then i'm all for it. even if it did work to get more anti-pirates, and even if there had not already been 3 consecutive years of anti-pirate game tweaks in every patch, this would not get people to the belts mining in low sec."
"currently the sin is the laughing stock of black ops as its bo bonus is useles, 5% to agility/lvl.i propose that instead the bonus be +1 drone controlled/ bo level, without changing its bandwidth. you will still be able to only use 5 heavies or 5 sentries at a time to maintain balance, but then with bo v you would be able to field 10 med or light drones.this would fit in line with the other races dps outputs, and be a fitting bonus for gallente who are supposed to be drone centric."
"in battle, retreat is a tactical manoeuvre that is sadly missing in eve. the reason one can't run away before one's ship is destroyed is warp scramblers/disruptor modules.removing these items from the game has numerous benefits:1. it will encourage more pvp because there is always the option to disengage and run away.2. it wipes out the scourge that is the \"1v1-bait\" (you think you're getting a 1v1, but the other guy has 4 mates in faction cruisers waiting ready to warp in once you're aggressed). you can just make a run for it when they appear.3. following on from (2), 1v1 will be made easier4. following on from (3), more pvp combat5. hauling into lowsec will be easier6. more people in lowsec7. following on from (4),(5),(6), more economic activitybefore the inevitble griefer-whine ensues, i would point out that other aggression mechanics such as can't dock/can't jump while the timers are active would still be in the game."
"meh, nothing to even laugh at."
"your proposal would further nerf solo and small gang pvp by requiring people to have enough ships to alpha a target so it couldn't simply warp away. worst idea i've ever seen on these forums. 3/10 if trolling as it's hard to take this idea serious but it does make me want to smack you."
"i have a sad this is not literally exploding with supportto the top once more!"
"anyone who does alot of roaming or flying around eve will probably be familiar with the bug where autopilot can often take the same members of a gang in the same place through two different routes to the same location. its not a major problem but it is rather frustrating when it does happen.one way i thought to fix this issue is the autopilot could take you to the gate that is the fewest au from your current position, or the gate could automatically choose the route that would be shortest overall travel distance (between star systems as shown on the map). its a small problem i know but i don't think it should be a problem at all :)dark"
"posting for my own support :)"
"not all ships run the same autopilot software"
"gallente t1 ship line is inconsistent.tristan is the highest tier frigate(most slots, best fitting room) yet the counterparts are missile frigates like inquisitor, kestrel or breacher that also use same hull for t2 covops frigates.incursus should take place as highest tier in gallente t1 frigate line as it is a pure hybrid platform and same hull is used for assault frigates."
"your probably refering to the t2 varient hulls.bombers usually consist of the non top tier frigs with the exception of the tristan and the nemisis, while the incursus is the af hull.as far as i see it, the incursus is the better ship than the tristan. plus the tristan makes sense as the bomber cause of the missile slots. changing something as trivial as a tier item will only confuse people, leave it be.gerrick palivorn"
"that is the point if this thread - inconsistency in t1 frigate hulls. tristan is the top tier t1 gallente boat which should not, incursus needs to be instead."
"i did do a search on the search bar to right of forum window and it gives an error for the search of \"planetary interaction\". since results were unavailable or unrelyable i decided to make a new topic thread.i did try a search multiple times and with waiting inbetween for some time. in fact i tried it again just now and got the same error and no results items.sorry for the title typo.if it is something that was allready mentioned can you please (or someone) post the thread so i can read it. i wuld very mush appreciate it."
"need a structure of some kind to use up a load of that spare cpu in exchange for moar grid"
"definitely a planet based rcu required!"
"sooo, stop using pi, more isk for me.seriously, the old pi was a tragedy, its good they changed it, even thou its more difficult to get full production chain on single planet, even for a p2 products.it forces some logistics into equation (transporting goods between planets is now a must in most production beyond p2) or alternatively you can try getting close located resources and switch ecu resource every now and than, and still do it on one planet."
"i'm trying to find out why you can't move items either one at a time or all together from the launch pad to storage silos without the \"stevedores are hung up with red tape and paperwork\"? wtf is that all about? i think it's b.s. anyone else think so? i'm trying to set up a pure p2 production planet with all materials imported into the system."
"con: risk averse -10s/0.0 players hiding behind high sec alts macro mine in complete safety, especially when faced with a fight they don't want to fight.so keep on dreaming."
"ccp should setup some sort of reward system for the loyal players that come back month after month, year after year. if you re-subscribe for a month then maybe a reward of x number of skill points (maybe 2 days worth of free training). a 2 month subscription x*2 and so on. for those that subscribe for a year, maybe a free re-map and no skill points"
"how about you get skillpoints added to your account if you keep it active and those who don't can't get any sp or connect to the game server. a system like this would keep rewarding people who subscribe and those who aren't loyal don't get anything, since they don't pay anything."
"i'm ok and just saying but: \"active acount under condition: not active by plex\"now this is fair."
"please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"more of my ear bleeding u mean. dam headset..."
"supporting further discuss, some interesting ideas. i like sovereignty scale and financial burden of troops is good and should be expanded into other types scientist, janitors, etc. i don't agree that troops can be sold for easy profit, instead population is weighted towards workers, scientist, troops, etc should become a base resources. these can harnessed like with pi and used to produce something appropriate like troops, scientists, slaves and colonists to populate/establish other types of colonies.allow the process to be reversible so that homeless & refugees can be re-integrated into the population."
"\"second, population can be trained into troops, which can be used for sovereignty warfare. colony holders can either use their troops for their own military operations (defensive or offensive) or sell them for an easy profit.\"this sentence, and all of them following are what i do not like. everything before it sounds great, but i think the method of sov warfare in this idea needs to be rethought."
"oh noes someone might call on all the people allied with him to help get him elected so his portion of the game doesnt become worse? this sounds absolutely scandalous. seriously even if you had all 0.0 or even all nc members its not like they would ask ccp to make 0.0 suck more... sure they might not put much effort into hisec but the extreme worry they might.. idk cheat or something is dumb especially with the fact that csm does more towards informing us than actually making a large impact on eve.idk i love my dictators/overlords in 0.0.... i find most people that dont like them simply dont like working in a team to accomplish team goals as opposed to working towards their own personal agenda. in 0.0 we are blobbers not 2 man get as many kills as you can pirates. of course if your 0.0 alliance leaders are stealing your isk you might be mad as well but few of the big power alliances do that, its mostly the fail pets."
"one ex dev to rule them all. vote seleene!"
"hmmm........still waiting for an answer, trebor.-windjammer"
"no!never!!!"
"no.the game already has a monthly fee. start to charge for expansions if you must - but in turn an expansion will have to have actual content and mechanics in it, not just some silly gimmick. but putting microtransactions into a game that already has a monthly fee, even if it is just cosmetic? no, no thank you."
"hell yeah!"
"yes,no respectable alliance will put a gallente ship on a reimbursement program because they are such fail ships (exception - maybe logi's and capitals). all the people who started gallente and pvp just wasted time at this point. you can go any number of ways here at this point - any direction is a good direction.change anything, doesn't matter just change!"
"supported. other than the fact that gallente ships look cool, they stink!"
"supported.i've only been playing for a month, but even for a complete newbie who only tried gallente, minmatar and amarr up to battlecruisers is is glaringly obvious that gallente need some major work done. going from thorax to rupture was like the difference between night and day."
"increasing yar by 10%"
"as of right now:2005 people have read this thread78 have supportedof those 78 at least some are alts used to boost the numbers.this should tell you that things are fine.not supported."
"with people like this guys developing the game is obvious gallente are fine.never send your cv to my company, can't waste more than 2sec reading that kind of toillet paper."
"as i said in the previous thread, this is a much needed addition to the wallet.is the csm from csm5 still active? or are they \"relieved\" until new candidates are voted in?"
"yes please."
"support this and let the testing begin"
"i am colonel stfu and i support this message..."
"i endorse this product and/or service."
"great idea!"
"hii support this great idea needs some thinking about people outside the time slow down zone and how to resinc but great idea"
"what makes you think that? i don't think you have understood just what happens when you slow down the tickrate."
"actually this is just pure .. awesomeness?count me in."
"definatly something that needs to be tested, like every change if it can be exploited it will, it might be the temp fix we need until something better comes along."
"i am supporting this idea - +1. if nothing, it at least worth to try on singularity."
"+1, would like to see this implemented."
"u sir are a genius"
"of course"
"does ccp consider those it at all?"
"yeah slow motion would be really badass :)"
"fully supported, my favorite ship is the legion, and it's outgunned always by corpmates in tengus, proteus, lokis, sometimes even in damn tengus....the only thing a legion is really good at is beeing a mini-bhalgorn....supported! + 10"
"seems reasonable. don't see a lot of people flying the legion. this change makes sense. amarr ships should have plenty of low slots. mid slot heavy laser ships are sansha, not amarr."
"i just can't support buffing the legion more. amarr is king of so many ship classes, not being king of t3 is fine. besides, the ham legion works great so your crying about how it is utter crap is false.gallente has the proteus which is a good long range tackler. soon as it its close it suffers from hybrid turret syndrome. basically it is ****ed.ham legion has great speed, selectable damage type, can apply said damage without having to get in scram/web/neut range. oh and by the way, as far as drones goes, the ishtar still outclasses the proteus.if any race ship gets looked at it damn well better be a gallente one. the entire line up is outclassed by some other race with ease."
"i agree with this, something has to be done about this. like various posts before me have said, its easy to fund a war as it is now from popping 2 rats. imho this makes wardecs horribly underpriced. imo what a wardec essentially is, is a way to bribe concord who will then allow your corporation to not only destroy ships without consequences, but also pod pilots. this sort of mechanic, while i believe that it is needed to balance the economy, needs to be changed. if this game wants to be as realistic as possible, then a 2mil bribe to concord would be laughed at. imo, a wardec should be a big deal...highsec wars should be very few and far between, and have purpose...which right now only includes griefing and preventing other corps from starting up. right now, the risk associated with declaring a war in high sec are vastly underscored by the gain/fun of declaring one. where the potential loss of the decced corp vastly outweigh the cost to the agressor. increase the amount per week required to declare war, and require a certain standing with either concord or the faction who's soverignty the corp is based in.pro: less highsec wars for griefing, a wardec becomes a big deal (even newsworthy). players who \"rage quit\" the game would not leave if they were not harassed every time they tried to make something of themselves. eve player base grows as such. also the current corporation skillsets allow corporations of thousands of players, but the largest corporations are only 100 (and very well established ones of 200), this would also increase the probability of bigger corporations.con: new isk sink, as stated in prior posts...but is that really a bad thing? less pvp, (not correct...this has nothing to do with lowsec pvp, and is an addition to pvp)"
"outside of personal preference there is no reason to nerf war decs. you think the ability to wardec for long periods is \"griefing\"...others think of it as a lucrative business model. many people are ambivalent to current mechanics.seems pretty balanced and fair for all players to me!that being said the best way, imo, to improve the op's idea is to erase it."
"i've supported a similar idea before. noobships (and their mails) are annoying as ****.that said, please give us a pod when we get podded or else people will have to buy a ship just to get a pod in their clone station. currently the free noobship does this - you can jump into the noobship, jump out and destroy it."
"no.ban them.disband the corps they are in.disband the alliances they are in.confiscate the assets.if you don't want to play the game - then don't play it. supporting afk playing is idiotic at best."
"we said no"
"if morons would stop buying isk there would hardly be any botters (other than a few miners doing it for their own personal isk perhaps).definatly not supporting this, you want to make the game even more dull? might as well take away everything pve related if you dont want to do anything for it."
"initially the decryptors (items such as assembly instructions, test reports etc) were used only for cosmos bpc construction. they were only found within the respective cosmos complexes.when ccp introduced invention for tech 2 items they simply used these exisiting items. this led to camping of the various static cosmos complexes where these decryptors spawned.eventually ccp removed the decryptors from the cosmos spawns and put them in various exporation sites instead. at that point they should have simply removed the requirements from the cosmos bpc's as the cost of the decryptors now makes manufacturing of the cosmos bpc's stupidly expensive.removing the decryptors from the cosmos bpc's would go someway towards seeing the cosmos items used more frequently."
"cosmos modules are currently not worth building."
"bump for more interest :). keep the support and ideas coming guys."
"supported, and how about evemailing bookmarks."
"eve is a game that, at its heart, is about a world where pvp/risk is always part of the equation. it deliberately has no safe space, only safer space. it is a game where simply leaving your hangar can have disastrous consequences, where the motto has become dont undock what you cant afford to lose, and not dont pvp with what you cant afford to lose. every interaction with another person in eve has the potential for risk, from the potential for scams and competitive trading in the market/contracts, to social engineering and espionage in personal relationships and ship-to-ship combat in space. the proposed new content in incarna, however, does not follow this pattern, and therefore breaks with the core content of eve, that which makes eve what it is, and that which makes eve great and unique as intellectual property. more to the point, the announced content for incarna is uncomfortably close to space barbie; we can play dress up, we can go socialize at space bars, or play space poker, or get space haircuts. but none of this adds anything to eves actual content. whats more, an area of complete and total security runs counter to the very concepts that eve is founded on; operating in complete safety is antithetical to eves nature. for these reasons, there should be a commitment to iterate on wis. there must be some kind of actual content in stations that players can experience, and ideally something that is tied into the greater landscape of the game. players should have content available to them in stations which will impact the larger game world, be it unique missions that can only be gained in seedy areas of stations, a chance to kill rivals away from heavily tanked, powerful ships, or other, yet unexplored possible areas of content. how this content is implemented will be a separate issue and is being discussed in a separate thread. all in all, walking in stations simply must have meaty content that players can sink their teeth into. porting over some of the fluff from the vampire game is all well and good, but tossing trinkets out to the eve gaming populace is not going to cut it. if eve is supposed to be definitive scifi simulator than make it live up to the promise. if two pilots have been fighting tooth and nail out in space, where there is no such thing as safe space even where theres a police force thats so lethal that avoiding their retribution is an exploit, its unreasonable to think that those pilots would then play nice and enter space barbie mode. objections and counters. 1.fiction doesnt support it  actually, it does. violence and danger have been depicted as part of life on stations. even if it had not, ccp is in charge of writing the fiction, and can rewrite it as it sees fit. additionally, fiction does not inform gameplay. before recently, there were no super weapons that can fit on a single amarr battleship and wipe out a while enemy fleet. there still arent in game. 2. stations are currently safe space and that shouldnt change  no, personal hangars are currently safe space, stations do not actually exist except as models in space. personal hangars can stay 100% safe space, as they are now. 3. you cant download your skills to a medical clone without a pod  theres no reason this has to be the case (see the fiction objection). maybe the jove release a new bit of technology that allows only those who are capable of being pod pilots to be fitted with a remote clone implant that allows medical cloning within a 50km radius. maybe a wizard did it. doesnt matter. 4.people want stations to be completely safe  and many of the same people would like empire space to be completely safe, too. neither is a good idea and both violate the fundamental dynamics of eve as a game and the concept of a fully functional scifi simulator; even without guns, an adversary can still snap a mans neck."
"dont we get bars, casinos and new types of labs in incarna? not really combat but still is something todo, mind you baseball bat warfare sounds like fun too"
"playing bartender in space barbie isn't really anything to do that you can't do in second life. and we've already got eoh for poker."
"tl;dr"
"clever trolling, and novel, too!"
"how are you supposed to kill a capsuleer in the elevator when you get turned into a splatter on the floor in milliseconds, long before the spoon connects with the eye?also, getting your medical clone disposed off by concord for breaking the yulai treaty doesn't seem that smart to me... even if you inconvenience another capsuleer by forcing them to restore from a backup. 'use an alt' isn't really the answer, as there's no way an 'alt' would ever be willing to die (for real) for you."
"i suggest we also include ganking in forums.still fuzzy on the mechanics, but we should be able to directly gank people via the eve online forums, maybe via isk bidding, or random numbers in each post. or maybe killboard stats.this would increase pvp making the forum experience much more enjoyable for everyone. thank you."
"this has to be the most awesome thing i have read on the forums in at least 2 weeks.i lol'd....in my pants....repeatedly"
"who cares about walk on stations in a space ship game?barbie?kane?shaman?hunter?cookies?proffit? -no"
"there will be pvp in stations, of that i am quite sure.however, it's probably not the kind you're asking for here. expand your horizons, my good sir. expand your horizons."
"there is no violation.\"thanks to the widget-powered deusex device, pilots can now have their consciousness downloaded to medical clones even if they die outside of their pods. science marches on! next up, here's tom with sports.\" the fiction in eve exists to support the game, not the other way around. and fiction doesn't necessarily make for good gameplay, either. (do i get my amarr superweapon that fits on a battleship and can destroy and entire enemy fleet now, or do i have to wait a while?)even in eve, there is no such thing as \"total security\", and you're overstating what the fiction actually says. if stations can be bombed with crude explosives, a determined individual can sneak a gun onboard or, at least, break a bottle and slit someone's throat. eh... not a good solution, and not a good precedent. if the anti-pvp folks can get that much, why not empire space too? part of the driving logic of eve is that nowhere, at all, is completely safe. yeah... this is eve. it's a sandbox game. you don't get to decide how other people play the game, let alone that their actions should be \"mature\" and \"thought out\". if you need to control how other people play the game, this is not the game for you. combat is 100% allowed in every single location in eve that is not your personal hangar. everywhere. there is no reason to create a special space for stations where combat is physically impossible. pvp, in a pvp game? the devil you say! but you think that there should be actual paper money in the ultra-far-scifi-future. do you think, when people go and buy faction battleships for hundreds of millions of isk, are they counting out the cash in 20's or in 10's?"
"love it, ****ing love it! never going to happen but i love it!!did i say i love it already?"
"i'm against it, eve is a tactical game not a shooter for hyperactive children.the only eve ground combat i support is a pc dust version that maybe can be started from inside eve. but not in stations."
"there's nothing that says that shooting can't be tactical. besides, arguing that there should be combat-free zones in eve because combat is tactical is slightly misleading, eh? engage logic then post."
"there should be combat-free zones in eve because there have always been combat-free zones in eve, they're called space stations and they should stay that way.and no, fpss can't be tactical because fps players are the single most moronic crowd of gamers and eve is not designed with them in mind. if you want to pvp in station join a game table or go to the market screen. if you're not smart enough to win there, undock.there have always been supposedly three major career paths in eve, the combat, the industrial and the business career. the first two have had tons of content added for them through the years so think of incarna as the long overdue expansion for the third. they've always called stations their home, their pvp is one of numbers and spredsheets. now they get to move around a bit as well. last thing they need is some numbskull with a gun, as if combat types don't already have 1 million things to shoot at."
"it would be nice if you at least played eve, ya know. there have never been combat free zones in eve, that is simply fictional. and no, space stations were not \"combat free\" because, if you actually played the game, you'd know that they do not exist and never have, except as graphics in space. hangars are the only place that's safe from combat, and they would remain so under my proposal. yet again, engage logic, and only then, post. combat doesn't have to be fps any more than ship combat in eve is fps. to say nothing about your absurd broad-brush ad hominem nonsense. yet again even ignoring all that your basic rhetoric is absurd. fps combat would inherently be non-tactical (you claim), so therefore there should be no combat at all rather than non-fps style combat. the rest of your nonsense is appreciated, however. yes, joining a \"game table\" is the kind of \"tactical pvp\" that you're supporting."
"i wouldn't make counterstrike jita of it, butit would be nice to sell for example illegal drugs in highsec, via person to person trade at some corner of the station. it would be nice to be able to have like a small cargo (pocket) where you can carry drugs, little bit isk, and stuff with you, other players can sneak on to you and steal it.small stuff like that, which would make it much more interresting, not breath taking, omg ueberpwnage wtf lewlt lazer pointing to my head stuff, butt small funny things, built in betting system fro the minigames, where players who are watching can bet who will win.to keep it a social like expirience i would keep it small but emorageablewould give much more reasons to emorage and declare war on someone =)br,joker"
"again, combat doesn't have to be fps style. hell, transplant the 'ship combat' style and put it in stations, just with different graphics. and since nowhere in eve that you can go is safe space, stations shouldn't be either."
"problems:* need for more content, customization, and progression within null sec* need for more resources that can be attacked that will also generate conflict* need for more pve and pvp diversity within null secsummary:dominion features had initially included talk concerning the addition of agents to null security space through upgrades installed, by player entities, within territory that they controlled, but this did not happen due to technical difficulties that would have been involved in implementation. could we examine the feasibility of spawning mission agents in ships, in space, and utilizing the system for spawning anomalies and complexes to spawn mission sites for these agents? this system would add to the topography of null security space. it would create more interesting and varied pve content that could possibly draw players into null security space. it would create flash points for short term conflicts ranging from small scale to large scale. if possible, the addition of another separate but viable lp store within the game would act as another isk sink.these agents would be added as a secondary index to the military index is filled by completing missions for these agents. the initial agent is allowed after reaching a specific point on the military index. in addition to this, the destruction of these agents by players would decrease your alliances index rating. if the rating drops too low, then agents that require that level or above in order to operate will cease operations within your territory. alliance members will lose access to the missions and lp stores provided by the lost agents until the index is raised again.the nitty gritty: i have attempted to outline some ideas of how these agents should function. i have attempted to address the problems that i could foresee. i.e. time zone warfare, game balance, gerrymanderingagent features:* creation of a secondary index for the military index that allows the alliance to import agents into their space* index has 5 levels and allows access to more valuable agents as it increases (tier 1 agents are allowed at the first level and tier 5 agents are allowed when the index is at level 5)* agents are part of splinter corporations aligned with the various pirate and outlaw factions. negative reputation with the agents parent faction will not block an alliance/player from interacting with them. performing story line missions will result in a small increase with the agents parent faction. performing missions with the agent will cause the players/alliances reputation to shift relative to the other tier agents splinter corporations* alliances are allowed a maximum of 5 tier 1 agents, 4 tier 2 agents, 3 tier 3 agents, 2 tier 4 agents, and 1 tier 5 agent within a region* agents are distributed randomly within the region they are assigned to after downtime* more than 1 agent may not be placed within a single system* agents must have a minimum amount of space between them and another agent (i.e. 0 jumps between tier 1 agents, 1 jump between tier 2 agents,,, and 4 jumps between tier 5 agents* alliances must control a minimum amount of space in order to gain access to the various tiers of agents (i.e. 1 system for tier 1 agents, 3 systems for tier 2, 5 systems for tier 3,, and 10 systems for tier 5)* alliances may designate a time period in which the agents are active. the minimum duration is 16 hours. agents will enter space at their designated time (+/- 3 hours)* only 1 tier 5 agent is allowed per region and the alliance that has control over the most space , and has at least 20% of the region, will be able to enlist its services."
"* only 4 tier 4 agents are allowed per region. the alliance that controls the most space, and has at least 20% of the region, will be able to enlist the services of 2 of these tier 4 agents. the remaining 2 tier 4 agents will be split between the next 2 sovereignty holding entities that control the 2nd and 3rd highest amount of space and at least 20% of the region.* agents may be attacked and killed. if they are killed then the owning alliance loses a specified amount of rep from their index. if the index drops below the necessary level for an agent, then those agents will not spawn again until the index is raised back to the required level. higher tier agents will be harder to kill but will result in a greater hit to the index. (ex. tier 1 agent with support could be balanced for a 5-10 man pvp gang and a tier 5 agent could be balanced for 30-40 man pvp gangs) all agents should use enhanced ais. agents should generate some sort of warning message when under attack* agents will be blue to the alliance that sponsors them and possibly to the blues of that alliance. all other players will be red and will be fired upon.mission features:* missions should be balanced for multiple participants and geared towards pvp fit ships if possible* tier 1 missions could be balanced for 2-3 players, tier 2 missions 3-5 players, tier 3 missions 5-10 players, tier 4 missions 10-15 players, and tier 5 missions 15-20 players* mission rats should utilize enhanced ais* mission rewards should utilize a reward system with a built in diminishing returns system (i.e. such as the one detailed for incursion) that gives increasing rewards to players until they exceed the designed capacity of a given mission* higher tier missions should require players to roam farther in order to complete them* all missions will occur within the region they are assigned to and within the sovereignty of the alliance that has summoned them* tier agents may periodically offer missions to players that require them to hunt and kill their competition that is working for other alliances* hi security agents aligned with the empires (i.e. republic fleet) may offer missions to mission runners that require them to go an kill tier agents within null security spacemission rewards and lp store:* develop an lp store that is separate from current lp markets* develop items that do not imbalance current pvp mechanics but that are desirable to players* balance the isk rewards so that they are competitive with null security anomalies* offset isk faucet of bounties with lp isk sink* possible lp store items may include: pirate faction drones (possibly up to and including fighters and fighter bombers), pirate faction combat drugs (with increased side effects as well as buffs), pirate faction implants (side effects and increased or new buffs), and pirate faction capital turrets* faction drones and modules could increase certain stats at the expense of others in order to decrease the chance of upsetting the current balance present within the game* tier agents would have access to limited amounts of items. higher tier agents would have access to larger quantities of items* each tier of agents would have a separate lp store list. bigger and better items would be available from higher tier agents. the loss of these agents would deprive alliance members the ability to purchase them until the agent is restored* items are purchased at the agent in space. they could either delivered in space in a cargo container or to the nearest station"
"you have some ccp quote to support that? from what i recall it was a player idea, not ccp."
"exactly. ccp gave a response, which was it is hard to do due to technical reasons."
"yes please..."
"/agree"
"what manner of discrimination, you ask?simple. when you think of tanking, what kinds come to mind? shield and armor. but you are wrong.ccp has discriminated against the manliest of tanks: that of the noble hull tank.so where is the discrimination, you ask? surely not in the massive possible ehp you get from slapping seven reinforced bulkhead iis on a revelation! surely not. however, what about those of us who wish to hulltank something else? what of those of us who want to make use of the hilariously unnecessarily high number of midslots on the legion for an active hulltank?no, sayeth ccp. you armor tank that ****.what of those of us who wish to hulltank the mighty caracal and actually give it a tank worth having?no, sayeth ccp, ye who wish to hull tank shall have ridiculous cycle times and obscene capacitor usage.and what of those of us who wish to use the aforementioned hulltanking revelation because of our massive balls, but do not have a capital hull rep mod with which to do it?no, sayeth ccp. we shall do what we can to crush your manliness.so what exactly am i proposing? not a buff to the ehp side of hulltanking, rather, a decrease in cycle time for hull reps, and a decrease in capacitor usage. and if i should be so bold to dream, capital hull reps. now, i'm not saying that they should be as capacitor efficient as armor tanks or as fast as shield tanks. nay, that would be overpowered.but at least bring the hull reps into the realm of plausibility. if only for those of us with massive balls. and it might actually bring the minmatar carriers into usefulness: give them the hull rep bonuses. because then you would know, when you fight someone who brings a hel or nidhoggur: you are fighting real men."
"hull tanking absolutely needs a boost. there is absolutely no reason, other than total lulz, to use an active hull repper. they use far too much cap, repair far too little, and the fitting reqs are silly.stealth gallente buff?"
"/signed, more plausible hull tank!"
"there would have to be an option to \"purchase fitting\" without requiring all items be bought from the station youre in, many times the modules you are purchasing are strewn throughout the region/constellation, and you should still be able to buy them in one shot, you'll just have to go get them yourself..."
"intelligent proposal, supported."
"so the reasoning behind the officer nerf was literally value.officer difficulty has been increased to reflect their value.by making them harder you basically need a carrier to kill them. or have subcaps die to them while killing them. it also means the solo ratters who are out there in tengus and proteus cant kill them,so supply of modules are going to dramatically drop.supply vs demand. officer module prices are going to skyrocket also. thusly how long until they have to make officers even harder? this is stupid.make ccp change back to old stats and if they want to make the value warrant difficultly. make them spawn more often to increase supply and devalue the modules.disclaimer: just got tuvan in my ishtar. didnt lose my ishtar and did kill him. he didnt drop any officer modules. fffffff"
"having killed an officer recently i understand their difficulty now. it's tough but doable.i do believe that increased difficulty will result in slightly rarer drop rates. and half the officer income will be shifted to the big alliance people - who are typically rich enough as it is.i wouldn't mind keeping current difficulty if spawn rate was increased"
"supported if they dont fix the loot tables as well.also note that only some items will go up in value.damage mods.tracking compstracking enhancerscpusmeta 14 enamsinvun fieldscapacitor modsofficers guns and launchers(lol)webs and scrambssmartbombssensor boostersecmofficer neutsmeta 14 passive hardenerscloaksbut anything that can be x-type will be ignored.enjoy the jita loot rush"
"not supported.i do not think this change has anything to do with whatever percieved market value they have and what difficulty should be attatched to that.i think this change mostly has to do with another subject that so many complain about. so if the changes as introduced do not bring the sought after effect, then i would expect more changes to the officer spawns.more frequent spawns are not likely to reduce the price anytime soon, especially for the top items, and would likely increase the amount of automated hunters (exactly the opposite to the intended effect in my opinion). to manipulate their prices to a to a level that is consistend with their former difficulty some of the mods would have to be changed extensively. such a solution may reduce automated hunting but would not be welcomed by any of the current owners of those modules."
"the officers have been changed because it makes them largely bot-proof, ccp probably aren't going to revert that."
"if ccp would care about the botting issue wouldnt you think they would do more than sometimes give 1 to 3 day bans for people who bot 23.5/7? this has nothing to do with botting at all.even if it would, how long exactly do you think it will take them to adapt bots?"
"which bot 'adapts' to the new officers by trebling the dps and tank of your ratting ship?"
"wait, you fought tuvan, in an ishtar, and killed tuvan, and didn't lose your ishtar. if anything, maybe they should make officers harder."
"officer mods are expensive because the chance of a spawn is so rare. increasing the difficulty will not increase their cost that much.in the mean time, your tears are delicious."
"the ones that call in help from other bots (shouldnt be too hard to make), that switch to another ship that works against officers (if an ishtar can do it so can enough other ships, might not be ideal for general ratting, like for example a blaster proteus, but works against the officer), or just that send an email to their owner and skip the belt."
"so you killed him solo and still you are complaining? wtf"
"null-seccers are used to eve being easy mode. naturally he takes offence when it requires more than twenty seconds to get xx million bounty and a possible billion isk drop ps: yes, i firmly believe that the vast majority of issues with null (bots, bridges, sc spam etc.) is rooted in people there being lazy as hell, wanting something for nothing.make officers even harder and give them sleeper ai and escorts. they are officers for goddess sake!"
"no, they should make the ratting like incursion sites. i would love to see the tears and people have to work for isk then - rather than botting..."
"ratting needs to be harder. it is almost as afk of an activity as mining."
"increasing difficulty will have significant impact on item availability.first, you got many loners who used to go into npc 0.0 in hopes of finding an officer. if they know they can't kill one now, they will not clear belts entirely, but start bs chains.second, lets say that 30% of all officers used to go to the botters - there are a lot of bot farmers after all. now botters can't kill officers, they'll just ignore them. that's 30% decrease in officer mods sold on markets.these are rough estimates, but still you should be able to see how inability to solo an officer will result in both less spawn rate (fewer people try farm them) and less actual kills (botters ignoring officers).it'd be reasonable to demand a boost to spawn rate. maybe 20% more often."
"this is true indeed. it'll just make bots adapt and avoid officers. i dunno if bots even contribute to officer mods anyway. can they even loot wrecks? i suspect not. the only change is the 99% of people in 0.0 who have no idea it was changed or just wont be able to gtfo and will lose their ratting ship. instead of normally killing the officer and getting loots.then you either dont know how much pew or you dont understand supply vs demand"
"negative. he killed a raven, drake, and 2 canes before we got him down."
"rofl. if there's officer someone is going to kill it. speculating about prices ftw.and that said who cares if mineral or module prices go up. someone's just going to make more isk while someone loses more. boost gallente"
"wut"
"to fix bounty hunting, simply make killrights transferrable, either directly to other players -or- to an npc bounty office which then spawns missions to kill the criminal in question, with the reward paid by whoever gave them the killright.job done."
"the downside of the transferable kill rights method is that, as i understand it, it would only apply to a single pilot, rather than to anyone wanting to become an anti-pirate more generally. as an incentive structure, i don't think it would make that much of a difference."
"you realize that piracy has this making money by killing ships component, right?what do you think will happen when the bounty comes out of the pirate wallet? it is simple, the pirate needs to reduce the risk of losing ships to around zero, and the best way to do that is by using overwhelming force and avoiding a good fight like the plague.the same thing that happened when fw hit lowsec will happen again, the current pirate entities will combine forces to reduce risk and hire more personnel.less fighting, more ganks. and even more overfarming the 'carebears' population because there are now more mouths to feed.bad idea overall, you should probably try to live in lowsec for a while before you propose anything."
"one would hope. there's already an incentive to behave in this fashion. in any kind of profit-seeking pvp, that kind of incentive (i.e., to gain more than you lose) will always exist. by that logic, hi-sec must be a pretty dangerous place."
"no, you just dont get the logic. in hisec the prey population is strong compared to the hunter population. the risk for the individual is still there, but the chance that it hits another animal in the herd is big.in lowsec the opposite is the case. and if you scale up the required k/d ratio to keep a profit, the pirate has to adjust to meet that ratio. the obvious way to do this is to kill more ships with less losses, and losses are avoided best by making sure the victim does not even have a remote chance to fight back.the anti-pirates that you assume will come to lowsec are just more prey at the end of the day, and the pirates will scale up their numbers to ensure minimal losses according to the required k/d ratio.again, go live in lowsec for a while before making proposals that concern lowsec."
"but that's the whole point; attracting more pilots (combat and non-combat) to low-sec. and the more pirates there are in low-sec, the more of an incentive there is for increasing numbers of anti-pirates enter low-sec."
"will the isk/hr be better than l4's after accounting for risk?if not then people dont have a reason to go to lowsec anymore than they have now."
"this lays on the premise to the new changes to the officer rats to make them more of a challenge, in most cases this is seen as a good idea since being able to solo the top end officers in a poorly fit thorax is kind of laughable.the proposal is to extend this new feature to all non complex faction spawn, you could increase this to complex faction spawns too but this could get out of hand.this would mean that macros would be useless against such rats as they would not be able to solo them in t2 fit ravens or whatever is the norm.as a side effect it'd also help ccp sort out the loot tables so that faction loot can justly drop once again, as ammo and tags which is fair at the moment can be very disappointing.lastly if these rats could also be escorted with frigates or have warp scramblers themselves this would improve the amount of marco deaths to the system."
"hum i'm pretty sure macros will simply avoid officiers spawn and do something else.not sure it will help much.moreover scramble would hurt the real player. bot will know ennemy is too dangerous way quicker than real player.however there may have solution on this type of things"
"one thing that would go a long way would be to actuially ban bot accounts and remove any isk they created."
"i agree! and definitely not the pointless two day bans they give out these days (if you believe the reports on the forums)."
"ccp employ over 600 people. make 1 persons job to hunt bots and give them 1 year or permanent bans. destroying their isk would also be good. 3 day bans and relying completely on players reporting is not working."
"this bring back the old problem of you bring a knife i'll bring a gun.if ccp cracks down on botters they will just add random to the scripts and use alternate characters or some crap.if ccp changed the rats to make them more surprising or harder they would not bother as a low skilled cheap raven pilot would have no benefit to them, so they either stop or buy a expensive ship which can.in short ccp would make the game more fun for us the player, less rewarding for bots and everyone wins right?"
"actually, blackops really need a boost in general.and for hotdropping, the sin is pretty good, having the second highest cargo capacity.as blackops are right now, dropping a sin on someone is dumb, but the same applys to all blops except the redeemer really.i dont support the modifying of one blackops which gives ccp a reason to push fixing all of them to the back of the queue"
"black ops in general need a change and this idea is bad."
"sin pilot here. sin is terrible for pvp because loldrones. with redeemer or panther i can jump in on covert cyno and you can lay down instant damage while aligning and moving. widow is ecm so isnt terrible either way for combat.sin just cant be mobile and instant. nor can it cloak whenever because of drones.now that doesnt mean we need to change it like that. moreover i think all the blackops need to be un-pre-nerfed. so lets think of something that would benefit all the blackops?1 warpcore stab being built into the ship would be awesome or being immune to energy neuts and nos. those would be awesome for blops."
"bumping this just because its so stupid."
"pointless pvp is pointless."
"while we're at it let's just take dying out of the game. that mechanic leads to nothing but tears and sadness."
"maybe you should actually try doing some pvp before you post about it and make a fool of yourself"
"i was actually quite sad this idea got support till i noticed who supported it and realised it was a troll support"
"this idea is so bad it doesn't even warrant a serious reply, but there is also one point in the op which makes the request totally unnecessary. retreat isn't missing from eve. it just isn't very likely if you're a blind fat man. so either use the intelligence tools available to avoid getting tied down when you aren't willing to fight, fit modules to break locks/kill the tacklers or fly a fast ship. retreat is possible, but it just doesn't come without risks.point being you aren't asking retreating to be included in the game. you are asking to have the ability to escape from a fight in almost every situation. that is like taking the ability to prevent people from escaping a fight and removing it entirely from the game. horrible idea."
"if you dont like being tackled you can use any of an easy dozen options. there are actually more, but these are the most obvious:1: neutralisers to break the tackler's cap2: sensor damps to break his lock3: ecm to break his lock4: deaggress and jump through a gate or dock5: use speed to get outside his tackle range (you will probably need tackle of your own to do this)6: kill or drive him off, using your 2 mid-slot advantage, your tackler7: use a cloak to avoid being tackled 8: use a scout to avoid being tackled9: use the map to avoid dangerous systems10: bring friends so that you are an unattractive target11: use bookmarks and gatespots in combination with your onboard scanner to avoid being tackled12: use warp core stabilisers to avoid being tackled."
"rather than discourage gangs from swooping in and taking out lone pilots in low/nullsec, i suspect it would actually encourage more of it. without the ability to trap target ships, pirates would instead have to focus on popping them before they can warp out. the most likely way that they would do this would be to for mini-blobs, so the whole thing would be self-defeating.also, my understanding is that the devs want more ships to be lost to avoid asset accumulation, so this would be counterproductive in that sense."
"better idea. if you give me 900 trillion isk i will pvp all the damn time. i will lose titans on gates. when i run out of isk, give me another 900 trillion. i guarantee there will be an increase in pvp going on."
"lets just take the full leap and divide into two servers, pvp and pvewould that make you happy?"
"xestria, you just made baby jesus cry..."
"wow. did you even think about the ramifications of your proposal? it is so stupid that the only thing i can think of that makes any sense is that your post is a troll.\"1. it will encourage more pvp because there is always the option to disengage and run away.\"-- no, it would have the exact opposite effect. why bother shooting if they are going to get away?\"2. it wipes out the scourge that is the \"1v1-bait\" (you think you're getting a 1v1, but the other guy has 4 mates in faction cruisers waiting ready to warp in once you're aggressed). you can just make a run for it when they appear.\"-- boo hoo. welcome to eve. don't play stupid and you'll survive.obviously you've been scrammed and destroyed because you've done something stupid. rather than take responsibility for your own stupidity, you are going to try to garner support for altering a fundamental part of pvp. lol.\"3. following on from (2), 1v1 will be made easier4. following on from (3), more pvp combat\"-- you already said this, so it's kind of obvious that you've not put any thought into your argument.\"5. hauling into lowsec will be easier\"-- by easier, if you mean boring, then yes.\"6. more people in lowsec\"-- possibly, but why is this a good thing?\"7. following on from (4),(5),(6), more economic activity\"-- with a massive reduction in the number of ships and items destroyed, it would have precisely the opposite effect."
"we need to do the reverse. add a 60 second warp spool up! every ship found in a belt needs to be destroyed! that will give much more pvp."
"fit warp core stabs... die anyways!!!"
"1.0"
"i've never tried, but i don't think you can trash the corp hangar contents that get locked down when you lose a station. after the station flips and everything gets locked down, shouldn't be able to simply trash it to prevent someone else from getting it.also, supported."
"sounds good tbhit will also allow many stations to be used rather than one or two and all other stations used for timer laming."
"ccp is not going to do anything to discourage returning players, including the loss of a player's gear and ships at a station. if you come up with a system that does not harm the prospects of a player returning, then you might have something.as long as that something doesn't include random generation of loot, of course, because then you will end up with people just swapping stations over and over, instead of actually defending them."
"ok before i get flamed if i do please read this idear first thank you.at the moment gangking in high sec and low sec cuase you only take a 2.0 of your sec hit witch realy does not equate to what the ship is worth.e.g hulk geddon is realy silly killis at the moment totaling 20 bil on average a day kills in emiper and us with not much prtction at all other then oh sorry play another game. somthing i don't think ccp realy wants.so what to we do leave or change the way things happen and this is why i have come to you guys on cms to help us do it.if some killis you in high sec the hit on the peson should be compered to how defence'less a ship reay is. e.g guy in a hulk riged for mining on a average day gets hit up buy a bttle ship the the guy in a bttle ship should take a 4.0 drop in sec hit. but your mining in battle ship e.g 2 then the guy in the battle ship killing you takes only a 2.0 sec it or somthing colse to that been a long while since i ganked some one.this would only aplly to empier becuase we all enter 0.0 and low sec at our owme risk. plus thers a big message waring you about entering them system.for the folwing reson if you don't want to take a big sec hit you could just simple war dec that corp witch is the way the game it ment to be rahter than been ganked buy a coward, or some one shooting a man with no wepons. bcuase most of theses ships don't allow wepons. i thank you for your time and hope you aregee but if not no problem at all rember please keep your postings cealn."
"that creates a pretty big incentive for people to just fly defenseless ships in hi-sec, doesn't it?"
"not realy becuase they still can get ganked"
"then why does it matter what they're flying in the first place? the whole point is to make attacking \"defenseless\" ships more costly than attacking \"defended\" ships, so that fewer pirates will attack the defenseless."
"cost is rarely a factor for... well... anyone. lolganks will still happen because \"it's funny.\" big ganks (i.e. ganking ships with lots of stuff in them) will still happen because it's profitable."
"besides the protection of your botting...err...\"passive income\", why do we need/want this again?"
"funny how u pretty much stopped addressing low sec at this point and turned it into a suicide gank whine. if u honestly thought we would miss that, then u deserve to get flamed.or as a 2003 player, u can apply the simple concept that u should have learned of not flying what u can't afford to lose. or do u think u're somehow entitled to an eternal gravy train as a vet?so by your logic, fittings have absolutely no relevance to how defenseless a ship is? shoot a can flipper in a hulk and then in a mining battleship and see what difference it makes. go ahead.and u also undock at your own risk. since newbies in rookie ships don't get suicide ganked, then it falls on u to learn to play...wait a minute...u're a 2003 player and u still don't know how to play??? seriously, do yourself a favor and go back to wow since u love the guaranteed safety of designated sanctuaries and battlegrounds. in your case, however, u might want to avoid their pvp servers--they can still \"suicide gank\" u while u're in a neutral town. news flash: it's a sandbox--there's no single way it's \"meant to be played\". how u failed to realize that after all these years is mind-boggling. and btw, the mining alts that 0.0 and -10 players hide behind r always in npc corps for the war dec immunity. and yet u still want to talk about \"cowardice\" as a 2003 player? there's no way u could've missed this unless u're just that ignorant or u're also one of those cowards...mostly likely, both."
"cuz we has no actual realistic space but ridic space with instapolice gank there also haz to be ridic ganks. cuz bear no want that all space free pvp. instea d dumb mechanic police instakill no skillz required. if all low sec we no suicide but every1 cool."
"great idea."
"i aggree.we need a new module to build - a powerstation.this would allow for larger setups on a planet."
"this. i got loads of cpu and no grid.i got no real problem with pi atm. its rather hard to get rich off it anymore though, but it runs well if you leave it passive mostly."
"amen"
"hi maxyou need to upgrade the link between launch pad and storage."
"clearly the op was recently victim to a suicide gank, no doubt in his pimped out tengu or somethingalso lol perkone"
"i have a better idea:in order for concord to respond the attacked player has to fit, a \"concord distress module\" when attacked by players this module will allow the victim to call help.once clicked, concord will spawn within 8-12au of the target and will have to warp to the attacked victim.concord should show up on directional, like any other ship warping around. if the attacking ship(s) warp out before concord lands, they get out free. otherwise they get concorded \"proper\"pros: no more magical concord protection.more carebear tears in highsec.cons:none from my point of view."
"the reward already exists in the form of charging less overall - a 12-month subscription is significantly less money than 12 1-month payments."
"re: wyke mossarione of the downsides of having a really unlimited colony system (in the spirit of sandbox-eve) is that somewhere, someone will build a really huge colony that is capable of generating large numbers of troops on a constant basis, without necessarily being able to fund an ever-growing army (because troops have cyclical ownership costs). if we let them seed troops back into population, it creates a bit of a feedback loop. basically, there would be two options: 1) force them to trash massive number of troops (or suicide them on enemy colonies).2) let them sell them. the second option has the benefit of providing an entirely player-based source of troops for new entries to nullsec or down-on-their-luck alliances with isk to burn but no secure/large colonies.re: jhegaalai'm certainly open to alternatives. unfortunately, whatever the sovereignty system ends up looking like has to serve a lot of different masters, in terms of its goals. at its most basic the system has to...1) accurately reflect 'control' over space.2) have a timing mechanism that is...a) controlled by playersb) can't be 'abused' by players, despite (a)c) doesn't come across as totally arbitrary 3) link infrastructure and holding space. then there are some of the newer concepts...4) make sovereignty costs \"perfect\", so that established powers are held in check while new entries aren't totally priced-out. 5) link in-system activity with infrastructure/sovereignty costs. and the ongoing demands of the game-base and devs...6) reduce power projection range (i.e., create \"locality\") without totally nerfing 0.0 pvp.7) reduce incentives for blobbing (either by splitting up targets or disconnecting sovereignty from dps).8) try to make the whole system as plausible and non-arbitrary as possible. 9) implement without too much disruption to the status quo. there are certainly others, and i have a lot of empathy for the devs trying to balance all these demands for what is one of the most important aspects of the game. once you take into account all of these demands, the number of systems possible starts to drop, i think."
"please visit your user settings to re-enable images.sokratesz for csm 2011!with csm-4 and 5 we managed to stir up the place and i would like to continue doing just that, pointing ccp at flaws and aiding them in fixing what we, the players, deem important. with me you get no huge walls-of-text, no inflated management talk but most importantly: no bull****. i say things as they are, the way the players want it. if you need me, im always available in-game or by e-mail. you can find me on these forums or on many other eve-community sites, talking about stuff related to eve, ccp and the csm.my approach to the csm has been one that favours competitive elements - whether that means blowing up other people's ships large or small or economic competition. i have no ties to large alliances, i pledge allegiance to no one but the people around me that enjoy playing the game.if you have any questions, feel free to bother me.- sok."
"reserved!"
"i heard sok is a pretty cool guy."
"this candidate is for a nerv of all logistics in 0.0 so that freighter and hauler convoys getting a new and bright future and that everyone in 0.0 will be forced to work 95% of his game time to make logistics instead of making pewpew. it's the typical attitude of a low sec griefer. don't elect him."
"it seems as if you haven't got even the slightest gist of what you are talking about. if there however are any genuine questions about this matter that was discussed in the last csm summit, i'll be happy to address them."
"what's your take on the rampant botting and how are you going to persuade ccp to dedicate sufficient resources to the problem and convince them 24 hour bans are not going to stop ppl using bots?"
"well, like i said b4: all-out offensive. but that requires resources. and we're only going to get those resources if we put enough pressure on ccp. via the csm of course for instance, csm could advocate immediate account deletion after proof of botting, in stead of a 1 day ban after which the owners start botting again. i've seen several ppl admit to this happening. they say as long as they don't go into rmt they are pretty much safe from perm bans.... that is quite shocking to me personally...."
"what are your suggestions to increase small gang warfare in 0.0?"
"how should the community view you in light of the d-bank debacle?"
"he will scam ccp for all your plex!"
"put a scram on your hic, fixed.if this is the calibre of your ideas, i do not hold much hope for you.what would you do to increase small gang warfare in 0.0, atm the sov holders just dock up, a minor annoyance at best."
"i replied to this earlier and my history with dbank means i understand the needs of md players and what does not work in the current system. i always have taken full responsibility for what happened with dbank and while i have mixed feelings about it the experience gained from my involvement makes me a unique candidate that would be valuable to csm.i actually removed this concept from my campaign after significant discussion here and in game. i am actually compiling a concept to push for small gang warfare that will be more a compilation of current concepts i have that will be steps towards more small gang warfare. i will be updating here when that is completed, hopefully, tomorrow night."
"im a passionate eve online player that would like to see this game continue to improve. it is important to focus on fixing and growing current features of the game, and as a csm representative i will serve as a check to remind ccp that looking backward is equally important, if not more so, than running forward. communication between ccp and its players requires significant improvement, and the company needs to be held accountable for all of its actions both in and out of game. when you combine the potential of the sandbox that is eve and the ingenuity of its players, you may imagine nearly limitless possibilities. a vote for me is a vote to explore those possibilities, to improve our experience, and to build a better eve."
"personal background:my name is tim pluples and im 23 years old living in queensland, australia as a full-time it manager for a government agency. i am currently engaged to a beautiful fianc<U+FFFD> who is 100% supportive of my passion for eve online and the need to be awake at all hours of the morning. in eve i am known as killer2 and im the deputy leader of morsus mihi. i have been playing for almost 6 years and have experience with almost all aspects of what eve has to offer. i find it one of the most complex, interesting and addictive games ive ever had the pleasure of playing.i have strong communication skills and am a practiced negotiator. in a word, i am not afraid to speak my mind, and i do not give up. that said, stubbornness is a virtue only when it serves a noble cause. if i'm unfamiliar with an issue, i will seek out an expert no matter where they live in the galaxy to solicit advice and information. i sit and learn as easily as i stand and teach  it is a talent made possible through consistent diligence and reliable awareness.what i represent:vuk lau and elvenlord have both been elected as csm representatives in the past and served as chairman in previous councils. they have dedicated an unprecedented amount of time and effort in ensuring that you, as eve players, are seriously represented and that your voices are heard by ccp game designers and developers. their unfailing efforts have effected serious change in our universe, and i will be a part of their legacy. i will continue their work with passion and dedication to ensure that this game continues to prosper as we focus on the real issues that need the most attention. the underlying issues ill be fighting for right from the start are:removing the backlog  can we fix it?implementing a shiny new toy or new functionality in expansions is nice for a little while, but we often find ourselves repeating the same old argument about existing bugs, issues and bizarre unintended \"features\" that impact everyday game play. ccp has taken a step in the right direction by dedicating an entire team to fix bugs, team best friends forever (nice to see ccp getting some inspiration from the northern coalition). however this isnt enough. the backlog is huge and it needs real and desperate attention from ccp to resolve each item before any new piece of functionality is released.accountabilityfor years on end ccp has exhibited an alarming lack of accountability on various fronts. whether it is promised features that were never delivered, simple misworded devblogs that crashed entire markets, or even inconsistent decisions and poor customer service from gms. im sure weve all experienced it at least once in our careers as pod pilots. each of these issues requires ccp to be accountable for their actions and to realise that everything they say or do has a direct impact on how we play or perceive the game. the fundamental element to all of this is managing the expectations that ccp sets and holding them accountable. communication has improved ever-so-slightly over the years, however it is far from perfect and this needs to be addressed persistently with ccp to ensure that it is forever improving.summary:by electing me to represent you on the csm, i promise to give nothing but 110% to ensure that the real issues decided by you are brought to ccps attention and given the priority they deserve. the approach is simple: fix whats broken then focus on delivering new features, all the while improving how ccp communicates with its players. there is unlimited potential on what this game can achieve. a vote for me is a vote for a better eve."
"thanks killer2. i know the csm is in good hands with you. you have my vote.thirlerceothe arrow projectmorsus mihi"
"really? that easy, he describes himself and gets your vote, wow maybe i should have ran for csm i like making huge wall of texts that are as simple as \"vote for me, i will fix everything you say\".except we have heard this before, i think it is in your best interest you shared some of your ideas, what you feel is broken and why, then explain in detail how you will fix it, after all you cant agree with what everyone says so you cant promise ccp will change everything players ask."
"what do you feel about small gangs in 0.0?do you think that they should have some way of disrupting large coalitions like yourself, atm all they can do is afk cloak to be a nuisance or camp jb's if they are set up incorrectly, not really much that they can do apart from ganking the odd careless ratter, all these activities are terrible gameplay really for smaller entities.what would you push for the small gang so that if they entered your space, you have to react to them, there has been talks on other discussions of maybe having the military ihub attackable with small gangs and although they can't damage it they could knock it down an index thus forcing the defender to defend, atm all the large coalitions do is dock up until the gang has passed, a minor annoyance to them at worst.so what would you push for to make small gang roaming in 0.0 worth doing??edited to add.also do you believe that jb's are overpowered?i personally do, there are swathes of nc territory where you can move across the map from one side to another without even using a gate, do you think that this adds to gameplay or detracts?how do you feel about technetium, are you of the opinion that it is game breaking or that it should stay the same?"
"hey killer2, good to see the announcement from the perspective of someone with first hand experience of trying to make 0.0 work.some similar questions / points that i think people would like to know and would help clarify your position.force projection in 0.0 is a hot topic, with capital jump drives and jump bridges at the core. what do you feel the best role these things should play long term?you mention fixing old things in the game. what are some of the core issues you feel are important here?large figts in 0.0 are inherently problematic from a hardware standpoint. would you be for changing game mechanics to force spread deployment if it was feasible?i wish you good luck in your running. having null-sec mechanics determined by players who don't live in it and don't intend to may very well kill it for its inhabitants. having a knowledgeable 0.0 representative on the csm is therefore important for me."
"i've known killer2 for a little while now. i've seen how he plays and takes orders as a subordinate, and i've served under him and taken direction from him. he is discrete, trusting, and decisive. he is one of those people who might come to an opinion on an issue, but if you approach him he is more than willing to sit with you for thirty minutes and have a strategy session to hash out ideas and details.in the real world he deals with problems of some extreme significance that require being both involved and tactful. so i think he would represent every eve player fairly and responsibly - it's part of his ethos, his instincts. the fact that he has been exorbitantly involved in the 0.0 experience obviously makes him a strong advocate for those of us living out in the fringes, but at the same time this gives him important perspective of the needs of the core galaxy.i'm sure k2 has some specific answers for some specific issues, and we may agree or disagree on certain issues of mechanics or development. but overall, i'm looking for someone who is experienced, dedicated, and fair minded, regardless of which way he happens to fall on any individual subject. for my money, i've found my candidate.and while he has rebuffed my physical advances numerous times, he does have a cute butt. so there's that!"
"bring back the old doomsday"
"was thinking the same thing, multiple objectives over constelations, once the constelation because shall we say r/f then minor objectives can be achived in that constelation.but taking the constelation needs to be the tricky and the hard part while the minor objectives can be achieved by small gangs.good thought process m8 v good.jamus"
"hey all thought id use jita speakers corner for this as its much more informal and collaborative way of putting an idea or set of ideas together.anyways i wanted to get peoples thoughts and ideas on making eve feel more physical.i do not mean adding additional properties to in game things to make interacting with them more interesting, i'm talking about making combat and damage feel more real.obviously you can only go so far when you only have a screen and sound as outputs for a game... but i wanted to consider some things that fps games use to make damage taking seem more natural unlike having a gui to say how many health points you have.i am not saying scrapping shield armor and hull hp indicators, i'm saying include more human-like reactions to damage taking in addition to the visual and audible hp indicators.------------------------------------------------------------there is a bit of rp that ties in with this from the eve online universe and the way capsuleers are incorporated into ships.capsuleers are connected to their ships akin to the idea behind the film series \"the matrix\". once connected the ship is you! its sensors are your senses! and when your ship explodes the connections are hard-cut and your pods ejected into space.at this point your human senses are still cut from your brain and your pods electronic sensors are the ones you \"feel\". with the first iteration of incarna coming soon. you'll finally be able to dock up, remove your frail body from a pod and get back to organic sense of touch, taste and smell.------------------------------------------------------------what i want to do is inject a bit of the human element into how you feel the effects of combat in your eve experience. anyone who's experienced a migraine, you'd know where i'm going with this.my main idea was a bit of a 'red-out' experience when taking hull damage. and some very temporary blurring effects when taking considerable hits on shields armor and hull.with blurring effects becoming less temporary once you take hull damage.here are some video's on youtube with the damage effects i'm on about... you don't tend to see these effects on most space sims, as most sims you sit in a ship conventionally... not 'jacked in' matrix style!bad company 2 gameplaycall of duty 2 gameplaycrysis 2 gameplayi think you get my idea though.btw to all you lag fanatics this can all be done client side with no additional info to and from the server."
"new hardware to support unnecessary link removed. zymurgist"
"what are your suggestions for fixing small gang warfare in 0.0?"
"its that time again where csm candidates go all out in becoming a csm, theres several threads atm that all say the same thing, which is \"we will change stuff, vote for us, things are broke\".can we actually see some ideas being suggested? to give a rough idea on how you will work and what you favour can you break down each area on eve and explain in detail how you feel about it and what you would change and what your priorities will be.currently theres alot of issues, from fw to 0.0, what do you feel is wrong in those highly criticised areas (why do you think people complaining about them) and how would you fix it.faction warfarelowsec0.0hi sec warssupercapsposesfield command shipshybridsthese are some examples, obviously some of the issues are obvious but could the csm candidates in their own words explain why each one is criticised and what they would do to fix the issues?it is fine if you dont see an issue with some or wish to include your own issues."
"me too... will repoke..."
"page 5 save, more support."
"easy band-aid: why don't black ops just fall under wormhole local rules. i.e. they don't appear in local allowing them to act as logistics harass, not to mention macro scourge."
"i'm about ready to delete my vherokoir character due to the horrible new avatars. gender and bloodline only affect appearance, so i see no reason why a microtransaction shouldn't be used to modify these things.it could easily be explained in-game due to the whole cloning system, which uses a dummy corpse and implants your neural map in it. it's not like this change would modify the character's reputation (since that's linked to the name), nor employment history.supported."
"yep"
"i don't know if it feasible, but it sounds a lot better than 'soul crushing lag',ghost ships etc.supported."
"i stand by my support of this, unchanged.one thing though - might i suggest a title change? it seems to me this thread may not be getting the traffic, particularly dev wise, it deserves, nay, needs to get it noticed and get soem actual input from ccp on.something descriptive... \"intentional slowmo bullettime lag counter\" maybe?"
"+1 i support this."
"if this is even vaguely possible, with no unintended exploitable angles its a no-brainer +100 signed from me."
"this would be great interim fix until the tech catches up.supported."
"supported"
"supported"
"bump"
"sure."
"i like your ideas, especially the ingame interface you mentioned about negotiating an end to a declared war, and the prohibition period that would followalso, however i wouldn't agree about the griefing corporations comment. i was a member of a corporation that had reached around 20 members, and was wardecced for no reason. we had not offended anyone, interacted with any alliances or corporations, we weren't even recruiting in recruitment, we were just wardecced and forced to disband for no reason other than lolz. and i think that is what people want to stop from happening when they talk about grief"
"yes please... hate to trash that many ibis!!"
"how about a 'request rookie ship' button instead?also mail when you dock in a pod is super duper g@y."
"sounds like a reasonable and decent proposal. supported."
"/signed"
"sounds good to me :)"
"long overdue!when in a wh,its easier to jettison a can of old bm's and let it pop then to even try to move them to ur people and places and delete them there. that would take forever.would be cool too if once a sig in a wh spawns - the signature id wouldnt change on the daily reset.but i agree 100% with your post - some global way of keeping bm's thru coms or something."
"support corp and alliance bookmarks"
"definitely \"combat in stations\" is preferably to yet more forcibly introduced pve content. as long as it stays optional. small derail - alas, ccp doesn't have the most austere track record with \"optional\", do they? incursions and that crappy useless extra chat channel in-game anyone? (which cannot be closed while in the incursion constellation, ace game design there, ccp, kudos!!!)so for it to work we'd prolly have to throw in a fully thought-out game mechanic for it, in the faint hope ccp takes like 10% of it, screws up half of the addded brain***** of their own and needs three patches to fix the patch that introduces it... regarding current and recent trends of what we get in terms of \"content\", we'll prolly end up with some sort of wrestling arena for pvp, let's hope they don't call it a battleground for the lulz..."
"i support the overall idea of making the wis environment dangerous; however much has to be done to prevent the whole thing from degenerating into gangs of disposable characters running around spooning everyone.severe penalties would have to be introduced to make offing someone personally a last resort action (sudden death, ss loss, skill point loss, access loss, and maybe even some type of incarceration), as well as countermeasures to prevent a disposable noob alt from having much of a chance as opposed to someone who took the time to 'train' and/or equip whatever defensive/offensive hardware that may be available. npc stations would probably have the most severe penalties, maybe based on the system ss. player owned outposts could have the capability for per-character settings controllable by the owners.these are just thoughts. a lot of checks balances are required to make this work in a 'realistic' manner."
"finn, i enjoy your enthusiasm in this post as i have in many others, but i think you just need to slow down a tiny bit. you have to understand that this is completely new territory for ccp. this will be a staged launch that potentially in the future will be just as playable and important as spaceships. what is coming with the first iteration of incarna is the most basic of the elements.if you read the blogs about upcoming features, they are rife with statements about staged releases and having a new approach to the way they release content - namely, that they want to do it slowly and deliberately so that it doesn't blow up in their faces and make us hate them.i think what ccp is trying to do is create a space in the game to connect players more solidly to their character. in so doing, they can appeal to, and retain more, of a demographic of gamers that they might not ordinarily lure in with the promise of soul crushing lag (i mean super-awesome-epic-mega fleet fights.)for these reasons however, what ccp seems to be doing is tiptoeing around to figure out how this completely new game will fit in with the current one they are developing. give them time.however, i would be remiss if i didn't throw out an idea or two as to how to make incarna content scalable to risk/reward.how about concord shows up in the stations as soldiers patrolling around? they have super crazy battle armor and they will engage a criminal with extreme prejudice. they could be supported by sentry towers and camera's in heavily populated areas of stations.the security status of the systems the stations are in could also dictate the effectiveness of concord troops. ccp uses this as a metric in space, why not in stations? it could also possibly be more granular in stations however. 1.0 stations would have troops that vaporize you immediately (lots of troops, lots of guns and such) but 0.4 stations could have only a couple of sentries and a sleeping mercenary guard in the security office.player owned stations could go one of two ways (or both) in my eyes. there could be npc bought sentry guns or mercenaries, or it could be left to the players themselves to police the stations. it being that station access rights can be set by the sovereignty holding entity, i don't see much of a problem in that respect, but npc 0.0 stations could be extremely interesting.with all of that being said, i can only say that i believe it will happen one day, and not in an \"arena\" style of combat. we just need to give them time to fully realize and implement any ideas they have without alienating their player-base."
"i only support being able to kill in elevators if i can do it with an injection of window cleaner injected into the buttocks. it leaves the brain last to die."
"that's why i said they should iterate on it, not have it be combat-ready with the initial launch."
"don't fly mediocre variations and fly specialized ships then."
"support"
"i am bumping to make sure there is some further discussion as this is likely a topic that will be brought up in csm in the next year."
"/signed"
"/signed"
"i really have the social networking and blizz came up with, i don't want to see it here."
"don't trust facebook, poor privacy policy."
"support this or you get to see me naked"
"i support this can i see you naked now"
"yes."
"make this happen ccp. my suggestion would be to maybe move the hull-rep to a lowslot using mod. would be a main galente thing or something.makes no sence we got the modules for it, but absolutely useless compared to the other 2 tanks.would give eve even more diversity, making it even more awesome than already is.ceb"
"and btw thumbs up"
"i hull tank if rl, why cant i do it properly in eve?"
"i really want to try my hull-tanking brutix."
"it would be awesome if hull tanking offered something different from either armor or shield tanking.perhaps the ability to counter massive amounts of dps but consume a very large amount of cap doing so or some other severe drawback."
"technically, i would say it already does. it can grant you massive buffer (due to bulkheads being percentage based, as opposed to flat numbers), it is extremely slot efficient (one resist mod gets you to 60% on all resists, and the buffer is lowslot with the reps being midslot), but it's just really, really bad at it, aside from a few shining examples (brutix, taranis, lolrevelation). the thing is, all of those rely on buffer. and i want the ability to plausibly active hulltank.sure, it'll need to be less effective/efficient as armor/shield. i understand that. but it's different, and more variety is always awesomesauce."
"not supported for the reason of ball shrinkage - hulk tank buff will mean it takes less balls to do it."
"i support. i would like the speed loss to be reduced on reinforced bulkheads too, annoys the crap out of me that the hull tanked domi i have is slower than the triple trimarked triple plated one"
"just realised i forgot to support"
"if i remember the fit right.lolmoros3x large capacitor control circuit idamage control ii6x reinforced bulkhead iicapital shield booster4x cap recharger2x capital guns (either fit) siege modulecyno generatorthe thing will laugh off a doomsday, have 300k ehp left, pop a cyno (i need to go on the test server for this last bit) then if allowed drop into siege and start a cap stable 10k ish tank"
"a humble damage control ii sets your hull resists to 60% across the board, takes up only 1 lowslot, and is virtually impossible to neut, since it only drains 1 gj per cycle. this is by far the most powerful tanking mod in the game, stat-wise. i believe actual hull tanking would be a difficult thing to really implement without unbalancing things."
"you can easily put another ship into 0% cap and knock out a dcu. and once that things off, its \"oh hai insurance\"moar honour tank!!!!~"
"with sleeper and now incursion ai targeting drones, among other things, us drone pilots really, really need to know if a drone is damaged before we launch it.therefore, please add hp bars for drones currently in the drone bay."
"make officers harder please the tears are awesome."
"no, carebears must suffer! but seriously, slightly-tougher-then-regular rat dropping billions in loot when lucky? the effort was laughable compared to what you have to do for deadspace mods"
"the last 3 officers i killed dropped barely 400 bil in lootas far as isk/hour goes, doing deadspace plexes is much more profitable.i have done those with 2 accounts, so i can compare from experience."
"yup ccp did that to **** over ratting bots imo"
"carebears must suffer. not supporting."
"less faction/officer modules in the game, the better.i see nothing wrong here."
"qq more!"
"supported in that difficulty should have been increased but not to this degree."
"supply won't drop, if there's an officer in a system and someone says there is it's gonna die regardless of if one person alone can take it or ten people gang on it."
"as far as supply of officer loot goes, i think we shouldn't argue and just demand statistics from ccp.demand ccp to reveal daily average of killed officers since the patch and before the patch. if they do not have this data, we also need to know.if it is revealed that supply has fallen, the spawn rates need to be upped accordingly. and if supply is constant, no need to do anything. we can agree on that, right?"
"why? is there some god given right of carebears that entitles them to a certain amount of chances at winning in the lottery?so what if supply is decreased by a few percent, just means the (un)lucky carebear has to get used to a slightly longer period of single digit billions in his wallet.officer crap is only really used on the blobbing ships du jour: super-capitals. so what if they have to \"make do\" with a deadspace/navy module here and there .. the blob will still conquer all.besides, less supply means you can charge even more for it when it finally drops for you, only difference is that the wealth will not be shared between 10 people but rather 7-8 instead .. big whoop."
"make it 3-4. drop rate of faction/plex/officer items is ridiculously high..."
"hirana yoshida, i'm interested in officer loot for pvp purposes. i am concerned about prices becoming too high because it would mean less people risk officer mods in pvp ships.as it is now, supercarriers and titans are primary consumers of officer mods. high sec carebears are secondary. and small gang pvpers like me probably 3rd.i'm sure the supercap people will have no problem affording higher prices. and the high sec carebears rarely die. so it is the small gang pvper that is most sensitive to price increase.it's good when people use expensive mods in pvp, it makes pvp more exciting and lets some people make big money from pvp activity, as opposed to resorting to carebearing. we should encourage high cost elite pvp, don't limit it more than it is already on supply side."
"^this^. and to expand on it, even if the low sec pirates don't have the numbers at the time, they'll just simply dock up/safespot til they do have the numbers again. in reality, they're just as risk-averse, if not more so, than any carebear, only it's all reward and no risk.so op, if u really want to fix low sec, cut down on their risk-aversion, such as no docking/gate jumping/safespotting/cloaking during gcc because the fact is no amount of rewards will catch a risk-averse pirate, which is pretty much all of them. u want them to be hunted, make it so they can be caught, which means preventing them from running at the slightest hint of risk. this alone will be an incentive for anti-pirates who have at least similar numbers as the pirates because now they have a real chance of killing them, instead of putting up with the usual run & hide crap."
"it's not about the isk/hr, it's about having fun - and pew is fun (far more than missions).at this point i'd like to point out my proposal here. it details a bit more behind the reasoning/working for this kind of proposal.the thought is to take players who would normally be carebearing in empire and avoiding pvp at all costs and give them an incentive to get a group together and go out hunting pirates, particularly if they wouldn't otherwise. if this worked, it would give pirates more targets to shoot, and make more pew happen, making more ships go boom and more loot drop. sure there are pirate hunters out there already, but this should encourage more, and possibly rich inexperienced ones at that tying it to insurance payouts would ensure that it couldn't be exploited.to be perfectly honest, pirates should be on the run from the law - otherwise where's the excitement?"
"i understand what your saying, but i do not think that you have thought it through completely. as you note the people you are trying to reach are players who avoid pvp at all costs. by supplying an isk faucet the op is trying to entice those players out of highsec, however there is no financial reason to leave highsec unless the isk/hr is greater once you calculate ship/time loss. and if you are unwilling to ensure bounty hunting makes more isk/hr than highsec l4's, then it is pointless to offer a financial incentive to achieve your goal. they would still be better off running missions in highsec for isk, and then coming to lowsec for pewpew (fun). as i said, however, the pewpew (fun) incentive is already there. therefore, there is no new/more reason to go to lowsec than what is currently the case.adding an isk faucet does do one thing though- it makes it easier for people who wish to shoot everything that moves to stay operational financially. meaning that those who have, by some peoples accounts, \"overfished\" lowsec are being rewarded."
"low sec, and even null sec belt rats are pushovers. yes this is very obvious and for their rewards it's quite balanced, however...if the rats were harder, and not just a little, like a belt would take a good five minutes to clear, (more reward obviously) low sec would be a lot more popular not only for ratting but also ganking due to the time it takes to rat alone. atm it takes me less than 20 seconds to toast a guristas battleship using lasers for 800,000 isk and maybe 100k in modules (garbage money, garbage ship).i know we're capsuleers and and all but it's still annoyingly boring to rat feeling so safe and secure. increase their damage, active defense and overall buffer while at the same time increasing their bounty, meta drops (and even tech ii maybe?) and security influence.i am very pleased with the changes to commander npcs btw!"
"you somehow assume that more people will come ratting to low sec because it will be easier to gank them?i am not following your train of thought there..."
"it will be worth the reward, right now why would someone go into low sec for 800k (if they're lucky enough to find a bs in low sec) when they can just run a mission with tens of battleships worth more than that..."
"also **** my alt for starting with a.have to switch every ****ing time..."
"because this will only encourage and reward blobbing even more, especially when they're just waiting for fish to bite because anything less would not be enough to kill/tank the buffed rats in time before someone interferes.not supported."
"if that was true, 0.0 space would be full of people eager to exploit the local riches. yet, 0.0 remains the least populated space in eve..."
"you're right guys, **** low sec let's just not come up with any ideas and not change anything cause it will break everything."
"i am for increasing the difficulty of your every day rats, including missions and such. may be a stretch, but having to use more than one (unless elite-fit) person to run a level 4 mission would make things a bit more interesting.also, increase the bounties and rewards proportionally to the increase in difficulty with the rats."
"that would be good even if it probably will not hurt bots for more than a few days. about the \"employ 1 person to hunt bots only\", i suspect ccp has more than 1 guy doing that. let's look a few numbers:- 300k accounts around the world;- no more than 8 work hours in a day;- let's be very generous and say that you can investigate 6 bots at the same time and that you need 1 hour to be sure (remember, ccp need to be 99,99% sure it is a bot) that each guy is a bot.result: 48 suspected bots investigated in 1 work day. 5 day a week. 240 suspected bots investigated. less than 1/1000 of eve population. with those numbers you can't even keep in check the rtm guys and you check only 1 time zone every day and a single botter, if not reported as suspicious could go on for 3 years without being bothered."
"rather than manually investigating each and every player in the game, wouldn't it make sense to build routines that flag activity? by tracking players with the most exceptional activity, most of the player base can be eliminated from any investigation. for example playing 100+ hours a week without going afk for any amount of time doesn't make you a bot, but it is suspicious. mining 10m m3 of ore in a week doesn't make you a bot, but it is suspicious. completing 250+ lv4 missions in a week doesn't make you a bot, but it is suspicious. killing 5,000+ belt rats in a week doesn't make you a bot, but it is suspicious.by investigating only the players with the most suspicious levels of activity, that 1 employee won't need to investigate all 300k accounts. once an account has reasonably been proven to be a bot, it's not much of a reach to find out who the bot is working for, and from there any other bots working for that player. once you have an active player that's known to be operating bots, looking at the players he associates with is likely to turn up many more bots. much like pulling at a thread in cloth, once a single thread comes loose, the whole thing starts to come unraveled. once you have several players that are well documented bot operators, don't just ban the bots. very public banning of the bots and their operators is needed in order to show players that there actually are repercussions to breaking the eula. once players at large understand that ccp does take the eula seriously and is doing something about it, much of the nonrmt bot problem will disappear on its own.sure, smarter bot operators will change their activities in an attempt to not stand out, but if it's the most effective bots that cause the most harm to the game, wouldn't having all bots actively trying to be less effective be a minor victory?+1 for getting rid of bots"
"durnin the routines can get you only so far. let's say ccp has a routine flagging accounts logging more than 16 hours day for 3+ days in a week week. at that point the employee should activate more advanced tracking routines aimed at the accounts (you can't have then always tracking every account, it would require too many database calls and use too much cpu). after some day the employee should check the first results: - the subjects have reduced the activity to normal levels - keep them under observation for a time. this kind of choice can be done automatically.- the subjects continue to do an abnormal level of activity: the employee need to check what they do. and that is where he start spending a lot of time that is hard to automatize. the first part of the process, selecting the people to check is almost totally automatic, but the actual check to be sure the guy is a bot is time consuming. sure, you don't need to really check every account selecting them randomly, but then there are plenty of new accounts every day and following the tracks of professional botters can be hard. i suspect that my hypothesis of around 50 accounts checked (not tracked, but actually selected for the latter part of the check for probable bot use) is fairly precise.ccp can do mass bans only when the botters use programs with some identifiable routine (and they buy the bot available on the net to check for identifiable routines, it was in a dev post some time ago).or if they get a key guy in a rmt net and can ban all the linked accounts in one go. then there are the tricks that a botter can use to reduce the chance to be identified. if i was a rmt guy or even a \"normal\" guy botting to increase my income i would not run the same account 23 hours day. i would accept a lower return and run 2 accounts, botting for 11 hours with each of them, that way i would be \"under the radar\" for a lot of automatic scan systems. if the numbers that we see for the bots are right, \"loosing\" the isk to purchase 2 plex instead of one will be the last problem for the botter. i am sure that someone dong that for a living will find way better ways to foil detection that my simple idea. so it is not easy and it is time consuming. ccp is a company and they will try to balance around the point where the benefit of removing botters is equivalent or higher to the personnel costs they are incurring to ban them. that is why they are hunting rmters way more vigorously than \"normal\" guys botting. better return for hour of work."
"i understand that, and agree entirely. there's only so much that behavior tracking can do before good old fashioned manual investigation is required. over time, behavior tracking will give you a much better signal to noise ratio and a place to start investigating, but that's all it can do.i'd think that the balance point would more likely be, where bot accounts removed and cost incurred doing it is offset by player accounts saved and recovered. there's probably very little evidence showing that in comparison to the number of new accounts created specifically for botting, players are leaving in with any frequeancy specifically due to botting or that players would return en mass if botting were eliminated. that lack of data would make the math rather one sided in favor of the status quo."
"while we are at it, why don't we just take out all weapons systems completely? ooh, i have a better idea!!! why don't we replace the ammo with innocous stuffed animals and make laser weapons shoot out rainbows instead?!seriously tho, if pvp isnt to your liking, don't pvp!"
"-1.0"
"a similar topic was posted on the features forum a few months ago, and the comments where equally unfavourable. in the other post it was suggested that warp disruption would not be possible in low-sec. i can understand why people already resident in null and low would find this sort of change so upsetting because it would totally change the environment they operate in.i notice that the comments here are much the same that were posted in the features forum. most focus on the adapt or die, it would kill small gang pvp and whats the point if people can just warp off. im not entirely sure that these comments are correct.adapt or dietrue, you can fit your ship so that you increase your chance of avoiding combat. but as every pirate who knows their trade, most fits can be easily countered. in many cases, just being faster than your target is enough to make a fight very one sided. it would kill small gang pvpi think this change would actually encourage solo and small gang combat. given the option to run, i think more people will be willing to have a go. granted, the chance of getting a kill are reduced, but i would hope the number of engagements would increase.whats the point if people can just warp offim going to assume that war-targets and criminals (bounty hunting anyone?) can still be scrammed. this means that legitimate (from a concord point of view) targets can be locked down and destroyed without mercy. i also think that some pilots will fight to the death, especially if the fight is close. ive heard many stories of people choosing to stay and fight, even when they could warp off.there are many negative aspects to a change like this. the piracy and ransoming professions would be severely affected. it would also be a very unwelcome boost to macro miners and macro ratters. i dont support such a draconian change, but i do think that idea has some merit. ultimately, we will never know how players will react to such a change until its on tranquillity."
"did you wake up, fall and hit your head?let me help you out bro:if disruptors were removed there would be no kills at all.everybody is a ***** at heart, and nobody likes to lose ships. so its \"oh, hitting low armor, time to go\". everybody would just constantly warp off, so kills wouldn't be reduced, they would literally not happen at all, and on the off chance somebody did die, you'd probably be laughed out of your alliance or corp, because \"why didn't you just warp off\".i swear some of the ideas posted here are from bleach drinking ******s, cause this is the dumbest **** i have ever read in print."
"i guess the red mist came down before you read the sentence that said the op was not supported the only reason that i suggested the op had merit was that if it was applied to 0.4 sec, for example, it could allow people to transition from hi-sec to low and null."
"is this good or not?"
"there should be a way to 'filter' \"guests\" when docked at a station.if i want to 'trade' to a player especially in jita, i should be able to at least say \"show me only corp members / high standing people / red standing\".such a pain to try to right click on a toon when its constnatly getting shifted up and down as people dock and undock.just a thought."
"if you're docked in a station with someone who is in the same chat as you, you can right click their name in the chat box (alliance, corp, personal chat) and select trade. even on the address book.thumbs up cause it won't hurt..."
"i'm not sure what kind of advanced mathematics go into finding a route, so some explanation of these esoteric formulae would be nice. if nothing else, the ability to drag the current route through other star systems similar to how most mapping websites do, or a layout of the various options would be nice.supported."
"atm pvp is very hard to escape from (unless you have scorpions and falcons) when you're tackled, discouraging people from engaging even when the odds are even.i believe a lot more pvp would take place if warp disruptors had a reuse time of one minute and disrupted for 30 seconds, and scramblers for 1 minute with a 1:30 cooldown.sure you'd lose a lot of kills but at the same time you'd also get engaged a lot more if someone knows they have a chance to escape.i trol u not."
"and the need to bring even more dps to fights would result in even larger blobs and yet more lag.i call bs on your claim of not trolling us."
"er if you have 2 people with a disruptor you can permanently disrupt someone if you time it right, troll rejected.also wtf you think people actually fit disruptors in blobs?it's called a hic."
"don't think just in terms of 0.0 warfare. pvp in low-sec is a difference beast altogether... one where solo and small gang warfare is quite viable. your proposal would nerf it by, like de said, causing people to bring enough numbers to ensure a kill rather than rely on an \"unreliable\" module.alsoif they're smart... yes. doesn't matter if you're in 0.0, low-sec, or wherever... unless you are a logi or anti-support ship (i.e. falcon) you always fit a point in pvp... if for no other reason other than to have multiple redundancies/back-ups for when the \"initial\" point fails.not supported."
"the point of pvp is to kill the enemy.if the enemy escapes, the entire fight was completely pointless. your idea makes pvp pointless."
"-10.0"
"the obvious consequence to this would be that everyone uses stations in empire and npc 0.0 to store all their junk and holds a bare minimum of ammo and 1 or 2 spare ships in alliance outposts.i mean, if that's what you want to happen, then fine i guess, but it doesn't actually result in any of the benefits that you list."
"tend to agree with this assessment, changes would be negative for pretty much everyone attacker and defender both.when hangar divisions for personal hangars make their appearance it could potentially apply for whatever is in the \"general\" tab.further, it should apply only to non-inhabited hangars so that the presence of a clone in a given station exempts those assets then it would make sense.but nothing even remotely resembling such a thing should be considered until acquiring a station takes more than blobbing like fat chicks in the snack isle and sc's have their anti-structure capabilities removed (read: when null is once again worthwhile)."
"losing a huge strategical asset + all stuff in it is already pretty hurtingthis is a joke, right? a boost to small gang warfare? it is a boost to supercapital fleets laying waste to everything they see while travelling at ridiculous speed arround. it is a boost to blobbing, since right now the main reason for a powerblock to not kill a smaller entity and take his stations is :effort:, with this they wouldnt do much else. so even more than now you must be part of a huge powerblock. and then the looting part, small gang warfare because they undock industrials one by one which you get cheap ganks on? (hint: i wouldnt call ganking an industrial really small gang warfare). too bad that will never happen, better idea: anchor pos on moon, preferably instaundock moon if possible. put a titan in the pos and one in the system where you want the loot. freighters dock, load, undock, warp to titan, bridge, unload, bridge back, etc. within 1-2 hours max the entire station is empty, and the operation is protected by their supercapital fleet. it already has enough.the ability to defend stations is completely unrelated to the amount you have (which is one of the main problems with eves sov atm, it doesnt take much more effort to defend 100 systems instead of 2 systems, so a smaller entity cant just defend 2 systems against a slightly larger one with 100 systems). if anything you need more stations to distribute your stuff more.and how is that related to docking games? a dead ship doesnt defend a station -> better dock and repair then get killed."
"bumpcould this be pushed through csm to ccp as gallente frigates are clearly out of the line?"
"the problems with t1 frigates go way beyond this."
"definitely. on the other hand, ccp is most likely not going to make any larger scale balance changes as balancing isn't their priority nor much of an interest so this little and obvious issue might get an attention."
"tristan is actually pretty damn good, better than a top tier hybrid platform would be. takes a lot more skills due to split weapons but its a powerhouse thanks to the new rocks.t1 frigates are suffering badly from the tier system with only top tiers seeing any real use. while the idea of a \"small change\" may look enticing it will still require the big picture to be examined so one might as well do it all at once."
"capsuleers are supposed to be gods in comparison to regular people, they will never die and all have a great impact on the universe. in every station isn't there supposed to be millions of people inhabiting it, rich people in huge ship-like buildings, regular joes in apartments and even fishy looking people in slums?how about making drugs (boosters)carry-able items, so when you undock from your ship there are areas where you can go down and walk along-side the peons below to trade drugs with other legendary star ship pod-pilots who hang out in shady areas. of course there would be a risk to this such as customs officers checking you not-so-thoroughly, maybe depending on a social skill.this way you could take non-snyth drugs completely off the high-sec market (seeing as how they are illegal anyways) and make drug dealing a real profession."
"i don't think you need to worry about this. from everything the devs have said so far, incarna will focus pretty heavily on black market transactions."
"locked by request."
"this problem kinda discriminates against amarr pilots doesn't it...maybe i think that cuz im amarr"
"while you're at it, the drone sub could use some love as well, possibly an extra turret to make it a better split-weapon sub."
"either boost the legion or nerf all the other t3s. i prefer boosting the legion."
"most cloaky t3s have poor dps - it's because of the cloaky sub. the thing that gets me is that cloaky t2 cruisers get to have drones, but cloaky t3s (ie more advanced) don't. not even simply 5 lights (or 3 even ffs!).i would say that the best improvement to t3s would be adding drones to all offensive subs, just less (but > 0) for the cloaky ones."
"agreed."
"right now some of the \"named\" lore-important npc like abel jarek or jamyl sarum got horrible random generated faces, that have nothing to do with the portrets in evelopedia. sure there are more important things to do but lore is important to some of us.so, if ccp has no time to waste on such things - why not to let players to do it? it can be a simple event where anyone who wants to join presents the picture. all ccp has to do is to choose a few most fitting avatars and add replace the horror we have now."
"i played elite on commodore 64. whos ripping who of?"
"some of us played the bbc version of elite and not the c64 rip-off."
"some of us went to the moon. stfu noobs."
"does anyone haz a linkz for thiz?"
"winners drawnclick here to viewentrant listclick this link for the comfirmed entrant list.what is the csm?the council of stellar management (csm) is a player-elected council who represent the views of the members of the eve online community to ccp. the purpose of the csm is to represent society interests to ccp. this requires active engagement with the player community to master eve issue awareness, understanding, and evaluation in the context of the greatest good for the greater player base.campaign agendausing a census website tool designed specifically for the csm i will gather data from the playerbase on relevant and current issues. if i gain a seat on the csm the results garnered from this data will decide how i vote during meetings and which topics or issues that i'll focus on.police microtransactionslate last year ccp announced that vanity microtransactions (mts) were coming to eve. i will ensure that ccp keeps mts limited to vanity items and that any changes to this plan be passed by the csm first. mts are micro-payments for ingame services or items, usually with real money and potentially with plex, otherwise known as \"legitimized real money trading.\" i will closely monitor how much content is available for those who do not purchase mts and actively ensure that they do not lose out on gameplay oppurtunities.make incarna relevantensure that incarna is kept relevant by actively promoting player ideas, in particular those that would allow for customisation of npcs for player made content and those that would allow for new mini proffession. i will also be actively promoting that incarna stays optional with as less impact on those that just want to play ships in space as possible.mini profression enhancementsactively promote upgrades to existing miniprofessions and the introduction of new ones.promote live eventspromote an increase to live ccp events and better support for player run events. with a particular focus on oppurtunites for inter-corp and alliance competitions.serious galleryi've added a serious gallery on my website which contains many of my ideas and contributions to previous csms which you can view here: www.seriousinternetpolitician.com/gallerycsm experimentupdate: some rl issues have delayed the release of the census toolmy team and i have been developing a census website and social experiment to determine the major issues of eve's playerbase, which i will then promote as my csm agenda if i gain office. once the website has been activated the data garned from user entry will decide my response to issues brought up in csm meetings where possible.if an issue is raised by the website that is beyond the scope of my current experience i have access to a talented support crew, as well as the assembly hall and other csms. more importantly i will have the ability to talk to the group that has the most revelance to the issues, the people who the issues effects.issues brought to me will be investigated and i will bring possible solutions to the csmlink removed, your campaign model is not suitably clothed for linkage.steviesg"
"click here to vote serious for csm6newsall event entries close @ 23:59 gmt on tuesday march 22 (today) except the signature comp which is already closed. check page 15 for partial ticket lists which will be double checked and finalised within the next 48 hours.plex for csm seat24 plex max prize poolfor every 100 votes that my character recieves for the sixth csm election i will add 1x plex into a prize pool. this prize pool will be split into 2 even amounts of upto a maximum of 24plex total. the more votes i get, the more plex you can win.first prize pooleveryone who has posted \"i support this product and or service\" in my thread will get one entry maximum into the first pool of plex.two people will be randomly picked using chribba's dice tool whom will share this pot equallysecond prize pooleveryone who gets other players to vote and post \"[referrer's name] and i support this product and or service\" will get one entry into the second pool of plex.two people will be randomly picked using chribba's dice tool whom will share this pot equallyexample: if someone posts: \"t'amber and i support this product and or service\" - t'amber would get one entry into the 2nd prize pool and the person who posted this message would get entry into the first prize poolonly one person can be refered in each of these postsrulesentries will given in order of posting and posts must be close to the prescribed fashion: i support this product and or servicewinners will be drawn on the first saturday of april @ 20:00gmt in the \"www.seriousinternetpolitician.com\" ingame chat channel.winners will be drawn using chribba's 3rd party dice tool using my full apiif the prize pool cannot be split into even amounts excess plex will be sold for isk and redistributed so that it is fair to all the winnersdice results and winners will be posted in this thread.signature curator6 plex prize poolentry is now closed to this evententrants set my signature up as their own on scrapheap challenge, eve-online or the ivy league forums and they recieved entry into this bonus draw. if any of them win any of the other competitions they'll get to share this bonus prize pool. the entrants have been finalised and are listed on page 15 of this thread.free the space kitten3 plex prize poolsumbit the best space kitten imagery and win 3 plex. serious polariod3 plex prize poolsubmit the best image with my portrait in it and win 3 plex.there are prepared images included in the 3rd post down if you require help.soe shareholders6 plex prize poolone random ships of eve corporation shareholder who has posted \"i support this product and or service\" in this thread will win 6 plex. cerbus, e30089, and any t'amber character is exempt from winning. you can buy soe shares from the sell forums.errorsi will do my best to double check and validate all entries.if an error is found before a draw the ticket ordering shall be fixed before the draw.if an error is found after a draw no prizes or ticket numbers will be changed and i'll have to live with this mistake.i will try to be fair, but there are lots of numbers to manually enter :pgoodluck!"
"click here to vote serious for csm6serious gallery visit www.seriousinternetpolitician.com for serious imagery of issues and ideasserious polaroid images background image:"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service."
"i support this product and or service."
"i support this product and or service."
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service.p.s. signed under social experimentation, any thoughts or deals (or other related issues) of topic starter may or may not be supported further as more details is coming out.db"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service."
"i support this product and or service."
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service."
"i support this product and or service;) gl"
"\"i support this product and or service\""
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"\"i support this product and or service\""
"how many other alts do you have?"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service[signed as part of social experimentation - any further issues, views etc may not qualify for support at a later date]"
"i support this product and or service[signed as part of social experimentation - any further issues, views etc may not qualify for support at a later date]"
"i support this product and or service. ** this support may be withdrawn at a later date."
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service."
"i support this product and or service."
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"-"
"don't lie because you self wrote:\"0.0 logistics currently are too easy and cheap imo\"as i'm stated before, don't elect this candidate, because he will make your life in 0.0 to a hell."
"even though, according to recent publications, everyone seems to have underestimated the problem somewhat, ccp has taken the problem quite seriously from what i could gather in the past csm terms. it seems there is a need to do some more however and i will not hesitate to push that subject because even in the most optimistic estimates, botting is having a huge influence in the eve economy and political landscape. the trouble with fools is that they can be so damn persistent..you keep reading this very selectively and interpreting it as if it were a threat made personally against you.there is no doubt that the proliferation of supercaps and the ability of an army to move all the way across the galaxy in a matter of hours is having a quenching effect on pvp, large and small. who's gonna engage a 10 vs 10 when you know there is a hotdrop inbound? who can afford to leave his homespace for a few days because the enemy could move over en-force tonight and siege it? these are, in my opinion, some of the overarching problems that 0.0 and lowsec currently face, and we have been discussing possible solutions at length. ideas were let loose, some of which are apparently so radical that people like you have difficulty realising that we are trying to think up ways of making the game better. if you have alternative ideas on how to fix these problems, don't hesitate to voice them because we are after all your representatives."
"you are mixing up force projection and logistics and i remaind poeple here, what you have written: \"0.0 logistics currently are too easy and cheap imo\" i don't know wheter you are always was be active in corp logistics or not. but you are showing no competance and messing up a good intention to remove force projection. managing production and delivery a ship in an ongoing war can be an exhausting job. if than one like you, try to mess with the logistic chain this will be the death to many smaller entitys in 0.0, while big coalitions can engange their carebear force. i'm a pilot that want pewpew and not endless convoys or the result that a small alliance isn't able to secure the supply. thx for the fool. i give it back to you."
"what if we can make the game better and give you more, and more interesting pvp by tweaking 0.0 logistics? what if we made construction in outposts and at pos'es easier so you can build stuff locally and not have to import everything from empire? that would offset much of the inconveniences that regular players would suffer from a logistics 'nerf', whilst at the same time making it more difficult to construct supercaps (which, currently, is stupidly easy).you are completely forgetting the big picture. there is a lot to be gained by everyone from an overhaul of the way items and ships are made and transported in 0.0. i want to make it easier and more interesting for the regular players, and more challenging for the multi-billionaires and their supercap toys."
"how are you planning on 'pushing' this issue if i may ask? i hope you will advocate for more rigorous punishment, having a fleet of 0.0 bots banned for 24 hours and being back the day after is certainly not going to solve the problem for instance."
"the problem with bots is that you have to be damn sure that it actually is a bot before banning one to prevent losing legit customers and causing a pr disaster. so improving detection methods with the aid of players (who undoubtedly know a thing or two about bots :)) is one important factor as well as enforcing the eula by warnings and bans. if a warning or temp ban does not suffice to stop the botting, more serious actions may be appropriate.changing pve and market mechanics to make botting more difficult (without hindering the players!) is also a possibility but again, this has to be carefully considered."
"i get what you're saying here, but botters almost never admit to botting, and absent the ability to scan someone's computer, botting is a nearly impossible charge to prove. people can claim to be drunk, half-asleep, really bad at the game, etc. all ccp can really do is the one-day ban for the first offense and wait to see if that player is reported again.as i said, it's really tough to get a botter to admit to botting. and interestingly, it's just as tough to get players to actually report bots, because there's a perception that ccp won't do anything about the bot anyway.chicken, meet egg."
"ok, fair warning: this is a long response. just remember: you asked that really open-ended question. that's an excellent question. small-gang pvp was and is my first love in eve, and it's being slowly murdered by the blob.first, this isn't a problem that one person is going to solve. something i'm going to do even before the elections is hold player round-tables on three issues: pvp blobs, jump logistics, and empire war-decs. i'll be posting in the relevant eve-o threads asking for interested parties to join me in a discussion on those three issues. i'll record those round-tables and put them on-line on my website. that will happen in ten days or so, once the official candidates list is out. even if i'm not selected, i hope the recordings will be useful to whomever is selected to csm6. obviously, if i'm one of the people selected, i'm going to formally write up the best proposals and ideas out of those round-tables and put them out on the assembly hall.and if the csm votes down those initial ideas, then i'll hold additional round-tables with more players after the elections until we come up with some proposals that the csm does like and feels comfortable submitting to ccp.so that's the first idea i have: get more players involved in the solution.now, with that said, i have a few ideas on all three of these topics. most of these ideas are probably complete junk. that's where players come in, to help me separate what's junk from what isn't. ;)the first problem is getting small gangs to engage. a couple of weeks ago, i was fc'ing a small inty/cruiser gang (about seven total) when we came upon a bait hurricane on our out-gate. he aggressed my scout, and i obligingly ordered my scout to return the favor. the rest of us jumped in and warped. we had no logi. our heaviest ship by far was my ship, a vaga. we had one other t1 cruiser and some t2 frigs. \"uh oh,\" says my scout. turns out the cane was bait for a six ship gang that included two more bcs, two t2 frigs, and an oneiros (six total). way more than we could handle. still, we hadn't gotten a kill because every other gang we'd come across had run from us. so i gritted my teeth, called the oneiros primary... and the other fleet fled from us through the gate as soon as the cane could lose aggro.how do we get small gangs to engage? that'll be the first question for the round-table. i personally favor either longer aggro timers, enforced wait times on gates depending on traffic (similar to current traffic control, but much shorter wait times but much easier to trigger), or both. where's the carrot on getting small gangs to engage? not sure. need some help with that one.more in my next post."
"continued from last post.one idea that i've seen bandied about that i don't personally agree with is somehow trying to force sov-holders to \"come out and play\" by allowing small gangs to attack sov structures. this puts too much of a disadvantage on smaller alliances that can't maintain all-around tz coverage. if your prime-time is eutz and mine isn't, you shouldn't be allowed to knock out station services just because you can put a small gang up at that time and i can't. i would like to see smaller alliances hold sov. allowing a larger entity to bully a smaller entity just encourages that smaller entity to join a blob -- the opposite of what i want.next thing. blobs are out of control because they can be. that's another root cause to the death of small-gang pvp, and it's almost zen in its simplicity. if you put a fleet into fleet finder, and open it up to blue standings, your fleet will grow. if you have a lot of blues, it will grow until the fc is satisfied with the size and make-up. i think it was trebor that said a fleet will grow to the size of available lag, or something to that effect. how to address this one would be the second question for the round-table. i have a goofy idea here that is probably stupid, but might... might... work. artificially limit the number of blues an alliance can set. you can have three (or so) +10s. you can have five (or so) +5s. and that's it. choose wisely. might be an incredibly dumb idea. probably some major downside that i'm not seeing.another, related, idea would be to bite the bullet and reconfigure the corporation management skills to cut the number of players that can be added to a corp. with the sovereignty skill, you're adding a thousand players per level. that's just nuts.for the carrot on this one, i think it'd also be nice if eve had some kind of mechanic for \"fc rep.\" this would need an addition to the api. some kind of functionality that would allow each kill with more than five people and fewer than 40 people on it to be assigned not only to the pilots on that kill, but to the fc for that engagement (which would be the fleet boss at the moment of the killmail). to encourage new fcs to keep trying, you also get rep for loss mails suffered while you're fleet boss. want to lead a 20-pilot fleet? build up rep points leading smaller fleets first. this is very pie-in-the-sky, but i think fc rep would quickly become a status symbol.anyway, that's enough to start. i've got a few ideas on this topic and have thought about it a bit, as you can see. but idea one is to get player round-tables set up to discuss this issue with players."
"click here now to vote to re-elect trebor!\"your efforts on behalf of csm5 and the community are very much to be admired and should serve as the gold standard for csm delegate performance.\" -- mynxee, csm5 chair\"i can say without reservation that trebor has been one of the hardest-working delegates on csm5 ... i have one account and one vote; that vote will go to trebor.\" -- mynxee, csm5 chair\"...he was/is for sure [the] most dedicated delegate of csm 5 and csm 6 will be blessed with him on board.\" -- vuk lau, csm5 delegate.\"during the fifth csm trebor constantly worked to improve the dialogue between the csm and ccp as well as representing the playerbase without bias or personal agenda. i have no doubt he will continue to do so to the best of his considerable abilities.\" -- dierdra vaal, csm5 delegate\"not someone we always agree with, and not someone in our political sphere in eve, but through numerous conversations he's made it very clear that he loves the game and is committed to working within the csm to improve it. we believe he should be re-elected and that he would help provide balance and still work cooperatively within the csm.\" -- the eve tribunewhy i'm running for re-election to the csmover the past year, while serving on csm5, i have diligently advocated for the interests of all players of eve, not just a particular narrow constituency. i believe i have accomplished a lot, but there is much more work to be done, and i would like the opportunity to continue to work on your behalf. my complete campaign manifesto, and details on my billions for ballots bonanza lottery can be found here.accomplishments as a member of csm5as vice-secretary, i was a primary author or editor of almost all csm blogs and summit reports.i raised, championed and pushed through significant csm proposals aimed at benefiting broad groups of eve players (in particular, ui-related issues), such as the removal of learning skills, the user interface - big wins, fan favorites and low hanging fruit proposal, the planetary interaction omnibus proposal, and the possibly practical pos performance proposal.i created, developed and managed the concept of prioritization crowdsourcing, which was used to poll the players and determine what items on the csm in-process list should be given the highest priority in negotiations with ccp.i also instituted the practice of awarding hand-anodized titanium faction assault sporks to ccp devs who perform particularly meritorious services to the players.finally, i regularly blog about the csm process, am extremely active on the eve-online and scrapheap challenge forums, and manage the in-game csm-news mailing list.(continued)"
"my goals during csm6if re-elected, i will continue to keep the pressure on ccp to deliver improvements to the game that the current players of the game want, and to justify their resource allocations. the hard work done during csm5 has clearly demonstrated to ccp how useful and productive engaging with csm can be, and i will redouble my efforts to build on that success.i will in particular continue to push for improvements in the user interface, for iterations on widely-used parts of the game (such as trade, industry, and mission gameplay), for increased resources to be devoted to game performance issues (aka \"the war on lag\"), for game design changes to revitalize important areas of the game (such as nullsec sov warfare, factional warfare, and low-sec), and for renewed efforts to fight rmt and botting.finally, on a less serious note, if i am elected chairman of the csm, i promise to attend csm summit meetings wearing bunny slippers.i am happy to answer your questions about my record and my positions in this thread. you can also contact me directly with questions at trebor-csm@animeigo.com. my in-game chat channel is \"trebor-csm\".i hope you will honor me with your vote, and encourage your friends in eve to do this same. a high turnout in the csm6 elections is important, not just for me personally, but because it demonstrates player support for the progress csm has made; the more votes are cast, the louder our voice becomes, and the more we can accomplish for you, our fellow players.a little about memy rl name is robert woodhead. i am 52 years old, and live in north carolina with my wife and two children. i am the author of the first 4 games in the wizardry series of rpg games, as well as one of the first anti-virus programs, virex. as a player in one of the early text-based multiplayer rpg games, gemstone iv on genie, i created what may be the first \"bot\" character using modem-program scripting, robocleric, which would roam around the game, rescuing other players, dispensing advice via an eliza module, and doing a little killing and looting (but oh, so politely). the gemstone staff responded to this in a totally despicable way: they made me a gm, and i ended up creating a secret-society subgame, the council of light. in other words, i'm an old-school hacker (in the original, good sense of the word) -- in fact, i was the hacking consultant for the film \"real genius\".i am also a founder and ceo of animeigo, the oldest surviving anime company in the us.in my spare time, in addition to playing eve, i also build and fight combat robots, write the occasional bit of free software, and i'm one of the few eve pilots who actually knows what zero-g feels like.i have been playing eve for a little over 3 years now, and in that time have written several private api tools to help me trade and manage production pipelines, as well as the evie browser-based skill training monitor (for iphone and all major desktop browsers).ps: to answer the inevitable question, \"are you doing this just to get a free trip to iceland?\", the answer is \"i'm 52 and have a bad back. flying to iceland isn't a reward... it's a punishment!\"(continued)"
"since this thread is really getting long, here aretrebor's top 13 posts in the thread(because nigel tufnel was a wussy. only 11? really?)#13 : how to make prioritization crowdsourcing even better.#12 : why the current bugreport system is an exercise in frustration / thoughts about botting and rmt.#11 : my history in the game / thoughts on the ui.#10 : how i go about figuring out what game issue need more love.#9 : why ccp should use player experts to tiger-team big changes.#8 : what the csm is really all about.#7 : what's so important about csm being a \"stakeholder\"?#6 : my philosophy of skepticism and how it affects my work on the csm.#5 : why a transparent and professional csm is so important.#4 : why i love it when people honestly disagree with me.#3 : why dev engagement with csm and directly with the players is just good business.#2 : some amusing notes on the goon smear campaign.and the #1 post in trebor's re-election thread...#1 : the mittani shows us how he gets all his best ideas from \"dangerous idiots\" and \"dribbling ******s\"!the billions for ballots bonanza lotteryeve being what it is, it occurred to me that a little old-fashioned ballot box stuffing would be a fun thing to try. it's fun, it's free, it's possible to cheat, and you could take me for 6 billion isk!click here to enter the lottery!"
"why the goons are smearing metl/dr: the mittani is running on a platform that only he and his friends can make the csm effective, so it's important to discredit anyone who can put the lie to his fundamental argument. the bottom line is, csm 5 has been extraordinarily effective, and i am one of the biggest reasons why.this is why i am a huge threat to their plans.in recent days, i've been the target of a smear campaign by the goons, claiming that all of my ideas are bad; that i'm a \"dangerous idiot\". i find this particularly amusing since one of my core beliefs is that i should never try to lobby for my own ideas; my job is to be a representative of the players, and push for the things they want.with that in mind, let's consider what i did during csm 5 and the results they generated:first of all, i did the prioritization crowdsourcings in august and november, which helped get more csm issues addressed in incursion than ever before, influenced the assignment of team bff to \"pothole filling\" in incarna, and helped them populate their backlog.the csm proposals i raised were (links in previous posts):improve overload user interface.planetary interaction omnibus proposal.scanning colors.modify or remove learning skills.user interface - big wins, fan favorites and low hanging fruit.possibly practical pos performance proposal.all of my proposals passed. all of them were developed by the players. not one of them was one of my allegedly \"bad\" ideas.the results? ccp has plucked some of the ui low hanging fruit, and team bff is harvesting even more at this very moment. and the other proposals are chock full of big \"bang for buck\" items, so it's likely that some of them will get addressed in the near future.this has been my consistent strategy -- to give ccp big boxes of irresistible little chocolates -- each only a small amount of work -- and let them choose which ones are the tastiest. to give them a list they can go to when a dev has an extra week or two and needs something to do -- \"oh look, there's a tasty little caramel!\" given the competition for resources at ccp, it's a strategy that gets results.but of all of my proposals, the one i am proudest of was the one about learning skills -- but not because i think it convinced ccp to remove them. rather, after the june summit, it became clear to me that new player retention was a major concern at ccp, and that removing learning skills was an obvious way to improve retention. it was going to happen sooner or later, so i made damned sure there was a new player-originated proposal that gave the players the best possible \"deal\" if learning skills went away.ccp killed learning skills almost exactly the way the players who helped me shape that proposal suggested. in fact, the one tiny element they didn't implement caused most of the small amount of player dissatisfaction with the change.i hope you'll consider my track-record carefully, and honor me with your vote. and please read trebor's guide to mud, which addresses the consequences of the smear campaign on the prospects of other qualified candidates.the mittani clearly considers me the greatest threat to his plan to pervert the csm to his own purposes. that should tell you everything you need to know.after all, you can tell a lot about a man by who his enemies are.so vote wisely, and tell your friends to do the same. spread the word! this election is very important. don't sit back and let it be stolen by a bunch of goons. to make it easy for you, i've whipped up a simple media kit. it contains a message you can email and evemail. a few minutes of your time could make a huge difference to the game.thank you for your time and attention,trebor"
"well i know for one that you will get at least one or even more of my votes.you have been the voice of progress in this csm, progress as in actually getting ccp to listen to you all.good luck."
"it's the bunny slippers that got me.i have watched the actions of the csm closely and you are certainly one of my favourites, so atleast 1 of my accounts is going to vote for you."
"got my one and only vote, sir. it was a pleasure working with you on csm5. i have no doubt you will well prepared due to your csm5 experience to do an even better job on csm6. good luck...i hope you get chair!"
"caught you on a podcast when you announced you were running. good interview. you have my vote."
"**** me, you not running again mynxee?"
"fraid not, a career change/self-employment will require all my attention this year; i will have neither the time nor energy to do justice to a csm seat. so...i do hope those who might have voted for me will instead vote for trebor (and if not him, one of the other candidates i endorse)."
"while i have completely different pow on the game compared to trebor i must give him kudos for his efforts in csm5. mature, smart, old, not-really-witty, old, dedicated, did i said old? guy who puts lots of passion into csm. if you are empire dweller trebor is your best bet, he is kinda clueless about 0.0 and pvp, but he is giving his best to approach every issue properly. also extremely important, he is one of the rare guys, not biting my trolls, and calming the discussions down.anyway as i said already somewhere, despite going on my nerves constantly, he is one of the best csm delegates i worked with."
"while i obviously believe a vote is best given to me, for those who intend on voting for robert, i can only say that he is a good candidate.robert and i regularly have differing opinions about things (more often than not, actually). however robert always welcomes and partakes in constructive criticism of all ideas, is (the majority of the time) willing to amend his or find a compromise with other's to reach a good approach. robert sometimes doesn't know things, that's true, but he is willing to accept other's knowledge to supplement his own (a trait that has been lacking in many csm members in the past).robert possesses an apparently unquenchable fountain of energy that he uses abundantly for all things related to the csm. of all 4 terms i was a member of, i can safely say he's the member who spent the most time and effort working on things.but god can he ramble on and on and on before making his point sometimes ;-)looking forward to seeing you in csm 6 robert :-)"
"sounds like my kind of guy! anyone willing to push for refining what is already there and hopefully make eve challenging/fun for the individual again is \"good people\" in my book.ps: make sure ccp doesn't give up what little momentum they finally acquired in getting rp back in eve."
"i know, it's a terrible habit i picked up from you, stephan."
"i must say that you were a stellar delegate (if you'll excuse the pun), and so you have my one and only vote. here's to another year of improvements to the gameplay and fixes to the bugs, er um, unintended features. :)"
"i'm endorsing this candidate :)"
"you have my vote for sure, great run this year, hope to see a lot more progress next year :dbtw dont forget our poor dead horse.."
"my goals as a member of csm 6eve online - iterations is the cornerstone of my campaign. to me, eve online has always been a game about spaceships. unfortunately, ccp seems more focused on some grandiose vision of creating the \"ultimate sci fi simulator\" instead of effort to improve the core game play of the best spaceship pvp game on the market. they continue to push in all directions at once, which might be worth buying into if there was some evidence of a cohesive plan that connects it all and gives each element a reason to exist in a game play context.my main priority will be pushing for the iteration and balancing of current features. sure, i want to see new content as well, but iteration of the current game play would virtually guarantee new content as part of the process.i doubt i'm alone in stating that if ccp had spent the last several years refining planetary interaction / incarna to be more along the lines of planetary warfare / mech piloting, there might be more excitement among the current player base. even better, a complete re-focus on nothing but the spaceship aspect of the game would most likely have made a lot (dare i say a majority, especially of longer-term) players happy...ecstatic even. imagine where eve might be today had all of these art and technical resources been put toward sovereignty iteration, factional warfare expansion, a low sec makeover, industrial balancing and just every day spaceship balancing and current feature iteration.i am not interested in more stuff - i want the stuff we have now to be complete and work properly.eve - who am i?i started playing eve in beta 6, back in early 2003. i have had at least one active eve account from the week the servers went live until today. in that time i've played eve at every conceivable level. my most well known role is that of the ceo of body count inc. and founder and leader of the old mercenary coalition alliance. i've known the joys of wiping out capital fleets and killing titans; i know the pain of losing the same.additionally, i have been the ceo of one of the largest industrial corps in the game and also coordinated the activities of several smaller industrial corporations. i have done industrial work involving dozens of t2 bpos and coordinated logistics for outpost and super capital construction. although i am quite wealthy today, i mined omber in a punisher for two weeks to earn the isk for my first cruiser bpo.in my time as a player i've made several videos and written several well known war reports, one of the most detailed of which was the north reloaded. i have seen all the highs and lows that eve has to offer and my passion for the game still burns brightly.i am one of you and i want to take my experience as a player and a former dev back to iceland as a member of the csm.rl - who am i?my name is mark heard. i am 37 years old, married with a family, and split my time between homes in the united states and germany. i was a member of the united states army for four years before going to work for the u.s. department of defense for several years. in late 2006 i was hired as a game designer at ccp, a job i held until february of 2010 when i resigned to return to work in the defense industry.i don't care about free trips to iceland. i've had plenty of those when i worked at ccp. i don't care about getting a job there because... done that! i'm doing this because i want to build on the progress that csm 5 made and take it to the next level. i believe that my experience as a former employee combined with my passion for what makes eve online unique in the gaming world can be a potent combination in representing the interests of the community."
"eve tribune has published their list of endorsements and i am on it!additional informationfollow me on twitter!my blog linkagefrequently asked questionsmassively interview - eve spotlightthe ccp connectionhow much actual impact does the csm have?incarna - will history repeat itself?csm5's public letter to ccp about incarnathe botting / rmt issuecan former devs be impartial?what kind of difference can a csm member make that a ccp employee cannot?is pushing for 'spaceships' a waste of time?hurf blurf & dealing with ccpdestructible outposts & local chata few words on supercap ragepos, black ops & cloakinglost in eve debates and eve uni classblog badge"
"i am christos and i approve of this message"
"comfirming my endorsement of seleene :)"
"seleene, if i had another vote to give, you would get it (sorry, trebor earned my 1 vote for his work on csm5). i believe you will bring something to the csm that it has never had before, and that is a solid understanding of how things are done at ccp, how best to communicate, and the most effective potential solutions to getting around obstacles and challenges related to communications and process issues that have been stumbling blocks for every csm so far. besides that, i feel it is very important for the csm as a whole to approach their duties with understanding and consideration of all play styles (not just the so-called null sec endgame--even though it's clear that you can speak authoritatively on that as well given your experiences both in game and as a dev). from our many discussions, i am sure that you can do that knowledgeably and in a respectful way. i urge everyone to seriously consider the unique value you will bring to csm6 and cast a vote in your favor.now, all that said, what are your views on low sec and how it can be improved? and whether -- as some people ask -- it needs to be improved?"
"friendly bump"
"here i will help you get the ball rolling on your thread. what do you think are biggest problem points in eve current? do you currently have any ideas on how to fix these problems,if so how?"
"read my manifesto summary:* the termination of nullsec renterspace* stop the mafia extortion of paying for space* elimination of powerblocks/vacuums* making it harder to maintain coalitions between alliances* a fair chance to empire corporations/ alliances to settle in 0.0 space* balance nullsec by making all of nullsec worth more (technetium/neodymium)* fair play! more challenge! * a kudo system for corporations/alliances in order to reward participation* the cost of clonecontracts should be reviewed / should be setup differently (no fun pvp with a 45m clonecontract)if you want to see the game changed fair and square then you need me as anti kartel csm.to get me in csm 6 as anti kartel csm i need at least 2500 votes to get some power within the council.everyone deserves a chance to experience 0.0 space based on fair play!no more pet-alliances and renter slaves!how? see my manifestofree yourself, your corp, your alliance!vote ms pacman!edit: a topic started at scrapheap challenge"
"what i like to see implemented is that renting space to others can in future only be done through \"rent slots\"renting through a rent slot can be done by a ceo (or added role).the advantage of this will be that ccp will get control over rent space and their money flows. ccp can then also limit the number of systems and/or corporations that an alliance can rent out to others.example:fictional system: qba-testsovereignty: demo alliancesystem licenced to: rentingcorpthat is also what i meant by \"termination of renterspace as it is today\" as the way systems are currently being rented has totally gotten out of controlany other way of renting out systems should be a violation of the eula once 'rent slots' are being introduced.alliances wont be able anymore to rent space to other alliances with the introduction of rent slots (this in my perspective to make it harder to maintain coalitions between alliances)---------------------------------------------thats why everyone not in these dictator coalitions should vote for the anti-kartel csm ms pacman !if ms pacman would get 10.000 votes she will be able to appeal to ccp based on her total votes when it's needed."
"so your candidacy is based on removing the sandbox because you think some groups are playing in it the wrong way?lol get the **** out"
"your alliance is one of the kartels in eve.how much are you charging for a system?"
"there's so much at stake for so many players and ccp'ers alike that solutions are complicated, and when they are unsubtle, they are bound to ruin someone's day :)short answers is 'it's in progress'.."
"so you are basically saying the same as that guy above...... just with more words? seriously, considering the sorry state of so many core features (not only, but also 0.0), one gotta wonder who sets ccp's priorities, why, when and in the way they are. looks more and more like those decisions are made by people who hardly if ever play the game."
"you're more right there than you would like..and the csm is there to remind them what their priorities ought to be."
"ccp's top secret priority list leaked:1) walking in stations2) walking in stations3) walking in stations4) walking in stations5) walking in stations6) captain's quarters!!!7) appeal to other mmo players with a gimmick idea (see: 1)8) walking in stations9) walking in stations10) think about fixing bugs/lowsec/nullsec11) walking in stations12) other content that nobody cares about"
"oops"
"and the first post trolls the op....i think it would be an interesting idea. my concern is that it does not add enough to the game to really make it immensely desirable. i also get the impression you are assuming the pod ships are designed to integrate with pain/stress part of the brain which might not be the case (need to check lore). a ship exploding might not bother the capsuleer at all physically. alright enough rp for me. while i could see it being fun to have some 'human' element the point of capsuleers is that they are improved humans (a little more rp) and really i feel this might take away from the game play of eve more than it would add anything (make it optional i suppose)."
"oh wow. thanks for the lol i guess."
"thanks for the information."
"ya hybrids, they need some thing. more damage or more tracking or a new ability. fluff wise they are the marage of energy and projectile damage, but don't reflect that in realty. there plasma guns!! in most games that puts them at the top of the damage list, and in my head brings to mind super heated molecules. but alpha is kinda the projectile thing, may be give hybrids a d.o.t. (like poison in fantasy mmorps) representing the plasma \"sticking\" to the ship as it cools or a speed reduction for a second or two because of the added mass of the plasma(the ammo's meterals like lead are not very light)"
"hybrids rebalancing is most old and most important issue in the list."
"hybrids are on the first page with 2 separate topics of blasters 2.0 and rail gun fix"
"yes a new look on the pos would be great and a board room would even be sweet for meeting of said corp...."
"supported, a pos should like more like a mini station than boxes floating in space"
"a big ole hell yeah, as long as you need pi to do it!the director of evil,doukyou"
"+1 reason to use the tactical overlay"
"1please visit your user settings to re-enable images.2please visit your user settings to re-enable images.like this?"
"they need polish. better jump range +4 ly(titans still have a job moving every thing else ever) whats the use being sneaky if you cant get there. and all should probably do ewar stuff and damage bumps. and the all around t2 stuff they all get.(better fitting and race resist)*imho- they should give them cov op cloak, but with the above stuff they would be useful enough for now."
"no!!!"
"no"
"no.by doing this, ccp will accidentally eve, it will be bad."
"no."
"perhaps they should develop a release schedule that alternates between new features and \"polishing\" of old ones.maybe a release every 4 months, but every other one isn't so much a bug fix (do those in every release) as a finish the missing parts of a feature previously introduced. so we would end up with a new feature every 8 months, but it would be complete (i.e. excellent). the 4 months after initial release would give them time to add the polishing touches and determine what tweaks should be made as well..."
"supported"
"4th is needed, and like there big brothers one ship should tank & one should gank. tho an over hall may be needed for some, eg- caldari the tank ship is the missile boat witch is from the manufacturer that doesn't specialize in tank. i don't know if that's the only one that's like that but i likes me some fluff and would like to see the abilitys reflect that."
"as of 2/23 this idea is being considered by csm5 and has a chance of being presented to ccp. thanks go out to csm5 and vice-chairman dierdra vaal for discussing the proposal with me. special thanks go out to the players for their support."
"bridge madnesssame madness, in another view.kill the bridges!"
"ya hybrids in need some thing, the races that use them both use different damage types with there other weapons. maybe blasters doing more term and rails doing more ken. and rails don't bring any thing to the table that makes them different there just a in between lasers and projectiles. i like that fluff wise, but they don't reflect that in game eg- cant change ammo faster and can't change the flavor of damage."
"hybrids do need rebalance i agree.but this issue is at least 2 years old. every time someone bring it to discussion a large group of minmatars, amarrs, drake pilots, miners, noobs, etc break into tread and tell that \"hybrids are fine\". and nothing changes."
"hello everyone,i have a few remarks about the new character creation system. i'm aware that it is still in development, and that enhancements will arrive later (accessories, tatoos, etc.)but:where are all the fun and science fiction clothing? all the clothing is now very normal and seems like regular nowdays clothing. not spaceship pilot clothing... why the change of style?how come, i cannot make my character fat or skinny? are ugly people put aside in eve online? does every character have to look like ken or barbie? i feel that we see enough of this everybody-is-perfect-and-beautiful crap on tv.where are all the fun backgrounds (the ones with the colored strays for instance)? every background is now very depressing...all the lights are white. when will we be able to have colored lights again?i tried to make my character smile and be confident as he was before on the old portrait. i wasn't able to do it. every expression is now very mild and moderate. why not letting more freedom in the expressions?i can see that put much effort has been put in the new character creation system. but maybe, all the little details that can be tuned now (jaw width, color of eyebrows, ears orientation, etc.) are less important than more obvious things such as flashy clothes, nasty faces and silly salad-bowl-head-wear (i so miss mine). those things make a difference between characters. they allow players to have a character with actual \"character\". not just regular looking, non-smiling-nor-frowning robots.please don't take this wrong. i love eve. i'm just afraid that its original spirit is fading away with all those restrictions in the new character editor.cheers,robin"
"the current cc is about as exciting as a bowl of lukewarm porridge.edit: i'd like to add a usability feature to the mix. separate the tinting/coloring options from the clothing model options. you use a different color selection in every other category but the clothing/apparel. allow people to choose the model of the clothing like today, but then have a separate option appear for the available color options for that piece of cloth/apparel. that way it would be consistent with the other options and won't get so clutterd as new models are added."
"i'll would to read some awnsers about this, because i think we loose something about the originality of our unnivers.if ccp can talk about this, it'll be great."
"the way to make the community diverse and interesting to look at, and to make wis attractive to new people is to give people so many choices that it will be rare for two people to look alike.go take a look at the character generator on city of heroes!people want to feel unique. i am one of the elite, and imortal, a pod pilot! i do not want to look/dress like 15 other people walking around the station i am docked in.and please, for the love of the game, put in some scifi styled items.to be blunt, you need so many options, that some are rarely used."
"the new cc is very powerful, and as much as i like the new faces, i must admit a few trademarks are still missing. not only tattoos, but also plastic clothes, dumb smiles and of course salad bowl headwear.because i believe that the future of fashion lies not on the back of today's ordinary people walking on the streets but in lady gaga's wardrobe, i'm fully supporting this thread."
"100.0"
"word.everyone looks the same now - the new character creation is a wonderous thing, awesome and spangly - technically a brilliant feat and yet...somehow...the old one was better.the distinct ethnicity of the newer bloodlines has been, if not lost, then watered-down to the point of being barely distinguishable, as has the gaunt look of the sebiestors....the list goes on.think this was a case of less is more.my ideal situation would be a \"morph character\" option where i could select my old character portrait, and the clever new creator would just take all the important distinguishing features and re-make it in the new system.oh yeah and i want my old guristas background back!op is right, why if i turn muscularity right down and weight right up can i not create an obese character if i want?or someone festooned with implants and cyber-bionic-looking appendages. or at the very least a chuffing great assault rifle with all spkies and sh*t on!and why-oh-why-oh-why does every single pair of sunglasses available look a) exactly the same and b) crap."
"there's a good deal of problems with the new character generator. cybernetics like the deteis used to have, transparent clothing/visors like the gallente and minmatar used to have, earpiece comms like the achura had, facial tattoos, girth, sci-fi clothing, etc.the most disappointing part of the new character creator is the vherokoir and their squint eyes. they took one of the most beautiful avatars in the game and completely trashed them, imho. not everybody agrees with this statement, but most do.seriously, my avatar is as big as the eyes get, even with muscular manipulation and all. the character creator is off to a good start, but it's nowhere near complete, and only leaves the playerbase wanting the old one for the customization it offered. we don't want to build a house if all we have available is the cinderblock foundations.supported, and for crying out loud, if not, at least allow us to change our bloodline/gender, since those have no major effect to the game nor to reputation."
"agree here.i like the new character creator. but it miss something ... the thing who make you say \"look ! it's an eve online character\"."
"hello everyone, i want to bring up the clicking madness that is currently needed to do effective planetary interaction.consider the following scenario. as a bonus, i will leave out all the clicking needed to setup the planets or enter the planet screen. this will simply relate to a change of product in the production line which takes 1890 clicks for a non-maxed lvl iv pi character.a character has 5 planets, each planet has 21 advanced production facilities. (lvl iv skills needed)on day 1 he starts producing product a, taking him8 clicks per facility to setup and route the schematic and product.(facility, schematics, product, install, product, create route, select destination, install route)for a total of 840 clicks!(5 planets,* 21 facilities, * 8 clicks)now that the product is routed, the resources must be coming from the storage or launchpad.this takes 5 clicks per facility per resource, so 10 clicks total(storage, product, route, destination, install route <U+F0E0> x2 resources)for a total of 1050 clicks!(5 planets,* 21 facilities, * 10 clicks)overall 1890 clicks for a product change!on day 2, the market for product a has collapsed. to produce product b1890 clicks!on day 3, i want another product or product a again.1890 clicks!i ask to please have this system changed so that all factories can be addressed at the same time, or that profiles can be saved to switch back to earlier created schematics.1890 clicks, its just ridiculous.please!"
"you are talkig planet scale production. that's like nuclear powerplants, only for boss to show up the next day and say : \"you know guys, we feel like mining coal today!\"these networks aren't suppose to be changed on a daily bacis.that being said, 1890 clicks should not be the factor dettering people from doing it. isk cost should."
"it would be great to have a bookmark tab in the corperation windows that contained tabs inside for different bm types (wormholespace bm, k-space bm etc etc) and a download button that automatically send all of them to your peeps n places. basically what the op said i just wanted to clarify the picture i got.so supported!"
"i support the idea of pvp in stations. now granted, it doesn't have to be hand to hand combat or even \"real live\" combat. imagine there was something like personal combat holodecks. competitive paintball-like events could be staged in such \"digital\" spaces...where no capsuleers are physically hurt. instead their \"avatars\" run obstacle courses while others try to shoot them down, or stuff like that. such events could have associated costs or fines for losers so their wallets experience real loss. and spectators could bet, etc. there are any number of possibilities which could arise out of that one idea alone...an idea that immediately eliminates any concerns about \"real death\" in stations.the point is, pvp needs to have a presence in stations for incarna to feel at all like eve.hopefully the incarna presentations at fanfest in a few weeks will address some of these questions and wants. csm has no idea what is planned; it doesn't seem likely we'll see anything in advance but i could be wrong."
"this pvp in the meat you speak of is being done, why make it a redundancy that competes with dust?"
"it won't be. dust does 't take place on stations, isn't for pod pilots, is on consoles and will be a different type of combat."
"i think that long term, and preferably not as long term as it's taken to get incarna in the first place - it should be possible to kill another pod pilot (effectively podding him) in a station.i would say it would need to be quite difficult, costly, and only available to characters that are not throwaway alts.simply - i think that random station ganking would be dumb and detrimental to the game, but carefully planned and quite rare station assassinations (like the one recently described in rixx jarvix's blog) would be awesome.random thoughts below.to cover the difficulty - it could require an expensive skill (rank 10+ - high security smuggling) to get a weapon of any kind into the capsuleer levels.to cover the cost - a spot fine and an immediate security status revocation (-10.0). oh, and naturally, station defenses will turn you into a messy pile in seconds, and you will not be welcome in a high security station until your security status is repaired.to make it unavailable to throwaway alts - either it should take a timeframe of months to set up in a given station, or it should be only available to characters with over a certain number of sp such as 1 year's worth (wouldn't make a lot of sense lore-wise, but i'm sure something can be made up) or perhaps better yet, both.also a form of unarmed combat with some kind of effect would be nice, brawling should be frowned upon but not harshly punished - such as a temporary ban from the station and a small fine. but it should also have some minor detrimental effect on the attacked party."
"sure, station ganking doesn't have to be easy. and sure, maybe there's a rank 10 (or 14, or whatever) skill that allows weapon smuggling. security hits, or being banned from certain corps' stations sounds fine (perhaps modifiable by another skill that allows infiltration, or what have you). the specific mechanics would probably best be discussed in the linked thread, this one was for, generally, a discussion of the idea that stations should have pvp content, and that content should mirror the rest of eve in that it shouldn't be totally avoidable."
"there is already a thread for this which you also made.not supported. gangs of disposable alts would quickly make all incarna content unplayeable. i doubt ccp's intent is to make desolated wastelands where only alts hang out ganking everyone \"for lulz\"."
"but now you get eoh poker...with hats."
"i supported this thread back in post #67, but a few more words given its several months down the road and i have a much better understanding of what will and won't get responses from the game designers when it comes to proposals...given what i've learned about the process in csm5, i'd say you'd be better off focusing more a proposal calling for pvp of some kind in stations and less on the specifics of how that should be implemented. since none of us have any clear idea what ccp is planning for incarna into the second and third iteration, nor what their limitations are technically or otherwise for what they are willing to implement, spending a lot of time detailing implementation mechanics is largely a waste of time. what they want is for players to propose an idea expressed as a solution to a problem. high level implementation ideas to help clarify both the problem and how it might be solved are okay. numbers and percentages and well...game design, there i said it...no. as ccp has stated to csm time and again, game design is their job to figure out. they just want your ideas for big-picture solutions to problems that you have identified.that is the way any proposal from ah will have the best chance of being looked at seriously by ccp when csm submits them. detailed implementation mechanics--especially for ideas that are feature-level in scope--just make their eyes glaze over most of the time because 99.99% of the time, the details just won't work for a variety of reasons (game balance, other plans you don't know about, etc.). that said, i support any proposal that puts more impetus behind the message that we want pvp of some kind in incarna."
"you realize that buy the fluff were only immortal in a pod.killing out side of a pod would be real death(no neural snapshot no sending of data) and that would case so much rage quit because of station gank that eve would die. also if you want eve fps than push for dust."
"i read some where in the lore that pop pilots have security forces to do their dirty work. what about being able to hire dust players ? they follow u around protect you in stations/kill anything u don't like.a few ideas/conditions for this to work. 1. dust players get paid and have an economic intensive. 2. the price is market driven i.e there are going to be 10 pod pilots to every dust player right so supply/demand.3. the dust players would be paid per every 10 mins. so i can't just hire some1 and bore the crap out them doing nothing.4. got to be able to talk let them know what's going on (i.e i've got a bounty and i want u guys to protect me.)5. the more the better. hiring more than one dust player totally allowed but the cost goes up *2 for each one.( i dunno but seems weird some guy could if he wanted buy 200 dust players for a few mins and have a gun fight with concord/kill evey one in sight.)6. perhaps you can see the stat's of players and they can choose their rates. so i can get a crappy player for cheap or a really skilled one for the big bucks.problems. 1. dust players might find this boring and completely break the feature. 2. how will the pod pilots let the dust players know who to kill and not to kill? some sorta lock/broadcast thing?3. would pod pilots be able to join in the fight?( i sure hope so)4.how do the dust players get all the way around the universe. would they use generic bodies or only be able to work in certain stations. 5. would be a huge isk sink.( not sure if this is even a problem)edit for stuff"
"before you reply read....1. high sec ganks sould cause you 0 docking rights in that faction space at npc stations for 24hrs, plus you are red in the faction space for 24h for crimes.2. faction, crime was placed in should put a bounty on toon of min of 5k.3. 0 insurance payed for ganking.4. attacking unarmed ships sould have 2x sec dropthis ideal is for 1.0 -.05 sec only and only for gankingtime for crimes to be crimes and not a free ride take a real look at the payouts on insurance on those gank ships no big loss for them, time to put a real hurt on crimes....."
"yeah. that was pretty much it. i have been searching for the dev post, but i cannot find it. i could have sworn that it was in one of the dominion blogs."
"not supported. sov null carebear heaven does not need yet another thing to farm. agents are already in npc null, go there."
"you missed the part where people can kill the agents to deprive you of them. if the agents are valuable enough then people will want to field forces to defend them. this would generate conflict maybe? and if not, then you get to kill all their agents and deprive them of their stuff."
"yeah, as much as you can kill the carebears in that system. there are places tucked deep within the blue ass of some alliance where you don't see a single hostile for weeks on end. sov null does not need yet another thing to farm. not to mention what it would take to make killible agents.there are agents in npc null, go there. even highsec carebears get suicide ganked while running highsec missions for crap pay. what makes you carebears think you're entitled to private agents in safe sov null?"
"yes please"
"would be nice."
"support 100% no question asked."
"so i can prime modules but not overheat them, it's the same thing, the modules aren't active when you toggle the overheat.supported"
"it's small and fiddly as it is, so make this less of a ui problem and more of a gameplay decision.cloaking stops you from activating any modules (and fair enough), but shouldn't stop you setting how you want to use them when you decloak."
"proposing better forum moderation.a number of legitimate threads have been locked, while caod and c&p remains troll infested. for example, there is a legitimate reason a miner carebear would make a post in industry section seeking advice on hulkageddon. locking that thread and linking the official thread in c&p started by hulkageddon organizer does not help. the population there is different. it would be just tear delivery, and the carebear in question will get no advice.assembly hall threads should not be locked for being \"duplicate\" of main discussion thread in another subforum which spawned it. if mod has to lock something, lock the main thread instead. locking assembly hall thread effectively prevents a vote.there's stuff like this:"
"i agree. while i am glad that they try, there are just too few of them for how many posts are made a day.a good way to do it is a mod for every forum category, and some extras for the high traffic ones."
"make officers spawn more often to compensate the ones that will not be killed cause the dude is alone. it;s a team game after all."
"i think this should be in the thousand paper cuts thread but owell.is it just me that gets irritated by the fact that when i warp to a station there is a 50/50 chance i land about 4-5km away or actually on 0 and insta dock.is this actually meant? is ccp trying to give people the chance to catch someone just before they dock? i mean 4-5km really dosen't make much difference for any sub cap ship, could althought see how it would effect capitals.i dunno, i just feel that its an annoying thing if your in a slow ass freighter or a hauler. shouldn't it be 100% 0km range all the time or always 4-5km?so whats everyones views?"
"there is nothing special about a warp to a station.all warps are inaccurate by up to 2.5km iirc.the reason for this is so that gang warps dont all end up with all the ships clustered on top of one another and therefore causing a huge bump fest at the end of the warp.if you want to make sure you land in docking range , make a bookmark on the station undock or other suitable location and warp to that instead.if its a new station and you think you may get ganked , warp to the moon/planet at a random range first so that you can check the station with your dscanner."
"i'm well aware of how to avoid getting ganked.i know warps are inaccurate to a certain extent but it shouldn't be with stations because sometimes it screws up the actual docking process."
"or maybe there should be some risk involved unless you make the neccecery preparations."
"this is true, but on the flip side of the same coin, while the fun factor is there regardless, the loss factor is also there regardless. this proposal is to mitigate the effect of the loss factor so it makes less of a contribution when deciding whether or not to go out to pew. tipping the balance just a little you could say.so not just about making money from pirate hunting (although making that more of a possibility), but losing less to encourage people to try it out. once people start the pew pew, they'll wonder why they didn't earlier, and that's what this is trying to promote.or maybe i'm just evangelising pew so much i am missing that carebears will always be carebears. surely not though, surely people just need to see the light (of lasers and explosions)."
"this is true, but assumes that were trying to equalize low-sec with hi-sec on purely financial terms. this change wouldnt do that, but would at least close the gap between the two, to some degree (i.e., i dont think low-sec will be as populated as hi-sec, but that it would be more populated than it is now, especially by pvp pilots). this may or may not have the knock-on effect of making low-sec safer for miners and industrialists in low-sec, and thereby increasing the overall population further. that's a fair point. would it be over-powered to have the anti-pirate incentive be paired with restrictions on docking for pilots with low security status during the gcc? that way pirates will either have to render themselves inert (cloak/hide), leave the system, or be vulnerable to anti-pirates. the danger, of course, is that we don't want to effectively 'ban' low-sec pirating, just balance it out a bit."
"this will be great right up to the point that:1)the highsec dwellers are baited and gang raeped a few times. then the losses will outwiegh the gains again.2)\"pirates\" no longer have negative sec status due to having a perfectly safe null system to rat it back up.the more \"sucessful\" your plan is in the short term, the faster it also burns itself out in the long term.bounty hunting changes will not \"fix\" low-sec (low-sec doesnt even need fixing by many peoples opinion)."
"as a player who prefers low sec to high i would have to say that imho it doesn't really need \"fixing\". population wise i think it's how it should be which is quieter/less crowded than high sec. not to burst bubbles, but players that don't venture into high sec due to ganks, loss gain aversion, or whatever, will never really be enticed to check it out. they are not there because they don't want to be there. it doesn't matter what rewards are there. some (perhaps many) players just don't like loss and stay out of low sec for that reason alone."
"this is the simple truth. lowsec is perfectly fine as it is, and with minimal social and/or mercantile skills it is easy to live there as a pve/industrial player.you will have to be on good terms with the local pirates and the militias, but that is not an issue as long as you can give something in return. if you arent prepared to give something in return, then dont expect it to be the hello kitty adventure club...we got a few industrialists we have set blue, they actually make good profit by selling to us, and ontop enjoy having protection available on call plus very little competition.they want to get their freighter in and a neutral battleship is sitting at entry gate with them? call your pirate/militia friends and jump, the 20 friendlies sitting on the other side gonna solve that problem for you.pos under siege by some random asshats? call in your friends and laugh.want to trade in t2 modules? strike a deal for loot sales with your local pirates, they all want to get rid of the stuff quick. profit."
"i posted this in f&i discussion but someone suggested i post this here instead:how about letting us have shirts/jackets with npc corp logos on them as well as custom shirts/jackets that have our own corp's logo on it if we have one? someone also suggested having patches that can be put over either breast, on either shoulder, put on the back, etc. which i think would be a cool idea.ps. a custom shirt logo creator that is based on the guild logo creator would be cool too."
"yes i do like this ideal, i would love to have a t with quafe on it"
"i'll put this down as if intented to a subnormal 4 year old.i'm a long time pc player and i enjoy a good game regardless of the genre.the definitive goal for -any- commercial game is to attract a great number of players so that it may grow and eventually incorporate diversificated gameplay to cater all tastes. eve fails, despite many years in activity, because of its community.eve today:- 2003 graphics, albeit with shadow maps and hi res textures.no particles.no damage textures.(pathetic) all your weapons hit the enemy ship same spot, without impact effects.destroyed ships don't release debris. what remains in space after a fierce battle is... a joke.ps for all raging dribbling idiots: since the dawn of computer games, you can toggle **** with a checkbox in the options menu. too laggy? you'd just uncheck \"more debris\" in options.- no deambulation. community is actually a forum and an ingame chat channel... in 2011.this thing is like the duke nukem forever vaporware. deambulation coming since forever. oh yeah. it'll be this summer (it was sponsored what, 4 years ago?).- pve content is ridiculously repetitive, especially since it's divided into 'categories', and level 5 agents have all been moved into low security space, which is utterly stupid.plus the fact that you often need to jump several gates to get to a mission is annoying and dimwitted, as if it were intended.why not issuing missions in the same sector you're in? if the problem is isk influx, reduce the rewards, the drops, etc.every non ******ed player can agree that it's more fun to get straight into the action than to travel like an idiot back and forth, especially since you ... need to be in the same space station as the agent to accept/ turn in missions... in the year umptenthousand.- pvp: there's absolutely no player skill involved (only five different types of activable modules, anyone? weapons, painters, webbers, jammers, vampires/ neuters, and that's it). combine the modules, that's all the combat skill you \"need\".if there were ever a fair fight, winning'd be as \"easy as\", having more money and having an older character, which is ridiculous for today's games communities.however, there's no chance that you'll fight a fair combat against a single opponent.all game instruments are in favor of cowardish and miserable approach to warfare. it's come to a point that it has its own word for it. \"gank\" gang killing. super pathetic.- if your ship is configured for pve, you will be defeated in a pvp setting, and equally on the opposite, actually excluding the possibility to have fun playing both without taking ages to defeat an enemy, if you defeat it at all.in particular, the fact that there's no way to maintain an individual, occasional economy and a high tier pvp game style is 'retrograde', to say the least.especially since insurance is a joke that doesn't cover your modules, or the actual cost of your ship (for example a machariel can cost nearly 1 billion isk, yet it'll be insured for 90 million). simply absolutely ******ed.- 99% of pve is a gangbang of 4 fools camping a low security gate or sector and destroying an enemy without a chance. of course there's hughe fleet battles too, where everybody performs like **** regardless of pc power or internet connection.- most important of all, the utterly idiotic idea that a frigate can jam/ scramble a battleship 30 times its size and 3000 times its mass, with a single module, can only be the mind bogglingly miscarriage of a subnormal game designer.- i talked about eve with two dozen people over the years. all of them tried it.they weren't put off by the economy, or the learning curve. they were driven away by the lack of actual gaming detail."
"pass...."
"yet the csms worry about... i don't even want to waste my time anymore reading the ridiculous crap they (you as a player) have come up with over time.tl;drneeded urgent fixes only a ****** shouldn't have figured out by nowomega)there is more detail into the spreadsheets than there is in the game mechanics. want people to dwell into low sec? give them a chance, for ****s sake how much could it take to think this out?a) big ships with only 8 weapon modules, that can't defend against frigates. out-of-mind imbecility in action.b) a frigate can jam/ scramble/ web a ship bigger in class with a single modulec) insurance system is a joke. it is utterly ******ed. even a 4 year old can see this.d) player economy is... dim-witted. when a module can cost up to 1 billion isk, yet you can't insure it or replace it... how are you supposed to use it knowing the risk?e) pvp. 'nuff said.f) pve... annoying ideas that wound up adding to repetitiveness to a truly saddening game experience.g) all ships undocking from stations exactly from the same spot, superimposing eachother and intersecating eachother. disgusting.fix:omega)- pay for concord escort. they'll be there to fight as ai wingmen.- create a 'escor duty' bulletin board where people put themselves up for hirea) add additional specific large-medium-small weapon slots for increasing ship classes. make it so that targeting limits the amount of weapons you can fire simultaneously. only a completely brain damaged idiot would not agree that it's about time to fix this absurdity about frigate vs battleship.b) again a design flaw that can't be tolerated. there is no \"reasonable\" in game or out game rule that would possibly allow this. debatable fix? the bigger the ship class difference, the more of the same modules you need. frigate vs battleship? 5 modules. not enough slots? get a bigger ship.c) is there even need to write about this? don't you get it already? full ship insurance. purchase value + module value. you'd \"only\" lose cargo. can be exploited? sure. but it's a start. add \"time on service\" \"battles fought\" parameters to the ship so you can show off that your vessel is in service since a long time, and that you're not an insurance abuser piece of ****. also add a public ship cemetery for each player to make things easier.d) somewhat connected to c. point is, there's no way to warantee an influx of isk to the casual player to allow him fuel a combat activity. mining/ hauling for fighting... pathetic. you possibly can throw your lives away mining for hours on end while watching **** on the other screen, to raise a few mill and waste them on a ship that gets ganked 10 hours later. a non brain damaged player, he won't.e) with previous points fixed, pvp shouldn't be an issue at this point.f) can't warp to bookmark inside a gate, teaming up with people actually reduces your rewards, and fleet can't warp to you when you're inside a gate. i could go on.g) like many other graphical aspects (weapons always hitting the same spots, no debris, no ricochet or particles on projectile/ laser impact, etc.) it'd take just a few hours to bring actuality to the game."
"ok and suppose battleships get to wtfpwn everything smaller than it.... what use does anything smaller than the bigger ship have then????well lookie, theres our use for them... but oh wait you want bigger ships to be able to instapop them.everyone knows.htfuloss whiningincursions, wh space, 1/10 - 10/10s???they did try and fix that.stupid as hell, get some friends if your moving your freighter.refer to firstseriously man, gtfoyour trying to propose we change the whole dam game."
"well that was a whiny rant."
"iokaa wrote:read it like this:if your battleship can be owned by a frigate what's the use for the battleship?since i'm sure you still don't get it, what you typed reads like thisif your frigate can be owned by a battleship what's the use for the frigate? just defend. large and medium weapons can't hit frigates.you're obviously a ******ed **** that doesn't play the game to be unaware of what it takes to instapop a frigate in frigate vs battleship combat.yet you're ok with it? not my fault if you're a subnormal piece of **** that's ok with supporting a flawed game.perfect comeback for the argument i wrote about. *fwooshh*. flushed away.rofl. only an idiot played this game's pvp and came back for more. i lost four ships total in pvp in 4 years. an obvious instance of you writing about something you don't know **** about.just exactly how much pve do you play? obviously zero you ignorant idiot. another nonexistent counterargument.the only thing they fixed was the jump carrier jumps bumping players around. you don't know what you write about, once more.dude... do you even read what you type? obviously you didn't read (understood) what -i- wrote. i write about making the game better, more flexible, and you reply with an obviously non-working, current game \"feature\" that's not convenient.you should better do it in the first place.propose \"we\" change?you're ccps buttbuddy or something?lol i'm sure you successfully invited several of your real life friends to subscribe to the game, over time. enough said.trolling comments removed - adida"
"he mad...i disagree with most of your points. thus i do not support it.sorry :)"
"he is indeed mad.@op:also not supported. it is obvious from your ranting diatribe that what you want is a game that isn't eve. please go find that game and enjoy yourself.also, you might want to consider an anger management class."
"only gonna touch on a few points of yours.insurance: it actually isn't insurance, its a scrap refund (based on mineral prices, not ship prices).bs vs frig: if you lose any bs to any frig (1v1) you are a moron at fitting. also, all bs carry drones (well, t1 don't know about t2 or faction), so they have anti frig defenses.pvp simplicity: in a bs v bs fight, 90% is fitting dependent. however, in something like and af v ceptor, at least 50% is pilot flying skill (as in rl skill). there are plenty of times that a lower sp with weak fit can beat a higher sp better fit, solely because of player skill.you also do not have to be in the same station to complete all missions... just some.also for active modules: you missed some. target comps and disruptors, sebos and damps, scrams, reppers, remote reppers (for fleet or drone combat obviously), hardners... i think thats everything..."
"bs vs frig? drones."
"calling this as a troll post 4/10 made me smirk when people took the bait but made me cry reading it :("
"4/10 ??? pfft.troll cursing all over the place is a noobie noob in trolling.i heard they do not use grades in a first year at school, to not harm fragile children minds... have mercy too."
"this is a pvp game, important issues are about pvpgraphics don't matter at all. graphics are just there to convey proper information about the battlefield, how \"pretty\" they look is completely irrelevant.pve is good enough as it is, after all it's just a grind one does to get money for pvp. just means to an end"
"this far will i agree with you. then you went on a rant. i like that people are forced to move around. claiming pvp takes no skill makes you look like someone who doesn't do pvp, especially when you follow that up with a rant about how it isn't fair (hint: you are probably doing it wrong). i like that the game doesn't allow for a uni-uber-fit. i like that losses hurt. i would rather no insurance in the game. if you think a bs can't hurt a frigate, it is probably because you aren't properly fit (hint: a bs can fit all the same modules that a frigate can fit and more). for the love of peanut butter; claiming this game doesn't have depth is like claiming the ocean doesn't have water. i would argue the depth is part of why everything seems half-made. you can do a gazillion different things, but half of them were never iterated on.dwell in low sec? oh, here we go. you want to do stuff by yourself and be protected from all those big bad people who talk to other people in game and convince them to help each other out. concord escorts? hell no. the need for other people is what makes this game better than other mmos. it is why i look past all the problems."
"tl;dr: \"i don't like eve the way it is. if you disagree with what i say you're an idiot\"unfortunately, starting like that pretty much kills any possibility of discourse, even if one agreed with anything you say.so simply put, not supported on the basis that from where i stand, we don't even seem to be playing the same game."
"too obvious."
"curious. in game it's called insurance.the fact you justify its ridiculous and ******ed implementation with a differnt name is like trying to use science to explain the time travel theory in the \"twelve monkeys\" film.it's not a matter of losing a bs to a frig or not. it's the sheer imbecility of accepting the mere possibility.this could and should only happen if the bs is completely inactive and shields down, but you and me know that there's countless real game situations and configurations that would allow this ******edness to happen.furthermore, a 1 month old player character can dispatch t2 light drones easily with a destroyer.don't even get me going on the miserable drone interface (you don't know when they are being targeted, until they instapop or take damage among the most utterly ******ed issues since forever)i did not mention even once same class ships combat situations. i have nothing against current frigate vs frigate, cruiser vs cruiser, battleship vs battleship. it's the superlative and abysmal ******edness of cross-class combat that it's mind boggling.you don't know what you write about.fixed:you also do have to be in the same station to complete all missions... just some you do not.you are right. sadly, still these few more don't really add the \"skill\" factor in a gang vs ship/ gang vs way smaller gang combat.ps you'll excuse the fact i deliberately ignore the insignificant subnormals that replied idiocies."
"all the above are examples of why you appear to be a troll. if you're not trolling, you are doing a very good job of shutting down any desire to engage in a discussion of your proposal, which is entirely counter-productive.i'll wade in anyway with a reply to your issue with the fact that a frig can \"jam/ scramble/ web a ship bigger in class with a single module\" - so what? bigger is not always better, and eve forces you to make tactical decisions regarding fleet composition so you don't just have a big fleet of one ship type (red alert tank rush...?). some ships are good at pounding stuff, some are good at disrupting electronics etc.think of it in terms of modern warfare - the battleship has massive guns for pounding big slow/stationary targets, whereas small fast boats (say, a torpedo boat) can get under those guns and launch torps to sink the battleship. this is why ships travel in fleets so that the most important ships (carriers/battleships) are surrounded by \"picket\" ships like destroyers (for taking out subs) and aegis cruisers (for \"ewar\").eve models this really well. simple as that."
"this proposal aims to add other form of defense that differ from ships and armor. overall the goals of the proposal are:- give players additional options to defend their ship and outsmart their opponent- allow ships to tank with high slot, and therefore make marauders more useful- discourage generic fits and encourage intel gathering three potential form of active defense will be discussed here.1. ciws/point defense/flak gunsimplementation:ciws are fof guns (high slot, use turret hardpoint) with high tracking, high dps but short range. ciws will only target frigates, drones and missiles. point defense would come in medium, large, and capital varieties. t2 variants should exist for medium and large versions. all point defense guns use the same charges, but larger ciws have much higher rate of fire. point defense can be activated without a valid target in range but will only shoot and use charge when they have something to fire on.speculative stat:tracking: 100rad/s (t1) 120rad/s (t2). charge damage 40 (t1) 50(t2) 60(faction).rate of fire 2.0s (mid), 1.6s (mid, t2), 1.0s (large), 0.8s(large t2), .2s (capital)range 4+4km (mid) 5+5 km (mid t2), 6+6 km (large) 7.5+7.5 km (large t2), 10+10 km (capital)fitting requirement identical to mid-sized autcannon of the same size.discussion:this weapon is not very effective against missiles because once a missile volley enter their range, the guns will only have the chance to get off a volley before missiles hit. a fixed defenders launcher should be much better at missile interception role. cwis is devastating against drones, but smartbombs are stronger in that role outside highsec. however, cwis are weapon of choice to force tacklers to back off and to kill fighters and bombers. before people complain about the huge dps, i'd like to point out again they cannot target anything beside drones, missiles, and frigates. 2. decoy launcher/ flaresimplementation:decoy launchers are launchers (high slot, use launcher hardpoint) that reduces incoming damage. a ship with at least one decoy flare launcher equipped will only receive [ship sig radius/(ship sig radius+ decoy sig radius)] damage from guns and missiles. decoy flares offer no protection against smart bombs and doomsday devices. decoy launcher consume charge rapidly when active to discourage leaving them on. decoy launchers come in small, mid and large varieties (because carriers don't have launcher hp anyway)stat speculation:cycle time 2s. charge size 5m3. capacity 50m3(small), 100 m3 (mid), 200 m3 (large)decoy radius: 50(small) 60(small, t2) 100(mid) 120(mid t2) 400(large), 500(large t2)fitting stat identical to long range missile of same size.cycle time unaffected by ballistic control systems.reload: 10sdiscussion:decoy launchers reduces incoming damage according to the ship's radius. this lend ship without microwardrives effective invulnerability for short period of time and is countered by target painters. it provide an effectively alternative to speed. it can be used for frigates while tacking or by ecm ships to survive concentrated sniper fire."
"3. stealth field emitterimplementation:stealth field generators are high slot utility modules that reduce ship's sig radius by a flat amount when activated but consume a large amount of cap. obviously this make the ship harder to lock, but there is also the hidden bonus of making them much harder to scan down. needless to say this provide no protection against discos. stealth field will never reduce sig radius below 25m, mostly because polaris drakes with decoy and stealth fields are just plain wrong.stat speculation:radius reduction: 16(small) 20(small t2), 32(mid), 40(mid t2), 64,(large), 80(large t2), 1024 (capital)cap consumption: -6gj/s (small) -10j/s(mid) -15gj/s (large) -20gj/s(capital)suffer module stacking penalties.fitting requirement identical to energy neutralizer of the same size for non-capital variants, the fitting requirement is 100/125k for capital.discussion:stealth field can be combined with decoy launcher and shield/armor to create powerful \"pure tank\" fits capable of dying very slowly while accomplishing absolutely nothing. for people without masochistic tendencies, stealth field is useful for tackling and ecm ships."
"i'd rather just see ccp make fof missiles smarter/more useful.though the stealth field thing looks p.cool"
"some interesting ideas,cwis/point defence/flak gunswith the tracking and dpc it basically will render frigates and droneboats useless. the tracking is extremely high, 100-120rad/sec i can barely get above 1 in my fastest overheated inty. range and rof is also crazy overpowered you want short range...half the blaster range so it can be kited, also make it's sig res high, like that of a bomb so that frigates can tank the damage. i really can't see this working as you have proposed it.decoy launcher/flaresi can see the working as is, the charge size is spot on but the effected radius should be less than notated for larger ships.stealth fieldsinteresting idea and i can see it evolve into something more of a static field to break up signature radius'. same concept different name, i'd be careful what you label as stealth.good hunting,midna"
"your point defense system seems to fill the same role as smartbombs already do except it's overpowered."
"i like the idea of being able to use high slots in more ways than are available now, particularly in the form of creating more diversity for playing style strategies.that being said, i don't agree with some of the specifics of your proposals.for instance, i like the point defense idea, but i think it would be better to be activated by ewar (scram, jamming, dampening, etc.), but otherwise inoperable. the dmg should be universal regardless of ship size it's fitted to, to balance them. the range and tracking should be similar to the sentry drones you see in lvl 4 missions i think (not too much, but enough to scare off ewar-based ships that traditionally have no tank).as for the decoy launchers, why not have them actually be like real decoys and have incoming dmg and ewar target it instead of the ship for the length of its timer or until it loses all it's very small amount of hp. basically a possible get-out-of-jail-free card. the opposing ships would need to retarget the ship and can do so even if the decoy is still operable--if they're paying attention and target manually. to balance it, it can only be fired once every 20-30 seconds maybe.i like the stealth mod idea as is, though ;)"
"the largest defect i have noticed so far is not the clicking but the actual production procedure. there is one big, no realy big, problem. the failure of any extra product in any production facility to be returned to point of origin if production is changed. in real life manufacturing this is called a return to location ticket or rtl. if we with current technology can do this, why can't the most advanced society in the known eve universe have this for pi? it is the only production type that does this in the entire game.for those that don't understand, let me write it out.when you start production you rout product to a basic, advanced or high tech production facility. if you send too much product, but not enough to do a production run, it sits till you either add more product or switch your production queue to something else. if you switch your production queue, you lose all the product in the queue. this may not sound like much but when you add it all up there is billions of isk lost every second from just this simple flaw that ccp failed to account for(they're programmers not manufactures so i can forgive it to this point). i personally have found ways around it, but in every other production type it is impossible to have extra product, just disappear. suggested solution:make it so product is only moved in full production runs so if you need 40 units of toxic metals and 40 units of reactive metals to make a product, the manufacturing plant will only move multiples of those numbers. so if you have only 39 toxic metals and 40 reactive metals in your source site(launch pad, storage, c center) it will not transfer to a production facility. thus not being wasted and said facility can be changed to a new product line with out loss of product. this could be expanded to make a production list like in station production queues(which i love btw). if you don't have the product on planet then it skips to the next item. long term this will reduce the clicks on the production side and keeps your planet which you sometimes can't get to running like a manufacturing facility should,24/7/365 with minimal management.let me know what you think, the director of evil, doukyou"
"i haven't noticed this problem at all. i have my factories hooked to my storage facility, and everything seems to work fine. i make a lot more of one product than another, and so i always have extra in my storage, and it continues to grow as normal.the only reason you'd have a mistake like this, that i can see, is if you bought the supplies and shipped them down to the planet. i don't know how that would work, as my facilities always give me the exact number necessary.for most intents and purposes, not supported."
"please enlighten me on the intent or purpose of several meters cubed of my good dissapearing into thin air? the cost $, ya know."
"i think they need a small help like 11 slots instead of 10.... simply and usefull considering they are bigger than any other frigates"
"i have 2 suggestions that would be both easy enough to implement, and extremely useful for all:- enable an icon that can be displayed to signify afk status in chat, i recommend it as an option to turn on/off via a right-click on one's own portrait in the chatbox.- folders are needed in the watch list. i don't know about you, but my watch list is cluttered with characters from various wars and other undesirables, who i need to keep tabs on, and it would be advantageous to be able to sort them into folders (e.g. \"war targets - [corp name])."
"today, during our successful shield fleet takedown of a sansha nation mom in amarr high sec, it came to my attention that ccp has not addressed what is apparently a very common and obviously broken incursion experience: the mom loot ninja.i am aware, that like normal high sec ops, people are capable of stealing and getting flagged. however, in the 80+ man environment of a mom battle (with said mom constantly dropping from overview), it is impossible to prevent an assault ship from stealing 100m in a second.player \"itc\" today took our ts pds and a bp for a phantasm. how are we supposed to stop him? i could see scramming him in low sec, or putting a bubble up in null sec, but tell me how high sec pilots are supposed to prevent people from taking the loot they worked all day to make. i'm just looking for a solution to what is obviously a design problem from ccp as i see it. how do you prevent someone from ninja-ing the main loot from high sec moms? it's bad enough we get lower payouts, no mom ship drops, and restricted incursion opportunities due to sec. status(which we can grind, i understand, but my point being o.o doesn't have the problem), but this is simply wrong to have to deal with. any 1 day old character could ninja this stuff, consequence free. i would even prefer that no loot drop in high-sec rather than give them the pleasure.awaiting your reply,wtf"
"cross posting this to achieve what?"
"for a vote, apparently. idea threads that gain steam in other boards end up here for a vote. not only is it not considered crossposting, it's the correct procedure."
"i don't see any big problems with what you said. highsec competition for any limited rewards has always been about speed and not about who did the most work to make the looting/salvaging a possibility in the first place. there is also a some reward in that work, so it's not like you aren't getting any reward for the work. if you want the ability to kill them, go to lowsec or 0.0. highsec security is there to protect everyone from unwanted aggression, so your complaint just boils down to you being on the recieving end of that mechanic this time."
"three minutes with a bunch of people telling him to get over his sense of entitlement doesn't look much like \"gaining steam\" to me.ninja looting is ninja looting. sure, the stuff this ninja looted was pretty valuable - but he got to the wreck first. there are simple ways to ensure that ninja looters don't get to the wreck first, some require personal sacrifice (such as smartbombing the wreck). alternately, be first to the wreck.if a ninja looter can get to the wreck first, someone in the fleet should be able to use the same technique, right?"
"locked. duplicate thread."
"i support this idea. +1"
"a note is a small text block with the following attributes: - a short message - a creator (char name) - a timestamp (when this note was created)every division of a corporation hangar (at stations, outposts, corporate hangar arrays, ships corporate hangar) and every assembled item (but especially complex items like container and ships) can be assigned one or more notes.when a note is assigned to an item. the item may have a small icon. moving the mouse over this icon displays the note. (like a tool-tip).- every user can add a note. (but maybe for hangar divisions only user with right to take/put items).- the user can update/delete it's note. users with special rights may also delete others notes. typical scenarios would be:dominix with 'n'-icon shows: \"2 drones have armor damage, franz xaver 2010-01-01 17:30\"apocalypse with 'n'-icon shows: \"fitting incomplete: guns missing, joe smith 2011-01-03 21:50\" \"4 large pulse ii added, crystals missing, jonas 2011-01-04 13:15\"corp-hangar at pos 9-11, disivion \"basic\" shows: \"use only for p1, masterchief 12:30\" <-- timestamp of this day!hangar \"basic\" at station shows: \"only for t1 - put t2 items into 'advanced', junior 2010-12-30 15:20\" \"where ist my anathema, charles 2010-13-30 17:20\" \"especially for 'charles' look into 'advanced!!!, junior 2010-12-30 21:30\"---currently such information is often saved in bookmarks - but they are slow, especially there are many bootmarks in one container/hangar. notes would not need any calculations (like bookmarks do?) only the info \"is there a note assigned\" -> \"show icon\" is needed. so notes should be a very 'cheap' alternative (maybe only a single db-table with object-id/message/creator/timestamp without any foreign keys. a simple dayily cleanup could remove old items with no existing object-id's)"
"linkagetry it out! not eve, but it's up there (especially given its lack of subscription fee)."
"it's by no means ground breaking but it's also not an eve clone.it's good for passing the time while mining."
"back off, blane is mine."
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service."
"so you were just made after you could make 3 names.....meaning an alt or a complete noob. no vote for you."
"i support this product and or service."
"i support this product and or service"
"i would like to introduce myself to you all as a candidate for the 6th csm.why am i running for csm 6?as a long time player of eve i have always admired the grand vision of the game and the scope of possibility it produces, this in conjunction with the great work that has been done by the last 2 csm's has focused my attention to the way ccp interacts with it's player base and the way the csm has worked together to bring this interaction to a new level.my previous experience as the ccp qa delegate to csm 1 (as ccp lingorm) and the commitment that ccp hellmar has consistantly shown has convinced me that good candidates and excellent team work from the csm is going to build a better game and i would like to be a part of that.my goals for csm 6excellence of execution. ccp has been trying to build on a theme of excellence and csm 5's solidarity showed ccp that what the player base thought of as excellence was different from what ccp thought, but that a common ground exsisted and that by actually working together good results could be had.i want to continue this push of excellence, keeping the csm focused on getting good results for the issues that the player base raises.i am also a huge adherent of the api (twice running the api roundtable at the eve fanfest) and will be pushing for increased capability and functionality of the api. while there are a number of other issues that i am concerned with and will be pushing for a resolution on i am not set on what that resolution is. these issues are things like : viability of low secafk cloakingplayer owned structures (pos)my history in evei have been playing eve since march 2004, and other than for a short period in the middle of last year i have had atleast 1 account running at all time.i have been involved in most aspects of eve over that time and have experienced the joys and the sorrows that eve bring. most recently i have been focused on industry and the isk that brings, but also the click-madness and rince and repeat slow interfaces that plague this part of eve.my most famous moment in eve was during the eve fanfest in 2005 during which i used the time on stage as the player from far far away to propose to my then girlfrien and now wife.who am i really?my name is shay mcaulay, i am a 35 year old married (to an eve player) computer programmer and agile systems administrator for a large insurance company in auckland, new zealand. i work for ccp from 2007 till the end of 2008 as the qa engineering team lead. i have also worked in a number of other industries (always from a computing side but i still had to understand the industry) including (but not limited to) telecomunications, logistics, consulting and coaching (scrum software development).my linkedin profile.other informationi am working on a site that will go into my goals in more detail but i have been a little busy over the last couple of days with work related to supporting our efforts in the wake of the christchurch earthquake, but will have it comepleted this weekend and will link it here."
"reserved for later information.site is now live with information and i will be attempting to update it as i go.site located at"
"what is on your mind to make low sec more viable?"
"i have a couple of ideas that i would like to investigate further.random faction (npc) patrols - the factions have random patrols through low sec that will act on any 'illegal' agression. now these are not concord, so they can be tanked and destroyed, difficult but not impossible. this will bring a random chance element to low sec. making it a bit safer for people to enter, thus also increasing the profitability of pirating as the greater population means more opportunities.ability for players to build services - whether this is done with a new pos system or as rental on parts of exisiting stations i would like to see players and corporations have the ability to build more services in low sec. we have a sortage of labratories and in some places factories. i think players and low sec would be a good way to look at solving this. i am not 100% sure on the actual implementation of this, but the service offered would have to be better than high sec to offer extra inducement.ability to sell kill rights - i think a good system that implemented this combined with a revamp of the bounty system could also prove interesting, but need to study the possible ramifications for 'gaming' the system before really settling on anything.i have also seen some other suggestions that i would like to see looked into further for partial consideration (viceroy comes to mind here).i am not 100% convinced that these will 'solve' the problem but i think they are worth examining and spending some time looking at the viability of."
"well, we can all see that the current system is not working... and how sure do you need to be when players continue to play for 23 hours a day for prolonged periods of time? you don't sound like someone who makes comming down hard on bots a priority. \"if a warning or temp ban does not suffice to stop the botting, more serious actions may be appropriate.\".news flash: it doesn't suffice, you know that, we all know it but still you won't go any further than stating that \"more serious actions may be appropriate\"? wow, that all sounds a bit like what ccp has been telling us about the issue... it does not sound like the guy who will do this:it sounds like a politician who is not willing to touch the subject too much cuz it won't sit well with his potential voters. in this case being the 0.0 bot-running/condoning crowd perhaps?"
"well, you don't exactly have a record of participation in the csm. very little in meetings, you've missed the most ones from all csm 5 members with the least notices in advance of dropping out (with the except of mazzilliu but hell, she is a self admitted free trip to iceland member), and there's very little besides banter and fun visible from you in the meeting logs? (link)is that going to change? reliably? i mean sure you vote a lot on issues raised, but it's about what you do as a csm member."
"will you support the nerfing of drakes?-a concerned officer"
"botting is bad and people who do it need to be banned, i completely agree there, but ccp needs to be careful in their measures against it to prevent fallout. we and ccp are very much aware that if someone is online for 23hrs a day that it's probably a bot, but tools need to be put in place to automatically detect their types of behavior and flag the accounts, and that takes a lot of research, development and time. they showed us in the june and december summits that they are working on it, and if they don't have anything tangible by fanfest then we definitely need to start pressing them! in case ccp does start mass-banning bots again like with unholy rage, they should also keep a very close eye on the economy because bots have a significant impact there, and maybe even be ready to intervene.and no, i don't serve no 0.0 botting people :) they can all diaf. what i do as a csm member is think along with the subject at hand, and then voice my opinion based on experience and input from players, and then vote. csm-5 had very few issues to discuss because frankly, csm 1-4 went over so many already, there wasn't much new. the meeting record also isn't quite complete, i missed two in january because i was away in the jungle for a uni project but those are not listed as 'excused'. and looking at those numbers it kind of seems like you deliberately tried to single me out for fingerpointing, because the differences between members are small."
"..continuedalso during the june and december summits i have kept the public informed with daily updates that have been copied by numerous other blogs and forums, something i considered especially important because apart from the minutes (that usually took awhile to be released), the summits were kind of non-transparent to the public. i haven't flown or faced them a whole lot since the last round of adjustments so i can't comment personally. is this a new structural imbalance or just the latest fotm whine?"
"while i do indeed endorse your candidacy, and we have talked some about it already, would you mind sharing your thoughts on low sec here? there is always a lot of interest among us pirates and other low sec dwellers about csm candidate ideas/positions on our preferred part of new eden."
"hee, another tough question, and this one's my own fault. i was mentioning that i thought i was getting really tough questions here, so mynxee throws me another tough one. thanks. ok, first, i'm smart enough about low-sec to know that i'm probably a complete idiot about low-sec. i lived there for about 6-7 months doing faction warfare (you can read about the careers i've had in eve), but that's the limit of my experience. that said, i have some thoughts.if it were up to me, first thing i'd do is push the super-caps back to 0.0. low-sec should be, as much as is possible, newbie pvp-friendly, and super-carriers promote an environment that is anything but that. fw was most at its most fun when it was destroyer and cruiser battles. you got popped, you collected the insurance, you docked up, you came right back out again. nobody's gonna want to do that with nyxes roaming low-sec.second thing low-sec needs is a reason to exist. of the many ideas i've read for this, the one that speaks to me the most is smuggling. low-sec residents should be smuggling masters. bring back the inactive smuggling skills -- they're in the database, just shut off -- but make the skills available only to people with high standing with the pirate factions. with high smuggling skills, you can manufacture illegal boosters in low-sec and then truck them to jita. profit. if your pirate faction standing goes down, though, the smuggling skills go inactive until you correct that situation. you lose your smuggling contacts.next step: remove every pirate agent from 0.0. they can keep the rats. but take me for an example. i live in nc space, which means on the rare occasions that i rat, i shoot guristas. but i also have easy access to h-pa in venal, which means i have also have easy access to guristas pirate missions. this is d-u-m-b dumb. clear those agents back into low-sec where they belong. while this is going on, reduce the scope of pirate 0.0 in general. some pirate 0.0 is fine. it provides good staging points for low-sec residents to attack into 0.0. but the pirate areas in 0.0 are too big.edit: edited to clarify that i mean pirate 0.0 areas are too big (stain, venal, etc.), not npc 0.0 in general. see post #28 below.next, i also like the idea of pulling all booster gas mining into low-sec. give the miners something unique to go after, and give 0.0 one fewer thing they have total ownership of. it'd also be worth looking at reducing the volume of low-sec ores. spud is the same volume as bistot, which is silly. if you reduce the volume of some low-sec ores, the value goes up because mining happens in volume/minute. it's an easy database change to make. low-sec ores should all be worth around 18m isk/hour for a perfectly skilled hulk, imo. right now, most of them are half that (though noc prices are helping hemor and hed a great deal right now).finally, fix faction warfare! this is something that team best friends forever needs to get on, right now. it's not something i'll have time to do before the election, but if i'm elected, i'll hold a fw round-table on a ts server and collect ideas for fixing fw from people currently doing it and get those posted to the assembly hall.whew. i've spent a ton of time reading on this topic, and some of these ideas are probably dumb for reasons i can't think of. but those are the wibnis i have for low-sec."
"oh, and so this is totally clear: i don't mean remove the pirate stations. the stations can stay, the sov for a constellation or two can stay. but move the agents out. the stations would be agent-less."
"hey trebor, many people are familiar with the crowdsourcing activities you spearheaded in assembly hall. what in your view were some of the strong and weak points in the process as you conducted it during csm5, and have you given any thought to how it might be improved for csm6?"
"well, it has been a learning process; i've tweaked the process each time i've run a prioritization.one suggestion that was made the last time around is to allow people to not only vote for items they liked, but anti-vote against items they didn't like, and use that to get a multi-dimensional perspective on opinions. it's relatively easy to do, and not much more work for the players doing the voting, so i'll probably implement that the next time around.the nice thing is that we can test whether or not it is useful without affecting the existing system, because i can generate the output either with or without the anti-votes.i might also put up some sort of webapp that makes it easier to vote.i will drag out the rotting carcass of the dead horse and dump it on the ccp conference table whenever the opportunity presents itself."
"i'd just like to say well done to all the guys on csm5!as a long-standing player of several years i'd just like to say what you guys have achieved and the legacy you have created for csm6 is massive.you have my vote trebor, and i think your style will continue to work wonders with the icelandic contingent.one additional thing i'd be pressing for:user acceptance testersas someone who actually loves ccp for their wonderful creation, i am so embarrassed time and time again when they release upgrades stuffed with crappy bugs. surely they can afford to get a team of volunteers from eve to test their releases? let's face it, the players spot all the bugs in the first few hours after each release. why can't they spot them? please csm6, bring it to ccps attention.vote trebor!"
"sorry based on the december minutes i wouldn't vote for any current member of the csm. we need fresh voices not the same ole same ole."
"i've been bothering more candidates about this so it's only fair i will bother you with it too. so here it comes: what's your take on the rampant botting and how are you going to persuade ccp to dedicate sufficient resources to the problem and convince them 24 hour bans are not going to stop ppl using bots?"
"well, singularity is supposed to do some of that. however, one aspect of this problem that has concerned me for a long time is the horribly broken state of eve bug-reporting. the non-public nature of bug-reports means that players re-invent the wheel constantly, and cannot collaborate to nail down reproduction cases. in addition, getting a tricky bug report past the bug-hunter filter is an exercise in frustration. i have one cute ui bug, for example, that gets repeatedly filtered, despite the fact that i uploaded a video showing it in action.how many bugs don't get reported simply because people have given up on the bug-reporting system out of frustration and despair?ok, i could go on about this for pages, but here's the cliff notes version:* rmt and botting are overlapping problems, but there is botting that is unconnected with rmt, and vice-versa.* rmt uses passive income as fuel (that is, income that requires little or no human effort and cost to acquire).* botting is a way of converting active income to passive income.* the best approaches for fighting both botting and rmt are those that are cheap for ccp to implement and maintain, but expensive for the botters and rmt operators to compensate for.* the cheapest ways of fighting botting are game-design changes that make botting harder, and reduce their income potential. if these changes also make the game more fun for honest players, win-win.consider the following game-design change (which i provide merely for the purposes of illustration):every account has a \"resource extraction license\". every day, 50-100m \"rels\" are added to the license, with a maximum capacity of say 1b rels. every time you pop a rat, or mine, or do anything that creates isk out of thin air, some amount is deducted from your balance, roughly equivalent to the isk value of what you just earned.when your rels run out, your mining lasers stop extracting, you don't get rat bounties, rats don't leave wrecks, you can't get missions, etc.what's the point of this? well, it won't impact the play of almost all legitimate players, but it'll hugely nerf the earning value of a 23/7 bot account -- raising the costs of the rmters.some may argue this will be dropping a turd in the sandbox, but they should give the current sandbox a good hard sniff before they complain too hard. * the next cheapest methods are behavioral bot-detection systems. this is effectively a spam-filtering problem. i've already suggested this to ccp several times.* tracking down rmt networks is the most expensive method -- it's very labor-intensive. i would like to see more of this, but given limited resources, the other methods are more attractive at this point."
"i think when the so-called opposing party ( i.e. the 0.0 csm's clearly state he is a valuable asset to the process as a whole, plus reading he is someone who doesn't see things black and white but ackowledges there are various shades of grey i think he's a damn good choice for the next csm.we need someone who will enter a discussion either with a clear focus without clinging onto it at any cost or who enters a discussion without knowing anything about it but listening, learning and willing to contribute.second account vote has just been secured.keep this up and i will actually start convincing other people to vote for you"
"you seem to have an informed opinion on the subject, good. your first idea is terrible i think though, but i like the basic thought of twarting botting by making the game mechanics 'harder' for bots. in no way can this be the only measure taken against them of course.what are you thoughts on anti-cheating software implementing in eve? and what do you think of the penalties ccp gives to botters? reading, listening and chatting it seems that as long as you are not involved in (massive) rmt ccp only dishes out extremely short bans. at least those are the stories that reach me. recently i spoke to 2 members of goonswarm who claimed bots were widely used by alliance members and that they simply didn't care about getting caught bcuz of the laughable punnishments.... i'd like to hear your oppinion on that :)"
"i would never expect an off-the-cuff sample mechanic to be the best solution, but note that you don't offer reasons why it's terrible. the bottom line is it's an example of how to screw the earning potential of 23/7/365 bots while not significantly nerfing real people. it could possibly be tweaked into a buff, actually.i would approach the idea with extreme caution; lots of opportunities for things to go wrong, and it is a significant technical effort. i think there are things to try first that have much better bang-for-buck before it should even be considered.a 1-day ban for botting is, at face value, laughable. but before i go nuclear on ccp in any particular case, i would want to know more details of the circumstances. so far, ccp has not seen fit to disclose details of its anti-botting efforts and policies to the csm."
"problem that ccp is facing i think is that there is no paper trail that can prove beyond doubt that a given character is a bot. could just be a person in-between jobs or a person working/studying from home .. this uncertainty is probably the reason for the reported short temporary bans.it is a lot \"easier\" when it comes to plain old rmt as there are plenty of logs showing transactions back and forth.the trickiest problem facing eve at the moment for sure.@chatterbox daehdoow: where do you see low/null in a years time in terms of gameplay? your vision in broad strokes will suffice"
"-"
"i can certainly understand your frustration. i wrote this post in my blog a few weeks ago to address just this issue. i hope you take a few minutes to read it and maybe it will help some. :)how much actual impact does the csm have?"
"low sec is in many ways the 'lost lamb' of eve. despite players begging for iteration or improvement for years, the only thing that can be considered as a 'low sec' expansion was the release of factional warfare.there is this huge gap between the solo carebear style of empire and the maniacal demi-gods of null-sec. it stands to reason that there should be a more proper stepping stone between the two that caters to the smugglers, small gangs of bandits and all around bad guys; people who aren't in it for the glory or the conquest of worlds, just pilots that want to carve out their little back alleys and take care of their fellows.i have always wanted to see low sec evolve into something all its own, an area of space that reflects it's 'in between' status both politically and through solid game play. your standing with a faction npc should have real 'weight' to it. factional warfare was a first attempt at this, but it falls far short of the overall potential of what could be accomplished.one example of this might be that through your actions, you rise to the attention of the local faction. you and yours are sent on a series of tasks which might entail anything from assassinating another player to just securing a system against the other scum in the area. kill xx player and be rewarded; eliminate xx number of negative security status bad guys in a constellation. do enough of this and, eventually, you might rise to the notice of special agents of a faction, which would then in turn offer you elevated positions within their space. viceroy of a planet or an entire system, with special benefits for you and yours that allow you to do things in their controlled areas of space that no one else can do. imagine a corp like veto with verone playing godfather to an entire lo-sec region.this is just a random idea of what could happen. some of the mechanisms are already in place to support a system like this, it would simply be a matter of adapting them around a proper framework. the point is that corruption is everywhere. eve's low sec regions should reflect that there is a place that operates between law and lawlessness, on the edge as it were.i could go on and on about other likely professions in detail but the point is that ccp knows the low sec problem is a problem. it has been the subject of countless internal meetings and public discussions. when i say that i want to make sure that eve is an enjoyable experience for all players, this is exactly the kind of thing i am talking about. i want to see the current game play we have now moved forward and low sec iteration is certainly one of the most important aspects of that."
"-"
"leder, it seems that your biggest concern is primarily about comms bottlenecks. this is, coincidentally, the single biggest problem faced by the csm as well. hopefully csm6 can make more progress on that front, but only if the right people are there to do so. that's why it's worth it to vote for people you think have the best chance of being able to help overcome those challenges."
"seleene is an excellent candidate who will be a great asset if elected to the csm. as others have pointed out, we seem to have complementary talents and styles.so, if you have only one account, vote for trebor.and if you have two accounts, vote for trebor twice.but if you have three accounts or more accounts, consider the possibility of perhaps thinking about throwing a vote seleene's way.then give all your votes to trebor!"
"i really like your ideas for eve and the iteration cornerstone, however i do have one concern.you state that you want ccp to focus on iterating internet spaceships, instead of the \"ultimate sci-fi simulator\".however, time and time again ccp have stated that it is their goal to create this \"ultimate sci-fi simulator\" and i would just be worried that you are \"wasting time\" trying to push them in another direction which they have clearly made their minds up on. i would just like to hear your opinion on this. thanks"
"alright, i have a question which has been chewing on my mind since seleene mentioned he may run for csm.seleene, how can you hope to have any real impact as a member of csm after having been a developer with ccp in game design? you're asking for votes from the community which has been giving feedback to (you) game designers for years now. if you didn't take the opportunity to use it and exact real change when you were being paid to how will you being csm be any better? you speak of knowing which devs are open and receptive to the csm and that it will give you an advantage in advocating for the playerbase. couldn't that work against you too, having been an insider at ccp and now you are potentially pushing from the outside? this may create some tension at meetings where you'll know more than ccp may be comfortable with?"
"i approve of this product and/or service."
"-"
"should we worry that your past as a developer may prevent you from being impartial when working as a csm? i'm thinking particularly of issues bought about under your watch - if csm discussions turn to, say, de-buffing supercarriers or changing some aspects of the dominion sov system, will you be able to put ego to one side and be willing to take the axe to your own creations in the same way as you would that of others?"
"sorry, seleene just stole one of your votes...there are some more left though."
"nope, sorry you've already been in the csm, and you were a former dev, we need some fresh perspectives not same o same o view."
"seleene was never on the csm."
"seems that \"iteration\" is the buzz-word for the 2011 cycle, about bloody time it became more than something used to berate \"fringe\" elements who have been clamouring for it for years as whiners where would you like to see null-sec heading, ideally speaking?where would you like to see low-sec heading, ideally speaking?biggest questions imaginable with no easy answer, i know, but they are very important nonetheless and many will be voting based on them."
"former dev not getting my vote and shouldn't be eligible."
"i never voted for people to get free tips to iceland .. but you will get my vote, if someone can scream at ccp ears about on how fixing stuff, it's you+1"
"that's nice.now, get out."
"an axe? how about a flaming sword? bear in mind that anything created on 'my watch' wasn't purely my own but the result of some sort of team effort that may or may not have been what was originally intended or desired. i know there are several things on tq which i would have wanted to see come out differently or... finished. as a case in point, the old sov system was a dead end from both a technical and a game play standpoint. the new sov system was designed to be able to be tweaked, iterated on and balanced on the fly. multiple objectives, tiered goals and all that stuff. yet there's so much that didn't make it into the first release of dominion that it was gimped from day one. i've waited for two expansions and still not seen any sign that they are going back to it or finish it properly. all i see is vague talk about how jump bridges will probably get nerfed or fixed or whatever but probably not oh look a butterfly let's make more npc stuff, etc...iteration is all about updating, tweaking and even scrapping things that do not work. this should be happening much more often than once every six months or every two years. it's one of the main reasons i am running for csm - so i can go back there and ask in person, \"where the hell is xxxx? sansha, wtf?\" and a lot of other things."
"this is an awesome question but it has a very simple answer - a normal employee has to keep his mouth shut and swing the :awesome: bat while simultaneously trying (and often failing) to push points that would be common sense to most players. an employee can't talk to massively or rock, paper shotgun or blog about what a failure the last meeting was. a csm member can do all of these things and more. the csm has come much further than many would believe. i remember when it first kicked off and folks inside the company had absolutely no idea what to make of it. most wrote it off as a neat idea that probably wouldn't amount to much more than a big pr stunt. yes, many of them are just as cynical and :bitter: as the rest of us and with good reason. over time however, things changed due to the fact that the composition of the csm evolved and began to come into its own. the analogy of the monster that ccp created grew out of control is pretty apt in this case. i'm sure a few people, such as hilmar, fully realized what the csm could become due to the media exposure and the uniqueness of the concept. most still didn't, but reality crashed down on the csm skeptics last year when csm 5 presented a united front and presented their own version of 'excellence'.csm5 worked because the members shared a common thread - they weren't there to have sexy time with the devs, they had a job to do and sought common ground whenever they could. being a productive member of the csm requires you to understand not only the game itself but how to address your concerns to the people making it with a united front. which leads me to your next question:if ccp were concerned about this then they wouldn't let former employees run for the csm. i trust that the people the csm will be meeting with aren't going to let such perceptions color their interactions. some may not like the csm, but due to how it's grown, they can no longer ignore it.i left the company on good terms and don't plan to go in frothing at the mouth. i'm doing this because eve is worth it, for all of us. as a community, as people. yes, i would bring a new element to the table that hasn't existed before and it will be interesting to see, if i win a seat, how ccp deals with it. i also know of a few other former employees that are watching how all this plays out so i don't think i will be the last person who attempts this. hopefully i won't because i think it would be great to see a former qa or gm employee bring their own experiences to the table on behalf of the players. :)"
"seleene is an ok guy and wouldn't do a terrible job at this."
"about as awesome an endorsement as i've ever seen made by vile rat.in turn, i view seleene as a 'must-have' addition to the csm. he has a thus far unique perspective to offer that can vastly contribute to the csm team, extensive experience, demonstrated ability to work towards goals with others, priorities in order, and complete lack of any potential ulterior motive.solid mind, experience and attitude.+1 vote."
"seleene is a guy that looks extremely uncomfortable when speaking to a crowd, i.e fanfest and so he gets my vote."
"roc the vote..."
"roc the vote!"
"hmm a possibility for a vote.i'll ask some questions when i got more time."
"hi,what do i think are the problem points in eve?well personally i would have to say that there are far too many for a start. a few points that i would have to put forward first just from a personal stand point are ship balancing, factional warfare, small gang warfare and too much progression with half finished product/expansions being placed in game with no view on fixing them or updating them to work with the current player base.looking through all the post that are in the assembly hall, and features and ideas you quickly see a million individual problems with eve, some confined to individuals wanting the game to work a certain way and then more importantly massive groups of people having the same problems and are being ignored.how would i fix these problems?well that is a very difficult question for me to answer. simply because the ways i want eve fixed might not be how the majority of eve wants/needs it to be.the only way for us to fix the problems is to really listen to the players, not just a half arsed post saying put your ideas in this forum and they will be looked at. im sure some do but from what i have seen over the years is that they get buried under hundreds of other posts and are then forgotten about.what i will be doing is organising these posts and cataloging them so rather than get pilled under loads of rubbish they get the chance to be seen by people at ccp and how strongly the players feels about things that need to get fixed.so simply for starters when ccp come to me and ask what i think should be changed within eve, the simple response will be to look at the points that have already been brought up many times in the forums but overlooked.i hope i have tried to explain out your question a bit, but if you have anything else you need to ask, please do. im 100% for working with the players directly rather than reading posts and forgetting about them.(one last addition, sorry if any spelling or grammatical errors are in my posts. i do try and read through everything and spot things, some times things do slip through)eve truth"
"all the brave nc warriors vote killer2 for ze csm !"
"man, are you serious? it comes across as a clone of \"the rent is too damn high\" campaign"
"rent is too damn high videorent is too damn high video #2"
"having looked through the various threads of the csm candidates i noticed a lot of similarity between their positions but none yet which seems to match my own views.so i'll go ahead and ask - are there any candidates that:- don't think the game was better back in 2003 and don't think we should stop adding things until lag is fixed and every ship is balanced and hell freezes over or whatever- are not so much interested in small tweaks and thousands or papercuts but the bigger picture ? worst thing that can happen to this game in my opinion is design by committee and creativity being snuffled out by a mountain of requests. i want the csm to function as a conduit for our major concerns and our problems and especially demands for information on our behalf not deliver blueprint copies to the ccp assembly lines for production.- are excited about incarna and have ideas on how it should evolve so that it can be awesome (and relevant rather then just fluff) ? will keep us informed about it and pressure ccp on releasing information unlike the current csm ? - want to keep a brisk expansion schedule of at least one major expansion per year if two is untenable (i can accept that) - think many of the expansions were pretty fun actually after the week or so of troubleshooting it took them to stop deleting boot.ini - want the weaker parts of the eve experience revisited (faction warfare guys please) but not timidly, boldly. the problem with those was always lack of sufficient features and being way too scared to rock the boat. not allowing fw or pi for example to matter enough.so in short who wants the total sci-fi experience ?"
"thats really the point isnt it. it not about the majority that dont get involved in voting, dont use forums and couldnt be arsed if they did.if about the vile types who get \"upset\" and cant keep it ingame / on forum and will misuse anything they can lay their hands on. and in these google times...i said something similar as the op did, a long time ago. not feeling comfortable exposing rl just to be listed as a candidate.not that there is much special about that. its about knowing for a dead cold fact that having pointy views about some things and segments, if getting into a position of influence and actually get some measured against them passed, usually equates to ****ing off some really nasty types who in a very real sense will try to cause grievous harm if they get the chance.not that i have any delusions about getting voted in if i applied, hence i don't even if it was anonymous, its just the principle of the thing, knowing that it might deter other good potential candidates."
"thanks for the feedback btw :) i guess i just dont believe in anything that performs 100% right up to the point of it being totally destroyed! which to be honest is pretty much how ship combat works at the moment. i know u tend to get a reduction in top speed if ur ships taken major hull damage but thats it?? i guess ccp ran some simulations on sisi and realised anything more will up the lag in % considerably in large scale fights.i wouldnt want to suggest anything that adds complexity to server calculations and therefore increase lag on server nodes so i thought instead of augmenting how ships react when taking damage, augment the ability of the player to understand and react.thats what lead me to think of adapting full screen damage effects like the ones u see in fps games. they dont require massive overhauls in base code and they dont require any increase in server requests either.my thinking in terms of lore is on the basis of any human sensation driven to the extreme has effects that augment your sense of reality. bearing in mind capsuleers senses are connected to ships electronic sensors being bombarded with massive amounts of energy when in combat. in a human context pain is just an alert message informing you of the fact your body is taking damage. its just the human condition that id like to see replicated a lil more.in terms of game play i see it more of a shift toward player ability and a shift away from the notion of \"my high sp beats your low sp\" because the skill comes in actually dealing and working through these effects. everyone would experience the same level of effects."
"interesting, +1"
"eve has no aimbot and it's not on xbox. it's played by old poeple like me who didn't get married when they were thin enough, and thus have the disposable income to buy screens so large that most of the overview and some channels fit on them.alas what with years of gaming and, you know; no wife, the eye-sight isn't what it once was. and it was once 'ok'.so yes; a font i can actualy read at this res would be nice."
"as we're all constantly hearing, hybrids just aren't very good right now. blasters suffer from lack of range as well as inadequate tracking within that range. rails suffer from heavy cap use, mediocre dps, weak alpha, and poor tracking - all of which is supposed to be compensated by extreme range - currently useless in today's fast-probing combat environment. either lasers or projectiles are more effective in just about any high probability combat environment.time for a fix.in order for a fix to be implemented, it needs above all to be easy for ccp to implement. the fewer things it changes, the more likely to be implemented. we also need to avoid making hybrids a pale copy of either of the other two kinds of turrets. we don't want \"lasers with ammo\", or \"cap-using autcannons\". ideally, hybrids should be as distinctive from lasers and projectiles as they are from each other, not a pointless halfway house.with all that in mind, here is my proposal.currently, hybrid ammo, like the other types is ranged on a damage vs range continuum. lower range = higher damage, and vice versa. my proposal is that we change that to a tracking vs damage continuum. all t1 hybrid ammo would have a 0% range modifier, with the lower damage ammo having a higher tracking bonus, and vice versa.rails:this will have a dramatic effect on railguns. they'll be doing their best damage to the most distant targets, but they'll lose effectiveness as targets close in. it'll be a little harder to get completely \"under the guns\" of a railboat because they can switch to high tracking ammo, but they'll sacrifice a lot of dps to do so. what we'll see is almost a reverse of fall-off. they wont obsolete arty, because arty will retain the advantage of high alpha. they wont obsolete beams because beams wont lose tracking/dps as they close in. this change will restore rails as the kings of extreme range turret combat, but it will redefine that range to be within the paramaters of fights that actually occur these days.blasters:this change will solve (or at least mitigate) the two biggest problems that blasters currently have: range and tracking. by switching to a lower damage ammo, the baster user will be more able to hit similar - or even smaller - size targets. with no range penalties, bs sized blasters at least will start to have a somewhat useful range. a rokh with no range mods will have a 7+13km range; this will put it within 50% falloff on jumping in from a gate even using antimatter. with tracking enhancers, we'll see blaster bs actually be able to usefully engage outside web range.on a personal side note, the poor old megathron, with it's whopping tracking bonus, will once again become awesome with these changes.tracking mods - tracking enhancers, tracking computers and target painters - will become as useful to hybrids boats as they currently are to projectile platforms.it is also worth noting that if it becomes difficult to balance rails with blasters (egl the one becomes overpowered with ammo bonuses that are appropriate to the other) we could also add a falloff modifier to the ammo as well as the tracking modifier. ideally i would prefer not to do this, as projectiles are supposed to be the falloff weapon. but the option is there.i have deliberately avoided putting any specific numbers in to my proposal, because really that kind of detail is for the balance teams to work out. but i think the core of my proposal could be at least a good starting point to reviving the poor, neglected hybrid turrets. (for instance blaster boats could still need some tweaking with respect to agility or mass to be effective.)comments and suggestions?"
"this is a fairly radical proposal, interesting nevertheless. definately an option. however, i would like a reduced reload timer in order to make use of this ammo."
"having damage without tracking... what's the point? in both cases you lose damage.i have way more evil idea:make hybrids capless and projectiles using capthis will fix issue with cap burned for catching your target and help gallente being active tankers as they are supposed to be. also it will nerf minmatar boats that have utility slots combined capless guns which is plain dumb.gallente boats are already using autocannons anyway...the rest of the blaster fix is the ship speed re-balancing mostly and removing selectable damage type on projectiles."
"doh i forgot to put that part in!addendum: the reload time of hybrids would need to be changed to be approx 50% of that of projectiles.addendum: the t2 hybrid ammo will probably need to be reworked from scratch, and i haven't got a satisfactory answer as to exactly what it would look like. i would particularly welcome suggestions for that."
"even if lead ammo gave 25% tracking boost, it would still not make me want to use blastersit would also not make me want to use lead over antimatter for blastersthe tracking boost on lead would have to be 100% in order for me to consider it worthwhile.i'm speaking from perspective of pvp pilot who can choose any ship and weapon type and wanting most effective short range combat ship."
"need more support, you know you want to!also this would include a -100% to shield recharge. you can't repair your armor, while cloaked so it would only make sense that shields don't passive recharge.remember people, this is for non-covert ops cloaks only!"
"not supported."
"i could swear i supported this already...also the shield recharge thing."
"good idea.may actually reduce the number of laggy situations if bringing enough players to crash a node is no longer a valid strategy."
"am i understanding it right??if lag happens, the server till reset all mods to have longer duration time??like, if the lag is 3 seconds, all mods will have 10 seconds more duration time??if i'm right, i would support this idea."
"you're starting to get the idea :)say the node that the fight is on can support up to 500 players completely lag free, and then another 500 jump in and start fighting, you'll experience lag.your modules cycle and dont disengage or dont turn on when u click them, contacts that are already dead still appear on ur overview for a moment longer than normal etc....the server would slow down everything that has a combat or navigation element in it in the system.so dps is reduced, alpha is not, reps per minute is reduced, speed is reduced, explosion velocity reduced etc... everything used in combat and navigation that has a time based element in the calculations.what this means for the server is less requests by pilots trying to do stuff and because of that the lag is reduced/removed.so those extra 500 pilots that jumped in would force the server to add bullet time to 100% so everything that took say 10 secs to cycle would take 20secs to cycle. and because of that the server would be able to handle twice as many pilots that it originally could, without lag as such."
"anything to reduce the lag monster."
"/signed"
"i once was a nc member and i can see their point. why make life harder on the 0.0 players? then it occured to me once upon a time we lived in 0.0 without jumpbridges and logistics occurred just fine. i do support buffing manufacturing and industry in 0.0 though. or perhaps tax empire logistics so 0.0 can compete. i support the removal of jump bridges entirely."
"as this is a strawman it doesn't really need to be addressed, but you do realize that this is the same set of errors that's been repeated (again and again and again) in this thread, right?not only did massive coalitions and \"blobbing\" exist before jump bridges (and will exist after it), logistics was a dramatically different situation, too. mineral compression, carriers that had massive space, rigged transport ships that could fit in carriers and carry cargo rather than just charges...the game isn't the same as it was before bridges were introduced, and acting as if it is, is an absurdity. you shouldn't make claims like that if you don't know the terms. as it happens i didn't use a strawman. there is also no objective need to \"make eve bigger\". just a subjective preference. eve was also a \"lot bigger\" when it was almost unpopulated and you could fly around for hours and not see another person. you could reduce warp velocity by 99% and eve would be \"a whole lot bigger\". you could make it cost liquid ozone to activate a stargate, and yep, eve would be \"a whole lot bigger\". but there is no objective benefit to having a \"bigger eve\". especially since a \"smaller eve\" is largely the consequence of the game's increased popularity and subscriber count. yes, but we've already gone over the actual facts. that dreaded bridge network doesn't allow people to fight a war on two fronts. the drone regions' bridge network didn't allow them to repel a coordinated invasion effort. it's bridge network didn't allow them to stave off a failscade. pointing to the number of jb's and getting upset is all well and good, but the actual facts gainsay your claims."
"ah, repeating the same debunked nonsense, again. good plan."
"fight fire with fire...."
"i've got a whole proposal over at f&i for nullsec/soveriegnty (one-post summary here), with one of the goals being more self-reliance for sovereignty holders. i haven't really linked it with the idea of removing or nerfing jump bridges, though."
"i support the decision to remove or alter jbs"
"remove those damm things. atm they only serve those that dont need it. the blob alliances have more than enough members to escort any ship from high sec to 0.0.and while you're at it, get rid of- e-warfare frigs. least used ships as ccp screwed everything over with the nano nerf- logi ships. seriously, how big do you want the blob to be. 100 man in fleet is 50 pvp ships and 50 logiships resulting in neverending fights only serving the one with the biggest blobalsointroduce a doomsday scriptone for aoe mode, one for focused fire"
"i won't repeat my eve tribune rant, but i'll pick one detail; height. in wis everyone will be the same height - that's just weird. more veriety would be better, so supporting more fuit-bowls and gallente plastic shirts."
"this is so lol. aint eve just fun :d"
"1500+ clicks = tyrant"
"i dont mind telling my factories to produce a different product 1 by 1. but the routes stay exactly the same, yet i have to redo them.your nuclear powerplant also doesnt have to switch its electricity network when switching to coal lol.eve has an import function for planets, so large scale production is a perfectly reasonable way of pi. add to that fluctuations and daily demands of certain products and to make a profit you really need the daily margins. the prices of finished products can vary 50% from day to day."
"dont u know ccp has shares in logitech."
"sounds like to me you've forgotten the first rule of industry - research!yes 1800+ click to change your product entirely is a bit of a hassle, but thank god those production facilities can switch with no cost to yourself. unlike real businesses that would have to pay considerable amounts on new equipment. thank ccp for not making individual facilities for specific products!any1 going into mass production pi wise should research the product they're making. i never manufacture anything if its got an erratic selling history because its not good business sense.in industry, stability is key to reliable profit."
"this is definitely supported. i will be adding this to my campaign blog."
"yep.. thats something i`d really like to have!!i`d also like the linkage on the bulletin! or just link a bm in chat or something... why can`t we just drag a bm into chat and all pple can add it to their bms?!remember to tick the \"check here if you want to give your support to the idea/discussion going on\" guys!!"
"1.0"
"supported"
"yeps i'm sure every wormhole corp wants this."
"massive thumbs up good idea"
"i'm highly sceptical about letting players loose with any system that allows them to quickly and easily create vast amounts of items that could be used to induce lag. i would not put it past some fcs to have their whole fleets share lots of bookmarks in order to crash a node and prevent a fight from taking place.i could not support any easier means of sharing bookmarks unless it was kept separate from the main inventory system, i.e. there should be no way to move corp bookmarks into a hangar, container or cargohold, and these should be kept on a dedicated node. there should also be a limit on how many bms one can move into the corp or alliance shared folder at once - probably no more than 5 at a time.supported subject to significant provisos."
"this is true. if i can buy a vanity item of molle's frilly pink hat with a plex, i may support space barbie. yes, it's almost as if the chair of the csm told me that i should make an 'elevator proposal' thread to discuss the general ideas without mechanics being the focus. go figure. it's somewhat unseemly for you to fabricate game mechanics for a feature that hasn't been accepted let alone implemented by ccp, and then claim that the game mechanics that you've invented are a reason not for ccp to accept let alone implement the feature."
"supported, but i think rafia's comment is a valid concern. ccp will have to very careful how this is implemented.that said, i agree that pvp in stations is essential for continuity with the rest of the game.ambulate safe! o7"
"well, look at the comment in context:it wasn't a complaint that if ccp decided that disposable alts could easily gank prepared/'properly tanked' players it'd be bad, but that there shouldn't be pvp in stations because it would make stations a \"desolated wasteland\" since there would be disposable alts running around easily ganking everybody. not only is that not a necessary consequence of simply allowing pvp in stations, the fact that we already allow pvp in absolutely every single location in eve other than someone's hangar, the idea that it would necessarily lead to a \"wasteland\" is fearmongering. sure, ccp should balance the new content properly. and mechanics should ensure that people aren't ever 100% safe anywhere but that it's not trivially easy to murder someone who's got a clue. absolutely. but jumping straight to the claim that simply allowing for pvp in stations, just like it is everywhere else in eve, will ruin the content? blargh."
"oh i agree mate, i support your proposition for a reason. all i'm saying is that the potential for abuse such as rafia describes is there, if the systems aren't designed carefully. the fact that rafia has indulged in a hysteria fuelled bout of reductio ad absurdum doesn't alter that potential.now is the time to try to foresee potential problems and think about possible methods of avoiding them (hence my pointing out 2 such in my post in your other thread). after release, given ccp's track record of rarely looking back, will be too late."
"ah, then yah, cheers and i agree. of course it'd be easy to screw it up, and i'd want the csm, especially, to provide a hell of a lot of feedback to make sure ccp got it right. but if it's done properly, it has the potential to be an awesome addition to the game."
"support."
"i support the concept of ganking in stations to maintain continuity with the rest of the 'verse.that said i think there are 2 major issues that would need to be addressed to make it a viable proposition:1. latency: not everybody lives on top of the cluster, therefore whatever system is adopted needs to account for differing pings. nothing would be more disheartening than to be walking down a corridor only to have your image stutter and finding your cooling corpse on the floor 100 metres behind where you thought you were, never even having seen your attacker.2. cost: by which i mean that a potential ganker will need to put serious effort into setting up their kill, and not just log on a throwaway alt to cut some random stranger \"for the lulz\".ambulate safe! o7"
"yeah, i've got no problem with those sort of mechanics. i don't think station pvp should be twitch gaming or that it should be a simple matter to gank someone who's taken basic precautions."
"full support!i like to say that what i don't like to see is something like fps. i like to use as possible the same mechanics as flying: target enemy and start figthing.could be nice to click on corners and walls to get cover. another plus could be to hire some bodyguards, so you can go through a low sec station with protection. these bodyguards act like concord cops.could be nice ywo ways of shootng, one normal that alarms everybody and one more \"sneaky\" to stealth assassins. (need skills of course)in high sec, it will be safe due to guards. in low sec.....well, its low sec right? only for hard guys. hire some protection if you are afraid."
"so as a balancing mechanic to ganking in stations will people who clearly disobey the law be denied docking privileges? maybe you will be denied weapons first, then any kind of body armor, and finally docking privileges or being confined to your cabin? seems to me, from reading the lore, that only the seedier places in the universe even allow people to carry weapons on stations anyways. maybe there will finally be a reason to have a positive security standing other than a number next to your picture? maybe you would need a higher security standing to even leave your cabin with a weapon perhaps? even high security area's that deny access to people without the proper standing? you want to be an assassin go right ahead but it shouldn't be a one sided free for all either."
"i like this quite a lot. i think a lot of it should come down to the ui though, no names of toons floating over your heads to point you out from a crowd of npc's etc. that alone would solve a mess of easy assassination issues. if you had to absolutely know what your target looked like? otherwise you go and shoot some random npc and station security does what it does best..."
"yes you can kill the ratters in system. this is true. these agents however have the possibility to allow you to force them to fight to protect what is theirs. they give a target for small gangs that can have a meaningful impact on null sec sovereignty. what if these were just one of many small targets within null sec. would this have the possibility to increase small gang roams through the area? would this help alleviate the following problem that you suggested? there are places tucked deep within the blue ass of some alliance where you don't see a single hostile for weeks on end.on the topic of farming, this is not another thing to farm. it is a thing to farm instead of sanctums.as far as difficulty goes, ccp already has agents in space. these are cosmos agents, and one of them actually has you go kill another one during the minmatar mission line. now i am not saying that these things are the same. and i do realize that my proposal would be difficult. but if you use this reasoning, then ccp should not have created mission agents, null sec, wormhole space, complexes, walking in stations, or planetary interaction. you may not care about any of these things, but the point is that they were all difficult to implement in their own ways.thank you for your questions."
"i support this proposal."
"supported and already added to my campaign here"
"/thumbs up."
"i just got kaikka in a belt, it was a nightmare to kill. my tengu couldn't break the tank so i ended up having to bring my alt in a phoon 20 jumps to where i was exploring. i guess the change isn't that bad it just kinda crush's that awesome feeling when you get an officer because now it's a pain to kill."
"can i say that i find this combo a bit fun? you want hard normal rats but soft officers for pvp purpose."
"venkul mul, i was arguing for my idea of increasing officer spawn rate to compensate for increased difficulty, which would result in supply decrease of officer lootnow that i killed 2 officers since the patch, i understand their strengths and weaknesses and find them acceptable."
"well see there isin't much risk anyway tbh, its just something i found as a minor annoyance."
"there is a non-public skill warp accuracy - wish they would make it public."
"the more annoying situation and one that should be addressed is telling it to warp/dock at the station. when it arrives at a distance it heads to the station but forgets that it was supposed to dock. that's annoying."
"well, the pirates who r willing to take risk won't be \"banned\" at all because i don't think anyone suggested to nerf their gank so they'll still have the same amount of killmails as before. it's only their ability to escape their consequences that will be affected. so actually, only the risk-averse ones, aka the ones afraid of taking one loss compared to all their easy blob ganks, would effectively \"ban\" themselves from this. and it's those same ones that will still remain unaffected no matter how many rewards u throw at anyone for killing them. because even if there was a blob of anti-pirates, the risk-averse pirates will just run and hide even harder simply because they can; that's why atm, it's not worth it to chase them down because u'll get nothing out of it since they can't be caught."
"that's where i stopped reading."
"yeah.why even bother.op, supported. buff all rats actually, both null and low. in terms of difficulty and reward, current ones are a bit of a joke. espeshially after seeng sleepers..."
"it's funny that in the old days, 0.0 rats used to be stronger (altho player ships had weaker defenses too)and there were many more warp scrambling ratsthen ccp decided to boost npc bounty and reduce npc power - made it as bot friendly as possible. it's like ccp was designing the game for bots.i still want more warp scrambling rats. every elite frigate/cruiser spawn should have a point. non-elite spawns should have 20% chance of having a 20km point"
"fixed for you.nano nerf, faction ship buff, projectile buff...whine and you will be rewarded."
"sometimes we sit and really could use one more item slot on the \"hangar desktop\" cos you sit and have to split up salvage loot and then thing you buy, so why not make it possible to have 2 item menues.. a normal item and a backup item slot of somekind"
"use station warehouse."
"so we have to go out and buy containers now, why not just split the item up.. i dont want to be forced to buy containers"
"cross posting is bad."
"can fire an aoe weapon that detonates throwing 'flack' from the origin and causing damage to all ships within its area of effect. as ships move farther away from the origin of the blast damage is reduced. dread's must be in siege mode to operate artillery and must select the range at which the projectiles explode.ammo selection varies the radius of the blast, range at which the projectiles can explode, and the reduction over distance in damage that targets take as they appear farther from the origin.artilery must be sighted and ranged manually, and fire after a loading delay.=========================tbh, i would love to be able to manually control some kind of gun in this game; even if i only got to fire once every 50 seconds :p"
"sounds like the titan before apocrypha. just remind the reason why ccp changed the doomsday please?"
"kinda like a bomb launcher? would be interesting to allow bomb launchers to fit on dreads or some similar cap ship."
"lag from killmails being produce among other reasons."
"i was thinking more of a cross between bombs and smartbombs. adjustable range, high damage but small aoe. titan dd nuked the grid, artillery would be more for breaking up logi groups.alt of op btw."
"i think it would be neat if the 'targeting' system for this specific weapon type worked off of the scanner probe method. artillery pilots could select where they want to bombard on a 3d map and use combat probes to locate groups of enemy ships. overall, this kind of weapon would be powerful but hard to aim. of course, long-range would be ideal."
"they need to warp cloaked.my bs major is gallente, but a dominix for 500mil? why would i ever fly that over a dominix for 60mil?if you are just going to use it as a bops bridge, fair enough it just needs to exist and have cargo enough for fuel, but to justify taking to the field it needs to be 1/2 the price or better still use cov-ops cloak.i know i can't bridge in a normal domi, but i can bridge in t3, or recons and actualy be usful. i could also move through gates with some hope of staying alive once i'm in.i do support bops change, but not more drones - just means more lag and op vs smaller ships; 10 bonused hamerhead iis on your cruiser? 10 ec-600s on your anything? that's op."
"give all black ops +150 m/s to base speed and you got yourself a truly unique and desirable battleship class."
"\"it would probably also have a cooler name. \"space-basket. you can have that one for free."
"very good idea +1ps: this goes in the same direction than this proposal"
"supported"
"this is inevitable. internet spaceship tabards. let's call them \"uniforms\" though please."
"maybe i could be eve's first sexual-discrimination lawyer. everyone's going to do startrek tos right? therefore voting yes."
"the nature of eve is choatic. personal weekness in the face of organised strength drives fudal society. if you were not at serious risk, you wouldn't need to get stronger, so you wouln't need to seek a way into a strong corperation or alliance. you wouldn't need to collaberate with others to survive and thrive.this isn't about one mechanic of the game, it's about the game as a whole. the strong prey on the weak, the swift prey on the slow, the clever prey on the stupid. this is why we have the player power structures we do, great and small.some poeple think this game is about risk/reward; i think it's about risk/retribution. and a module change won't make any differnece to that. if there were no scrams or disruptors, high alpha or ultra high dps ships would be waiting on every gate and you'd still get ganked.you're missing the point of the game imo. if you don't get ganked when you are helpless, how are you ever going to grow into a well rounded vengfull angry griefer?"
"i'm debated about your reply. i'm sure i should appreciate your attempt at addressing my ... posting stance and attitude, and let's just say i appreciate your attempt.however, let's think of this as a conversation between people (real, not bytes).there's no way in hell iokaa would waste my time with his \"counter****guments\" if we were having a conversation.your replies are intelligent and focused, so you sure notice the fact that i address you respectfully. iokaas' are dim witted and stupid replies. he shouldn't have access to a computer since he washes down the internet.and let's think of this as if it were the discussion of a club, where you pay to enter.unless you are an idiot who everybody knows as so, one of those fools that get drunk and smash things, after a few years of attendance you automatically earn the right to at least speak your mind with the knowledge that you are telling from experience.well dude, i've been into a -lot- of clubs (games). countless of them.andiloveeveyet the game is disappointing, and fails to deliver even the most basic concepts of modern gameplay.and eve struggles to create veterans, since people leave way sooner than they would otherwise, because of the flaws,because of csrs incompetence,because of hardcore ****** fanbois that are obviously aware of the ridiculously blatant flaws (iokaas reply about insurance), yet don't light up their torches and pick up their forks to have it fixed right now,and because hardcore players do not want to see that their beloved game is broken, even if they know it and they experience it everyday.tl;dryour counterargument is very simple, indeed.however it's biased, and incomplete.there is no way in hell for a small fast boat to get \"under a battlecruiser's nose\". in modern, and even in prehistoric warfare, all \"big ships\" have countless primary and secondary weapons. if you are right on your mind, you don't even think about fighting a \"big ship\"."
"let's put it like this.pvp would take skill. but today it's 8 vs 3, 6 vs 1, 9 vs 2, and so on.even if you're the most skilled player in the eve universe,1) your ship doesn't have enough modules to defend against a gank2) your ship will always be outnumbered by gankershistory shows that, apart from scarce occasions, numbers > skill.today, eve requires no skill for pvp.you just need a big gang. super fun. destroying a helpless enemy, yay!i combed through my posts, and could not even figure where i possibly implied anything like this. never stated that eve doesn't have depth.only wrote that there's more detail into the spreadsheets (very good and very useful, for what matters), than there is into the game itself (lack of particles, no actual space debris, no ricochet, no shield effects, no projectile casings, no damage textures [r o f l @ the smoke trail when you get to hull.. pathetic], and i could go on)i'll put it down simple.ooooohhhh you have a lot of action going on in low sec... not.low sec is just high sec + ganking.there's no venturing. no border crossing. -no- highsec player ventures into low sec, since everybody knows how ******ed the situation has become: get in, get scanned, get ganked.the concord fix? i'd actually use it to mission in low sec, or to manage planetary interaction.the concept of ai backup is in space games since the times of wing commander/ privateer, when the word polygons was a magic word.but oh well, if you so much like a game universe where:1) your enemies don't stand a chance since you will defeat them by outnumbering them 6 vs 2, without the least of skill (scramble + web + jam + maybe paint / just who uses dampeners or the other useless modules?)2) theres low sec and high sec and everybody's cozy in their domains.i guess eve's the perfect game for you, and this is why it's such a miserable game that can't get a hold of people, and hook them for more than 3 months."
"i have a complex job in real life. i don't want to discover perpetual motion."
"u mad bro??ok seriously....eve has always been portrayed as a game where everything is possible, from the aforementioned frig taking out a battleship through to creating an industrial empire where trillions of isk flow through your corporation, not to mention the devious side of espionage and corp theft. there will always be limitations based around hardware and coding and time. only a few days ago we were discussing the options availiable to the devs regarding upgrading hardware to take care of lag (devs take a look at the hp superdome series, hard core iron for a hard core game :p ) the problem that i can see from your posts is that you dont understand the complexity and demands of an mmo. when you are talking about changing the gameplay and ambulation etc, in a single player game i would definatley agree with you, this kind of almost unfinnishedness would be completley unacceptable meaning that the game would never even see out 7 years let alone be thriving.however this is an mmo and as such is not based purely around you, but around 350,000 people all inhabiting the same space. lets take for example wow (sorry for swearing guys), that game has many of the same limitations your talking of, in pvp combat, if you are on your own and 5 people come up to you in pvp guess what, you will get ganked, your damage always hits in the same place and way, lol seeing any similarities here.... nearly every point you mentionied is the same just in a slightly different way, and as for insurance, guess what when my ship pops it gets replaced for me by my alliance (wi. best dot), thats the advantage of running with a large group of players, they got your back. and lets not forget that in wow if u get ganked, okay you dont loose several golds worth of armour and weapons... oh wait no.... you kinda do its called a repair bill, just in eve if you get away you get a repair bill, if you dont you get a replace bill, its not that different.the fact is that the changes you would like would kill eve for almost every player bar the small american whine bags. i refer you to swg where after much complaiing sony made the jedi class a selectable class from outset rather than something you had to work for (yes swg trolls i am also painfully aware of the combat changes that also contributed [boo sony])eve has its issues none of us are denying that, we would all like lag free fights, we would all like insurance that coveres our ship modules and a bj from the 10 hookers drunk of spiced wine in our cargo holds, but that aint gonna happen, just like i would like 20 million pounds and to be stranded with the entire female cast of the russian ballet on a yaht somewhere nice and sunny but hey in eve as in real life we dont get what we want all the timeps join a decent alliance, stop running missions and enjoy eve for what it is, if you feel so strongley about these changes run for csm and propse it to the devs yourself.... oh wait after this you would not get the votes.. my bad, maybe you would be better going back to wow, or \"hello kitty island adventure\""
"fixed:so you're suggesting to leave the game as it is.next time, keep your head inside your ass and don't waste people's time, idiot."
"\"and level 5 agents have all been moved into low security space, which is utterly stupid.\"stopped reading there."
"tl;dr - luminus mallus needs to get to grips with eve law1 small kills big- rl: 1-a mikerobe can kill a man2-a lose nut can down a plane3-a hunting party of ape men did kill mamothseve law:a warp drive is one small part of the whole ship, they are generaly the same moddle through out all the hulls. a warp scram/disrupter has the ability to jam the pilots ability to speek to his warp drivea warp core stab increses the nural/mechanical pathways between the pilot and his warp drive thus alowing him to still talk to his warp drive if he is dissrupted (up to a point)a lone frigit should not beable to kill a battleship... unless the battleship is porly fitted. pro tip: fit ur ships properly2 insurance-eve is not rl hereeve is not world of warcrafteves insurance system is not bugged...if you fly a t1 ship that u built then insurance pays roughly 5-10% over your construction costs (this means that you mine and get all the mins yourelf)insuring ships braught from the market: well if the ship is in demand its going to cost you more, insurance company in eve is not going to say \"aw poor you braught a raven for 300mill and got scammed, we will be noce here is a 300mill insurance payout\"if you pay over price then accept that your insurance is at a loss.t2: as it now is you get slightly more back for t2 ships (it used to be only as mutch as the t1 hull)again if you pay for the ability fo fly this ship then accept that if it dies u lose money. in eve this is called isk vs rewardfaction/pirate: same with t\" but magnifyed by 500. irl the insurance company will not insure any car that has been involved in shady dealings. pirate faction ships are no differentyou payed for its abilitys, the insurance company could not care less3 pvp-its fine as it is, if you dont fir for it then you will most definatly die to it.in eve there is no sutch thing as a fair fight.fyi noobs can kill vets. its happened plenty of times, people think thay can win a fight and then subsiquently get face ****d.pro tip:ways to avoide unnessecery losses:1) steer clear of low sec2) steer clear of null sec3) steer clear of wh space4) dont take yellow cans5) dont take from yellow wrecks6) dont remote assist anyone with player/corp agression7) dont go afk when auto piloting8) dont afk mine9) dont afk mission10) dont log on4 graphics-eve has a lower bar for graphics than most games because its trying to not alienate its potential player base, eve has however ricently raised the bar a little with the relice of incursion. if eve was to constantly raise the minimum specs for there game then they would hemerage players everytime they did it. nuf sed4i-ship damage particles/wreckagethe wreck is a vary good dipictation of whar is left after a ship explodes, ok so it dont look like its orignal self, but hay all thos different thisp that would need wreck moddles would just cause undue amounts of strane on the server, especialy in massive fleet fights and even in some missions. the generic small/med/large/t2/capital wrecks are all fine and imo dont need changing5 mission location-they current mission system was put in place to reduce the monster that is lagas far as i know you are the only person who has wined about this new system. just accept that you have to maby travle to make 10 mill insted of get handed it when u undock.6 pve-iokaa writes; incursions, wh space, 1/10 - 10/10s???i totaly agree with her (him irl) these are all realy good alternative pve options ane imo are never boring, they offer the exileration and rewards that missions donefyi incursions are a great competitive pve addition to eve, welldone ccp"
"7 stupid concord escort idear-iokaa writes; stupid as hell, get some friends if your moving your freighter.in responce to; pay for concord escort. they'll be there to fight as ai wingmen.again i agree with iokaa. no paying pncs to protect you eve law: concord is a retaliatory force they will not protect you just insure that your agressor is punishedthat is alldd"
"so basically you're trying to compare real life to eve, and then you use science fiction to justify pathetic and miserable game design decisions.wonder what was your aim, there. what were you trying to do, actually.you have a point regarding scam cost and insurance... but it'd be me as a player who decide, not the idiotic flawed \"thinking\" behind the current system, that'd dictate how it works.if i spent 1.5 billion in a frigate, and i want to insure it for 1.5 billion, i should be allowed to do so.does not take a genius. with the current system -nobody- is encouraged to invest in costly ships and modules and to actually use them to full potential, since it'd be ridiculous to risk high tier equipment in a ******ed gank.i believe there's a simple reply to those idiocies you wrote regarding \"pvp is good ok\": just how many real life friends did you invite to eve, and kept on playing?toggle-able graphical options.i'm sorry but you must be a sad imbecile if you haven't understood this basic gaming concept yet. or more probably you're one of those ridiculous fanboiiis that get their panties in a bunch when somebody criticizes their precioussss.all non fundamental graphical options can be made toggleable. no \"hemorraging\" of playerbase to be had if you think the solution for ... 15 seconds.i was hoping to see smilies or something after that sentence, but there are none.you are actually trying to be serious about this?have you -ever- played anything different than eve in the last five years for ****s sake? are you simply ******ed to even dare think about such stupidity?hmmm just how much pve do you play, precisely?let's put it this way: eve is in the poor, dire and miserable state it is right now because people is \"just ok\" with things, even if they're idiotic or just plain annoying.differently than you,i love the game,so i want it to become better.without the annoying bits. with its ******ed issues fixed.as i wrote, if there's any concern about rewards and isk-making per minute, lower rewards/ drops, etc.any player worth its subscription will immediately agree that its' better to have things without the stupid and boring travel, than to have them more profitable.besides, the point i made included another issue regarding accepting and turning missions in. you gotta dock for that to work. in the year 100000000. yet you conveniently avoided that argument.you obviously don't play pve for ****. and the fact that you agree with the original ******? priceless proof that your arguments are worthless rubbish.your reply is surely more deserving of respect than iokaas, but you eventually don't deserve to play eve, for ****s sake."
"tl;dr- luminus mallus still fails to see some of the flaws in his epix rage and slnder post.well to start i am heavily dislexic and have issues with my spelling granted i may not be a gramatical genious but never the less i have spent the last 5 years of my life field testing various games for numerus game companies. i have worked on:-deadspace 2-fallout 3-batman arkam asylam-legostarwars 1/2-bfbcvarious mmos including:startreck onlinefinal fancisy onlinelego universeontop of that there are countless flash/brouser games that i have had a hand in testing/improving.now thats out of the way.-my pve experiance consists of:l4/5 missions in all faction space'snew! incursionsexploration, in serpentis infested regionsmining (at the begining of my eve career)producing items for markets.and trading (had my own mini low sec heaven)compleated 4 of the 7 epic arcscompleated all cosmos missions for gallente minmatari dont profess to know everything about eve... but it would seem that i have a better grip of the reasons behind most of \"issues\" that you say exist.-insurance mk2:so how dus this sound you want to pay 2.5 bill to insure your ship? ur only gonna get 2.5 bill max back. what if u lose that ship to concord. concord mails the insurance company. that would look a little somthing like this:--------------------------------------------------to: insurance guyzfrom: concordto whom it may concern the ship :armageddon class battleship: owned by :insert ur name here: was today involved in an agressive act against a non sanctioned target.we at concord promptly removed this ship from the field using excessive force. resulting in the loss of all crew members and stores with exception to the pod pilot.we have now sceased the wreckage and are holding it for inspectionreguards concord-------------------------------------------------now the letter you recive.-------------------------------------------------to: your name herefrom: insurance companyfor the recient loss of your ship we pay you, 0.00isk crime dont pay.reguards insurance companyps lol ur got ownedthis is what u want?as i sed b4 if u wanna risk flying it the do so just stop complaining about insurance-missions mk2i have never had an issue with docking to recive hand in missionsits makes good sence in game terms. firstly the agents in stations are not pod pilots. \"game mechanic\" it brakes up mission time, reduces ability of bots to chain missions efectivly.the only way for an agent to contact you is to send you an eve mail (there is an exception to this however in some missions/ cosoms /epic arcs.there is also the fact that a high proportion of missions require you to collect an otem of some kind that needs to be returned to a station.dont get me wrong though i would like to see some missions that i could accept in space (not sayin they dont exist just that i have never had one to the best of my knoylage)travle times: eve is not about instant gratification, if u want that then go play a more generic mmo like ffo, wow or fso, failing them any fps graphics mk2:ok i think you missed the point...to add better graphing to eve ccp needs to improve there servers and software, this means that they will have to upgrade and replace old hard ware with newer varents to cope with the added strain of the new content. by doing this ccp will inevidably have to raise the bar for minimum specs because people who have played eve are not running the same setup as ccp. people get ****ed when game companys do **** like this.its all well and good doing it to a stand alone product that has boxed expansions but to an mmo its rairly herd of.the best example i can think of in ricent history is ea's battlefield badcompany 2 . it was reliced with the ability to tern everything down to minimum including low res screen formats (8pl"
"friends that i have introduced to the game?10 or 15 i think, i do however have 5 that still activly play.i myself was introduced to eve via a friend and quite franckly i would argue that is is byfar the best mmo anyone has ever showed to me. the fact that i am still here sez that.there are people out there, you included i would bet, that find games like this get good at them and expect everything to be easy and dumbed down enough for the brainless masses, thankfully ccp has done a good job of weeding out the bad eggs (although some remain)this game is for people who actuly are invested in there charictors, not just in the \"i kicked ur ass\" bragging write of over online games, there are no \"best in slots\" only different setups.if you fail to pay atention for even a second then the game will crush you.nuf sed"
"this proposal is so terrible i don't even know where to begin unless op is trolling, in which case well played sir."
"i too suffer from verbal diarrhea..."
"ok, i'm done. somebody takes the time to show you their different perspective and this is how you respond. not just this example, but time and time again. if you want to put forward a proposal, expect that some people may disagree.still not supported on the basis that you refuse to see anything but your own narrow view, and are either exceedingly rude or simply a troll."
"confirming the fact that eve doesn't have any veteran players."
"read the original post, dimwit. just because i use a couple of strong words doesn't mean i'm raging or slandering.this... this is actually incredible.since you obviously write \"testing\" as in \"downloading pirated copies and wasting life away in their forums\", i believe you. sadly, you're pathetic for that.wow, i did those too! the others? even your grandma played them.in all honesty, only an imbecile would take your word for this. what you write shows actually wholly the contrary.you lose it to concord, you get your 2.5 bill back. that's how insurance works, you ****** ****. regardless of the reason, you pay to cover an expense. when the insurance conditions meet, you get your money. you can tweak insurance conditions all you want (i.e. being concordokkened doesn't apply for refunds), but it is still insurance.you obviously don't even have knowledge of the most common and basic tools of modern society, and you want to comment on a game which is a complex derivation of said tools... pathetic.this is the actually only good reply of your whole post.sci-fi explanations... are for idiot nerds, honestly.last time i checked 1 second ago, eve was still a game. developed to deliver a fun experience, to attract players.it's the year one million. in game you can communicate with your fleet members instantly through a voice channel. you can communicate with your corporation members from across the whole universe with a keyboard.yet your agents can't give/ turn in missions unless you're docked.only an abnormally stupid person would be ok with this.best argument ever. rofl you're pathetic.again, eve is a game. reducing travel times does not mean instant gratification. it only means getting rid of ******edly staring at space doing nothing. don't even get me started on autopilot.rofl. dude, your ignorance on the subject is gargantuan. graphics are not server side you ******ed piece of ****.ricochet, shield effects, damage textures, shell casings. everything can be made two dimensional and client side.do everybody a favor, and never reply to anybody else in any game forum you ignorant ****** ****."
"hahahahahahahahaha no this is too rich.do you think that i wrote the original post for the peoplethat agrees with me?seriously?dude.i wrote it for you.the people that agrees with meisnotplayingeve.additionally, you wrote \"take their time\". yet what most here did was not \"take their time\". they shat on their keyboards. took a dump on their keyboards and pressed post reply. wasted everybody's time with their idiocy.that might be ok with you, but it doesn't sparkle with me.eve is a mediocre game that can't satisfy a general gaming population, a game that is not evolving into a better game because its hardcore population is so dim witted and they have their heads so much up their asses that they don't want to see the obvious flaws, and even less they want them fixed. period."
"i enjoy when people gank me. i like fighting against the odds. sometimes i/we win. sometimes that is luck. often it is because i/we outsmart the enemy in some way. that is skill.i misunderstood the complaint.except that once upon a time, when i was noobish, i did this. i ventured from high sec to low repeatedly. i learned from my mistakes. i started killing them back. i got better. i joined a bigger corp. i got better. it doesn't sound like you really even tried low sec. in other news, the greatest loss of ships in one battle in eve history happened in low sec. uemon. 20 super caps dead in one fight. low sec does get action.of course you would. so would everyone else. it would also be heavily exploited. it is counter-productive to the game. such a mechanic would promote self-sufficiency. no one should be self sufficient.i have been in fleets that were beaten by outnumbered enemies. i have been in fleets that won while heavily outnumbered. you might be surprised, but that is as common as a bigger fleet beating a smaller fleet.no ship can fit all forms of offensive at the same time. i see sensor damps fairly often (they are highly annoying). neuts, vamps, sensor links, tracking links, command modules, painters, webs, points, bubbles, smartbombs, bombs... the list goes on. they are all used."
"and yet while the big budget mmos rise and fall, eve continues to steadily increase in population. maybe ccp is doing it right and the other mmos are doing it wrong."
"well, just one word for op, abuse reported"
"locking this as a trolling thread. it's ok to express your ideas that you would like to bring to the csm but please do this in a constructive manner. attacking everyone that posts that they do not like something of your idea isn't appropriate on this forum. everyone is entitled to their opinions."
"i like the gun version of defender missiles."
"i am aware that the dps and range on the pds are too high and it probably shouldn't be able to track frigates.the actual stat can only be determined by testing."
"+1 :-d"
"although i don't like most of the designs from the contest."
"/me would love to see a clickable \"at current range\" button and and a clickable \"run awayyyyyy\" button."
"the goal:1 to greatly reduce effectiveness of gate-camps as the means of controlling and securing a volume of space. 2 to create more opportunity for small and medium sized fleet to enter someone's sov space from \"nowhere\", meaning spawn deep withing thei territory, and have a real chanse of doing some damage before appearing in all intell channels.3 to ease logistics for small entities when jump-bridges are removed (whihc i hope they are). these wormholes cannot be used to supply a large alliance due to mass restrictions. these wormholes must:be easier to scan down from empire than from null.not allow passage of capital ships.connect to both hs and ls.allow a medium sized fleet to pass there and back. that means that we need more than 2 billion of mass.known space- known space connections already exist, albeit they are quite rair, not nearly frequent enough to make a real difference. this is a very low-cost solution that will only require ccp to:increase mass restrictions on some wormholes.make them more common.the results:you will have random roaming gags appearing out of nowhere and disappearing into nothing without warning. possibly doing damage. and you can't camp them out. the average dude can get his **** to empire easier.some more trafic to low-sec and many wh's will connect there."
"as far as increasing the number of k-space to k-space wormholes significantly goes, i fully agree.however...all these things are not necessary."
"i agree with the idea in principle (i proposed it myself in the csm minute thread when the j/b rage started). i agree with omara that most of it isn't necessary. just increase the number of k space to k space wormholes.-liang"
"also supported, but keep wh mechanics as they are - just increase the number of k-space to k-space whs.increase travel, increase trade, increase trouble."
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service."
"my support. it has been given"
"this is a forum thread. it is used by space politicians to gather support for their products and services."
"don't agree with random faction patrols......these will have a detrimental impact i think unless they drop something really nice, and if they drop something nice it'll just be pirated to death so that within 3 months no one goes after them.you can already put pos up. just need to fix the code that allows you to rent slots in labs/assembly arrays to other entities, something that has existed in the code but never been fixed properly.ability to sell kill rights could be an interesting fix for the current bounty system."
"what's with all the former ccp employees applying this term ."
"ccp employees and csm....its almost like the deck is stacked to make sure the csm remains stagnate and meaningless."
"nice to see other kiwis playing (from dunedin myself), and even standing for csm. i sincerely wish you all the best dealing with the chch earthquake aftermath - insurance is going to be important in the coming days/weeks.i see you mention afk cloaking - what's your stance on the topic?personally i see it as fine the way it is. i've been in systems with afk cloakers hanging around and been able to get on with business as (mostly) usual. i've also gone to hostile systems and cloaked up to hunt.i also have kids. this means that i need to be able to step away from the game at a moment's notice. so in that sense, cloaking is a very important part of the game for me - it might be afk, it might not, but either way cloaking makes nullsec life feasible."
"as i said, i am also not 100% convinced these will solve the issue.the problem (as i see it) is that the risk/reward is not enough of an inducemnet when compared with the risk/reward or either high-sec or 0.0. so you either have to reduce the risk (random patrols or something else) or increase the reward. now the risk in low-sec is very similar to (if not higher than) that is 0.0, which makes balancing the risk/reward equation even more difficult. so something must be done to deal with the risk before you can get a balanced progression from high through low to zero sec.this will nto be an easy (or easily accepted) fix. but to restore some balance something needs to be done. i am in favour of small changes to slowly try to bring things into balance rather than a complete rewite which introduces to many variables."
"nope, not very pleased with the meetings notes i've read. we need new people in the csm not keep sending the same people and expecting a different result."
"i think that a certain amount of consistency would be a good thing - to prevent every council from having to start from scratch, getting to know each other and ccp, but at the same time new people with new ideas should be given a chance, so take your own pick."
"so i'm assuming the epic arcs don't actually use agents in stations, and you are ignoring the npc agents in places like outer ring (ore agents), and you don't care about lp for faction gear from those factions.don't get me wrong - i would be shocked if most folks in npc 0.0 systems did missions. but i know folks who did, and they did it for lp, for specific items.how does removing agents from npc 0.0 stations make any impact on the game positively?edit/follow up:reducing the size of npc 0.0 eliminates the room for smaller alliances that cannot stand alone against the supercap onslaught to grow in. places like syndicate and outer ring foster alliance growth, allow them to learn the ropes of 0.0, and earn a decent amount of isk when ratting/plexing/mining. you totally lost any chance of my support at all with the stupidity that only allows carebear nation and sovereign sprawling slumlords."
"i'll be watching you on this point precisely where i expect from ccp once and for all to take a serious look in to gallente/hybrids stuff but not only, all other races need here and there some adjustements and i haven't seen any serious action from actual csm in this matter nor ccp's coments to some threads existing now since 2 yearsi support you because i'm convinced you will do your job seriously but make no mistake, i'll be back to get answers."
"i just wanted to throw a few words in here in support of trebor. the last go around, i split my 6 accounts equally between dierdra vaal, trebor and mynxee. since mynxee and dierdra aren't running this time, i've thrown my hat into the ring and i sincerely hope that i will get to work alongside trebor in csm6. i know he understands that the csm has a lot of work to do and he's certainly proven his desire to push things forward.so, after you've voted for me, if you've got an extra account left, vote for trebor too."
"good to know you're running again what are your thoughts on proper accountability/accounting for character transfers to make them more transparent?specifically, the difficulties faced in looking up histories based on forum postings - that may or may not have been successful transfers. there is also a big question mark on personal/friendly transfers not involving the forum.hmm .. let me dig up an old an buried ah post -"
"trebor gets my vote for nagging and pestering ccp to not lose focus on the little things and for awesome ui improvements +1"
"that depends entirely on the resources ccp applies to the problem of redesigning them; as always, there is tension between bright and shiny new stuff (fun for devs to work on) and remodeling the old stuff (not so much fun to do, but much more fun for the current players). it is no secret that i am in favor of more emphasis on the latter.some people in ccp have this position that \"players don't do game design,\" but even if you accept that position as true (which i don't), it is also the case that \"no game design survives contact with the players\". for this reason, i have consistently recommended that any proposed major changes (like a nullsec revamp) be tiger-tested by player expert groups during the paper design phase. one would hope that ccp gd devs are confident enough to be able to engage with the players in this way.as for my personal opinions about what might be interesting to consider, here are a few:nullsec: move away from timer-based hp-bashing sov-war, perhaps to an occupancy/activity system (as many have suggested); organic blob limitation, so after a certain point, while you can bring extra guys to a fight, they don't help that much; adjustments to force-projection and logistics (which are not the same thing, and which have sub-flavors); improvements in manufacturing infrastructure (to reduce the dependence on the jita tit). note that most of these are inter-related and need to be addressed as a coherent whole.lowsec: lowsec faces a unique challenge, in that it is in many ways the worst of all possible worlds. for example, let's say you want to make piracy more viable as an eve career path. well, more pirates means you need more fat merchantmen. attracting fat merchantmen means there must be rich resources for them to exploit. but if the resources are rich enough to make it worth the risk (as opposed to sov nullsec, which will be safer!), then governments (alliances) will move in to farm and tax them, squeezing out the pirates. just as in the real world, piracy is a marginal occupation. \"fixing\" lowsec is probably the toughest game-design challenge in eve.having never bought or sold a character, i have no experience to draw upon, but suggestion in the thread you link to -- that transfer history be exposed in the api -- is not unreasonable at first glance."
"the wizardry games were awesome."
"thanks, finn.btw, everyone, if you support my candidacy, you can really help out by entering the billions for ballots lottery, and then putting an endorsement and \"podfather\" link in your forum sig."
"good, because we all know that at the moment the value of ingame isk is far over the value of icelandic kr<U+FFFD>na."
"trebor has my vote. ps: vuk lau's comment about how trebor doesn't know anything about 0.0 pvp only sealed the deal - anything which moves the game away from the nc's idea of pvp is good in my book."
"well, until ccp actually defines what exactly they mean related to the \"ultimate sci fi simulator\" and produce a roadmap, that is all vaporware. iterations is based on real stuff that is already started/existing. saying they want to create a 'sci fi simulator' is just big empty words, and i'm not much of a fan of big empty words or things that are :awesome: until backed up by an actual plan. meanwhile... iterations.i have accepted that things like incarna will be a part of eve because the powers that be have deemed it essential to both their marketing strategy and necessary technological milestones. i am at odds with this design paradigm for the simple reason that, to me, eve online has always been a game about spaceships. however, as you pointed out, eve is no longer going to be just about spaceships. ccp are in the process of adding a whole new side to it so we all have to learn how to deal with that. this means that all sides of eve are going to need iteration, which means working with the csm with a view on how to approach that.in that sense, the csm isn't a waste of time because it can play the role of guardian for the interests of the players. it can't prevent, but it can make visible things like ccp wasting lots of time on things that really don't matter to players. although it is no use to oppose everything, the csm can still ask the tough questions about what is being allocated either to incarna or to spaceships. that is to the benefit of ccp and to the players at large.i hope this helps clear up how the csm can be useful with regard to helping keep ccp honest about how they intend to apply their resources. as csm5 has shown, it is in ccp's best interests to convince the csm that what they plan to do is in their customer's best interest. how are the players that the csm represents getting the best bang for their buck? these are the questions that need to be asked, and ccp needs to be answering them with more than, \"it will be :awesome:.\""
"the csm is not guardian of the game populace. yeah that's the pr line but its not true.there's no real need to ship folks to iceland, after all with video conferencing etc technologies it could be done just as easily over such medium and require no real travel. its pr nothing more nothing less. much like soe ignored its senate with swg during the cu and nge development, ccp has mostly ignored the csm. in both cases a few minor things have been changed as a result of said groups but ultimately major game changes are decided independently of them even if said groups are led to believe they have input."
"what is your stance on botting?how far are you willing to go with discussions regarding botting?are you aware of the full extent of botting?are you aware of the full extent of rmting? (ie alliance leaders rmt'ing through renters)edit: what do you think about micro-transactions?plex for remaps, for or against?what do you think about plex for ship customization?"
"what're your feelings on pvp in wis?"
"woot! will definitely vote for you. couldn't believe it when i saw your csm sig on another forum.the above poster beat me to the botting/rmt question but i'm also interested in your answer.oh, can you please send those free tacos? kthxbye."
"an obstructive csm will only lead to ccp getting even more out of touch with players.seleene worked on a bunch of stuff when he was actually at ccp:"
"would you consider delayed local and the associated changes to d-scan an iteration or new content?"
"vote roc!"
"we both know that communications from ccp can sometimes be unclear or less than timely. what do you foresee as csm6's key challenges in that regard, and what ideas have occurred to you for tackling those challenges?"
"what sort of improvements are you for?the game incidentally can't survive without a stream of new content, but fixing old content should be of equal importance as well."
"hello. my name is imigo montoya. you play eve, prepare to be represented on csm.so why should you vote for me to represent you?first of all i love this game.i want to see it reach the full potential it can while retaining the awesome unique flavour that it has. i started a couple of years ago and moved out to 0.0 with my corp as a one month old character and have been there ever since. while i prefer the freedom of nullsec, i have also done a lot of empire (both high and lowsec) based activities with alts (i currently run three accounts), and even got lost in a couple of wormholes, so ive experienced a lot of eve.secondly i am well qualified to represent the voice of the players.my professional experience includes it support, multimedia production management, and lecturing (in particular cosc360  computer game design). in my spare time i design and make games, and have even won a couple of awards. i have significant experience dealing with the kinds of real world issues that ccp deal with, and finding ways to overcome them, both technical and gameplay. this places me in a strong position to put forward player concerns and desires to the devs in a way they can appreciate.so if you have any questions ask here, or in the in-game channel: \"imigo for csm\" if you want to catch me when im online to discuss anything."
"cross posting from another thread:*snip unrelated*seriously though, while i haven't been able to experience all aspects of eve, particularly those things limited to certain levels of skillpoints (like flying supercarriers), i have delved into every aspect that i can to see what it's like, even if it doesn't particularly interest me (eg mining, pi, spying). regardless of whether or not i personally enjoy an activity, i will try it because what i do particularly enjoy is analysing game play.because of that i have a broad understanding of all aspects of eve which i look at with a critical (often pedantic, part of being an academic) eye. i really like what ccp have done with this game even if some aspects don't specifically appeal to me because what they have created draws in so many people.i recognise eve as being built from the ground up to be a massively multiplayer online game, unlike many which are online, with massive numbers of players all engaged in a singleplayer experience (i'm looking at you wow). the things that people often gripe about (afk cloaking, can flipping, suicide ganking) are mechanics that encourage player cooperation (to defend against in these examples). this to me is what makes eve special, and i will fight to preserve that.amongst many other reasons of course, so just vote for me already!"
"yes, i am runningyes, i have a clue as to what this is all about.yes, i would be a good choice for some of you to vote for, but that is true of a lot of the candidates.that last part is important. even though you are getting one vote per account please remember that you are electing a council, not a president. we need a team that can work together and manage to present strong messages to ccp. some folks seem to be looking for 'their candidate', be it null sec, faction wars, whatever. if you are looking for someone who is only going to focus on one issue well then . . . move along, nothing to see here.i have written digests of past csm meetings, i read the raw logs to see how things are done, not just what was accomplished. i read the other peoples platforms and campaign messages but for a different reason than you might expect. i read them to see what the people i hope to work with are like. the csm needs to be a team, not a set of individuals who each have their own personal axes to grind. if you asked i could point to folks i would like to see on the csm council with me. that is the key here. the council is supposed to represent the players and make decisions that make the whole game better. so we duke it out in forums and blogs and campaign slogans. we fight for our little piece of a woefully small active voting population. some candidates are depending on their own alliances to propel them to the top. others are famous enough that they have a fan-base that might do the same. those are how they will be elected, fine. i am looking for what will happen after that. will they get along? will they try to reinvent the wheel and rebuild the csm to make it more efficient (a common first topic of new csms, it seems) will they listen to you, the voters and more importantly, will they talk to you (when they are allowed to)elect a team. elect people who want the whole game to be better, not just ones who are sitting on one issue. elect people who know that they are not going to do it all and they may not succeed every time. ones who can go the distance and won't burnout.oh . . . elect me, because i am one of those people.honest, have i ever lied to you?mike azariah . . . csm 6ok, i hope you will now ask questions about specific topics and keep on task.(yeah, i dream a lot, it is the role-player coming out in me)m"
"this product and or service has been endorsed by me.goodluck mr azariah."
"best luck in your bid for a seat, mike. you have been an avid csm supporter and in my view, have a very good awareness of what some of the key challenges are for the council.how about your take on low sec... and how the csm should approach bringing such complex, bigger picture issues to ccp?"
"i believe you have some unrealistic goals. eve is about might makes right. renters pay rent because they cannot hold the space on their own and thus not paying it means the neighbor will overrun them. in fact most of your topics deal with that and really are unrealistic goals. the rebalancing of moons is a good idea. an expansion of the decoration system would be nice. to have the coalitions etc shrink you have to increase what a single system can sustain. currently a single system has a hard time supporting more than a half dozen folks. even at top end military index it can't support more than a dozen regularly.your manifesto is unrealistic and will lead to a worse eve not a better one. in addition since your the alt of someone that has already served on the csm (extreme was in csm-2) its time to say no and let someone else have a spot. not been to impressed with what's come out of the csm from its inception."
"greetings! for those of you who don't know me, i'm kalrand. and i'm running for csm. i have an eleven point plan of csm ideas which will be shared over the next few days.first i thought it would be nice for people to get to know me, the player, before i jumped into the political stuff.i've been playing since january 2009, and i've been very active in the more economic aspects of eve. i've run empire manufacturing corporations, been a prolific 0.0 moon miner, and participate heavily in the market discussion forum.i urge people to view my posting history here.the overriding idea of my candidacy is the following:i believe that the in game economy is the lens through which ccp should view any proposed change or action.i am willing to answer any and all questions in this thread."
"do you have an etsy account? if i vote for you, i'm going to want a t-shirt. i'll even consider paying for it based on how much of a coolkid it will make me at next year's fanfest.tl;dr shirt or gtfoedit: in all seriousness, i read your ideas in md. you've got my support. good luck in the running."
"please fix the l4 stealth bomber farming. it is extremely silly."
"a thread that seems to make sense and not filled with bias talk. personally, i'd like to see ccp post proposed changes to anything and make them testable in sisi before implementing them in tranquility."
"they do that a lot, in the programming world its called the unforseen bugs of doom. unless everyone was to be on the test server and try out the patches then ccp wont find all of the bugs. but then again out of all the people on the test server only very few actually look for bugs."
"lol, i just laugh when i see stuff like this. a company makes a game that earns them money and you believe that much effort isn't put into it. wait till you start programming and doing business, meeting deadlines and you'll know what's up.forums aren't made for whining like this but to actually fix things that have been tampered with or didn't come out well during induction.microsoft would have found a way to totally annihilate viruses from their platforms if it were possible. they have a system for reporting bugs which ccp also has. they test releases before introducing them in main server. i'm tired..."
"viable solution if minnie ships get more cap and gallente get less."
"despite their adherence to \"hybrids are meant to be different,\" really the only thing that needs to be done here is hybrids made just as effective as autocannon/artillery are now, but given boosts to either damage or range simply because they use cap and the projectile turrets don't.this of course would entail buffing gallente, though - something ccp seems completely unwilling to do - which even though it would also buff caldari, no one cares about caldari turret hulls anymore."
"i specifically didn't put any numbers into my proposal for just this reason. if you think that lead would need a +100% tracking bonus to make this work, then that's cool. let's run the numbers and see if that makes sense."
"interesting, but you should consider the cap use part too. the different hybrid ammunitions has a different cap use, your change should require a cap use rebalance, too."
"meh i'm not keen on your idea.here is one i posted a while ago:"
"why would we need to change the cap characteristics?"
"i will support *anything* that results in hybrids being looked at, because frankly they can't be made any worse at this point.the more i use them, the more obvious it becomes that they are completely broken right now compared to other weapon systems. currently flying a myrmidon with autocannons - easier to fit, higher damage from further away, selectable damage, better tracking, no cap use. there's absolutely zero downside."
"well i like the idea for rails, for blasters however you would need insane tracking boosts to archive something useful."
"although i love gallente and blasters, it is inevitable that they will give one of them a buff.that said, this is the most well-thought out and best idea proposed by someone who isn't me. supported."
"this is a really quite interesting idea.i support that this be considered in the options for buffing hybrids.kinda off topic:gallente ships have trouble getting into range with other ships - why not give them (instead of giving them enough cap or reducing the mwd cap) the ability for a short burst of speed, to pounce on a target once, or maybe to burn out of a fight - but not to sustain high speeds.this would probably be best represented by giving a bonus to mwd speed, whilst keeping cap as is (not enough to run mwd + guns for long), or a bonus to mwd overheat speed bonus."
"would ephemeron's suggestion of +100% for iron be sufficient?"
"gallente less cap? why? o.ono, it would remain intact.minnies would get boost depending on cap use of new projectiles."
"i loved this when read originally. not only is it a viable alternative, it maintains the \"different but useful\" concept that so many beg for. should be considered as a viable solution that actually works for two racial sets (not just one)."
"your general idea is interesting has option and i like the honesty about avoiding numbers, endeed this is ccp's job.however, one point: the reduction of reloading time.the nonsens is right in this -350rg ii gets 4m3 of capacity and the largest one 425rg ii gets 2m3, same nonsens with blastersnow i understand the need of reduction reload to swap ammo for the blasters but instead of this i would rather like to see a third dmg type be included: em for distant ammo and explo for short amo giving them the \"right in tha face\" blasters should be and they are notwould this change the tears about \"i want to swap fast my ammo\"? noreload for missiles is 10sec and if i remember well (not conected right now) minies stuff too, the only ones swaping instantly are the amarrians. honestly i don't think this reload time should be shorter but hybrids should shoot mutch faster and so have more capacity than they have.edit: +capacity with tracking+rof+dmg tweek (either dmg types or dmg values) should not make them op but make any pilot fool enough to get in to te falloff/op range of blasters think twice, avoiding the actual easy situation for a vaga double rep ab on to keep blaster bs's at 20km smiling all teeth out \"gotcha\"just an opinion"
"excellent question, actually not this easy to answer.iron deals around 41,67% of antimatter damage, keep this in mind when you read this. i did run some graphs in eft(iron mega, 1 web, 3x cormacks tcs with scripts = 101% better tracking) against a mega with just a web but antimatter since i was mostly monitoring the range of 0-5km, the range difference isn't this important. t1 ammo, normal pvp fits(plategank mega, plategank ruppi).against a rupture(plate gank, scram+web no ab, 45% degree movement -> orbit) your break even point is around 2km, after this antimatter out damages it, however the it prevents the rupture for shaking off next to 100% of the incoming dps till 200m, while this point is around 800m for the antimatter mega. at 1km the antimatter mega deals around 36dps while the iron mega can do 157 dps. break even point is mostly 2km where antimatter surpasses the iron + 100% tracking by raw dps. if we put antimatter in the iron mega the numbers look a lot better, it pulls off a 378 dps at 1km against the rupture, what is 10 times more than the mega does today. peak would at 5400m with 797 dps for the +100% tracking mega with antimatter and 718 for the normal mega at 6900m.btw, the +100% fit with antimatter scales up really well against a ab rifer beyond 5km till it reaches nearly 380 dps against it a 10km(standard mega deals like no damage at all against it till 9.5km.as you can see it is not so easy, even more so if you consider that you are not in the position to dedicate the range in a blaster ship, as you where before qr within web range. the numbers look good as you only look at them in theory but with the lack of range control you will end up with the worst case more often then not, where even a massive 100% tracking boost doesn't change this much.for situations where you really need it, it would probably still not sufficient(combined with the problem that it does far less damage by itself), if you look at large blasters and solo/small gang pvp where it creates the most issues this days. on the other hand it would slaughter stuff at bigger ranges than point blank really quick(mega/rokh for instance) and would create in gangs a rather huge sphere where smaller ships can hardly enter without getting slaughtered even without hard tackle(scrams/webs). it basically boils down to the problem that tracking scales rather bad with range and something that tends to be balanced at close range can be quite a bit out of balance at other ranges.that's basically one of the few reasons why i would prefer the stronger web over far more tracking. it scales better, gives you a far better range control and by this it reduces most of the problems that you face today to manageable levels for a experienced pilot while it doesn't change much for bigger gangs.for reference, medium turrets track by default around 400% better. also before qr a blaster pilot that did know what he did could force the target into a situation where he did track 2000% better(by playing a bit with range, forcing the target to turn his mwd on) than now if the 400% improvement over now(web) wasn't sufficient to get the job done quick."
"i'm not implying that at all. are you too lazy to scroll up and read or is your comprehension really just that low?"
"i suppose ccp should have seen this coming back when they changed the way af resists are listed. too many people are just too lacking in intelligence to realize they don't know everything, and that there may have been changes to the game before they ever started playing that they aren't aware of.edit...don't know why i bothered to reply twice. you're probably the same guy. typical noir."
"i still support another bonus though.it'd make my wolf even sweeter.just want to see people get their facts straight."
"checkbox."
"facepalm simple on the face of it.let's do the time-warp again!there has to be a nerdy coding catch somewhere, but we should be giving ccp enough money to hire the princes of nerdom to code this in somehow.it would seem that anyone who is inside a system when it enters this time-warp mode would have to be tagged in some way. tagged players cannot just jump in and out of the time-warp due to some wierd-@ss spatial distortion effects on your clone or something.the tag is a timer(running on time warp speed as it adjusts on the fly) that makes a pilot wait before being able to re-enter.----in addition, i think that the system and every connecting system would have to be included in the time-warp to keep gate games to a minimum. ratters/plexers/miners would just have to deal.----it seems to me that once a system enters the time-warp, every pilot in that system becomes a copy that only exists as long as the system is in that state or until that clone dies or logs. re-integration with all other aspects of the toon/account would take place after one of the trigger events.this keeps skillpoints/researching/etc still churning along with no coding changes needed. the battle copy is trapped in the time-warp.----it is like the system is cloned into it's own sisi-like spacetime, so the rest of eve can access it is some ways, but it does not affect eve.-----"
"the idea, though clever and certainly unique, is self-defeating.no matter how you achieve the slowdown in system (increased cycle-times, distorted / expanded time, et cetera), you invite more and more people to enter the battle. because deaths would be slower, the battle would last longer. remember the rest of the eve-world is chugging along at normal speeds. more time to bat-phone friends, reship when destroyed, whatever.new parties would be jumping onto the field like never before. currently, if you can't race to a system in time, you get to drool over kms missed. but under this proposal, you have plenty-o-time. and with each new entry / reentry, that distorted time becomes worse and worse. allowing for entire alliances to call up their b-teams to get to the fray from further and further distances. and their friends. and so on and so on.while the system wouldn't crash like it does now, you would have fleets of ships just looking at each other (perhaps making rude gestures out the window) and doing little else. for those of you who have been on the test server, imagine \"move\" requests en masse on tranquility so you can go to work, kiss the gf / wife, develop old-age, to get out of the battle.points for a clever idea. but imo - counterproductive."
"very interesting indeed.supported.slade"
"this would be the end result if and only if the node being used to conduct the battle on was an amstrad or sinclaire spectrum. i hate it when people exadurate their points to the absolute extreme, its ridiculous and completely unnecisary! firstly this measure is to counter lag and only lag, its not a full proof way of having 2000+ player battles on any single server blade.the idea is to keep gameplay remotely playable between a mass of players converging and overwhelming a server and ccp reinforcing the node to allow full speed gameplay."
"in addition to everything above, drone synthesis projector really needs a fix. either more bandwidth to make it a proper drone system, or another turret slot to make it a split-weapon system.supported."
"dramiels are completely imbalanced in multiple roles, and as a frigate pilot a few years now its sad to see them destroy the otherwise balanced frigate class (now after rocket changes. thx ccp). i'll quote my post from shc where we discussed this. these are well thought out changes as from someone who both fly and fight dramiels:needed changes:- 10-20% speed nerf, get it below 800m/s when webbed and using faction ab- grid nerf so fitting t2 extender, largest guns with only a micro core is impossible (150s are ok)- remove one drone (bandwidth)- remove falloff bonus. its too powerful to have both a tracking and falloff bonus and combined with its drones it means you can hardly beat it even if you could somehow kite it (see hookbills). make it fit arties if it wants to kite rail/rocket boats.- cut lock range to that of a taranis. they shouldnt be fleet tacklersi was teaching my pvp class yesterday and kept thinking how well balanced most of the frigate bracket is now except for dramiels which are so stupidly op i dont even know what ccp was thinking.the other big problem with drams is the price in combination with how good they are. 70 mil means the only fights you will get with one is ***gotry (ab+shield boost faction fits) that wont engage anything threatening (eg pretty much nothing) and people will have backup to bail them out every time. there are no casual duels with drams. but because they absolutely have no disadvantage (good dps, best speed, good ehp, good agility, good range, good tracking) people feel forced to fly them and this has ruined frigate pvp and created dramiels online.some have suggested removing a midslot which i disagree with because it will make it too generic and close to useless for soloing"
"i want my solo pvp environment back, most places are a ghost town except for dramiels."
"what would the falloff bonus be replaced by?supporting anyway."
"long overdue."
"does it need another bonus? i dont think so. if you wanted to do it you could nerf the speed then give it 5% speed per level of minmatar frig until it was the same (with the suggested 20% speed reduction). you could also give it an optimal bonus instead to boost its small niche role as a kiting artillery ship (optimal bonus wont change much for ac fit). its just that falloff + tracking is too good combined and leaves no weakness to exploit."
"because dramiel"
"i would rather have the speed of the rest of the frigates increased to be closer to that of the dram."
"supported, dramiels are the bane of faction war complexes.minor sites were supposed to be run by destroyers and frigates, perfect for the \"entry level\" tasks in militia fleets, pirates and enemies camp this locations with dramiels and once they are in, you are never out."
"i'm not sure thats necessary, but i dont have strong opinions about it. however you would still need to change the other stats i suggested to balance things. speed is just one of the things unbalancing the dramiel."
"sounds good."
"did you try to fit a plate and web on a dramiel...?how about slicer?make all frigs go inty speeds with af dps+ehp or none. exceptions like slicer and dramiel and speed difference between af and faction crap are silly."
"i second the op's opinion"
"not quite sure what you mean. i guess its just a troll or do you mean that you want all ships to be the same or are you saying that slicers are too fast (they are not they are slower than crusaders)?"
"yo"
"dramiel: dual prop + scram + web + plate. did you try that? that directly refers to your suggested changes because i find your proposal too narrowed against certain specific fit, rather than ship as a whole.slicer is indeed slower than sader but still way too fast for range, ehp and dps it can project. speed needs to come with dps drawback. this was balanced pre-nano as you had to fill your lows with speed mods at the expense of damage. because of stacking penalty and speed nerf, this no longer works so you have ships like dramiel, slicer or cynabal that get this speed without any penalty - they are fast, have tank and deal good dps.if you want to have gtfo boats, sure but don't expect to kill much with them => balance."
"yes!"
"uh-yeah."
"fast ships dealing high dps still fit in. i think ehp is what is meant to be affected. high dps and pretty fast with low ehp makes sense. reducing dps makes you stick around for much longer which isn't necessary."
"no they don't and never did. also, neither dramiel, slicer or cynabal have low ehp."
"so i take it genos is finally tired of the angel fotm? not sure if all those changes are needed. it is enough to gimp the fittings to a point where dualprop+tank becomes a practical impossibility (ie. dp or tank, but not both)."
"i'm against any more speed nerfs.if anything, other ship classes need a speed boost. speed should play important role in combat - it is one of the few factors that depends on player skill more than character skill. having a speed advantage should be very important.the only nerf i support for dramiel is reduction of drone bay.dramiel should remain the most powerful faction frigate, but it should cost more. double the cost of bpcs and the price will justify its effectiveness.don't make eve more boring by cutting the elite out of small scale pvp."
"couldn't have put it better myself.also not supporting because op thread title is talking about balance for all frigates and then he singles one in particular out in his post.i am a firm believer that if something is deemed to be out of balance, balance should be sought by buffing alternatives rather than nerfing the thing that's good.there's been far too much nerfing over recent years, and i really don't like it.lately things *seem* to have gotten better - for example, this time last year, amarr was clearly the way to go for fleet pvp engagement - since then minmatar [gunnery] has been buffed and all of a sudden, with no nerfing required, there is a genuinely valuable, viable alternative.fantastic."
"supported."
"you will get elite back if dramiel gets nerfed as myriads of ship/fitting combos become viable again and people can more freely go about outsmarting each other...and yes, i along many others in genos did exploit the living crap out of dual prop drams after the faction ship boost but that's what you get for being an early adopter tbh (and i personally proved their invincibility a myth maybe 60+ times )but the fact remains that these days the frigate game is just dramiels online which makes it boring for us all. i support the op wholeheartedly. - i'd personally emphasize the changes to lock range, speed etc to get tackling ceptors their jobs back, as well as nerfing the falloff bonus to deny the ac dram the ability to both get under guns *and* kite in scram range with the same fit and ammo. also for general 1v1 balance the dps/ehp ratio does indeed need some toning down."
"the thing is, frigates are balanced quite nicely right now, except for the dram. i don't necessarily disagree on an overall frigate boost/ balance \"shake\" but that's a thing that is a lot of work to do for ccp, otoh putting the dram in place would be quite trivial for them and it is really making the frigate game much worse for a good while now."
"this already works right now. you can kill a dramiel using something other than a dramiel. a quick review of killboards would show that to be true. there are even cases when a dramiel gets killed by frigates of other type.elite pvp is all about overcoming challenges. if i get a 100 mediocre choices, where every choice is just as good as the other, then there's hardly any challenge. you just pick whatever and go with it, knowing whatever the enemy got isn't gonna be any better. in that situation, the number of people in fleet becomes more important than what each individual flies.the blob hates anything elite, the blob wants uniformity.when i successfully kill a dramiel, i feel much better about my accomplishment than i do killing any other frig. i don't want to lose that feeling of accomplishment.the only thing that bothers me is that dramiel doesn't cost enough. it should hurt more to lose."
"well, i don't know what exactly you did to prove their invincibility a myth, unless you died a lot in them, which merely goes to reinforce ephemeron's point that fast ships require good piloting skills rather than high sp.as for the frigate game currently being dramiels online - i do agree, but this can be balanced by buffing the others and thereby offering viable alternatives to a) flying a dramiel and b) killing a dramiel with something other than another dramiel - why make a good thing sh*tty, when you can make many sh*tty things good?"
"wut? some other frigate can kill a dramiel? that's outrageous..."
"let's drop the \"elite\" moniker now, ok? it's making the thread silly and it's not \"elite\" in the slightest to fly a dramiel these days..."
"dramiel and faction/pirate ships are something like legendary gear so in fact, yes it is elite pvp, in wow though...sadly in eve very soon(already) too."
"why do you feel the need to drop the 'elite' moniker when we're talking specifically about a 100m frig compared to other, 300k frigs?you might not like it, but surely it's reasonable to expect *something* special for that kind of outlay? why not bring other faction frigs into the arena currently occupied by the dram, rather than making the dram itself an out-and-out liability?"
"how does price matter?"
"this or boost non-dramiel frigates xd"
"you could boost all other frigs but then you are looking at changing 20+ ships instead of one. pretty much all other frigates are balanced with each other right now.and yes dramiels die vs other frigates, but it requires the dram pilot to be **** or the other ship to be a complete bait fit that cant do anything but beat drams. daredevils can sort of do it reliably, but they are very limited for all other forms of combat so it makes up for them being very strong for this particular scenario. they also cost a lot more than a dram to fit properly and die very easy to anything big."
"because the other pirate frigates do not have the same op status as the dramiel due to inheriting all the ails of their ancestry, especially destructible dps and cap reliance.all the frigs/destroyers are actually pretty well balanced with numerous possible non-crippling counters available, except for that one eye-sore."
"just make dram bpc cost 150 milproblem solved"
"you are hopeless..."
"nope. many drams roll 150-200 mil ship+fit already so it's not a deterrent, the players are not getting any poorer."
"the blanket minmatar boost was unnecessary and foolish, resulting only in the problem being shifted from lasers to hybrids. it was a classic example of power creep and exemplifies why a myopic fear of nerfing is fundamentally bad. nerfing is just as good as boosting."
"supportin'definitely agree that the dramiel needs a nerf. podcat's ideas seem to be the most solid so far."
"just nerf the dramiel.keep worm/daredevil as is."
"they would be if the prices went up.and if dram pilots feel comfortable fitting expensive faction gear - isn't that a good incentive to kill them? personally i'm always eager to try kill a dramiel as it may drop faction ab/mwd, faction web, or faction disruptor/scrambler. it's the only frigate that's actually exciting to go after.i have no problem with people using overpowered ship if they pay enough money for it and if i can destroy and loot them.would people still outfit their dram with 200+ mil in loot if the dram was no better than any other frig? probably not so much.i know it's easy to fly a dramiel. but on the other hand, it is hard to kill a dramiel. the challenge of killing it is what makes it so fun."
"another whining thread full of tears, stupid ideas and talk that makes sense. it's just funny that some peeps will benefit from this and others won't. there's no one change to game that ever benefits all apart from small patches and ****. jumpbridges make life in 0.0 easy i must admit(experienced) but i'm sure there are a fkn ton of peeps here that this change won't affect in any god damn way and they are supporting or either against it. the internets for u"
"while i appreciate you trolling (this thread simply hasn't seen enough of it eh, eh?) the facts haven't been debunked. that's what makes them facts. that's why you've opted for trolling rather than even attempting to respond to the facts. namely, that coalitions, even large ones, can still fall despite jb networks. invasions can be launched without the use of jb networks. jb networks can fail to prevent or significantly slow down invasions. jb networks do not actually allow coalitions to fight wars on two fronts. jb networks do not allow perfect safety for those who use them, as it's trivially easy to camp them. jb networks can be removed the same as any other pos module or the pos itself. and so on.on the other hand, you're simply pointing to the fact that there are bridges and grrr that makes you angry. that's not an argument. let alone a rebuttal. and your claim that you're \"fighting fire with fire\" is some pretty obvious dishonesty."
"another day, another episode of \"finnagain's glorious battle against the trolls who make him sad cause they disagree with his opinio.. i mean facts\".arguing with finnagain is like arguing with a rock, give him facts, maps of bridge networks, and logic and he'll reply \"troll\" and give you easily debunked opinions and pointless metaphors with nothing to do with the situation at hand (i still lol at ccp devs painting with crayons!).if you go back on the thread you can see him cry over and over again in posts full of dishonesty and hypocrisy. i would say: don't feed the troll, simply ignore him. there is obviously no reasoning with him (as this thread has shown) and his debating skills are akin to a 5 year olds (protip: calling those who disagree with you trolls does wonders for your argument and credibility).on subject:jump bridges do not work as intended as stated by ccp and must go. they provide force projection that leads to a stagnant blobfest that is more secure than high sec, particularly in nc's superfriend carebearland.they die, and nothing of value is lost. plus you get tasty finnatroll's tears."
"oh yeah, why introducing some drawbacks and interesting mechanics to make jump bridge network more complex mechanics and tricky to use...better to nerf them, better to remove them.i guess ccp can't be bothered with creative thinking these days.i am missing ccp as innovative developer that used to take on game design challenges. but i guess what goes up must go down at some point..."
"yes, you are trolling (some more). i provided a whole list of facts about how jb's actually work. you can't rebut them, so you troll. i understand. if you've got nothing in the way of facts, logic or a rebuttal, it must seem really tempting to just troll, troll, and then troll some more. as for your other bits of trolling:-maps of jb networks are the kind of content free non-argument that people use to disguise the fact that they have no actual position. the reality of what those jb's enable is fact, and gainsays the fearmongering. the mere fact that a map is used, or the number of jumps saved is presented, its advocates hope, to scare people with fiction. but how jb's actually work and influence coaltions, \"blobs\", combat and wars proves that the fearmongering is fictional. -there is no \"logic\" that's being used to rebut anything. that's why you're reduced to trolling. if you had logic to counter the factual and logical chains i've set up, you would. you haven't, because you can't. -your total lack of understanding as to why examples have been used is not, in fact, a failure on my part. each time i demonstrated the utter failure that were your attempts at logic, you tried to claim that analogies were \"changing the subject\". you're still demonstrating your utter lack of comprehension. some people trolled me by claiming that if i was saying that jb have no effect at all on gameplay (not true, as i never said it anyways), that i should support removing them. i pointed out that other changes that would have no effect at all on gampelay, like replacing ship models with crayon drawing done by five year olds, would be bad and could still be opposed. i've pointed this out many times to you, so your pretend-failure to understand is not an actual inability to comprehend a concept as simple as \"analogy\", it's just more trolling. rather obvious trolling, at that.-much like you pretend that don't understand what an analogy is, you also quite clearly have no idea what hypocrisy is (or just pretend not to, so you can troll). as for dishonesty, all people have to do is look at an example, like you describing analogies as \"changing the subject\", or your lies about me \"crying\" to know that you're trolling. much like how your trolling has been proven based on the facts, and you're pretending that it's merely the that you're \"disagreeing\". this is a lie. ccp have never said, anywhere, that bridges are not functioning as intended. in fact, they are working exactly as intended. you are blue to the alliance that sets them up, you have a password, you can use them. exactly as they were designed. but your argument is a troll, so you need to pretend that not only are they not working as intended, but that ccp said so. also a lie. facts show that despite extensive jb networks, defenders can lose their space, attackers can successfully invade space without using jb's and defeat defending coalitions with jb's, and jb's do not allow coalitions to fight on two fronts. but your argument is a troll, so you need to make stuff up about how jb's function. then again, you're also posting on an obvious alt-troll account with no combat experience and can't state your personal experience with or knowledge of how jb's actually work in the context of campaigns. post with your main already. the reason you're using an alt to troll is pretty obvious."
"i would just like everyone to recognize the fact that there never was a proposal. the op simply made a statement. a copy and paste from the meeting minutes. so this thread is not for or against any changes to jump bridges. this thread just turned into a heated debate.if anything this thread should be locked or moved to features and ideas discussion. maybe even jita speaker corner."
"from the minutes: yor argument here is just comedy goldif this was a fact the there wouldnt ever been any change in the political landscape of eve since jb was introduced.talk about taking it to the extreme. jb networks makes it easier for alliances to do landgrab on space they really dont need/use. it also makes it easier for people to compile into a blob.if someone is thinking about showing up for a gang/fleet, theres alot bigger chance of him actually showing up if he can travel through 3-4 jumpbridges under pos defence, compared to go through 15 normal jumps and risk getting ganked by a small roaming gang. that is if he is travelling alone.i have used jb networks, i know what it cant and can do. it makes travelling ridiculously easy, a hostile gang is nothing but a nuisance. unless the gang is big enough to actually start shooting pos structures/mods or attacking station services, an alliance can simply ignore it.gang is camping a jb? hard to get rid of? cloakers? simply set up a new jb, reconfigure the route, and take the jb they have set up on out of service until they move.it `as simple as looking at the jb going from m-0 to d7-zac, ontop of that there is another jb going via another system that ends up in the system right next to d7-zac. it`s like people are afraid of moving through normal gates.but i understand that you are afraid of loosing your safety net."
"even if that was true, removing jump bridges would not change anything about space size or blobs because blobbing efficiency as tactics would remain unaffected.only difference would be that moving around 0.0 becomes more or less tedious and frustrating.it is same fallacious train of thought like 'if 0.0 space will be utilized and there will be more free systems, people will come and grab it'. it did not work(for obvious reasons) and now there is a seek for a new scape goat to put a blame on.0.0 will be always about large power blocks, there is nothing you can do about it as it is unrelated to game mechanics, accept it and start your thoughts from there."
"protip finn, just because you like calling your opinion facts, it doesn't make it so. and just because you say you proved something, you did not.like when you risibly contended that jb's were fine because they only saved x minutes when both those minutes are significant and the areas you can avoid are also so.but you have proved repeatedly there is no reasoning with you, so. by the way, when a ccp dev says something isn't working as intended, then it probably isn't. but hey what do they know, changing anything stops the game from being a sandbox right?you are so lol.not true, the time it takes to get somewhere and to project force is very important. in normal play most people won't move 20 jumps to defend space they don't use. jb's can turn this into significantly smaller journeys. they also enable a blob to form faster, and move around better. if you have ever experienced the jb train, it is easy to see the difference it makes in getting somewhere, and in covering vast amounts of systems.atm there is no downside to have enormous powerblocks projecting over mostly empty space because projecting their force can be done with ease. if you take a look, the only ones speaking against bridge removal are those with a huge vested interest and agenda like finn and some goons.other than that there is a consensus for their removal, which shows just how much of a failed concept they are."
"if all people are lazy to move 20 jumps as you say, there is no need to defend anything because there are no attackers that would move 20 jumps.people will move as much as there targets they can find, simple as that. only difference will be that they will need more time to find targets.the territory you control has nothing to do with force projection, it is purely depending on force you wield. if my fleet is 2k ships, i will beat other 500 ships, regardless how far they are. again, the only difference will be travel time.argumentum ad populum... /facepalm"
"blah blah blah, it's only huge alliances that can really benefit from this stuff. if you don't have a force large enough to deal some damage in the short amount of time, why bother going to suicide in the first place? the blob will still land whether you like it or not as it's just a matter of mins.so much attention on something that doesn't matter. smmhh"
"do you really think that people are going to read that quote and honestly think that, in it, ccp (and not just one guy who wasn't serving as ccp's spokesman on the issue anyways) said that jump bridges are not working as intended, that they weren't supposed to be used by blues, with passwords, to jump places? or that there's an exploit involved?or, will they realize that those who claim that \"ccp said they're not working as intended\" are lying, that bridges are working exactly as intended but that one dev said he doesn't like the ramifications of jb's working exactly as was intended? faced with the fact that jb's don't prevent change, aren't required for invasions, don't guarantee defensive success and don't necessarily allow coalitions to fight on two fronts, you claim that those can't be facts or else there wouldn't have been change in the nullsec political landscape. talk about comedy gold. you're actually using the fact that jb's don't prevent change in nullsec, and arguing that that proves that jb's do prevent change in nullsec. yeah... you have no idea what the difference is between and opinion and a fact, just like you don't understand what an analogy is or what hypocrisy is. or, at least, you pretend not to in order to troll. post with your main. post with your main, not an alt troll, and identify what you actually know about eve. the fact that the travel time is not significant has already been pointed out to you, as has the fact that you can camp jump bridges. and you can incap/destroy them, too. you'd know that if you played the game. yeah... no dev ever said that and you're lying in order to troll. yeah... nobody ever said that and you're lying in order to troll. post with your main, not an alt troll. the facts show you're making stuff up as you go along. pilots generally do not have the energy for marathon, massive battles and then zipping around to go get into yet another marathon, massive battles. coalitions can and do deploy to front lines without jb's. coalitions ability to project force can still be overwhelmed by a superior force while they're on the defensive, even if they have a labyrinthine jb network. post with your main.you are trolling with an alt with no combat experience.post with your main.tinfoil hat trolling.in case you would like to stop lying and trolling for a bit, the fact is that i generally enjoy small gang pvp in and around curse, where not only does the nc have no jb's, our enemies do, and getting to doril requires about 30 jumps, through empire, to get ships there as a forward staging area. but it's easier to make **** up about a 'vested interest' and sling ad hominem tinfoil trolling, i guess.the bandwagon fallacy is not called a fallacy because it's a really excellent argument. you're also full of it. this thread has, what, 40-something people supporting the removal of jb's? yeah, a massive consensus."
"this much is evident, as is that you don't even live to your own fallacious appeal to authority yardstick of \"he with the most pvp experience on his posting toon is obviously right\" as proven a few pages ago. how goes it? oh yeah, quit trolling. and basically you posting every other post to say that you think jump bridges should stay. so basically a landslide trying to be contained by your opinion heavy, factually light, trolling.the facts of the matter are:ccp asked if csm would oppose removing bridges.csm does not (the democratically elected representative before csm!).jump briges are massive and save significant amounts of time, and territory.its not realistic, practical, or feasible to engage in \"bridge interceptions\" or their disabling as the strawman has been put forth as has been repeatedly debunked by a) setting up another is trivial and b) there are redundant routes and intel channels that make those options an excercise in futility, at best.and last, but perhaps most significant: the only real opposition to removing bridges comes from a single person with no arguments beyond fallacies and weasel allegories.personally i think your glenn beck \"i'm standing for the rights and freedom of capsuleers!\" act was the best yet. no replacement for you know, an argument, but one would be too much to expect from you.and yeah, most people seem to have read that quote and honestly think that in it ccp said that jump bridges are not working as intended and that he wished to make logistics harder and perhaps remove them, to which the csm didn't object. your lack of basic reading comprehension is expected, but appalling."
"beams, especially large beams use an absurd amount of cap, it's like tanking on its own. rails need moar dps though..."
"hey, i support my proposal by the way"
"1) height :)2) more angle options/distance options on the profile pic.3) obesity!4) racial distinctions restored5) different glasses, pls.6) body posing7) puff ball hair!8) age9) lights10) more clothing optionse"
"do want, really missed this feature.edit: also the ability to set the spots for light yourself(direction and angle) would be great to give the chars a more unique appearance."
"ccp,since you took it upon yourself to edit my character without my permission this seems like a pretty good place to put your brain to work. redhint: i wanted my fracking eyes closed morons."
"you can actually do this - i found out by accident, and it may take a frustrating few goes for you to replicate it (if you still have another 'go' left on the character creator).you may notice that when you're creating the character, it blinks every now and then - after a bit of messing about with the pose, i took a few photo's - one of them had it's eyes closed, as by pure chance the instant of the photo had been during a blink.not an option you can select, very hit 'n' miss, but it can be done.oh, and supported, btw."
"i think this topic is silly, as the devs are inevitably going to add options regardless of whether or not you guys say you want them. but it certainly couldn't hurt. i guess. *shrugs*"
"not sure it's so much a question of \"adding\" options as requesting the retention of functionality available in the old, supposedly inferior, character creator that was better in the ways that matter to people."
"do double clicks really count as two seperate clicks? personally i really only consider them one 'click' in terms of click-fest-ive-ness... and thus your numbers are a bit inflated imo. alot of routing can be done with double-click shortcuts and it drastically cuts down on the hassle. that and completely changing an entire 5 or 6 planets of production terribly frequently is just poor planning..."
"they should keep the skill book requirement to manufacture the items, but yes, please remove the decryptors.this is an easy way to \"add\" content to the game by a simple revisit to an unused feature."
"no.the entire cosmos needs to be looked at - not just one facet of it.supporting just one fix is wrong when everything cosmos needs to be looked at and redesigned according to the new gear available."
"i see no point removing decryptors. some modules are worth more some less, it might change any days when thing x changed in patch y. most importantly, if they're not worth manufacturing it's easy to just not manufacture them.i think it would be more important issue to look what other stuff you can only get from static cosmos instead of like, exploration. whateva."
"danke."
"personally pvp in stations is something that should not be done; not because it wouldn't be cool but because its a can of worms that will split eve down the middle and create a bigger resource sink than ever before.so imagine that i can walk around stations and meet people; cool eh.oh, whats this? someone has a spoon and wants to cut out my liver. before i had a nice cozy <insert ship here> to protect my squishy innards, now i don't have that luxary; and since im here in person its essentially pod killing me and i lose my expensive implants.great; so the risk of being ganked in stations far out weighs any social interaction that i would gain from it.ok so now i can fight back, great.. so now i want armor & weapons to protect my squishy form. now i will need 'special abilities' in combat because lets face it, trading blows isn't exactly very thrilling. oh whats this; its now become evecraft.why can't i now get out of my shp, get a can opener on my foe, break into his pod and punch him in the face?why can't i land on a planet and walk around there too?oh crap, the game has now become evecraftdust514.and through all of that 'extra content' all of the core gameplay is ignored. alternativly the 'wis' content is half done and the people who enjoy that stuff moan about not being able to do all the cool stuff they imagine.yes eve is harsh and it should be; space is a big scary place where there are plenty of places for the bad folks to hide and ram missles up your tail pipe.a station is different; its confined and in many ways controlled. would you get a 'concord' like security form in stations? probably but if people get 'podded' while in stations the risk won't be worth it.personally i can see it working like wis is more of a 'projection' where your avatar is either in a 'matrix like' world provided by the station environment so that you never actually leave your pod but you have an avatar that can walk around and no harm can physcially come to you (as its a similation)either that or their is some sort of 'aggression barrier' which prevents people from stabbing each other with spoons.if you want to fight then take it outside cus i don't want to clean up your mess! :p"
"uh, problem is that the op is not going to ever see the bad side of this, being an 0.0 alliance member probably in player owned stations. of course someone who can control access to their stations would be in favor of this, as no one can get to theirs to gank them.this would devastate it in hisec though."
"because hi-sec stations will run under null rules /facepalm.hysteria aside, what makes either of you think that a gank in a hi-sec station will be any easier than in hi-sec space? no incarna pvp information has been revealed at this point, so your speculations in regard to spoon gangs camping your station are nothing more than that; speculation. well, reductio ad absurdum springs to mind also."
"just the other day while i was in doril, or sendaya i thought how awesome it was that i owned them and could control who docked in those stations. you are also inventing game mechanics for a feature that hasn't been implemented yet. how do you know that it wouldn't be just like ships with shield/armor/'body' hit points?i've heard that second life isn't a pvp game.just saying. no, pvp is the core gameplay of eve, and has been since the beginning."
"that's actually a really interesting point... i suppose it'll depend, too, on how they sort out wis. i'm thinking that names floating over our heads would be cheesy and imersion breaking, but it's probably what they'll do."
"supported. what fun is walking in stations if i can't shoot the guy i'd be shooting outside?jita would be great fun with this!"
"doesn't really make sense, does it?in the \"definitive scifi simulator\" you've been brawling with someone for weeks, maybe even months or years. you've lost/killed billions of isk in assets and collected many frozen corpses. but once they're standing on a station's deck instead of in a pod, all of a sudden you can't even poke them in the eye."
"look, some features can't handle pvp disruption. there's thematic concerns, and there's practical use. if it's possible to disrupt people to the point of causing them to lose millions of isk or more, people will just not use the feature. especially when the feature is optional or social.chat and social areas are already vulnerable to griefing. i have no doubt we'll see all the trolls of eve on incarna launch picking up chairs over their heads and looming naked over you disrupting all your conversations. giving those same trolls the power to kill random people is going to limit incarna to a very few stations and destroy it as a means of socialization.it's honestly like the eve population doesn't learn this. how many areas or types of content have to remain barren before they do?"
"not in a pvp game, no.think about what you're saying. seriously. then look at suicide ganking, hulkageddon, faction/deadspace/officer fit mission runners being targeted, lowsec pvp, null pvp, wormhole pvp... you have chat channels. if you want to talk to someone without interruption, use them."
"problem as far as i can tell is this:if you die outside your pod you're biomass. dead. forever."
"is not the wifi invented?"
"agreed, but on couple conditions:1. mining any roids in high sec should come with a refining ban in all of that factions space - after all you're stealing their natural resources.2. as a thief you should be attacked by all navy and customs patrols as well as station guns.3. 0 insurance for any loses - after all which insurance company would insure someone going into combat at 20 : 1 odds or taking industrial ships into dangerous, pirate infested asteroid belts?4. a realistic income and vat tax (10 - 50% range) on all production and trade, after all those station managers and gate operators have to make a living somehow.after all we don't want to ruin the 4 main empires and make them go out of business because of all the carebear free riders..."
"welcome to a game with permaloss.not supported."
"currently, drone control is handled by the drone dialog window. my petition is for drone options to be available on the overview (for locked targets), and on the ship icons that pop up when targets are locked."
"social media sites can't be trusted and shouldnt be used for anything."
"supported."
"this doesn't make too much sense. ccp can invent another method but why shouldn't they use facebook? facebook is a huge means of interacting with billions of people."
"hi everyone,before i'm accused of having an interested in this, i do. i am part of the 2 alliances in the game that use the ore lp store. i believe there is 1 alliance that uses the mordus lp store, and i'm not entirely sure about thukker. the point is, the risk for doing these missions is high, and the reward should be good. in terms of lp, the reward is fine...you get a good amount per mission.the problem comes with the general uselessness of the items you can purchase. ore has the most spectacular example, having a collection of modules that while expensive, have such low demand that it is very hard to actually sell the modules once you get them. for a strip miner i vs an ore strip miner, the only difference is the 15000 v 17000 meter range. that is it. for the vast, vast majority of miners, this is more or less useless. the only people who buy these modules are botters, and this is shown by the abysmally small demand.even if there was a very small yield/cycle time/even fittings bonus, the demand would be reasonably high. imagine if the only advantage to a domination gyrostabilizer was a slight cpu reduction. same goes for harvest implants. just to buy the set is a multi-hundred-million investment, and you max out at about a 33% range bonus. this is also more or less useless.mordu's lp store seems to have some of the same problems, but at least the modules there have a very slight advantage over their t2 counterparts. the jammers have 0.1 more strength, and 5 less cpu. the mordu's implants are also of questionable use comparative to price. as for thukker, i have heard from those who mission for them that many of their rewards, save nomad implants, are falling into disfavor since the introduction of navy mapcs/republic fleet shield extenders/etc.for syndicate, you can purchase some anchorable bubbles with a small bonus.this isn't a huge issue for those who don't live there, but please add a little more flavor and some actual incentives to go out into npc 0.0 vs highsec.proposal:ore:-all mining modules should have 10% reduced cycle time. this allows the same implementation for ice and ore harvesters.-add ore salvagers/codebreakers/tractor beams/analyzers-harvest set should have an equivalent yield bonus. you're paying 4 billion for it after allmordus:-jammers should have +10% strength-centurion should also boost strength-ideas?thukker-have republic fleet shield extenders have extra hp. thukker should have a teeny tiny sig radius increase.-nomads are probably fine-thukker nanofibers with a huge agility bonus but a smaller speed bonus. they are the maneuverable nomads after all-thukker istabs with a very small sig penalty and more agilitysyndicate-add syndicate boosters with tiny side effects-syndicate warp disruptors? not sure on what the factional flavor should be here. flesh it out as a criminal organization."
"while i don't support your particular boosts, i do support the idea of boosting these things. seeing as how ccp is likely to ignore what either of us say, i'll save some time and simply click \"yes\".-liang"
"worth supporting even if i would like a more extensive rebalance of the lp stores (both between empire factions and the different minor factions)."
"how do you think i could improve them?"
"comments:- ensure that there are sufficient stations+agents to make the lp rewards actually available in game and not totally monopolized.- introduce hg and lg versions of the implants at standard costs. after all, nomads are expensive because of the cost of the lp offer, not the profit on the lp itself.- centurions => +all ewar strength- harvest => yield amount- add faction ships with appropriate bonuses. for instance, adding mordus griffin/blackbird/scorpion (role: -50% ecm range, caldari ship: +40% ecm strength/lvl, +5% resists/lvl) would be pretty swell.really, just flesh out the lp stores in a sensible way... the same as they should do for the pirate factions.-liang"
"not being able to sortie from a pos using a shield-tanked ship in anything like a timely manner sucks. supported."
"supported... silly to have to wait a few mins before you can join your pvp fleet due to shields recharging."
"agreed !"
"about armour damage, afaik it is not % but absolute hp of damage. in the past it was possible to have negative amounts of armour hp after leaving a fleet if you had received 100% damage while you had an armour boost bonus.i have read that the negative hp issue has been fixed somehow but never got around to test it. the problem is that when you store a ship it lose all the skill based bonuses, even those originated by modules as almost all tanking modules require some skill to use. when you reboard it the bonuses are recalculated.when it is done in a station you rarely have problems (something it happens, i have had ships leaving a station with less than full shield).with the pos someone has taken some short cut and the new values aren't fully applied. wile i agree that it would be an advantage for shield users, i think that the easier solution to implement would be to fix the shortcut that was used in pos and lets the ship undock at maximum shields. a possible fix for now: have you tried boosting your shields?(i know, pvp ships rarely mount shield boosters)when you undock from a station at less than full shields boosting them fix the problem giving you maximum shields. i am not sure if rr work the same way."
"this isn't true for the armor amount. kinda unfair that it occurs for shields. between this, gang bonuses, and implants, it is clear that ccp hates shields."
"can do nothing but agree."
"i, as a member of the hull tanking elitists, fully endorse this product and/or service. we have been oppressed for far too long! it needs to change!i call on ccp to remedy this injustice within 18 months or fear the wraith of my resignation!"
"as ceo of the hull tanking elitists, i, too, support the concept of improving hull tanking as a viable form of ship defense. it is rediculous that for as many years as this game has existed and been alive that ccp has not been called to allow those of us that wish to hull tank to do so in a viable manner.now is the time for us to demand these changes. this is the generation that must demand ccp's compliance with our wishes, lest they ignore other vital parts of eve as well. ccp must learn that we are the players, and being the players, we hold a significant share of the way this game will continue to evolve. we are ccp's customers, and as all good buisnesses know, the customer knows best.i personally have posted before; while not directly on hull tanking, it is very related. my proposal falls directly in line with yours, and, if i may be so bold, i would suggest that hull repair modules be moved to be fit to the high slot, so that they would remain balanced in the face of their improvements.other instances of forum-goers discussing this concept, along with highlighting the need for change:does anyone hull tank?why use hull repairers?"
"i support viable hull tanking"
"yeah, the piddle rep a lhr2 does is pretty sad, especially when you consider it is 1:1 cap:hp ratio. compared to 1:3 for armor (roughly) and 1:2 for shields (roughly). add to that the silly cycle time and yeah, needs to be made functional or just removed as it is pretty much a waste as is."
"such a great (if perhaps unoriginal) idea deserves more support!"
"hi.i like to share this idea because i think that this could add a lot of content and mechanichs to the eve universe.the actual state of the game consist of travel gate by gate from your position, to your destiny. this make feel like i'm in a room instead the deep space. pirates just have to wait in the gates to catch you and create a lot of lag due the acumulation of people in some gates.the idea is to have two different ways of travel thorught the eve universe.one, classic stargates:-fast (just warp to the gate and jump)-dangerous (lot of pirates..ganks...)second, a new one openspace:-slower (two or more warps needed and one or more capacitor recharge)situation:you have a valuable cargo an want to travel somewhere but you are in a dangerous zone. you know that surelly will be pirates at the gates. you are alone, no help, and you like to take a detour. leave the \"road\" and go \"space thorught\" to avoid problems at cost of more time need to travel.how it works?here a simple sheme:"
"yeah i'll explain why i don't like the idea:it's garbage.seriously, there's so much wrong with it there's no real point in going into any detail.you basicly just suggest adding empty solar systems and using them as jumpgates."
"so you can't see new mechanics giving the chance of avoiding stargates?"
"i didn't say that! we already have jump drives after all.i just think that eve doesn't really need more empty space.adding a slower alternative to jumpgates could be done and make sense, but how to do it well?i don't know."
"part of the function of gates is to create a bottleneck. otherwise, you would never come across anyone."
"travelling using openspace could be about 10 times slower than using gates. two warps + one capacitor recharge. it's safer but it's balanced with the time you need to do it. i'm sure that people will use both ways, pending on the need."
"arguably, openspace would be even more dangerous than using gates. for one, pirates could just sit in it and run regular scans. when a ship warps in, they could be on it in seconds, and the new arrival would have no means of escape until its cap recharged. moreover, this wouldn't so much remove the 'room' effect as it would just create more rooms, rooms where there are windows instead of doors."
"that's a point. but an opensapce could be realy big. maybe 8 times bigger than a standard system. harder to scan. i think that the chance of being catched must be balanced with this. maybe the area to scan is so big that you need some lucky to find soemone. maybe is smaller and your chances increase. anyway, if you want to catch people easily wait in a stargate. the openspace sorrounding 1.0 systems are high sec, sourrounding high sec are low sec openspace, and sorrounding low sec are null sec openspace. is true that this still looks like \"rooms\" but it is because this is the less agressive way to make changes in the game engine and make you warp from a system to another in a factible way. i'm not talking about remake the game system, just add new content. i like eve as a sci fi game in the deeps of the far space. stargates are great, but i cant't gtfo from these closed systems with people and civilization. i like to eve to bring me some day a way to feel the freedom of being no where in space and explore.placing these empty and huge areas, is a way to travel without being desintegrated by a stargate or a pirate camp. the warp is the connection. and lower sec areas sorrounding systems adds a new layer to the enviorement."
"i wonder how ccp keeps up with all this whining."
"my idea:keep the two lowest-grade officers as belt rats, but move the high-end officers to extremely rare ungated mini-plex escalations that are granted after completing high-end anomalies. this would allow for far more stable and easier coordination for their killing.that being said, i do support a decrease in officer stats (not anywhere near a full reversion) which will make them difficult or unmanageable for a common belt-ratting bot, but not require capital or overly-specialized intervention to kill. the fact of the matter is that this was snuck in under our noses with no chance to explore or examine the changes before they were made live. that alone warrants a reexamination of their stats.supported with reservations."
"400b? and you''re saying your isk/h is bad?"
"there is the fact that there are way more players wanting to participate in incursions that end up sitting around waiting to get into fleettoo many lo sec incursions that are ignored completely because of low sec population count and the fact that low sec players and corps might be busy defending their spacetoo few hi sec incursions vs the number of players that want to be involved and the time zone effect vs when ppl can actually play what about 2 incursion time lines with continuous overlapping spawns that enable players with different time zones and limited daily play time to participate?"
"as it stands, with the current 10k m3 cha space on carriers, it's very difficult to carry even a single alternate capital module in addition to other needed/desired items, while retaining the extra 4000m3 needed as a \"placeholder\" space to swap out a currently-fitted mod. since i'm sure it's out of the question to suggest \"shrinking\" cap mods to 2-3000m3, my solution is to add another 2000m3 onto the existing 10000m3 cha size.this would enable 4k for a hodgepodge of extra fuel, non-capital refit parts and miscellany, while allowing storage room for one reserve capital mod plus that all-important 4000m3 empty space needed to hold the unequipped mod."
"supporting my proposal."
"stop moaning and deal with it."
"troll rejected."
"carriers (both kinds) need to be nerfed to force them to have to rely on tender/companion ships .. not the other way around. ccp are not likely to change cyno/jump mechanics in any significant way (too many whiners) so gimping capitals when \"alone\" would do nicely to slow them down as it were.while they were relatively rare a self-sufficiency argument might have been valid, but now that they cost the same as 2-3 fitted tier3 bs and are available in bulk off the rack that loses all meaning."
"supported in all caps."
"you should have stopped posting as well."
"why don't you guys try to fix npc 0.0 space (like syndicate) instead? that region of space is completely dead. if you want to hunt pirates, then hunt pirates. nothing is stopping you, and you have a huge advantage with gate guns on your side. if anything concord should somehow reward you for killing pirate ships with sec status gain for killing a pirate (-5 or below)."
"more whiners here also. 0.0 has the best rats but going there to rat is prolly suicide. i'd rather join an 0.0 alliance than die to huge blobs just because of a couple mil of iskies. gathering your corpmates to run incursions with you is already hard enough.i support this though. it'd be nice if low sec systems had tons of npc ships with insta locking frigs at gates."
"the problem with lowsec specifically is that being pinned in place for five minutes fighting a tough rat opens you up to anyone who enters the system as an easy pvp target. a group of three tough rats and you'll be so tired of mashing d-scan you'll go back to hi-sec.i'd think some would be okay, but a global increase would drive me out for sure-not everyone can gank a battleship so fast, and lowsec is very appealing to low-sp people for ratting."
"banning of bot accounts for long periods will be abused especially if you have to report one. ccp can't employ investigating bots and make it work. it's using too much man power on something that isn't worth it. the man power can be used for better stuff. just remove plex and lets see guys rage."
"if you don't want to buy some cans (they're rather cheap...) to help yourself organize your hangar... too freakn bad for you. your proposal is basically asking ccp to employ a game-wide change in order to give you what is essentially a free station can which you don't want to buy yourself for some strange reason.... serious lol? buy a can, lol."
"a novel way of re-balancing dreads...however, what'd be done to the other 3 dreads to produce similar/complementary effects?"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"look everyone, another guy claiming that he's going to go be an amateur game developer even though ccp has expressly stated that's not what the csm does. let me know how that works out for you."
"i support this product and or service"
"i have say, one advantage of resolving long-term cloaking which i rarely see stated is that some of the bots in null would be able to be hunted more easily (they often cloak up when a hostile enters system and there's no station to dock up in).it won't prevent non-probable ships but that's a different problem"
"i actually like the idea of intermittent patrols into low sec by the faction police. most especially in systems where there have been a lot of ship kills. response might not be fast, but it should be heavy. no scramming. which is not to say an opportunistic pilot or two couldn't jump through with them and snag a ganker or three, letting the police do the heavy work.it could also potentially allow transports to get some cover heading into low. the most important point should be the jump directly out of hi sec. make the bottlenecks equally as dangerous for the pirate (at least intermittently). spice it up for all concerned. get more players into low and everyone wins.awesome to see a kiwi go for the csm. good luck!"
"ok, i am going to clarify here a bit. i am not against afk cloaking, as such. i am against being able to 'camp a system' while not at the computer. people complain that 'botters' make money while not being at the keyboard. afk cloaking has similar impacts in that it prevents people (and in some cases botters) from earning money for no 'real' risk.what i would really like to see is some method for 'sovereign' alliances to deal with cloaked ships in their space. i would also like to see more of a penalty for putting a cloak on a ship that is not designed for it ... but this is a personal issue and is not high on my list of 'must do' items for the csm.as for the situation where you are called from the pc, i think a better system would be to allow a ship to 'power-down' (once the agression timers are clear) and to basically go dark rather than have a module for dealing with those situation. of course after powering down you will need time to power up you systems when you return ... but again person idea here and not directly related to the afk cloaking issue.my belief is that eve is a game all about risk and reward, but afk cloaking breaks that risk<>reward pattern."
"well this would be a very big handicap for solo/small gang pilots while it doesn't affect the bigger gangs. also it would make even fair fights(the rare, good ones) very likely to get one sided quick.well you could just set up a science pos in low sec(lots of free moons), factory slots are a no issue in low sec. well the idea itself sounds noble, however in general most people underrate the effort that it takes to hunt down individuals a lot.kill rights against -5 and below players are worthless, you can engage them anywhere. also kill rights against people in low sec are not very valuable since you can shoot them anyway(you save the sec hit and 15 minutes gcc, thats it). the only thing left are kill rights vs people that only from time to time pop into low sec and do her regular stuff in high sec. however if this players are clever, they are hard to hunt down and this is mostly done by personal desire to do so, not really for real gains. somebody that buys kill rights however doesn't have this desire, he is in for the gain. you could similar to this simply hire a merc corp, they pay the dec against his corp and hunt him down, the key here is that this is to expensive for most people so they think a bounty hunter will do it for less, even if he is pretty much in the same boat regarding the effort to do so."
"jonathon silence:explicitly and literally, by what mechanic or process do you intend to get your pet topics pushed through to ccp when it has been expressly stated by ccp ever since the advent of the csm that the csm does not exist to be amateur game developers?"
"actually that is rather easy. for my 'pet' topics i will write them up clearly and post them in the csm sections of the forums and try to get support. then if enough support is gathered work with the csm to make sure ccp understand the reasoning behind the request. in other words the way it s supposed to work. i admitt that i might personally work on the other members of the csm to get more support. but no rule breaking ."
"as i said, i am not 100% sure any of these will work completely. all i know is that low-sec is the poor neglected middle child and needs some love and support.as for the lab's in low-sec, that is fine for any lab work that has no material requirement and no 'output'. because it is owned by a coporation that i am not a member of i cannot put stuff into the pos for the lab to use to complete the work, nor can i collect any outputs (returning the original blueprint is not an output, but copies or invention prints are).i would like to make small changes first (like getting some mechanism for real public science and industry) and see how that changes things and then look at the next step.i guess what i am saying here is that i want to get a commitment from ccp to iterate over low-sec and give it some attention to make it more attractive."
"the gisteve is at risk of losing itself. as it stands right now the tutorial should recommend purchasing a second account to tag along, and to me thats a bad thing. eve shouldnt be reserved for those with hundreds of players on call, so i want to help balance the scales. i see doing such things as helping restore dignity to the once proud command ships, and adding some much needed balls to the fat and ineffective assault and ewar frigates; i will do my best to show players (and devs) that there is more than one solution than bring a friend. mechanic and balance changes are in order; be it simple things like armor rigs, reworking of risk/reward, or the more delicate tweaking of eccm. there is work to be done before the influx of funny hats, and my five years of eve experience in fleet, sov, small, and solo warfare will work in your favour. its time ccp took a look at the little guys. its time pvp was less about the number of players, and more about players ability. vote prom4csmwww.promsrage.comabout myselfin eve i only have one character that i have used since i started playing the game in 2006.the character is prometheus exenthal of genos occidere, and through him ive made 13 well received (arguably influential) pvp videos including the frigank series and honourable samurai. my skill set started largely as piloting frigates for all races, but has since grown to anything up to the command ships as well as gallente & caldari battleships. i try not to discriminate since all the races have something to offer.as for myself, my name is adrian mugnieco from ontario, canada. im 23; ive studied 3d game design & animation, as well as web design & programming so im very familiar with the game development pipeline and short timeframes. outside of eve im all over the place; i enjoy 3d modeling, snowboarding, and am very much into motorsport (or anything fast for that matter).why i'm runningover the years ive done just about everything from my starting out as an empire-dwelling mission runner, to a pawn in 00 sov warfare, to my current and most enjoyable position as single thorn in every fleets side. i feel it's time i try to give back to the eve community in a more direct fashion.all of these experiences put me in a unique position. i have a wealth of game knowledge, a solid understanding of how the game is working, and im routinely helping people with their fittings, and theories. plus, im constantly making new videos so i can show people my vision of what is possible with some determination, no lifelines, and a little creativity (also isk).i love eve. eve is the only game that ive played for numerous years and never really stopped. the social concepts, the people, the ships, the vision of what eve can and will eventually become; all of this keeps me here.why you'd vote for mefor starters, its because you want to get eve out of its bloated downward spiral. everybody should know that adding new features while ignoring the broken old ones is not how you make progress. cracks in the foundation need to be fixed before any substantial building begins.ive played with just about every aspect of the game, from generic foot soldier in sov warfare, to pos control in wormholes, running guerilla tactics, to standing ground until the bitter end. ive got a good grasp on what is and what isnt working when it comes to pvp the current mechanics.all of this results in the understanding of individual ships and their behaviour. how they perform on a micro level, how their weapons work. what will hit, what will miss, how to adjust accordingly; all with no room for error. as any bittervet will tell you, its not something that can be taught."
"pvp and youmany of you probably know what i do; im a solo pilot. i fly on my own, and i fly without links and scouts. its my firm belief that fights neednt solely be 100v100 as that is simply one aspect of the eve dynamic. people will argue that eve is an mmo and as such i'm supposed to fly with many players. to that i say, i do; im just the enemy, and i fly against. now, solo isnt just some little niche thing that nobody tries. some players would jump at the chance to solo if the opportunity arose, and many have tried and failed via the vertical difficulty. however, it isnt simply black and white, as in between the large and alone there are the small scale players. groups anywhere from 5-10+ players going about the universe, and generally gumming up the works for the big alliances. theyre people who have an overall goal, and use their individual piloting ability to assist the group. theyre the people who will gain much more than the standard solo pilot.changing for the futureship balancingim starting with the ships classes as they are the foundation of the game. poorly designed ships result in poorly designed choices when it comes to offense and defens. there is obviously more to it than this, but i feel that is beyond the scope of this write-up.command ships have long been a staple of fleet warfare, but since the additions of the tech three ships people dont see the need to train longer for a less powerful ship. because of this, i feel that the entire class should be looked over. most of the fleet command ships can do with some more damage, and overall something as simple as significantly higher agility or sensor strength would be a welcome addition. in the same vein, tier one faction cruisers need a bit of love. it isnt because they are terrible ships, but largely because they dont really line up with the tier one faction battleships being quite good. they arent meant to be unstoppable, just worthy of their money and time invested.assault and ewar frigates are arguably the two most useless classes in the game at the moment. ewar frigates are plagued with being incredibly easy to kill with support ships, and painfully useless when fit to counter such things. they can be extremely effective, but statistics show that pilots would rather pay the extra isk for a much more versatile and survivable recon cruiser. assault ships have a different problem in that they are supposed to hit hard and tank hard. they dont do either very well anymore since ccp decided to boost the faction line of ships. i have done a couple of write-ups on the subject on both eve-o and other forums and i feel there are a couple of reasonable solutions.similarly, destroyer hulls have long been imbalanced. there isnt much to say about them other than that they are very much skewed in the favour of one race which shall not be named.mechanical balancethis is has potential to be a pretty broad topic, but there are only a few aspects i want to bring up since they will have the largest impact.first, ewar changes for caldari & gallente. dampeners need a tweak, be it through ship bonuses or module attributes. ecm changes need to be tweaked, and i feel that racial jammers should only work on their intended race. in addition to that, slight sensor strength increases across the board for everything except recons and capitals.secondly, weapons need to be looked at little more. faction fofs should be added back into the game; i cant see why they were removed to begin with. its possible that they were broken in the past, but there is no reason for them to be omitted now. also, medium and large blasters need to have their damage and tracking increased in order to actually compete with the current mechanics. blaster ships are designed to be brawlers, yet are not any more powerful to accommodate this fact."
"mechanical balance (cont..)also, ships that rely on armor tanking, be it active or passive, suffer greatly from the penalties armor rigs add. they make slow ships slower, and in many cases make it very difficult to maintain range or tackle. the armor penalty is not balanced when compared to shield tanking which hampers a ships performance in no way.lastly is the risk versus reward aspect of pvp. as it stands right now, there is absolutely no reason not to fly in a large gang. no reason not to camp a gate and just wait. pilots dont truly pvp for profit anymore, and instead just do it to maintain space or prowess. this does not scale well for the little people not associated with owning space or stroking egos. the risk is far too great and the payout is far too small. there is very little ambition left in the battlefield and the easy way out is just as profitable.the benefitsideally these slight changes will help reduce player dependence on having more numbers to be successful. eve doesnt need to be a game that consists only of large fleet battles, but recent gameplay changes have put the balance largely in that direction. sure some changes may drastically change the way you play, but i wager that they will be for the players best interest. additionally, i'm hoping that these ideas will help change the developer mindset when it comes to future adjustments and expansions. ccp has created a great game with eve, and i'd like to see it evolve into an even better battleground long after this csm term has ended.prom4csmwww.promsrage.com"
"a nice breath of fresh air in the pvp cloud. +1"
"did you read my diary?i cannot claim to be good at solo, but small gangs of 2-5 guys is my passion in eve. pretty similar problems for us."
"prometheus exenthal:explicitly and literally, could you please walk me through the means by whichin other words, by what exact mechanic(s) or specific process(es)you intend to get your pet topics pushed through to ccp? bear in mind that it has been expressly stated by ccp, ever since the advent of the csm, that the csm does not exist to serve as a group of amateur game developers. i am genuinely curious how you intend to bypass the stated position of ccpthat doing things is not what the csm is forso that you can deliver on your promise to do things or get things done."
"i am not claiming to have the be-all end-all of ideas.i would simply like to direct their attention to the mess they are leaving behind before all attention is on incarna.i am not interested in talking politics with ccp, i don't have the patience for it and that doesn't help anybody.i'm not looking to make changes on future content without fixing the old and rotting foundation.i am running because i know pvp, and i know it better than any other space politician trying to stir the pot with :words:"
"i will probably cast one of my votes for you if you can convince me through a post on this forum that you are capable of arguing, convincing, debating and otherwise politicking on caliber with the mittani. as you may or may not know, he is a successful attorney when he is not flying a sabre, and as such one would suppose that he has a fairly good command of both the english language and the rhetoric intrinsic with getting groups to accomplish goals. these seem to me to be necessary things for a csm candidate if one is to be seriously useful to the eve community, as without them communication with a solid and unified message does not and cannot occur."
"it should be expected of every delegate to be taking everything ccp says with extreme skepticism.nobody should be willing to roll over simply because a new feature is said to be the most :awesome: thing eve has ever seen.i expect that those who win will leave their rose-tinted glasses behind, because this isn't supposed to be a picnic.mittani doesn't ensure anything more than himself shouting at ccp.he promises what every csm member shouldn't have to proclaim, because it should be expected.and he's doing all of this without any insight to share.a comparison isn't really necessary as he doesn't need any publicized help getting into the csm.if the swarm wants him in, it won't be because all of those players care about his vision; it will be because it's just another thing to stamp their names on and laugh about down the road.for all anyone knows, he could simply show up and be voted in without saying a word to the public.here the power of numbers is obvious, and doesn't need to be explained. especially when it's in regard to a notoriously manipulative player who happens to lead an exceedingly large and (arguably) obedient playerbase. for those who actually want to try and make a change, vote in support of the pvp foundation of eve, vote prom4csm."
"serious question.what gives you the idea that any of your issues are possible to inject in ccp's roadmap considering that the next few dev cycles are already mapped out. don't get me wrong man, good points, but we've all seen how ccp deals with such matters.you get the party theme. promises. 18 months. what do you have for plan other than a grand idea with detail stuff which ccp doesn't even want to look at. read the pc gamer interview? lead game designer statements there are very insightful"
"if the players demand for fixes is significantly larger than that of new hats for their avatars, then ccp should oblige.persistence is key, and voting in players who see the problems with the current state of the game should have an effect.the results aren't instantaneous by any means, but all it takes is some keys changes to set the events in motion.it's true, ccp will eventually end up doing what they want and they might even ignore the past altogether; but having the right team for the job can help deflect some of the bull**** they will undoubtedly try to peddle, as well as help prevent future gameplay and balance blunders.i can't guarantee anything, nobody can. don't let anyone tell you different.ccp can become completely disagreeable with the csm on a whim if they so choose. no actions past, present, or future, are set in stone."
"i like what you are saying but i would like to hear more about the team part of your platform. what do you think would make up a good team on the csm? what kind of people do you want to work with? which candidates do you see helping you make the most impact to get your goals on the table and addressed?"
"enough is enough. please click this link to vote for the mittani.the mittani for csm6"
"enough is enough. please click this link to vote for the mittani.why all the truth-telling, when im making a run myself? why arent i promising you a tengu or a special hulk that fires disco lasers while it mines, when its worked so well for the other csm representatives? im the leader of goonswarm. i dont have to blow smoke up your ass just to get a trip to iceland. i can get on the csm, but merely getting there isn't going to be enough. i want to deliver a mandate to expose the hypocrisy of the whole process. i want to unite the csm into an effective body for advocacy. to do this i need more than the goon votes, or nc support.i need you.your vote can help me end the lies and change the csm into something useful, something that matters. for that, i need the chairmans spot - i need your help to get there.what is to be done?the csm does not implement features. its a sounding board for ccp. ignore everything the other candidates say about their positions on certain features because features are irrelevant at this stage in the game. pay attention to the general attitudes of the candidates instead, as you will never find out what they said to ccp due to their nondisclosure agreements. if i promised you a new feature or a specific game change, i would be lying to you.let's not waste time with bull****. if youre the obsessive type who wants to know about how i feel on every aspect of eve, you can read my tentonhammer columns. im not going to write a 3000-word paper about how i feel about any particular issue for the purposes of this election, as i cannot make any promises about anything except my general attitude towards the csm.i believe that it is time to transform the csm by electing a hardline player representative that will forge the csm into a strong, united body that can fight for the playerbase and shield it from idiocy. with your help and the chairmans position, i can do my best to make that a reality.what i can offer you:the raw, ugly truth. no pretty illusions. no false promises.every candidate is going to tell you that they want to bring your ideas to ccp. i want to bring ccp to our ideas.we play their game, we pay their upkeep, we use their features and we suffer from their shortsightedness. for this they give us one resource, the csm, and they treat it like a mere focus group, not a stakeholder to be respected. on the csm, ill do what i can to make it better, but im not going to promise you the moon and the stars, because i cant deliver on that.what i can deliver is me being a ruthless, manipulative bastard. and you need that, if you want to see the csm become a real advocate for the playerbase, one that cannot be dismissed by ccp. thus far, the csm has never been united. it has been a cacophony of individuals, mostly deluded by the false notion that their election has given them a designers position, bleating out their personal fixes and being surprised when the devs ignore them. a divided csm isnt an effective advocate for the playerbase.if the csm doesnt band together to oppose ccp when they suggest ******ed things, the interests of the playerbase get steamrolled. obvious, preventable imbalances get implemented. you need someone who knows how to build a coalition, how to make people want to work together, how to make members feel like their voice and their opinion makes the collective union stronger. i have brought together a coalition of people who normally can't agree on the color of an orange and directed them in a war that most players can only dream of. if i can bring these people together, i can do the same for the csm as its chair.enough is enough. please click this link to vote for the mittani."
"i support this product and/or service."
"the mittani is a vile rat alt."
"i support this product and/or service"
"i voted mittens and now i make 400-550 per month! ask me how!"
"i support this product and/or service"
"got my vote."
"regardless of your in-game politics and your feelings about goonswarm or whatever, a vote for mittani is a vote for the continuing success of 0.0 space."
"myyyyyyyyyyyy ceomyyyyyyyyyyyy csm"
"send your regards to the mittani today!"
"cannot +rep this enough"
"mittani is a lawyer irl btw and knows his stuff, just ask him aout his puppy/sabre/how he bought his house with cash."
"i expected more words"
"if you want to understand how the mittani thinks, feel free to read his regular articles on ten ton hammer, i think they give you a good view of how he thinks."
"you have my vote, when the voting is posted."
"i will go out of my way, and make a serious goon post. please, read what he is saying and don't focus on the alliance/corp. i know, even the most hated enemies agree on most of the points that he is writing, so please, vote with your brain, and not because of a \"free tengu\""
"if anyone can make the csm actually effective in any way, it's the mittani."
"posting in another goons scammed me thread."
"i believe in mittani dent."
"the word \"enemies\" can refer to several different groups in this context. while it is true that people who are identified as 'enemies' via the in-game standings mechanic can probably agree on the principles that are being espoused here, those enemies all represent the same overarching group of 0.0 space dwellers. those guys are often seen as 'enemies' to the people who live in empire space, because there is a perception among empire-dwellers that mechanics put into place that involve 0.0 space in a good or indifferent way will somehow result in a negative backlash for them. you can see this in the propositions to remove jump bridges and to penalize 0.0 space holding entities. these suggestions come from people who believe, for better or worse, that mechanics which benefit 0.0 space dwellers are a direct detriment to the fun and opportunities available to empire-dwellers. this case of the \"have-nots\" wanting to take things away from the \"haves,\" in regards to 0.0 space, will be a major obstacle to overcome in winning the hearts of many players."
"the entire csm process is full of liars but i don't have to insult your intelligence just to get a votei hope that my 'campaign' can at least expose some of the ridiculous hypocrisy of this process and the streams of frothing excrement being vomited forth in the other threads in this forum"
"we need more pseudo intelligence duchebags on csm.vote for comfy mittens!"
"i wish \"the mittani\" was the ceo of my space corporation :swoon:"
"you have my vote mittani"
"as a csm 6 candidate, i can only speak for myself.i've promised nothing. i've worked with ccp before. i know what types of obstacles may exist to be overcome.my platform has been of integrity, a commitment to maintain open communication between ccp, csm and players, and make sure that at the very least, the concerns of new eden are heard.i'm not lying to you."
"you said you would call after that special night we shared and you haven't."
"the mittani would make a great addition to csm, he's logical, fair, and realistic.you have my vote, unless i forget to vote."
"liar"
"liar or just dumb?"
"i'm not trusting a guy who needs to tell me he isn't lying to me :colbert:"
":cripes: jump bridges do appear on overviews, rocdear god"
"good luck mittens. you've inspired me to actually vote this time. good to see someone who gets it."
"this guy just inadvertently served as a perfect example of how people who don't hold 0.0 space have no idea what they're talking about in regards to it. apparently both he, and his entire alliance believes incorrect information about this topic. if not a single person in his entire alliance knew or could be bothered to google up the right information about this topic, then how clueless might he be concerning a breadth of other topics?"
"i like the idea of a no bs csm.i also like cheetos dipped in peanut butter, so there you go."
"looking forward to seeing you in iceland, mittens. :3"
"i unironically support this candidate."
"owned by his own quote. edit: i approve of the mittani's message for dictator of the csm team.oh god this is such a horrible idea that he definitely needs to be kicked out."
"you're already secured of the chair"
"my ceo. just reading some of the other threads here, it's painfully obvious that highsec players are utterly clueless about what goes on in nullsec, and that ignorance has resulted in them making some seriously stupid requests. a vote for mittani and a vote for vile rat are a vote for intelligence."
"voter with 3 accounts checking in vovp.s. call out some idiot who's running on a bs platform and publicly humiliate him, please. kthanx."
"that literally happened just a few posts before yours."
"oh dear..."
"you have my sword."
"what, you think i read threads before i post in them?"
"and my axe!"
"the idea that anyone in eve (bar goons) would trust someone who lauds himself as a liar in every aspect of his life is laughable."
"please tell me more.i do not understand."
"the idea that anyone in eve (bar goons, or other groups of people who come here from some other community) would trust anyone else in eve is laughable."
"the only thing politicians and \"good talkers\" are good for is to get the best part of the cake everything else is a pure scam, they're wortheless. but we must put some clowns over there to entretain us."
"while there is one and a half years between the posts, i was quite amused at seeing a distinct switch in your stance on sun tzu and similar (theory of war) on ten ton hammer.in this post (about the delve war) you say \"sun tzu wasn't writing about a drug-addled icelander's idea of an internet spaceship game\", then later in this post (about the cluster**** invasion of fountain) you essentially embody the principles of sun tzu's philosophies.personally i agree with the latter stance, and also funnily enough agree with (most of) your stance here. csm is about being the voice of the players. but this is already the mandate of the csm as stated here: \"the purpose of the csm is to represent society interests to ccp\"i'm also standing for csm on this basis, and having dev experience (outside of ccp) i will make the ideal player representative because i can speak the dev's language."
"hello there :)although we have never met ingame, i had the pleasure of following a part of what you did. your campaign message brings up the interesting question of the real power of the csm, and what we can hope to do.let's be optimistic - we all know about the scandals, the resignations, some talented csm 5 members not willing to continue... we can only go as far as ccp allows us to. but the recent improvements made to eve, and the work of several dev teams makes me think that our voices can be heard. this is going in the right direction. i'm looking forward to steer this boat in the good direction with you."
"you're far too naive and earnest for the job. my money's on the lawyer-spymaster.(i like your recipes though)"
"\"~sun tzu~ is a recurring injoke\" - sun tzu, the art of war"
"you're electing a political representative. if you send a saint to do a bastard's job, you're not going to get anything accomplished."
"your sig is broken."
"thank you for your support. i have no problem whatsoever being held accountable. i encourage it, in fact.i am indeed ignoring npcs corps that could logically own sov, such as soe, ore, and the like. i'm also not looking at syndicate, great wildlands, or like regions with this. those regions are populated by npc corps, not pirates. i'm only interested in the pirate factions. those should be pushed to low-sec. in particular, i love syndicate just how it is. be shocked. there are indeed people that focus on 0.0 pirate mission-running. but i think it should be pushed back into low-sec, not 0.0. as i said, it's just not logical. if i live in delve, i have both the option of shooting blood raiders and (because of easily controlled access) the ability to do blood raiders missions. that doesn't make any sense to me. with these very lucrative pirate agents and their lp items moved to low-sec, that's one possible way to improve the low-sec experience.yep, you're completely right. i mis-spoke: i meant pirate npc space should be shrunk a bit in 0.0. again, syndicate, outer ring, and great wildlands would be unaffected. delve and pure blind would also be unaffected: i think the size of the pirate-held areas in these regions are about right. i'm thinking of regions like venal, curse, and stain, which are totally ruled by the pirate factions there. the pirate sov in these regions should be shrunk to open more of that 0.0 to player conquest."
"ripard teg:explicitly and literally, can you walk me through the means by whichin other words, by what exact mechanic or specific processyou intend to get your pet topics pushed through to ccp? bear in mind that it has been expressly stated by ccp, ever since the advent of the csm, that the csm does not exist to serve as amateur game developers. i am genuinely curious how you intend to bypass the stated position of ccp so that you can deliver on your promise to do things or get things done."
"i'm not answering for him but your this statment is the same for all candidates including yours.if ccp doesn't cares about a single point like they do since 2years now for hybrids you can call youself rip or claudia sheiffer they will just do \"nothing\"."
"actually, this brings up a relevant point about candidates and their positions. while i am happy to inflict my opinions on anyone foolish enough to ask for them, i don't think it is the role of a csm to attempt to get ccp to implement a particular pet feature or tweak in a particular way.so it's perfectly ok for me, as a csm, to say something like \"game design changes are needed to address lag in the long-term\", and even \"here is an example of how that might be done that illustrates the problem\", but not \"if i am elected, i will get ccp to fix lag in this particular way\".as the csm has evolved, it's become more of a forum for challenging ccp to justify their resource allocations (in its role as a stakeholder) and also its proposed solutions to particular problems (in its role as a focus group).this is not to say that csm candidates shouldn't be encouraged to present their proposed solutions to particular problems, but they should be viewed by the electorate as a way of gauging the way the candidate thinks, and what resource allocations they think are the highest priority."
"you've got my vote"
"i do not understand your point here.showing ccp how much time they wasted isn't going to help anything. you noted yourself that the game development is rather driven by marketing and technical milestones thus wasting or not wasting their development time is not really their interest as long as new shiny is pulled out. basically you are pointing finger at something they consider a low importance."
"i appreciate that games development is a team effort, but there have been instances where you nailed your colours very publicly to the mast - i'm thinking specifically of the supercarrier buff and the 'nozh vs abathur' episode between dominion 1.0 and dominion 1.1.dominion 1.0 supercarriers were hilariously underpowered, but many people (i'm one of them) feel that the current version has pushed a little too far in the opposite direction (see this thread). if the topic of supercarrier balance comes up, are you really the best person to be impartially debating the argument, or do you risk (even if just sub-consciously) allowing your previous position to get in the way?some kind of 'live balance team' to continually examine issues along these lines and push out tweaks and fixes would be much appreciated. the current stat of play where ccp give the players a year or more of complaining (and crosstraining to the current fotm), and wait for a space in the next bi-annual patch to drop the nerfhammer, satisfies nobody."
"in a perfect world, i'd like to see it completely eliminated. i worry that ccp may be taking an 'all or nothing' approach when it would seem to be more effective and efficient to follow a phased plan. but i do not know exactly what ccp is doing or planningwith regard to this specific issue so uninformed speculation isn't really productive.this really depends on what ccp has to say on the issue when asked about it. it is certainly a topic that will persist on my agenda until they provide satisfactory answers and evidence of taking action to eliminate the plague of bots in the game. personally, i would like to see them have a team devoted to this issue as i feel botting does more to unbalance game play than almost anything else in eve. it's a problem that has to be approached with a realistic assessment of how willing people are to take the easy way out (especially when punitive responses from ccp are laughably light), how determined they are to to do so, and how sophisticated and pervasive the software is. it's unclear whether ccp is being realistic with themselves about the problem, but it's pretty hard for them to claim ignorance given the information collected by players and provided to ccp over the years... especially in the last few months.all too well aware, yes. if you are familiar with the series of articles published by e24, i was one of the people poking manfred to, \"well, say something about it. see if anyone else speaks up as well.\" i've initiated conversations with several players in the past months about this issue and it's also something i get asked about constantly. i plan to put a lot of effort into keeping the issue on the table and making sure ccp addresses it.i think this is inevitable because ccp is a business and they want to make money. there are certainly a lot of things in eve that have the potential to be developed as mt items. i am completely opposed to mt allowing you to pay for anything that you can currently achieve through normal game play though. for example, you shouldn't be allowed to go out and buy a tobias warp disruptor for $$$. i have no issues with mt for vanity items or things which do not directly affect game play. if someone wants to pay $1.50 for a pair of minmatar-skin boots, that's up to them. against.this falls into the same area as my mt answer - if it's a vanity thing and not an actual 'game play' item, that's up to you to decide."
"seleene:explicitly and literally, can you walk me through the means by whichin other words, by what mechanic or processyou intend to get your pet topics pushed through to ccp? bear in mind that it has been expressly stated by ccp, ever since the advent of the csm, that the csm does not exist to serve as amateur game developers. i am genuinely curious how you intend to bypass the stated position of ccp so that you can deliver on your promise to do stuff."
"those would both be iterations of current game play."
"well, first of all, i don't have any pet topics, except to support that which involves iteration of current game play over the introduction of new features. that is my main priority, so i'm not going to lie to you and say i'm going there to \"do stuff\". if elected, it's up to me to be part of the elected council that presents a united front that provides incontrovertible evidence from players to support csm positions on different matters and encourages ccp to do what is best for the game. i'm going to work with the other csm members, using everything i know about eve and my time at ccp, to give the csm every advantage possible as we work together to move things forward."
"whether or not wis should have pvp?"
"i am exactly the right person, especially on that issue, because i was there and know exactly what happened and why. i understand the ridiculous communication breakdowns that prevent(ed) proper iteration from taking place and as a member of csm6 i can share that knowledge with the other council members in order to try to break the gridlock. that said, believing that old ideas are still the right ones is short-sighted. it is foolish to be married to ideas based on the way things were; csm6 members need to look at all ideas in light of the here and now while taking into consideration contextual references from the past that may still be useful.my goal is to be one of nine people prepared to impartially debate all matters as best we can, with the most information possible laid out on the table. i want to be on the csm so that i will be in a position to share knowledge and insight the rest don't have. i am not tied down to any particular notion of how something is supposed to be in eve, regardless of if i was on the game design team that worked on it or not. that is why my main platform centers on iteration. a 'live team' is something i've wanted to see for years and it looks like this might finally be happening. there is currently a team (team bff) that seems to be focused on just this. i want to see this kind of thing continue."
"no need for me to rephrase again what had been said by quite a few posters / csm members or former members so far... you have a truly unique position and point of view that can make you an invaluable asset to the csm.my vote will go to me, ofc, but i hope to see you there."
"vileratforcsm.orgfrench/russian translations available on sitegreetings friends, it is time to discuss the future of the game we are all guilty of playing, eve-online.i have sat patiently hoping that things would change on their own, that csms of the past would press to have the core issues addressed but all i've seen are minor changes around the margins. the state of things are not good and those who follow the political game can clearly see that events are leading to a conclusion instead of a continuation of the sandbox environment we've all enjoyed. the dream of one day becoming the new strong power to press your claim to eve's overarching story is dying and the notion that 'every ship counts' has become a lost and forgotten phrase. when battles occur they are slideshow presentations between massive power blocs and frankly your contribution does not matter at all. things must change and this change i fear is beyond the ability of those 0.0 stakeholders in power because intended game mechanics make the necessary change an inferior choice if you want to be the strongest, the best.so what's wrong?a great many things. from ship balance in the form of whole classes of ships becoming obsolete to the lack of economic scarcity making losses matter little to all involved. there are a distinct lack of goals once you take those first feeble steps into the unprotected space of lowsec/0.0 and this makes gameplay stangnant and pointless. once my original corp goonfleet made their start in a little pocket of syndicate eventually rising to become a power who could influence events. unfortunately this possibility seems out of reach and foreign to those starting today. you join with a massive power bloc or you get crushed if you attempt it without and there are few exceptions to this rule. what can we do about it? i offer you no simple solutions, because quite frankly there are none. i am not offering you a checklist of impossible implementations that will be shattered in the first meeting with ccp, that would be irresponsible. nobody running for csm can promise that they will make assault frigates better nor can they promise that they can make mining worthwhile again and if they are they are lying to you. i can however promise you a voice in the direction of this game and the knowledge that i understand what's wrong. i know the key elements that are causing stagnation and rot that are ruining the game. i pledge to keep these issues at the forefront in every meeting and press for real solutions that will break this cycle of decay. like many of you i am concerned about massive bloc warfare silencing any other activities and i am concerned about the prevalence of supercapitals which have ruined the importance of any other ship class. i am concerned about the broken production system that causes massive bottlenecks in certain moon minerals that break intended income distribution and i am concerned about having other end game goals aside from watching a stop motion broken combat system where you sit back and hope the enemy becomes more frustrated with the mechanics and logs off before you do. this isn't how this was supposed to be when we started and this is certainly not what this place can be. i promise you nothing but my undivided focus on bringing pressure to fix these core issues and i ask for your vote so that i may be your voice in the csm."
"current game mechanics allow 'power blocs,' mega-alliances that control large swathes of space.previous changes to sovereignty mechanics only served to accelerate the rise of bloc-level politics.nullsec player behavior has grown in sophistication and has bypassed intended game mechanics.this clearly wasn't intended, and i vow to work with ccp to come up with solutions.there are no goals for smaller entities in sovereign 0.0.currently, there is no goal that a small group can achieve that a larger group cannot achieve more effectively.there should be goals that a smaller-sized fleet can achieve in 0.0 for which larger groups would be less well-suited.current game mechanics favored far less diverse fleet compositions than in days past.currently, fleets favor a more homogenized fleet makeup. (ie, \"drake blob,\" \"alphafleet\")fleets should be encouraged to incorporate a wider variety of ships to ensure success.larger ships are increasingly making smaller ships obsolete. this is especially true in the divide between subcapitals, capitals and supercapitals.capitals and supercapitals should exist to support a subcapital fleet; not replace it.there should be measurable disincentives for using top-heavy fleet compositions.there is a distinct lack of balance across racial lines.economic scarcity is beginning to break down for more wealthy players.eve was designed as a world where taking losses matters.there is an increasing number of super-wealthy pilots who are all-but-immune to losses.some of these pilots are benefiting from previous game mechanics and ccp action that gave them continuing advantages. (t2 bpo lottery, ultra-rare ship giveaways)others benefit from massive disparities in moon mineral prices.others are benefiting from ostensibly-illegal behavior (botting).there should be a greater focus on drawing isk away from players of all income levels.there should also be an increased dedication to combating automated isk generation.mining is a sub-par method of accruing wealth and minerals compared to other methods.pvp is the core of the game, but it's too difficult to find it in reasonable proportions.the differences between pvp in empire, lowsec and nullsec are vast.the risks and rewards of operating in low security space make it far less appealing than either empire or 0.0 space.faction warfare has become a largely irrelevant and underdeveloped form of gameplay.there should be a serious effort made to balance risk and reward in low security space.but more importantly, i don't just want the opportunity to bring my own ideas to ccp.i want to bring them your ideas on how to improve eve online.i vow to give all player concerns, ideas and criticisms a fair chance.mail me with your concerns to bring to ccp."
"i support this product and/or service."
"i support vile rat"
"notice: vile rat isn't promising you the moon and stars. he doesn't claim that he'll suddenly become a ~game designer~ when elected and magically be able to fix blasters. unlike just about everyone else running for csm, vile rat isn't lying to you."
"i support this product and/or service."
"vile rat actually plays eve online. vote for him!"
"i unironically love to play eve-online."
"what makes you qualified/motivated to speak out about balancing the game for all players, rather than just those in nullsec?"
"best man for the job."
"please consider honesty over falsehood. if you only know goons for griefing, think about the fact that we can't grief if eve online has no players.we do actually play the game too. and the csm can only make recommendations like the skill queue, which everyone knew in beta needed to be implemented. yet it didn't happen till how many csm cycles later?if you honestly think csm can force them to fix blasters (which need fixed!), or fix electronic attack frigates, you're kidding yourself. only person who can fix this stuff is ccp."
"actually a very good question. as to motivation, all aspects of eve play into each other. you can't look at 0.0 as its own entity when what happens in empire directly impacts 0.0 gameplay and vice versa. the economy, the learning path, everything leads in theory from one to the other and tie in. if you aren't motivated to make all aspects improve then you're fooling yourself. as to qualifications i think our forced relocation to empire has granted us a wonderful recent opportunity to enjoy all it had to offer! seriously though i play in empire as well. i've spent a great deal of time in 0.0 and find it fun but the core gameplay issues aren't all that different from what you'd experience in highsec. you rat, you mine, you run missions, you grow corportations and relationships just like in 0.0 and anybody who thinks that empire means safe hasn't played this game for very long."
"i assume that you are familiar with the many frustrations expressed by csm5 related to communications bottlenecks and a certain lack of ccp engagement with the csm, particularly on incarna (i do acknowledge that after the june summit, ccp engagement with the csm on non-incarna matters improved markedly). what concerns or thoughts do you have regarding bottlenecks like that and possible methods for overcoming them?"
"this would qualify as a \"hard question with no easy answers\". ccp will respond as much or as little as they want to. i could throw a simple statement about lots of vodka and a sizable amount of lobbying but that would be simplifying it to a great extent. going into this all candidates must first realize that we're running out of chances to get them to see things from our perspective but let me say it this way.this is going to take a lot of work. this is going to take an amazing amount of us doing our homework, it's going to take a large amount of collaboration between the csm delegates to formulate a solid coherent front that keeps ccp focused on these issues. if we can't come together and get our ducks in a row before we even begin dialogue with ccp then our priorities will be scattered and diluted. if we can't form that united front then i don't see how we're going to be able to have any more impact than in the past so that'll be a key part of what must happen. knowing the candidates as i do it's no surprise that you have a sizable number of lawyers and even foreign service members going for this, all people that know how to convince and make people see things the way they do.so no easy answer. we're going to break the bottleneck because we're too damn stubborn and care far too much about the future of this game to let our concerns die."
"i support vile rat, the mittani and a unified csm."
"i support vile rat and meaningful changes to eve through the csm. you have my vote, and those i can convince to see the light. ;)"
"it's not so hard really. ccp gave csm the tools to do it. it's called \"pressure management\", you achieve that by applying a little bit of clarity on workflow, and a healthy bit of accountability. how? simple. but only possible if the csm as a whole does it, without falling for social engineering or the party line.have everything transparant and visible to everyone (an nda slap does not prevent - as we have seen - from making clear the heart of the matter, it only hides the ugly and the details).community with each other and with ccp and the general public on all.and do all that consistantly.next time a team incarna runs away because csm is evil, or a lead game designer runs for the hills for new shiny and complains about customers, but also next time a good team in ccp delivers well or engages well, that combination provides that pressure management.since it is all public, transparant, consistantly kept visible and communicated that can greatly aid both playrs and ccp alike, but also very well expose when failure happens (and who, and why). constructively, obviously. and independant media help, as does social networking."
"this one shows promise!"
"hello new eden !i'm proud to announce here that i will run for csm 6, and hopefully represent you at the csm. here is a preview of my campaign message, so you can get the general picture about me more quickly :as it says, please proceed to my campaign website for details :)i can see there is a lot of interesting (and perhaps less interesting ?) campaign threads starting here. some by very well known characters, some completely unknown... and amongst those faces, i see some people i have a feeling i will enjoy working with. people who already carry the voices of a part of the community, people who are deeply invested in eve... it gives me a good feeling about what your vote can make the csm become. that said, of course, i can only suggest you voting for me ;)why voting for me ?because i care. i care for your voices, your ideas. behind every crappy idea, there is a concern that can be refined to something insightful, useful to ccp.i was carefully following posts from the previous csm, particularly those of mynxee and meissa. and i know perfectly what i'm heading into. i know the csm isn't a candyland where you ask for stuff and ccp makes it appear before your eyes. i know the atmosphere of the previous csms was sometimes a very hard one, with some members expressing a string disappointment at ccp's choices. but no matter what you think, ccp cares about the csm. and with your help, i can make a difference.like most of you, i read the mittani's campaign message. he's not wrong, but a bit pessimistic. but rest assured people, contrary to what he suggests, i will not lie to you. i will not fix lag. i will not give supercaps to everyone. but i will do everything i can to make sure eve, which is one of the best games ever, get one step closer to perfection.let's make eve, our eve, the best game of all time. of all time !"
"your website hurts my eyes."
"demonstrate to me in a post in this thread how you intend to argue, convince, and debate among your peers and with ccp the points you wish to express better than a successful attorney could.because that's your opposition. mittens is a lawyer. he is kinda smart. :3:"
"i like how the two of you are quite busy reviewing all the csm candidates topics. the mix of constructive / unrelated replies is also quite clever.i have an habit of not feeding the trolls - which often amounts to not feeding the goons, here on eve - but i'll humor you.actually, i don't believe mittens is my opposition. he's kinda smart, indeed, and even if sometimes it's hard to tell when he's being serious and not, i have no doubts about that.it may be misplaced pride, but i like to think i'm far from stupid myself, and sadly you've chosen the wrong question (in the limited set of questions you're copy-pasting on every candidate's post). the csm is not meant to be a huge fan pushing hot air. i strongly hope that, no matter how successful an attorney he is, the mitanni doesn't plan to bore us to death with unnecessary court-like arguments. i don't want a seat at the csm to argue, but to represent. my work as a csm representative would not be to brainstorm with my peers, as it's not the purpose of this organ to decide what will be the next development for the game - something you're very aware of. i will listen to the players, sort ideas, organize them, clean them, to find the hidden jewel lying under any poorly-expressed concern, and escalate them in the way described in the csm white paper.i'm not there to argue, convince, and debate about my personal ideas."
"no, seriously dude, your website sucks. transparent text is bad for the eyes when it constantly readjusts to the \"changing\" text. i design government websites and i don't deal with any of that bs. scroll up and down and you'll see my point.edit: this is a good example of excellent web design."
"roc the vote"
"<U+266B> roc the vote, bay-bay <U+266B>"
"roc wieler:explicitly and literally, could you please walk me through the means by whichin other words, by what exact mechanic(s) or specific process(es)you intend to get your pet topics pushed through to ccp? bear in mind that it has been expressly stated by ccp, ever since the advent of the csm, that the csm does not exist to serve as a group of amateur game developers. i am genuinely curious how you intend to bypass the stated position of ccpthat doing things is not what the csm is forso that you can deliver on your promise to do things or get things done. your comments?"
"as you can see here he's not making specific promises."
"roc's rule #330: \"its only the women not being objectified that complain about objectification.\"really funny, buddy. you're not getting my vote.link"
"i obviously do want new content but exactly like you said fixing old content needs to be of equal importance.my current high priority objectives for improvements are:cyno nerf (campaign link) (forum post)neutral remote repair/buff (campaign link) (forum post)bounty hunting (campaign link) (forum post)corporation taxes (campaign link)agent standing bonus (campaign link)easy to share bookmarks (newly added) (campaign link) (forum post)i also have more concepts and ideas as well as my opinions on several commonly proposed changes here"
"omg people share some ideas how they feel about something, and you act like a flag an go the way there wind blows. you are actually pretty usefull for politics indeedyou wouldnt get my vote, cause you seem untrusthworthy, as you have proven in the past, being a scammer. (thats scum of the earth really)"
"the worst thing is it wasn't even a proper premeditated scam. he just screwed some stuff up trying to run the thing legitimately and then bailed out on his committments rather than trying to put things right. so, clearly a reliable individual you can trust with your vote ..."
"why am i runningfor a long long time now, ccp has seen it fit to improve the quality of life for a lot of people in eve online, and i can fully support that choice. the problem however, is that a lot of the improvements were meant for the pve crowd, with little to nothing being done to improve the life of pvp-ers. it's time to change that trend, and that's why i'm here. eve doesn't need to get any softer, it was meant to be a harsh place at times.now don't get me wrong, it's not about 'just' that. i've got a whole list of topics that need to be looked at, there's plenty for everyone.it is to this end that the main focus of my campaign is to simply improve and/or update the current game instead of just adding new content without doing anything else for the rest of the game.who am iingame i am known as arden elenduil, member of suddenly ninjas and tears. i specialise in highsec warfare, piracy, ninjaing and all things dastardly enough to make people cry. i've been playing the game for almost 2 years now, and i'm reasonably confident to say that i've got quite a bit of experience in just about any aspect of the game. pvp however remains my preferred pastime.i've gone from carebear to nullsec rookie, to god knows what. i'm currently part of the eve online ninja blog pack, and am a halfway decent blogger (or so i'd like to believe) and i've been called a \"polite pirate\".i also tend to get involved in some of the weirdest situations imaginable in eve.out of game i'm known as jef keunen. i'm 22 years old and work as a mainframe consultant in belgium. i'm a semi-regular globe-trotter and tend to get along reasonably well with most people. i love discussing topics that catch my interest and have a knack for thinking outside of the box.why you should vote for mei'll be fighting to push through the topics on my campaign list, though only if they are properly discussed first. outlining the pros and cons of each and every subject.furthermore, i aim to improve the game itself, and not just haphazerdly throw in new stuff. commit to excellence ccp.last, but definitely not least, is that i listen to the players. well over half the issues on my list came from players, sometimes friends, sometimes people that i've never seen before. the csm is a council that represents the players, thus, as ccp should listen to the advice of the csm, the csm should listen to the general opinion of the players.should you have any questions, suggestions or otherwise want to contact me, feel free to send me an evemail to this character.for a complete list (subject to change) of topics i'll be adressing, please check my blog."
"i support this product and or service."
"arden elenduil:explicitly and literally, can you walk me through the means by whichin other words, by what mechanic or processyou intend to get your pet topics pushed through to ccp when it has been expressly stated by ccp ever since the advent of the csm that the csm does not exist to serve as amateur game developers?"
"white tree for csm!www.whitetreedesign.netwhite tree has been put forward as test alliance please ignore's council of stellar management candidate after undergoing a strict preliminary process which was designed to accommodate every individual in test's desire to submit themselves as potential csm candidates. from there, test conducted a democratic poling process in which white tree was the victor.as a result, test alliance please ignore has submitted white tree as their chosen council of stellar management candidate for the 2011 council of stellar management elections.as a player, white tree has a long history in eve. starting his eve career in 2007, and maintaining a linked relationship with the community as well as monitoring the development of the game ever since.a capable and elegant individual, white tree is able to tackling problems head on. working with others can help to find solutions to the problems of the average and the advanced pod pilot.but we need your help!the problems that affect the game that we have chosen to address here cross the lines of alliances, corporations, system security and beyond. only by working together can we achieve the goals that will help make eve online a better game.so don't forget to vote for white tree as not only test's csm candidate, but also yours!~~~platforms~~~~ armor improvementsplayers will naturally begin to separate and throw out systems and tactics which simply do not work in player versus player combat. and in todays fast paced small-gang and sovereignty warfare, shields dramatically outclass armor on the battlefield.the reason for this is quite simple: the penalties for armor are dramatically more restrictive for the penalties for shields. shields offer a signature radius increase in exchange for their increase in effective health or regeneration rate, while armor offers a significant penalty to maneuverability and speed in exchange for their benefits.given that the gallente faction simultaneously uses the shortest ranged weaponry in the game, and fly some of the slowest ships, an entire faction of the game is unable to competitively compete in player versus player combat.white tree proposes a reduction or an alteration in the nature of armor penalties which would allow for greater speed and maneuverability on the playing field.~ hybrid improvementshybrid weaponry, more specifically railguns in this instance - have long since fallen out of favour with the playerbase, and admittedly, out of favour with ccp. it's time to really push for an examination of the nature of railguns as an effective weapon in player versus player and player versus environment combat.both the caldari and gallente factions make use of hybrid weaponry, though to many they appear to be considered a secondary weapon. the caldari make use of their missiles as their primary means of offensive might, and some might believe that the gallente make use of drones. however, recent developments in the dominion expansion have made drones not only undesirable on the battlefield, but also potentially dangerous given the weight they load onto the servers.white tree proposes an increase in railgun tracking and a slight increase to their damage to bring them in line with other long-range weaponry, and believes the proposed changes to armor will significantly improve the viability of blasters."
"white tree for president"
"~ skill improvementsskills and training times in eve haven't been examined in a long time. the most recent alteration was the removal and refunding of learning skills to the playerbase. the first step in what could be a line of improvements to the nature of skills and the way they interact with each other in eve online.improvements to skill descriptions, as well as improvements to the ways in which skills are structured, reduction in pre-requisites for certain skills and reductions in training time modifiers for other skills that are outdated.white tree plans to explore new ideas for the improvement of skills such as potential spendable sp rewards for certain types of missions and other in-game activities. in addition to experimenting with new ideas alongside ccp and the csm.~ caldari improvementswhile the drake may have become the backbone of support fleets throughout new eden, much of the rest of the caldari player versus player options remain mediocre and unattractive. the tengu, while a powerful ship, has a price barrier which puts it out of reach for the humble pod pilot.the caldari tech 2 line, specifically the cruiser tech 2 variants not only lack power, but the ability to act as competitive player versus player combat platforms. in spite of their apparent advantage to be found in using shields which grants increased manoeuvrability over their armor using counterparts.white tree aims to improve the tech 2 variants of caldari vessels by increasing their player versus player viability in small-gang and sovereignty warfare. improvements to slot layouts, bonuses and working in conjunction with proposed railgun improvements will offer the caldari a brighter future in offensive warfare.~ starbase improvementsstarbases have long been a staple and enjoyable component in eve online. nothing is greater than being able to set down a structure in a game which can be seen by all and is semi-permanent.however: the player owned starbase system could use a dramatic facelift, and its dated interface system is potentially confusing to players both young and old.white tree proposes the development of a modular system similar to ship fitting layouts which is modified in a fashion also similar to the tech 3 cruiser line. this would act to alter both the function and the physical appearance of the starbase. in addition to proposing experimental features such as passworded docking clamps for supercapital class vessels which would allow players who own these sorts of ships to leave them in relative safety and get into the down n' dirty gameplay they once enjoyed."
"~balancing improvementsbalancing problems continue to plague eve online long after its release. and its understandable that a simple change in the mechanics of the game can have dramatic consequences throughout the world of new eden.but its important to understand that while something being slightly overpowered is one thing, to have entire factions of ships be dramatically superior or inferior in comparison to another is unacceptable.white tree intends to propose dramatic improvements to the caldari and gallente player versus player viability. and to help polish and buff out the outstanding and almost indomitable strengths of certain faction class warfare vessels, some of which have almost entirely invalidated certain classifications of vessels in player versus player combat.~new player improvementscurt schilling of soe once called eve online players 'real men!' in terms of their gaming prowess and dedication. and while the sentiment is flattering, most eve online players want to share the incredible and progressive gaming experience with the rest of the world. we're excited about our game, and we can't wait to get everyone involved.but there are still real barriers that every new player must overcome before they begin to make their way in the wide world of new eden. as a member of a corporation that actively attempts to steer its new player in the right direction, white tree understands the challenges facing every freshly awoken pod pilot in new eden.white tree proposes continued improvements to the new player experience in eve online. making the learning tutorials not only enjoyable but active and engaging with rewards that keep the player interested. showing them in their infancy the side of new eden that older players have come to love. this in conjunction with proposed skill changes will come together with the help of ccp and the csm to improve eve online for everyone.white tree for csm!www.whitetreedesign.net"
"curt schilling actually did say that, to me, at new york comicon last year. i support white tree."
"i support this post"
"all my 5's good sir lmao xd"
"hmm, i do enjoy trees. and whites. this candidate looks pretty good."
"so in a year where ccp has to come up with some sort of link between dust 514 & eve, where incarna needs to be delivered and iterated upon, where the spaceships environment has major issues with several niches already clear to be iterated on, and where ccp has a list of polishing things on the side already worked out ... you expect any of that to even be theoretically considered by them ... in the roadmap they have already done well ahead of these elections ... yeah ... look, be realistic, please. best possible scenario was already demonstrated for these things, collect and filter via crowdsourcing, pass to ccp, come back in 18 months except for a few short lists of a few detail level tweaks here and there. but csm as a whole can and does that, that's not a platform. btw, the new player experience is already clear to be changed for incarna, but that is it."
"i believe that the in game economy is the lens through which ccp should view any proposed change or action.additionally, i believe that the following eleven points need to be implemented:- small bands of players should be able to afford, conquer, and hold parts of 0.0 space.- industrial command ships should be expanded to include a t2 orca.- a pos module to allow t3 subsystem changes in space should be implemented.- a redesign of level 5 missions to focus on group play.- t2 battleships should be reconfigured to have a better defined role in the game.- salvage drones should finally be implemented.- moon minerals, specifically technetium, need to be rebalanced.- further action should be taken to combat botting.- faction warfare should be more lucrative for it's participants, and the ramifications should have an economic effect on the systems captured.- the in-game market tools should be overhauled much like the contracts system.- mining and manufacturing should be significantly more rewarding in low sec space, due to it's danger. also small corporations should be able to claim the resources of low sec systems, preparing them to move to 0.0."
"if you live in empire you should seriously vote for kalrand because this guy knows what you're into"
"mike does all sorts of fantastic things. he got me a convo with chribba that's still on my bio that i would never have gotten if mike hadn't invited me to helpmymission channel at the right time. mike just knows what's going on like that.then when i was organizing griefergeddon, a hulkageddon resistance contest where you win prizes by killing gankers, mike gets the hermit (hulkageddon winner who we somehow manage to kill every year) and me into the same chat channel -- and thehermit donates 50m for his own corpse. this was subsequently won by a person in local who was doing their own anti-hulkageddon fleet and didn't know about mine. they had to join our contest to get the prize, so the number of kills \"we\" have, have doubled on the spot once all of them posted to our kill board. all thanks the the hermit's donation which is thanks to mike azariah's chat channel. and then the hermit offers to take me along on a drunken roam with them. i don't want more kills sitting there permanently corrupting my character sheet, but it seemed only good form to accept. so chribba-worshiping carebear ends up invited to a drunken roam with the bastards thanks to mike azariah. that's the sort of thing that happens on a fairly regular basis with mike around. (i wonder if they'll be drunk enough to let me fly a smart bomb fitted hulk -- i like killing stuff in my hulk...)as to the burn-out issue, i can vouch for that. that lazy bum will never burn himself out in eve :) (that was affectionate sarcasm for those of you who are getting ready to click \"quote\" on that bit there and trash it...)"
"500m isk of prizes up for grabs right here.the campaign starts today - windypops for the whitehouse. email your entries to general.windypops@hotmail.co.uk"
"it's not so much what windypops wants, it's what windypops doesn't have. and that's a platform ..."
"the fact that you used david cameron on your page means you should be podded repeatedly until you fall into your own black hole you knob.go away."
"oh look, here come the angry nc block vote alts!"
"butthurt labour*** detected.problem, electorate? :trollface:"
"buying votes? i like it!"
"i'll stick you down for 5."
"what is your campaign platform?"
"hmmm... lemme guess... \"everything can be bought\"?"
"i having to redo this because apparently you can't send your message the way you want to with out people complaining about the font size and how its wrote, if you cant read a paragraph with out hurting your eyes than dont bother.memilitary service 8 years in the u.s. armyingrained on ldrshipstrong work ethicsoutspoken i will be addressing issues from every stand point of a change as owning something or using changed, or having it used against. i will have voice of the people heard with reason and without faulter and get the answers addressed back to the people so all knows what took place.0.0 csm 5 wants to get rid of jump bridges and cripple 0.0 logistics, making fleet movements harder and longer along with other numerous downsides with out measuring the impacts.low sec low sector space has been of no interest for a very long time due to the number of pirates and so called anti pirates (bounty hunters)that ive grouped into pvper's because even the anti-pirates fire on any one and every one and pvper's lock down any system of value.empire hulkageddon has been running for 4 seasons now, 2 times a year for 2 years. their targets have gone from hulks and macks, to orcas, and now all industrial minded ships. with the continued ganking of combat ships in empire with anything of value, hulkageddon will expand to all ships in the future for longer periods of time forcing the pilots in empire to log off or stay at stations."
"put ten kids in a row, whisper a story in the ear of the first and let them pass the word, at the end of the row, you get something like that paragraph.you are positive you \"get\" eve? yes?"
"this is from the minutes over the topic of jump bridgesthe csm was somewhat divided on how aggressive ccp should be with any nerfing. however, one csm suggested, with respect to the nerfing of jump bridges, get rid of them.greyscale: anyone disagree with that? csm response varied between nope, nah and a simple no.greyscale: sweet!  meaning that option will then not be discarded when the topic of jump bridges will be on ccps table.yes ipod, im fairly certain that hulkageddon will continue to expand, and that more pilots would either dock up, log off, maybe even expand to 0.0 just to rat as there are players that do like the aspects of pvp hence why you have large groups of people that even some pvper's mission all day and when they want to pvp they go into npc 0.0 a few jumps away to test their pvp ships, ive seen some groups do it in angel space where we had to run a gate camp at all times due to the numbers that would come out."
"you are aware of eve being a cold and dark place yes?sandbox?"
"do they not teach proper grammar in the military? that sentence doesn't even make sense. you're an embarrassment. hit ler would have a better chance of getting elected to run the red cross than you have of getting elected to the csm."
"yes i'm quite aware, im just stating it'll reach that point and those things will end up happening, while i don't mind hulkageddon, it does make manufacturing difficult during the time as their not afraid of being concorded and using battleships to take out an orca and freighters. the actions cause the market to go up a great amount as before even hulkageddon started prices have already increased on a number of ships across the galaxy."
"no one wants to hear it lawyer, people are trying to have an honest run for the elections and dont need people like you question us word for word."
"what exactly do you think an election is about then? your entire platform is terrible so of course people are going to ask about it.you are telling potential voters to **** off if they cannot be bothered to read your illiterate ramblings?this is a complete generalization and not representative at all of anything csm5 has actually done. you've obviously not done your homework at all but i'll try one anyway - of the current announced candidates, who do you think would be best to work with?"
"that was on the other posting,m ive fixed this one so back off, and i don't know the other runners as its not posted on the site list, as i several surely haven't posted"
"shut up how your leader is a lawyer and the best at everything no one wants to hear it and you all hammer every thread against csm runners. stay in your corner of space and fight evoke who is moving through it, there are 13 spots for csm, so every has their chance, their isnt a vote for the president of america where theres only one spot, so stay out of it ad allow the candidates post and run in peace."
"didn't read."
"let me tell you about our lawyer that leads the goonswarm alliance."
"and his house he paid for in cash.and his puppy!"
"don't forget about his sabre."
"and his boat."
"i see great things coming from this thread..."
"we have a leader? and he's a laywer? wtf?!?"
"i, too, am a lawyer. alas, i have no dog."
"ok so here i go. the names agondray, i've been active since 2005 and seen eve change for good and bad, i've seen a lot of nerfs and changer come around, some which are really needed, well ok a lot that aren't. i'm running for election now in hopes of making change and i'm not talking president obama changes either. i'm currently serving military and i know how to push for answers to what the people of eve bring forward. ill do my part in addressing ccp with problems brought forward by the pilots of eve after i have looked at the postive and negatives that a change can bring about, currently csm 5 is trying to get rid of jump bridges and not addressing the impacts. i will be addressing from every stand point of a change as a beiw of someone owning something changed or usingg it right down to being one of the other guys. i will make the voice of the people heard with reaon and without faulter and gett the answers being seeked and adressed back to the people so all knows what took place. that is my will and promise to the players of the game we call eve.i am agondray, fellow pilot and gamer of eve onlinevote for me and thank you for reading"
"all done from my droid and what was on the top of my mind. im bringing my work ethics and experience to the table going off of ldrship that was ingrained in me. my interest lay in the game play, csm 5 wants to remove jump bridges and kill the logistics in 0.0, limiting 0.0 fleets to their own areas as they wont have the time or will to go after an enemy or attack some one elses area unless its their own neighbors. while hulkageddon has been going for 4 seasons now, twice a year and the number of targets have increase from macks and hulks, to orcas, and now every industrial ship,i believe it will soon turn to every ship with the ever increasing ganks happening in empire from faction ships to freighters and everything else of any value. low sector space has been of no interest for a very long time due to the number of pirates and so called anti pirates (bounty hunters)thats ive grouped into pvper's because even the anti-pirates fire on any one and every one and pvper's lock down any system of value. i believe that is all for now so stay tuned for more that i come up with."
"if you can't be bothered to capitalize the title of your forum thread, or break your post up into easily-readable blocks of text, then i can't imagine you'd be able to muster the effort to argue and debate with ccp and the other csm candidates."
"i agree. i could barely read that without getting my eyes irritated."
"than don't post in the forum, i have no problem reading it and i read many others like it. like i said i did it from a phone, 2 days on the road, go be good goonswarm and go kill evoke thats invading your space as they just moved a freighter through instead of hitting on peoples post on how proper it should be."
"i agree. i just burned the last 90min reading various candidate threads and going to websites. a lot of talk about \"change & fix\" but no real statements about the future. incarna 'end-state'?dust514 integration?future exapansion ideas?&etc.the reason i am concerned with these is because the ccp decision-makers have made it clear that the future is where their concern lies. if they expect the csm visit to be nothing but *****-session for player representatives, i expect they will attend begrudgingly and spend the time thinking about which kind of puffin they are going to have for lunch.you'll end up just talking to a bunch of people like seleene (used to be) who have no authority and are too afraid to voice their opinions. they'll go back to their cell, drop their notes in the bottom file drawer, and do whatever their boss tells them to do.are there any candidates optimistic about the future of eve, with ideas for how it will become the complete \"sci-fi experience?\"or is the job of the csm simply to be the whiney, *****y bf/gf?"
"im looking forward to incarna, in fact i already read their first ideas on incarna, we need to get our current problems fixed for sure because every time one thing is fixed another thing gets broken to easily. fw does need to be balanced because no ones want to do it for the biggest reason people are afraid of getting they empire area cut in half because of gaining standing, its one reason i joined a corp for lvl 5 missions with a whole idea of having a pvp fleet standing by and the missioners doing the missions but the whole corp backed out because they were a gallente mission corp with their low sec and 0.0 space past amarr empire space. btw i am running for this csm and have an open door policy"
"hi chin, csm candidate white tree checkin' in (www.whitetreedesign.net)- don't think the game was better back in 2003 and don't think we should stop adding things until lag is fixed and every ship is balanced and hell freezes over or whatever?i also don't think eve was better back in 2003. for the most part ccp's changes to the game have been positive. the company grows and learns about itself and its players and it even begins to understand its own product better. advancing the development of content but also improving the content of the game is what the csm helps ccp to do. and what i'll endeavour to do if i get elected.- are not so much interested in small tweaks and thousands or papercuts but the bigger picture? eve is a game where small changes have big consequences! each csm candidate tends to pick a handful of areas that they feel directly affect them, their alliance, or their player-type. i personally have tried to look both to the future, and to the present with the changes that i'm addressing. worst thing that can happen to this game in my opinion is design by committee and creativity being snuffled out by a mountain of requests. i want the csm to function as a conduit for our major concerns and our problems and especially demands for information on our behalf not deliver blueprint copies to the ccp assembly lines for production.luckily for us, we have an entire team of creative and thoughtful people working on our behalf at ccp! but the csm works to steer ccp in the sort of direction that the players want to go in as well. the csm wrestles with ccp, but also helps ccp to explore aspects of their own development that they haven't even thought about yet. i'll try to spend as much time as possible listening to the concerns of the players and bringing them to ccp should i get elected.- are excited about incarna and have ideas on how it should evolve so that it can be awesome (and relevant rather then just fluff) ? will keep us informed about it and pressure ccp on releasing information unlike the current csm ? unfortunately the csm does have to sign an nda, so they can't tell us everything unfortunately! but the csm should act as a conduit of excitement for the playerbase. the csm can't really tell you whats going on if they're not told too, but they can help you stay informed and if your concerns are similar to the csms, then if they're excited, you should be too! and your concerns are my concerns, so i'll work as hard as i can to make sure your fears are laid to rest.- want to keep a brisk expansion schedule of at least one major expansion per year if two is untenable (i can accept that)i don't think anyone on the csm could argue with the idea that ccp continues to provide stunning new content to its players and that ccp continues to develop one of the greatest games ever made, i know i don't! so like all csm candidates before me, and hopefully ahead of me - i'll work tirelessly to keep that fire lit in the cold northern rim of iceland.- want the weaker parts of the eve experience revisited (faction warfare guys please) but not timidly, boldly. the problem with those was always lack of sufficient features and being way too scared to rock the boat. not allowing fw or pi for example to matter enough.i agree. lowsec desperately needs to be worked on, and faction warfare is somewhat dated. the csm and ccp should always work together to make sure the content stays fresh and no feature gets left behind. in fact i'm fairly sure ccp is working to revisit the ded complex system as we speak, but i know i'd work hard to try and make sure that they didn't let anything or anyone slip through the cracks!so in short who wants the total sci-fi experience ?i do. i love eve's backstory as well as its features."
"i am deeply sorry for posting my own campaign thread a bit late, so you couldn't have seen it before creating this topic. i could do multiple quotes of your post and reply to every single one, but in short, i'd say that i, i want the total sci-fi experience. i want to continue dreaming of eve at night (because i do that already), and i want eve to be made of the same fabric than those dreams. something that will stun us in awe."
"i like the \"its the end of the world cause it isnt the way i want it\" routine a lot of people have.i admit, 0.0 needs some work...but so does lowsec. as for numbers, even when us pirates fly about in small gangs, someone always comes at us with a fleet of nothing but overkill.0.0 isn't any more special than the rest of the game. and its human nature to want to dump more and more numbers into a fight.if you make it easier for sov warfare...well...good luck. just means it will be ten times easier for your enemies to take all your space. it'd also give you way less time to regroup to hit them back.only way you'd be able to make the op's dream list come true is if you somehow convinced people to not use 100+ man fleets first...which wont happen (although i'd bow down to you in reverence if you could manage that, it'd make my piracy a hell of a lot easier)."
"wildly inappropriate. approves of this thread"
"ccp is too hung on their own lore to fix gallente. they can't even admit there is a problem. if you are training gallente, stop. seriously."
"return of the bumps.(moving in rl sucks...)"
"great idea! supported"
"remove security gain from every npc in game except for normal lowsec belt rats (incursion npcs shouldn't give any gain even if they happen to be killed in a lowsec belt).if you do the crime you should also do the time in a suitably unpleasant area which happens to be lowsec, no more jump cloning back to your safe 0.0 home and undo the security hit in a few hours after behaving badly in empire.a poll has been started over at fhc to do a quick check where people currently go for doing their sec status repairs."
"your argument is basically that there should be 1 elite ship that is easy to fly, but hard to kill.thats the dumbest **** i've heard in a while.if anything the 4 pirate ships should all be \"superior\" in some way, but the dramiel basically says \"fly a dramiel or fit to kill dramiels or die.\"this is not a challenge. its stupid and restrictive."
"dramiels dont really have a better target selection than other high-end frigates. they do have this annoying ability to try and see if the other ship is flown by a rookie though and get away if they realize quick enough they got in over their heads, thats whats rubbing people the wrong way.in the end, if you want fights and kills, you are better off with another frigate anyway due to its reputation of being hard to hold down (not entirely deserved reputation even) as frigate pvp is almost entirely consensual pvp."
"just curious how you justify existence of supercarriers. there's a ship class that's extremely overpowered, absolutely ridiculous in my opinion. it can't even be solo killed.why is it ok for supercarriers to exist but not for dramiel? probably the cost of supercarrier has something to do with it.and yes, i really do enjoy fighting hard battles. it's not all about the blob gank in eve. not for everyone at least."
"stop derailing the thread please. this desire to tone down the dram is very relevant from the soloers perspective and would help the soloers a lot, to get enjoyment and variety back in to the game. it wouldn't hurt the newer players either. fwiw it is also from the perspective of people who have hundreds of solo kills in a dramiel, and have solo killed lots of dramiels in a variety of ships including lots of \"lesser\" frigates.tbh, try joining the 1 v many underdog roaming crowd if you really like hard battles so much, don't undermine our desire for a balanced frigate playground with poor excuses like that. also i'm at your talk about hard battles, all i see are loki/ kronos ganks on your 1st kb page. but cheers for tricking packe to engage anyway. also you don't seem to fly drams or even other frigates much at all, just enjoy the pimper frig killmails so kindly sod off from this thread. you will get your killmails regardless if we have a better frigate balance or not."
"dramiel is fine, all other frigs need a speed boost."
"hahahaha no.the entire t1 frigate range is overshadowed by the rifter, electronic warfare frigs are junk, assault frigs are junk (minmatar excepted) and most of the faction frigs are hopeless. rocket platforms still suck, hybrid platforms still suck, light missile platforms still suck.the dramiel is the stand-out balance issue because it so greatly outclasses every other hull, but nerfing the dramiel without examining the rest of the frigate range will re-expose old imbalances (although the crying from dramiel bandwagoners about their broken gankmobiles suddenly becoming vulnerable would almost be worth it)."
"not true at all. for t1 frigs merlin, incursus, tristan are all ok. rifter might be more flexible but its essentially a situation where each of those will have a fair fight when flown right.several of the assault frigs are as good as jaguars. ishkurs for example. rocket vengeance and hawk are pretty strong now etc. but the af class is a bit broken as well due to no mwd sig reduction and the fact that just plain ab doesnt really cut it outside lowsec. ewar frigs are junk, but raimo and i were more referring to actual brawling pvp frigs in 1v1 situations. i wouldnt mind boosting e-war frigs quite a bit (mainly on ehp and lock range, but lets not derail).rockets are pretty good now and a competitive weapon system, railguns are still fantastic in frig duels, but ok, light missiles are pretty limited, but its mainly due to scrams and the fact that crows dont do 10km/s anymore. you can still hunt ab frigs (or mwd frigs if you are really good) and kill them in your crow if you want. also some faction frigs might not be epically good (worm and cruor are the ones worst off). rest i dont mind at all."
"err..t1 frigs and rifter are balanced? slicer? hookbill? sentinel? wolf, jaguar?selectable damage type on projectiles screws up frigates the most as they do not have slots to plug resists holes.i am not saying they are terribly imbalanced, for sure not but especially t1 frigates are out of whack."
"only merlin has somewhat chance to stand against a rifter. incursus is a joke and tristan does not have the dps/ehp to compete.incursus needs to be swapped with tristan as gallente t1 frigate line inconsistent with the game design for t1 frigs.apart from obvious fitting ease and dps/ehp of the rifter, the issue imo is that rifter is simply too fast when compared to other t1 frigates of the same tier."
"nope, tristan wins dps/ ehp but depending on the situation rifter might have better range control. the fact is that both tristan and incursus can be scary boats in the right hands, and more fun than rifter especially because of the \"rifter myth\". of course, all of them die to a mediocre dramiel, but all of them have a decent shot at killing a mediocre ranis or even comet, but you don't see that many ranises or comets any more because they die to dramiels. see where i'm getting with this?"
"dps/ehp might be better on paper but in real, rifter pilot would need to be stupid to lose..."
"rail tristan (might still win dps/ehp and easily kills any kiter rifter). also stop derailing the thread."
"/facepalm"
"rail tristans are strong. feel free to fit up a standard rifter and fight me and i'll prove you wrong. otherwise stop trolling and derailing this thread from discussing my dramiel changes"
"you'd suggest a blaster tristan instead, with its mix of long-and short-range weapons?"
"signed."
"make new character, join fw and try killing dramiel with your 100k sp rifter in level 1 mission."
"assumptions are bad ******.who said supercarriers were fine?you are terrible at this."
"i would leave falloff bonus, but yeah nerf dram plx. (and give afs 4th bonus ffs)"
"same thing happening in this thread as what was happening in the great nano nerf threads - also 40 pages each.1 guy that can't shut up keeps trolling everyone, derailing the debate.i wish the forum mods regulated assembly hall a little more strictly, and forcibly shut up people who are just trolling."
"actually, several folks have been pretty consistently trolling and i've been asking them to stop but, well, they won't. sucks, but what can you do about it? there were at least a few folks who were willing to discuss the actual facts and logic involved, but they've yielded the floor to the troll brigade. a shame."
"strangely enough whenever someone opposes your view they are a troll. whenever they completely disassemble your argument and refute it piece by piece by piece you start slandering their quotes and crying troll even harder while claiming any factual argument they make is simply a strawman.the lack of intelligent discourse from your side of the table is disconcerting.the entire blob argument aside, jumpbridges have made logistics much too easy in 0.0. i flew with invictus, iron and mm about the same time you first logged into eve so pardon me if i feel i have a decent perspective on the issue. there is no reason an alliance should be able to easily and instantly restock themselves from empire in a siege like situation. there is no reason why a 0.0 pilot should be able to skip the 25 danger fraught jumps into empire by taking 6-7 safe jumps through the jump bridge system. there is absolutely no reason an alliance should be able to carry out a op in the south one hour and be back home across the galaxy for supper.incoming \"troll\", \"strawman\"."
"strangely enough you are lying in order to troll.predictably, you will also complain about how i'm going to point out that you're trolling. i've disagreed with several people without calling them out for trolling. surprise surprise, i call people out for trolling when, get this, they troll. yeah, you're lying in order to troll again.nobody has taken apart my argument (most of the trolls haven't even addressed it, or have lied and pretended it's something else). you also can't slander a quote, so you're just babbling now. sixteen posts, starting 14 days ago.zero kills, zero losses.character created 1 month ago. obvious alt troll is obvious.claims about your experience from an alt troll are funny.post with your main. if you weren't an alt pretending to experience you don't hold, you'd know that logistics during a siege are neither \"easy\" nor \"instant\". in fact, during max it was not at all uncommon for jb chains to be incapacitated and reinforcement fleets cut off as the jb's were camped and the pos's defanged. if you actually flew in nullsec, you'd know that titan bridging and rorq/carrier transport easily sidesteps that objection, and carriers were even more heavily buffed for transport before they were nerfed. if you actually flew in combat ops, you'd understand that the difference in jumps is minisculse, and even saving 30 jumps (which, by the way, you don't even from the eastern tip of vale all the way to pnqy in fountain), fleet can get back home with just an additional 30-45 minutes transit time. and a fleet large and potent enough to have deployed half way across the map to aid in a conflict is almost definitely able to smash through any gatecamps along the way if it wasn't traveling by jb's, in any case. you're rafia's alt, yes?you too seem to have no clue what a strawman is. you are trolling though, so credit goes to you for obviously trolling on an obvious alt account, and then complaining about how someone might point that fact out. good play."
"actually you got a point here.history repeats indeed - whining idiots and clueless ccp staff. most people with common sense could already realize how stupid speed nerf was..."
"bridges would be fine, if:- they didn't allow one to shop in jita from the remotest 0.0 area imaginable and be home again before a high-sec shopper setting out from a high system has even arrived in jita.- they didn't use fuel harvested almost entirely by automatons (who in their right mind ice mines these days?).- they didn't allow unlimited (limited only by number of ice bots) ships to move freely in a blockaded zone.- they didn't allow bs and larger ships to go through.etc. etc.they are godsends, but their detrimental effect on gameplay outweighs the benefits by a huge margin .. even more so when spammed as is customary.thank goodness that corruption of \"common sense\" was trumped with actual common sense and logic.qr revitalized pvp like no other patch has ever done, we went from \"bs > all / handful of hacs\" to \"almost anything is viable when flown right\".if you still think it was bad then you must have made a blood-oath swearing to never fly anything but nano-hacs or something silly like that"
"actually no. nano ships aren't my cup of tea, not my playstyle.web nerf and scram changes were good, actual speed reduction was not.nanos are coming back. i assume it is the same people who whined for speed nerf are the same who fit them now as they finally realized that you cannot blob what you cannot catch.exactly the same applies for jump bridges. high force projection is definitely good asset of 0.0, the problem is there are still missing objectives to go after apart from massive blobbing. dominion sov changes could make it but failed...so now people look for scape goat."
"so it is not the jump bridges and force projection that is a problem but their implementation?i see you make some progress here..."
"nah, she'll be back to claiming that bridges aren't working as intended and/or there's an exploit involved (whatever exactly the content of her innuendo about bridges 'not working as intended' really means), and claiming that ccp said so.edit: also, i'm still blown away that after so many times being corrected, she doesn't understand what a strawman is. pointing out that bridges can be disabled/towers can be taken down/sov can be stripped from systems entirely/bridges can be camped is not a strawman. it's... weird. it could only possibly be a strawman if someone said \"you've claimed that bridges can be disabled/towers can be...\" and they hadn't. she's been corrected on this point several times, to no effect."
"finnagain,what would you think about if the jump bridges could only be used by those who belong to the same alliance that owned the pos it was anchored at?"
"what would be an objective of such change?"
"balance."
"balance of what?"
"this is my main friend, i got rid of my actual main last summer for \"personal\" reason's but i couldn't quit eve for long. did you really think if i was bull****ting i would choose invictus and iron of all alliances? invictus and ****ing iron? i bet 90% of the people in this thread don't even know what invictus is, thats more research that i would ever put into \"trolling\".if you want to look up my killboard go for it, look for loire. nothing to see though. i'm certainly a terrible pvp pilot as much as i showed up and got myself killed.unfortunately i don't really want to waste anymore time arguing with you so i will let you take the initiative here. without going all glenn beck on me and claiming i'm a lieing degenerate troll alt tell me why you think jumpbridges are absolutely fine. if you have done so in a coherent manner (again without the name calling and the trolling) above just tell me the post number so i can go read it (i certainly wasen't reading more than 4 pages of this once the coalition alts started pooring in).i would actually enjoy an intelligent discussion with you beyond the snide everyone who disagrees is a troll! help me out here."
"i would like to see jb's removed as well."
"yes i beleive that the skill requirements should stay that will make them a little more specialised to produce, and yes i was hoping that this change could be thought of as \"low hanging fruit\" ie be easy to achieve.in an ideal world you are right, the whole of cosmos (the agents, the complexes, the items and modules) need a revisit. however i am fairly sure that ccp have stated (i think its in a csm meeting log / minutes) that they are not going to do this. what i was hoping for is for a quick fix that will at least improve the useage of these items. a number of the cosmos items (like the ab's and mwd's) would probably see greater useage if they did not cost so much to manufacture their lower fitting requirement come in handy at times. the only reason the are so expensive to produce is down to the decryptors."
"stupid idea./not supported"
"brilliant factual rebuttal. after all, who wants pvp in a pvp game? and you finish with the world of warcraft emote. go figure."
"all features in eve are geared towards pvp obviously.... oh wait.if you want a pure pvp game play counter strike or something."
"water is wet?i don't know how they do it in wow but you clearly know."
"that's the point. apart from npc corp alts, 0.0ers are shielded by distance and space. even granting npc stations they simply wont see the population and griefing potential of any hisec hub or populated system. and what way are they going to make it not easy? isk penalties are nil because most people have more isk than what they know what to do with. sec status doesnt stop hulkageddon. timers can be evaded by alt accounts. skill training is only a temporary solution.i can tell you right now, you'd just empower griefers with this, and it doesnt have to be station camping. it can just be bored people rotating alts through incarna social areas and randomly ganking old players. look at incursions: ccp had to remove the concordokken aspect of ccs during remote reps just to make them workable. that's because giving griefers that kind of power to destroy would over time have made incursions not worthwhile. this is a variant of this."
"if they add nonconsensual pvp to docked in a station, including stealing the ships and plundering the hangar of those you killed (permanently, death out of pods is permanent) i want to take advantage of those thousands of marines i have.i will turn jita into a grave."
"yes, they are. ab****ely everything in eve is geared towards pvp, because eve is a pvp game. strawmen about \"pure pvp\" don't serve much purpose. but if you don't want to play a pvp game and would prefer that incarana be second space life, well...and of course, you have nothing to add and no reasoning on your brilliant factual refutation of \"nuh unh!\" and yes, you're using warcraft emotes. odd how you picked those up, and are now denying even knowing about 'em."
"thing is, eve's pvp is actually the worst thing about it. there's no decent objectives or incentives to do it apart from chest-beating and stat padding. pvp does not affect the game in any real way: it's just cyclical, petty warfare for the sake of shooting things up. you are better off infiltrating an enemy and stealing their stuff if you want to cause them harm than fighting them.most pvp engagements rely heavily on frontloading the encounter and removing skill through numbers, exploting gameplay mechancis (concord, station docking ranges) or shipping up. a game should never make the optimal response to pvp not engaging in it, however that's the best response to way too many engagements in this game.i think this is why a percentage of the playerbase keeps feeling the need to demand changes to force pvp on others. maybe a better answer is just to encourage pvp in real space rather than changing every new feature to continue to try and favor the same old, same old."
"you don't even understand what you're saying yourself.you admitted in the op that eve is about player interaction at its core (and that's not an absolute).pvp happens to be player interaction but its not the definition of it unless you're seriously disturbed."
"not supported. also one whine thread from the op is certainly enough."
"this was a bad idea when you first posted it and it still is. first, looking at it from a realism point of view, it makes no sense that weapons could even be smuggled past security scans/checkpoints. sure someone sneaking a weapon in and assassinating someone else makes for a good plot in some eve chronicle, but that's it. if implemented it will not be that idealized world and we will no doubt see throwaway alts ganking everyone in sight.also, there's two big differences between ganking in stations and in space. first, it would be easier to do in stations. if it weren't it would be completely beyond unrealistic. second, you would lose your clone in stations, and that is a big problem there. there's a reason why a large population of players does not travel to low sec, and incarna will fail when that \"carebear\" population can't even enjoy the new content because of fear of stepping out of their captain's quarters.eve is a pvp game, sure, but there room for non-violent pvp, ie the business/industry side of eve. it's not like incarna is going to take away the pvp that already exists outside of stations."
"a thousand times this.also, my main character is not only a godlike pilot able to fly at least a dozen of specialized ships, but also have the equivalent of a lifetime of experience in trading, manufacturing, scientific research, planetary management and so on.now capsuleers should also become expert martial artists or veteran space marines? how far should we go into mary-sue territory? and why would a capsuleer go anywhere without being escorted by a dozen of easily affordable bodyguards?and why would an npc corporation allow anything to happen inside their stations?in a station you're a guest. if you desire violence so badly, then go fly outside. if stations are merely complement to the established social, political and industrial aspect of the game, so be it. keep your deranged \"eve is only about combat\" dogma to yourself."
"truly, it's a good thing that there's so much trolling going on. that, and people repeating the same debunked nonsense shows that there's no honest rebuttal to putting combat in incarna. if there was an honest way to argue it, some of you would be doing it. as for you freaking out because eve is a pvp game and calling that fact \"dogma\" while pretending that anybody said that eve is \"only\" about combat, par for the course. ah, i was wondering why there weren't more trolls here. thanks. obviously, game mechanics are whining. they're also probably out to get you. and the csm chair's advice on starting an elevator proposal thread? also whining. keep up that trolling. i see you've read a different op. and you're posting something that's hopelessly vague. of course any game with more than one player is about their interaction. team fortress 2 is also about player interaction. it just happens that eve is a pvp game. why there's hostility to that fact is anybody's guess. in the game with ftl communications and blue water physics in empty space. yeah... the bull**** \"fiction!!!\" objection has already been dealt with anyways. the \"i'm making up mechanics for a feature that hasn't been accpeted let alone implemented\" bull**** has also been dealt with. at least be inventive please. yeah, the \"ayieee, ccp can't possibly make it so that if you're killed in a station you use your medical clone just as if you were podded\" bull**** has also been dealt with. yeah, the \"highsec dwellers can already be ganked absolutely everywhere they go anyways, and it hasn't stopped them... but it will totally stop them in stations!\" bull**** has, yep, been dealt with. it's telling that the only negative responses are trolling, and bringing up reflexive objections that have been shown to have no basis, at all."
"just because you have no friends doesn't mean it's true for other people."
"*does long and large ****ing motion in the air*that's about all there is to this thread, really."
"like i said, it's a good thing that all you folks have is trolling and bringing up the same debunked points that have been put to rest again and again and again. it shows that there's really no reason not to make sure that eve's core content carries over to incarna and it contains pvp."
"you won't accept any rebuttal.and why do you think you deserve any honest rebuttal? you keep spouting the same old \"eve is a pvp game therefore x feature should reflect that\" mantra and if we don't entirely agree with your absolute vision of the game then we must surely hate pvp. how dumb we must ****ing be to hate so much pvp while playing an exclusively pvp game? herp a derp!meanwhile you refer to an eventual non-ganking incarna as space barbie or space second life. if you want to discuss this seriously you should stop using those childish derogatory terms and show some respect to those who doesn't wish for the same features as you. don't complain about trolls if you're trolling yourself.beside circular reasoning you don't have much to defend your idea of station ganking."
"haha! you're still trying to argue with him!"
"i think it's a safe assumption that if implemented it would be easier to die than if we were in a ship. i'm not following you here. how is this \"dealt with\" already? no, this is the major problem with your idea. there's a difference between losing your ship in a suicide gank and losing your pod. i'm not sure how you didn't get my point here. if carebears are too scared to lose their ship to the point that they never even enter low sec, then there is no way they are going to leave their captain's quarters and risk losing their clone. even as a non-carebear i would not leave my captain's quarters if there was a chance i could be killed, it's just not worth it."
"dont know if anyone has said this already but, you could always hire npc or player security to gaurd your hangar or while you walk around the station checking markets and whatever else you guys do, but you should force someone to get out of your ship/pod to look at the market in hangar on a computer instead of sitting in your ship.my writing skills are horrible, so if anything seems weird let me know."
"i don't like this idea. your hangar has always been safe space and it should remain so. and wis shouldn't be mandatory and a time sink to engage in activities that were quick and easy before. that doesn't add anything."
"it'd be nice to have a reset button for the facial expressions on the portrait page. quite a few times i've gone to the portrait page and liked the way a character looked, then started messing around with trying to make it smile or this or that, only to find it looked too plastic, and i wanted to revert to the default expression but couldn't."
"as some of you may have heard, there was a devastating earthquake in christchurch, new zealand on tuesday the 22nd of february. so far 123 have been confirmed killed and 200+ are missing, and that's just as i write this - the death toll is expected to rise even more.water and power infrastructure has been been disrupted and liquifaction has covered many streets in knee deep sludge.and then there's the property damage. there are entire city blocks that will need to be re-built from scratch. the effects of the earthquakes that have been hitting chch for the last year (this was in fact an aftershock) were only just being overcome, and now this quake has devastated the city, the region, and the entire nation.inspired by the plex for haiti drive, i wanted to do something for the people of christchurch. can we please set up a fund (red cross are collecting) to raise money to help christchurch through this disaster.edit: extending the request to japan too."
"naturally, i support this"
"initial post was too mean. i'll save that for the csm discussion. instead i'll just say:no."
"supported."
"what do you think about the ore harvesting modules/my idea regarding codebreakers, salvagers, and analyzers? after all ore is the faction that makes the noctis."
"i'm a fan of salvagers and tractors, but not codebreakers and analyzers. seems like that might be more up syndicate's alley.-liang"
"i would be all over that.i would be spending isk left and right on those ads"
"ive suggested something like this before, everyone flamed me. oh well i fully support this, but it should have limited space and force people to auction for that spot and how long the spots will last based on a rate to get the starting isk price."
"one of the previous problems with this idea was the devs' fear of messing with this particular code - the people who designed it are apparntly long gone from teh ccps and they forgot to leave a manual. hopefully these obstacles are no longer relevant. otherwise tis a great idea. :p"
"this comes up every month. can we has ifinally?"
"yes plox! :d"
"okay, if i understood the dude correctly, he wants to be able to travel out of a solar system to a solar system. there is a whole ton of problems with that:first, we already have jump drives.second, if you remember ccp deleted all deep-safes more then 10 au further then the furthest celestial.another problem is the sheer space between solar system. if you have infinite capacitor, 4 light-year warp, which is probably some of the shortest distances you get between stars,would take you an entire day. yes, 24 hours. lastly, current architecture ccp uses needs players to swap between servers (i.e. nodes) when they jump through gates if you swap servers while the dude is flying, he would get disconnected.this topic comes up every couple months."
"should incarna be compulsory?(for existing station mechanics, tools and services)---compulsory: when you dock you must leave your shipand go into the incarna character mode to interact in station.optional: when you dock you can toggle between thecurrent or similar view, or from the incarna character mode.undecided: there is not yet enough information availablefor me to chose either optional or compulsory.---please answer using one of the options given above. to make data gathering easier include any comments 2 lines below your choice.*edit: please note that while the latest devblog is relevant (option 2) this post is intended to help me confirm or deny a connection between a character's age and their interest in incarna (and why you wouldn't want to use it) aswell as to help formulate answers to some new questions on my pilot census in the hope of them being relevant and balanced. thanks for your time,serious."
"there should be tings you have to but the stuff you can do right now should not require entering the station in pension"
"op: l2readdevblog"
"compulsory"
"i think it should be optional. either that or remove the 30 second time to switch ships, because i'm sure loading the assets like the incarna characters will take a decent amount of time on most computers. there are times when you just want to dock, switch ships and gtfo, and having to always be forced to load your captains quarters migt be a problem."
"l2readdevblogalso, i suspect the option to not load station environments will stay.okay, it's ccp, maybe they'll remove that option."
"the only reason to want optional is to not have to load the possibly graphic intensive environment.this is stupid. upgrade your crap. otherwise deal with it. all the same options are going to be available to you, you just won't be in your ship."
"optional.when i dock, i'm not necessarily leaving my ship."
"they said they're taking great care to not increase load times or slow down station interaction.trust.maybe it's just me, but portraits are now generated faster than the old ones were.i wouldn't be surprised if the incarna stations load faster than the current station environment.also, not leaving your ship would hardly change load times and probably wouldn't change station interaction.while i agree that leaving your ship every time you dock is kinda silly, it doesn't really matter."
"these two things are completely unrelated. the portraits load faster because they are now tied to the web based image server.incarna will likely be on separate servers but i highly doubt the load time will be faster."
"didn't consider that.. so they're simply no longer client generated?explains the speedup i guess."
"i guess it won't be compulsory according to this..."
"i have read the devblog, the purpose of this crowdsource is to see if anyone would care if they were forced to go into character mode and hopefully why (regardless of it being announced as being optional). i'm expecting the biggest reply to be hardware related."
"optionalas someone stated before - l2rdevblog, it will be optional"
"hey all!! been toying with this idea for a while and it is based on current achievable eve-tech too!! so no ''ifs or buts' on implementation here. \o/i apologise in advance if this has been covered but i have searched a lot and only found a couple of off the cuff references to what im proposing on the forums, but none in the csm meeting minutes as such.... and yes for all of you thinking u know what this is going to be its another discussion on hybrids! :p------------------------i completely understand the problems with hybrids and the fact that theyre immensely unpopular due to their performance.i also understand the need to differentiate themselves from other weapon systems, which from a game dynamic is completely understandable.the issue of optimal range and tracking is a sore one and a well argued one. any solution brought about by arguments on it will never give hybrids a new perspective or unique selling point compared to the other weapon systems in eve.------------------------so my thoughts on a unique selling point to hybrids is bleed-through. obviously there will be obvious opposition to this, and i am expecting there to be.what i am proposing is: blasters to be a tailored gallente weapon system designed to work to penetrate shields of caldari vessels and give a tailored 'core' that has a base damage bleed-through equivalent to 5% of the primary damage of the charge, say the charge delivers a maximum of 30hp damage. the base bleed-through damage would be 1.5hp. this 1.5hp would be selectable depending on what charge u loaded, and could be em, explosive, thermal or kinetic damage.the primary damage of the charge will be mitigated by shield resistances but the bleed through would only be mitigated by the next level of resistances.key factor here is the bleed through has a base damage amount unaffected by the prior level of resistances.this dual core design has a stable and definable punch but requires careful selection of damage type to be most effective.blasters keep most to all of their original design of being high cap extreme close range weapon systems, but have the potential rewards there that they dont have at the moment.railguns would be a caldari adaptation of this bleed-through hybrid design designed to penetrate armour and encroach on hull damage, much like earthly rpg7 and anti armour weapons. instead of the bleed-though damage being selectable, the damage stays thermal, with the selectable charges differing between primary damage types.this time there's no base damage bleed-through amount, but the amount of bleed through is calculated at 5% of the damage after armour resistances have been applied to the main damage type.what this means is that to get the best bleed through u need to be hitting the weakest armour resistance, in order to get a higher damage after armour resistances, and hence a higher 5% bleed-through into hull.both these systems offer a unique selling point. i dont feel they're in any way overpowered when running numbers. the bleed-through percentages / base damage equivalents tailor to the damage amounts of the charge sizes. there would be no mental assault frigate 'bleed through' popping a drake in a few minutes.in terms of lore these systems operate more in line with what i believe hybrid charges are were originally intended to be.both systems operate the way the races are envisioned to idolise.the gallente thinking around a problem against their nemesis race, and the caldari using might to further their advantage over an over-thinking opponent.this kind of change could also see the rising use of both armour and shield logistics in the same fleet, maybe even creating a 3rd possible hull logistics that could bring the oneiros back into use as something other than just a cap generator.please please discuss!!(ps-im tired and i think my eyes are about to die!)"
"also... in relation to using this form of blasters against armour targets, base bleed-through would hit armour resistances that are equal across the board so using the blasters would mean its inherent advantages of selectable bleed-through damage type is rendered useless.same goes with railgun advantages against shield targets as the bonuses to thermal bleed-through damage would be met with relatively high base thermal armour resistances inherent on all ships.once again, please please discuss!"
"one question... why? you have 1.5 damage bleed through. a drake has ~5 k armor and ~5k struture. it will take you a year to kill a drake with this kind of bleed-through damage. apart from killing a ship who's tank you cant break, bledthrough damage is going to be useless."
"it makes quite some sense. railguns should be the ultimate armor piercing weapon.if we say the shields work better against fast moving mass their effectiveness would be something like this, in descending order:railgunsautocannonsartillerymissilesblasterslasers (being the most effective against shields)"
"hybrids are pretty much fine.and stop that gallente/caldari racism. both use blasters and rails.blaster damage melts ships and if you're gallente you got drones to add to even that. blaster caldari ships are actually more useful than railgun ones, since at least you're going to do damage even without damage bonus.railguns are currently only useful if you got gallente ship with damage bonus. difficult to say if it's useless to do useless damage from useless range.i think if there's a problem it's with ammo types and smaller guns. just look at (c)raptor or longer range dmg etc."
"well u see i worked it out like this: blaster bc vs shield bc (brutix vs drake)pure gank brutix can deal out close to 1k of dps bt most fits reach around the 500 - 600 markthe 30hp damage i used in my op was for 1 charge in one gun.if the bleedthrough was 5% of base damage before resists then 600dps brutix would deal 30hp of bleedthrough per second.a drake with 5k armor and 5k hull would have 10k of hp to go through without resistances added. say the damage type chosen hits armor resists that are 25%, 7.5hp of potential damage is removed and the armor (5k) would decay at a rate of 22.5hp/sec. to chew through that would take 222 seconds or 3.7 minutes. if the drake doesnt have a dc2 on the hull resistances are 0% meaning hull (5k) depleats in 167 seconds, or 2.7 minutes.6 minutes 29 seconds to pop a shield tanked drake in a gank brutix by bleedthrough only.at first when thinking of figures to go for this i was thinking percentages of around 25 but when actually doing the calcs itd be waaaay overpowered. if you're flying a blaster fit boat doing 600+ dps, ur generally not tanked, so the tactic is one of teamwork, with a buddy providing logistic support for you.even at the current 5% base of theoretical maximum, i think if you were flying a perma 800dps tanked drake ud be pretty ****ed getting popped from bleedthrough alone in 6 and a half minutes. the length of time required to go though armor and hull is very much a massive alert to get help!the blaster and railgun concept i wanted to share actually forces co-operative pvp, as aposed to solo pvp.it also pushes the use of hull repping as a pre-emptive measure, as aposed to an after combat deep space rep'n'go."
"not a bad suggestion at all."
"the information tab on wormholes is saying wormholes have 4+ hours left on their life and closing like mad. its happened multiple times recently and can be quite annoying.no, they did not close due to mass. both \"warnings\" were \"maxed\", and the holes have been closing anyway.i could swear i saw a thread on this earlier but cannot find it as of right now. please merge if needed.thanks.j205818 closed in evuldgenzo today at about 02:00 server time. unfortunately i dont think we recorded the other ones."
"assembly hall isn't some place you bring all of your problems dude.bug report it. don't clog up this forum with relatively new bugs."
"so you would like, presumably the next csm to take this bug issue to ccp when they get a chance?file a bug report you moron."
"the only way i could be more moronic is if i was bumping a topic that i didn't want to be there in the first place. on an alt.thanks for your advice, i will let ccp handle it."
"i don't understand the problem."
"previously, this system was in place:this system seems to be bugged. some wormholes just close while giving no warning whatsoever. this can be amazingly costly to players.if they made the change intentionally we would like to know, if they did not we would like to see a fix or at least know that it is not working as intended and they will fix it."
"i see... well, that is a problem indeed. seems like a bug. but not a csm issue."
"ibtl"
"i would like to see that traders can sell and buy stuff directly from custom offices, so that the pi user is able to sell and buy directly to others.this would make the pi management much more interesting, because you can deliver stuff to haulers or traders who can do the job as a business.at the moment buying and selling is only possible through a station. we can keep it like that so people need to enter a station first to get the orders but the delivery of a courier contract should be fullfilled at the custom office."
"i've petitioned ccp to start a plex drive for the victims and families of victims of the new zealand earthquake tragedy and i'd like others to help make this happen by sending petitions of their own. i'm not sure about how to best to make this happen so i'm hoping others in here from the csm and vets will help me get this going.thanks."
"not supported.this isn't because i'm heartless, though, it's because we can look at haiti and see that throwing money at problems like this doesn't really fix anything. real effort to rebuild infrastructure is the key to revitalizing a country or area that's been devastated by a natural disaster, and again, this can't be done by simply throwing money at the families who have been devastated."
"already started here.also, wrt money - it's not just throwing money at the problem, it's bringing in fresh water, food, and medical supplies. these all cost money. and not just for the people effected, but for the rescue teams who have come in.official responses can only cover so much, and in the meantime there are thousands of people who don't have these basic necessities. money helps these things get there now, when it's really needed.supporting this one too."
"linkage"
"i'm sorry... do you actually have a proposal you wish to bring to our attention? if not... ib4l."
"i'm sorry, do you actually give a ****?"
"didn't think so."
"i think this idea would make ships more diverse. where you can upgrade your hull to be stronger, armor, shield, cap, cpu, weapons and all. of course there should be a base multiplier or something to make it cost more and more as you research it farther and farther. if you do upgrade something, there has to be a penalty on something else. say i upgrade the hull it has more mass and becomes slower. also skills would have to be added to upgrade or research the ships. instead of adding some new thing on how to develop your ships and whatnot, just add on to the research tab and labs.one step closer to a better sandbox!suggestions will be accepted and added..."
"i've thought about that as well and i like to call it modifying to avoid confusion with i think it should be able to be done to almost everything in game ships modules etc etc be very skill intensive and use many different parts of of different source such as plexes missions some made from other items maybe?the first thing that comes to my mind however is that it would probably cause a lot of load to the database as every modified item would create a more or less unique database entry with its stats or ccp would have to create another 20 versions of each item as we have 20 meta levels right now that would match pretty good to use that also those modified items would get the name of the person that did mod them just as the normal officer items so every item would also get unique in that way and would get a unique database entry...if that however would not carry any weight then i would love to be able to modify every stat on every item that is in eve right now lol \o/fine tune my ship in every way possible make it faster give it more slots ad another bonus etc etc etc...etc......etc there should maybe be some sort of calibration points at which point the ships would fall apart cause you modified so much at it also some small chance for the item to get damaged and a even smaller chance for a item to get destroyed while being modifiedthere could also be different ways to mod i.e. the ultra carefull way 0% chance of critical failure and the crazy way 99% chance etcwhich would yield different grades of items and at a certain level it would be only possible to modify with a certain chance of destructionof curse all that could be also influenced with better items equipment and skills and moreand modifying a ship in certain areas could also effect others so for modules too making a ship go 100ms faster could decrease cap recharge or armor etc etcit would be cool however if you could chose where the penalty should go do i want to decrease cpu need on cost of power grid need or damage or tracking (or any other attribute that makes sense) on my large 800mm auto cannon ii?again all that could be influenced by better items skills etcah almost endless possibilities but i better stop now the catcazyps: oh and this feature is so big that it should probably get its own full expansion other ways it can't be done in its full possible awsomeness"
"i had something similar in mind 2 months ago. no one was interested however...linkagewould be cool if ship rigging had some depth in it"
"yeah it would give depth, but i assume there would have to be a limit so no one has super powered ships. if this idea doesnt go well they should add different hull shapes and or shield types and what they deflect the most bla bla bla. gives a new marketing area at least."
"there's already a mechanism to upgrade ships by improving something while attracting a penalty (at a cost). rigs."
"increase fitting requirements for all plates and extenders by 25-50% across the board.will have limited impact on the bigger hulls (bc/bs) as they generally have lots of room to spare and the damage output is designed to hit heavy tanks.will close the chasm that the buffer-paradigm has created in cruiser and below where dps is not scaled to shoot ehp equal to one class above.thank you for your time."
"basicly you suggest removing extenders and plates from the game?who puts those modules on a bs?you want to make it so noone puts them anywhere?the buffer on frigates already sucks, so you want to remove these modules to nerf cruisers fitting large extenders and 800/1600mm plates?"
"ummm, who doesn't? active tanks on bs became extinct years ago and were replaced by 2-3 plates as the \"norm\". you trolling by any chance?frigates/destroyers regularly use 400 plates/m.extenders, those are cruiser modules .. you can fit combat capable (read: viable) frigates with 10k+ ehp.cruisers regularly use 1600 plates/l.extenders, those are bs modules .. you can fit combat capable (read: viable) cruisers with ~50k ehp.so you have frigates with cruiser ehp but \"stuck\" doing frigate damage and cruisers with bc ehp but \"stuck\" doing cruiser damage .."
"large extenders are cruiser-sized modules - their fitting requirements and the amount of buffer they add are similar to those of 800mm plates.and cruisers can only fit 1600mm plates by downgrading their highslot mods or using fitting mods/rigs.edit: and you have to go out of your way to get mses on shield frigates because small extenders are utterly worthless - they provide the same amount of ehp as 100mm plates, which is to say that they're a complete waste of a slot.not supported."
"oh well no not trolling just being an idiot...the 1600mm plates would be the only ones retaining their use if more expensive, and really only on bses.400mm plate on frigs aren't exactly great already imho. only the rifter and some pirate hulls can do it really well.and a rifter will still have less than 6k ehp, less than some frigs with 200mm plates."
"large extenters are for large shps. full stop. period. if they are not, something is wrong. same goes for batlleships. maybe if 1600mm plates actually costs something to fit you woun't have every man and his dog buffertanking their ships."
"and large is how big?what about x-large?small = uselessmedium = destroyer/cruiserlarge = cruiser/bcx-large = bsthere are no x-large extenders.as you can see, frigates are forced to use mediums (which they can rarely afford fitting wise).and bses are forced to use no extenders at all."
"frigate/destroyer = 1 or 2x medium extender / 200mm or 400mmcruiser = 1 or 2 x large / 1600mmbc = 1, 2 or 3x large / 1600mmhurrdurr."
"exactly."
"instead of bringing more dps, your targets should be nerfed instead."
"battlecruisers are already way too powerful compared to cruiser size ships and that includes hac and such.could as well just delete cruisers from game and be done with it. not supporting as i like cruisers."
"was a typo, 400 mil loot per officer"
"make belts rats use sleeper ai and scram out to 250km."
"thats basically more what i meant, thats what gets on my nerves mostly."
"back in time when it was useful to try ganking people when they landed at stations they used to do warp to 0 bookmarks at station undocks so they never landed off the docking range."
"i agree warp to 0 with station should always land the jumper within docking range.all stations have a freaking gigantic '0m distance' radius.only a damn ****** would make it so ships always 'warp to 0' at the edge of it,especially since warp inaccuracy is well known."
"they still do that... in highsec, of all places. tengus can be one volleyed by bs with a rack of 1400s. suicide gankers wait off station in direction with a gate for ones that drop out of warp to a full stop, now that all the carebears had instaundock bms. wait at undock in a shuttle in irjune or motsu, and you will see all the tengus warping into the undock, where presumably the jet can had been. it's a head-scratcher."
"how about doing the ****ing low sec/0.0 incursions that no one is doing, instead of asking for more high sec incursions. once again high sec has a broken balance to low sec and 0.0, running a 20 man fleet through high sec for an hour nets you 200+ mil now.i want to see a low sec system where 50 pirates get together and engage a 50 man logi/bs fleet (even if it's a carebearing fleet).if anything, the rewards in high sec should be nerfed severely."
"sansha isn't a botter. his supply of ships is limited."
"no they don't.lone carrier is a dead carrier. i don't see carriers dropping on people's heads like moms do today, i really don't see them being overpowered."
"you all know i has to be like this i support this product and or serviceit sure is nice to know you all are there...good luck all semper fi"
"how?"
"why, by being serious of course."
"except they won't oblige. look at the drama around incarna, and that part of ccp simply walking away. keep in mind there is no single \"ccp\", there's many people in it. some who want to make the dream, and others who just see it as a private ticket to status, and others who have long passed that station and who really just want to do new shiny awesome and lolcustomers be damned."
"the ideal team would be a balance of players from different aspects of eve.each delegate has their own opinions which reflect those who support their background, whereas the overarching goal between all would be to agree upon improvements to the fundamentals of the game.beyond this, ccp has their own agenda with new features. feature specifics are largely unknown, so a team specifically tailored to handle new eve stuff is not the way to go.having representatives from all walks of eve-life should ensure the csms ability to handily tackle whatever ccp throws on the table.the csm is supposed to represent the best and brightest that the eve community chooses to represent their concerns.with that said, i feel it's important for candidates to have a firm grasp on the game issues at hand, not trying to grab at ones out of reach, non-existant, or meta."
"not supporting a terrible crybaby of a pilot that prometheus is. supporting another candidate who isn't a ******. thank you for your time.- s"
"ok, serious question. how are you going to approach it, when you find out that the people making the decisions on game issues large and small have absolutely no affinity of what you are saying. for example, because they haven't played in years, have moved on and have zero care, are merely interested in using eve as a platform for shiny new things, or only play one tiny little piece of the game because that is all they know. obviously that is a worst case scenario. we've seen that there's a renewed will of ccp to balance acquisition and retention, but with a fixd roadmap, and limited resources, how will you argue the case."
"i don't agree with *limited resources*. ccp can delegate resources whenever and wherever they want.i get that ccp is a company looking to expand and make money, and nothing gets more attention than new features.the flip-side to that is keeping all those people you grabbed in the beginning.ccp seems to employ a system similar to cabals, i'm confident that having a team of developers dedicated to only balance and maintenance is not a gigantic issue considering how little the teams effect and communicate with each other. the trick isn't getting a team together, but deciding what they take on and in what order.at any rate, csm5 got the ball rolling, and ccp appears to listen. here's hoping they can keep it up"
"edit: broke up my wall of textthis is where i stopped reading. what you are saying is that the best way for the council of stellar management to present a unified voice to ccp in regards to things that should be addressed is for every person on the council to have a different idea of what should be addressed. perhaps somewhere in rainbow fairy-tale land, where true democracy is enforced by some sort of benevolent god-wizard, that is true. if that were the world in which we lived, then there would be no starving kids in africa. the only power that the csm has to influence ccp is to react as a sounding board. if the response to an idea pitched to the csm by ccp is met with a smattering of \"hell yeah!\" and \"hell no!\" and everything in-between (including complete apathy), then ccp can rightfully say, 'game mechanic idea c7xf41 has met with approval from the csm and we will be working to find ways to implement it with the next major patch'. what is hoped for in the mittani's stance, which is probably a long-shot to be honest, is that by presenting a unified and cohesive response to ideas pitched by ccp, the csm can stonewall 'bad ideas' and overwhelmingly support 'good ideas'. in order for this to work, then the csm needs to as a group agree on what general criteria exist for deciding whether game mechanic idea c7xf41 is a 'good idea' or a 'bad idea'. you will not get that from a split council, where candidate a is a small-gang low-sec pvper who wants to make high-sec less safe and remove some of the advantages of 0.0 space, where candidate b does nothing but run level 4 missions in a deadspace-fit raven navy issue all day, where candidate c is an ultra-billionaire jita tycoon who sees the game as a giant spreadsheet in space, where candidate d is the average 0.0 space citizen who rats in a drake to pay for his pvp costs, where candidate e is the leader of a space alliance that focuses on mining and research in high-sec, where candidate f is a role-player who wants the primary focus of the game to shift towards walking-in-stations and character customization, where candidate g has a hard-on for 'the good old days' of nano-fit blaster ships and elite ~wulfpax~ in 0.0 and who hates the very idea of incarna, and so on. this is not a unified voice. it cannot be. their interests are diametrically opposed. the only way there is even a slight chance that the csm will be able to present a unified voice is for the individual people on that council to have generally aligned ideas.the way to win the game in this day in age isn't just to set everyone blue; it's to get those blues elected to the csm."
"good luck prom! you have all of genos supporting you!"
"you have my vote. i think especially from the recent changes to rockets, it's proof enough that ccp does listen eventually to the player base, and as you say, persistence is key. all of the changes you suggest are necessary and would be welcome"
"@ two shots:i'm not someone who knows every single aspect of the game.nobody does. i can't tell you the most effective/safest/fastest way to mine arkanor; but i'm sure someone can.would you want me working to make mining interesting at the cost of all of"
"i unironically enjoy your videos"
"this is stupid. the most effective thing the csm has ever done was uniting around the 'excellence' issue - an issue initially proposed by a director of eve uni and then driven forwards by a lowsec pirate and two members of relatively minor nullsec alliances. if you honestly believe that people with different experiences and perspectives on the game cannot work together on issues that are obviously important to everyone who plays, your position is flatly contradicted by the facts. if your position is that there should be no room for dissent whatsoever on any issue, even those on which the playerbase is split, then you're arguing for an unrepresentative and pointless council of yes-men, which is guaranteed to sink back into irrelevance post haste.anyway, +1 vote for prom."
"you have my vote prom"
"and my axe!....erhm, sorry. but in all seriousness, i wouldn't like anything more than to get a real soloer (and a good one) to have a few words with :ccp:the solo and small gang gameplay of eve is still quite awesome and unique in the world of gaming, on a good moment nothing can compare really. ccp seems to have long ago forgotten that they even have such a thing - somebody needs to remind them and stop them from (inadvertedly?) grinding it down. prom has my vote."
"i have 17 votes can i help?"
"i hate taking the position of the fanboy but i can't stand the goon propaganda anymore :ptwo shots, you're somewhat correct. csm is bringing our voice, the voice of the eve players regarding game features or problems to the ears of the devs, and who's best suited for that job then our almighty alliance leaders?the problem with your whole line of argument is that you presume mr. mittani to be a good csm candidate. i mean he is a leader of an alliance, would he find the time to commit to csm? in times of peace ye sure, but what if war comes down your way where would his priorities be? we see all the time how entire alliances fail because their leader was away from eve, most recent being it. do alliance leaders even know what we, the small folks, are struggling with and if they don't, how can they react correctly to a proposed feature that would, or could affect the life of the lil folks? the mittani himself said \"the csm does not implement features. its a sounding board for ccp.\" the question here is, how would a decadent, and slightly delusional if i may add, alliance leader know the right sound when it comes to pvp ships? i mean"
"well i think i just found the second candidate to spend some votes on."
"about time!prom for csm!"
"doesn't seem like a terrible campaign, good luck"
"ok, so how do we cast our vote? and if we have multiple accounts can we cast more than one vote?"
"funny how many people dont realise that anyone can be lying, even this guy. usually someone who says he isnt lying may well be lying to just get votes his way. remember a lawyer is not a leader."
"mittani for president."
"the man can snap his fingers and say \"hey guys, this thing over here sounds like it might be fun; go do it if you feel like it,\" and thereby consistently summon up a fleet of a thousand people eager to go die horribly. show me another leader who can do that without a bunch of threats, vapid call to arms!!!!! posts, and general freaking out about internet space ships. for that matter, show me a leader who can do it with those things."
"the mittani is a man of great wisdom and erudition. he has my vote, and should have yours as well."
"what exactly is there for me to lie about? the csm is fundamentally misrepresented by candidates, and you need someone who can forge it into a working bloc to try to actually achieve power, rather than being the whitewashing pr stunt that ccp presently has it'oh look we listen to players we fly nine dudes to iceland a couple of times a year!!!'if you think this is not the actual truth, you're sadly deluded. if you think someone promising to fix blasters in this forum can actually deliver on that - christ, i don't even know"
"so how are your personal views less important if the csm is more like a feedback group ccp bounces ideas against than if you were bringing assembly hall ideas to the developers ?sounds like you just want to block them nerfing your logistics and limiting your ability to hold deserted space you never use or whatever \"important issues\" alliances are getting prissy about this time of the year, by presenting ccp with a false impression of player consensus.i don't think a feedback group should present an unified front at all."
"then you must be very pleased by all that the csms have accomplished thus far."
"considering csms have been elected with as little as 7% votes cast i'd be really worried if they had more influence.but last i heard they all thought removing jump bridges was a pretty sweet idea, that was a nice show of unity there ! what are your personal feelings on the issue ?"
"removing jump bridges would be ******ed, but ccp is likely to make a move on the bridge issue before the csm election actually goes through, so i don't think it'll have any practical relevance for csm6. which is a shame, since the last time they tried to make a major balance fix in nullsec they created the hilariously profitable but unbalanced and stupid tech bottleneck. welp!"
"you never had any issues about the tech bottleneck when you lived up north where they were at. now that you are down south you are expressing that the situation is wrong.why the change of heart?"
"mittens for president"
"you lie. 1. i live 'up north', in deklein. 2. i called ccp chronotis a dunderheaded idiot in a column before the changes to tech even went through."
"on your website, you make a big deal about the importance of getting the chairmanship. what, in your mind, is the role of the chair?darius could motivate goons to go do stuff. darius was also a laughably ineffectual csm delegate whose terms accomplished nothing of value for the playerbase or the overall state of the game (he got himself a job out of it, though; yay!). why should anyone assume that an ability to motivate goons will translate to an ability to be a good csm delegate?"
"-- eve online 2011."
"your platform is fine, but why does the king of the goons need my vote to get elected? aren't there other candidates that could be valuable to your magical coalition of reason that need my votes more than you?"
"did you write this?so you are of the belief that all the seats of the csm should be held by those that belong to 0.0 power block sov holders only? no one from high sec, no one from low sec and no non-sov holding entities who live out in 0.0?the idea of ccp removing jump bridges or nerfing them does not agree with you?also, you seem mad."
"are you willing to break nda?if not, how will you even be different from any other csm member?your general attitude towards csm is commendable, but do you even believe it yourself that you are able to deliver?are you willing to report your own members to stop botting if it comes to that?your alliance openly violates eula, are you going to try and protect them when it is apparent that the discussion is going against your alliance agenda?are you planning to say anything that isn't a lie?"
"have you stopped beating your wife yet?"
"mittens for god emperor."
"welcome to the csm candidacy mittens, nice to see you finally throwing your hat in the ring.however, don't put us all in the same basket. while many csm members in the past have got in by making promises to the general public, that's not been the case for all of us. i would actually say that the most valuable members of the csm over the past 4 terms i was a member of were the ones who didn't make promises of the kind you describe.i just want to address this point.on one hand you say: \"i'm not going to lie to you, i know how the csm operates, we're a sounding board\", on the other hand you say that process you want to be a part of failed to \"accomplish anything relevant\". pick one :-)now, since you agree we are a sounding board, a feedback mechanism and a lobbyist group for things we'd like, you must know also that most of our accomplishments are not of the form \"hey, we gave you this, on our own, because we said so\", but rather a continuous collaboration with ccp where features we promoted made it in with ccp's design and our feedback on that design, or things that came from ccp but we had a significant impact in altering to make sure it suited our needs, desires, didn't upset things more than was needed, etc. (not always successfuly, but we can't force ccp into doing anything).if you want other examples of things the csm has been responsible for providing significant feedback on to the point the resulting things were better.- microtransactions (or lack thereof :p)- ui redesign (including but not limited to new contextual menus, assets search, contracts, eve mail, fitting savings)- titan changes, naglfar changes, fuel bays- bettering the gm department (work in progress, but the progress exists and is relevant)- new player experiencethere's many many more things...but it's a collaborative process, not anything the csm can point at and say we're solely responsible for. so don't bash us for that, you won't be able to do anything different.that being said, welcome again, good luck with your campaign.for those who intend to vote for the mittani, all i can say is that from the limited interactions i've had with him, he looks like a fairly clever guy and i'm curious as to what he could bring to the table..."
"voting for mittani would feel just as good for me as letting istvaan invest my isk for me."
"abstain..."
"word!"
"/me likes this."
"mittani, im just saying we dont know if your lying or not at all period. you may have things to lie about you that you didnt show in your post. the only reason your probably going to be a good leader is all those other goonswarm candidates will be elected at the most....you shouldnt call people deluded, you should convince them instead of calling them names, good way to get another voter moron."
"he's not lying. it's not like getting on the csm is going to ~magically~ allow him to tell ccp to do anything he wants, because we all know that the current csm structure gets almost nothing proposed done. ever.it's just a group that ccp bounces ideas off of then says \"hey look, the guys you people elected agree with us!!! praise the csm! player interaction!!\"ps get over yourself."
"one thing that i have learned from this thread is that drooling ******s are somehow capable of using mouse and a keyboard these days.that's quite some progress, right there..."
"with the exception of the wife-beating question the rest of these were pretty reasonable.1. of course i'm not willing to violate the nda.2. i'm a mother****er.3. i don't know if i'll be able to deliver. i do think i'll be able to do a better job than 'nice' csms, but that could just be my arrogance blinding me. still, i have a solid track record of forging coalitions and making enemies into friends to accomplish common goals. i'm also flat out more politically wise to the ways of human influence than most people angling for this spot. 4,5: this is a common and reasonable question. every alliance has eula violators. it's not the job of an alliance leader to play space-cop when ccp clearly isn't enforcing ****-all on the botting front. en24 has done a series of fascinating articles on botting and ccp's utter lack of response to it; on average they might only be banned for 1-3 days. if you think it's the alliance leader's job to enforce the eula, you're not going to vote for me. that's a silly position, though, if you consider it for a microsecond or two: hey look i climbed to the top of **** mountain, let's resolve ratting disputes all day! there's no point in being an unpaid ccp gm when ccp themselves don't enforce the things you're reporting onas someone who enjoys small-gang pvp more than massive fleets (irony alert) i'd prefer if botting was pursued aggressively, as there's basically no solo pvp to be had since the natural solo prey - the idiot ratter - is now an automated auto-logging machine."
"the mittani's position as expressed in this thread is pretty badly flawed. he extrapolates from the fact that there is no well-defined method for the positive propagation of game design ideas from the csm to ccp and concludes that anyone who lays out an agenda is a liar. yet, at the same time he recognises that the csm acts as a sounding board that gives feedback to ccp. obviously, this feedback will be based on the preferences sketched by the agendas of each candidate so these lists of goals do, in fact, provide good sources of information for the voters to see what the candidates will work towards, whether through active propagation of ideas or in the more passive role of providing feedback. all that is needed to make the agendas correspond with reality is a slight change of emphasis (something along the lines of 'i will support general principles x, y and z and will definitely support changes a, b and c whilst i will not give positive feedback to ideas along the lines of d, e or f).what does the mittani offer in the place of an agenda that voters can support? he offers 'leadership' for the csm. he does not say towards what ends. however, if his previous writings (e.g. his ten ton hammer pieces) are anything to go by, it does not really matter towards what ends. he thinks that what is important is that people should be led and not that they should choose. he writes fulsome praise of the leadership style that restricts the choices of those being led because mere pawns cannot be expected to appreciate the vistas of freedom and will simply become confused and dazed if they are offered too many options. so, don't expect that the mittani will act in what you think are your interests if you vote for him. expect, rather, to be told what is in your interest, whether you like it or not. remember also that this is someone who has spoken warmly of the pleasure to be had not just in beating people in the game but in driving them out of the game by ruining their gameplay experience. this is the person who wants to be your representative in helping to determine, whether directly or through providing feedback, what that experience will be. of course, many goons will vote for the mittani. he takes their votes for granted in the op saying that a csm place is simply his for the taking. to the goons i say, what has become of you? will you ever again be able to look your heritage in the face if you pass up this wonderful chance to troll your leader and puncture his ego by voting for someone else? there are other goon candidates available to you, candidates who are not standing on the principle of divine right. if you want one of your own at the csm table then vote for kalrand and show yourselves capable of independence and not just slavish obedience to an arrogant master.this party political broadcast was paid for by md voices for kalrand, a non-profit organisation."
"how exactly is this any different from any other candidate? candidate x who wants to 'fix blasters' is going to support fixing blasters and shoot down other ideas as \"wastes of time\" if they are proposed, because people are petty. candidate y who wants to remove level 4 missions from high-security space is going to similarly cut down other peoples' ideas and project his own as 'the best'. candidate z who wants to disperse 0.0 power blocs is going to oppose anything raised by the 0.0 power blocs in favor of his ideas. what you have said about the mittanithat he is going to act in his perceived best interest at the potential expense of everyone else'sis an accurate description of how most human beings on this planet act every day. what you seem to balk at is the fact that the mittani openly admits to being a manipulative bastard who is willing to try to get his way once he is in a position to do so, rather than mouthing a bunch of empty platitudes about how he's not going to do that.everyone has an agenda. most people try to hide it, or flower it up with nice words about the importance of the every man. if your problem with the mittani is that he has an agenda, then don't vote for himor for anyone else in the csm race. if your problem with the mittani is that he admits to having an agenda, then help yourself to a sobering dose of reality: everyone has an agenda the mittani loves you, and has your best interests at heart."
"my agenda also involves relentlessly posting pictures of my puppy"
"the agenda outlined here is simply to forge the csm into an effective and unified advocacy group. what is not outlined is exactly what it will advocate for once it is an effective group. creating something powerful simply for the sake of having something powerful with an ends-blind attitude is the kind of political position that makes me want to run a mile. creating something powerful with specific objectives in mind is something i could get behind, on the other hand. now, the mittani has referred readers to his ten ton hammer articles if they want to know his views, and by implication, the kinds of positions he would likely use the weapon he plans to forge in support of. but this is just hiding these views behind several hundred pages of text. why not just summarise them here? what, exactly, is the agenda?edit - cute puppy btw."
"so what you're saying is he needs an audit?edit: seriouspost: thanks for your support."
"my views on the issues of the day aren't particularly unique to me, because i think there is a broad consensus about the problems of this deeply damaged game. one of the biggest issues, i think, is that the csm itself is weak and easily ignored, which is the primary thrust of my argument. before we can fix blasters or change assault frigates or whatever, you need a csm with teeth. the single most obvious issue is the feature backlog and the rush to implement shiny new toys when core segments of the game are half implemented or just outright broken. junior accountant role is still broken and it's been weeks since incursions was released. dominion is half-implemented, to everyone's suffering. the techenetium bottleneck was identified by market discussions weeks in advance and ccp made a ham-handed dys/prom nerf that ****ed everything up. all of this goes into the category of 'dumb ****'. the 18 months business and 'oh hey we only have 22 devs working on eve itself' dev blog were ****ing scandalous. i'm anti-bot, yet i understand that the reason bots exist isn't so much rmt (because ccp cracks down on rmt very, very hard) but bad pve which amounts to little more than watching three grey bars turn red. in world of warcraft people bot because they want to rmt, but people actually play the pve because it's fun, not eye-stabbingly boring. ccp presently doesn't enforce anti-botting for **** (though they do anti-rmt) mainly because they realize their pve is godawful. i'd like to see the pve experience made much more fun, so people would actually play (and that thus i could gank an honest ratting raven, rather than have it auto-log when i enter local)i think supercaps are overpowered (wow, wild and crazy statement) and i've felt that for years. i'd like to see more die. my personal view (which, i think, is irrelevant in the csm process, and ccp might come up with a better idea) is that a supercap-only point would make these fights much bloodier. the fact that fighter-bombers can kill hics makes them not particularly threatening. the biggest cause of supercap death isn't being tackled in eve 2011, it's having the node die around you. everyone says 'fix lag'. everyone. even ccp. find me a pro-lag candidate. vov anyway that's the poop."
"i know mittens hates sycophancy so i should try to avoid being a sycophant so i can be sycophanticmittani you're a **** but i'm voting for youhow'd i do?on a more serious note, this csm campaign is more watertight than the others. the mittani has been high up in goonswarm for years and knows alot about running sections, and now all, of an alliance. he also has real world experience of an intellectually demanding job that requires knowing : how to lie, how to talk, how to convince people his points by using evidence. he also has an adorable puppy, a house he bought with cash, has retired young and so can devote much neckbeard time to internet spaceships, looks like 'dane cook with down's syndrome', and flies a sabre. this man is clearly the man for you for the csm chair.he also larps and stuff"
"he also makes good posts."
"you have my vote, can't be any worse than the previous csms."
"swynet is exactly right. either ccp cares about what the csm thinks, or they don't. either they listen to the player-selected representatives, or they don't. that's why i have no problem being held accountable for the things i want to do, particularly my proposal for a perpetual iterative development team. several other of the serious csm candidates (such as seleene and roc) feel the same way. and if we collectively have thousands of eve players -- as our voters -- behind us in those goals, ccp can ignore us, of course......but i don't think they will.the more dedicated members of csm5 such as trebor have shown us the way: if you present real player-supported initiatives with real data behind them, such as the crowd-sourcing trebor did, ccp listens. that's why i want to do the same thing with player round-tables.and that's why i want to be on csm6: to continue that momentum. and i'm willing to do the work to help that happen.thanks for your question. it was a great one."
"if it's so great, then could you answer it? your response did not tell me the method and specific actions by which you as an individual are going to do stuff. you talked to me about ccp and the previous csm."
"the best all-round candidate in the running."
"trebor is all about what is best for the game and the players. he is not corrupted with the \"what is best for me and my brosefs\" attitude like many of the other candidates out there.he has all my votes. let's hope he gets chairman!"
"despite the many good candidates out there, it's easy to tell that due to your experience in the matter and your sound way of reasoning, you're perhaps the most suited person to become csm chairman. (i would have trouble choosing between you and seleene, as both your backgrounds are interesting.)all this to say, i wish you luck in your candidacy, (although you probably won't need it ) and hope for a chance to serve the community in a seat next to yours."
"so to clarify you are shamelessly trying to buy votes by using isk incentives? i like it."
"i think its awesome that there's another csm candidate that looks kind of like his portrait."
"+1, trebor. you've done a great job on csm5. fingers crossed you get elected to csm6 as well."
"shamelessly? yes. also openly, proudly, and with a smile on my face. this is eve!"
"would you support a change as drastic as removing sec status gain from every npc in game except lowsec belt rats?"
"i'm sure everyone will draw their own conclusions about these admissions."
"this is what i have been screaming for a while now myself. if concord doesn't care about the bad things you do in 0.0, why should they care about the good things? i do like the idea of no sec status gain in empire too."
"how do you feel about the results of your supercap changes?"
"given you were one of the developers involved in creating dominion in the first place what do you say to people who think you are in fact part of the problem?"
"there has been zero indication that ccp is planning to put any sort of pvp element into incarna. i would like to see where something like that might go, but that entails having a plan.if you mean that low sec rats give you sec status gains and 0.0 rats just give you bounties / rewards... from an rp perspective that would make a bit of sense. if you are talking about low sec incentives, i think there should be more than one way though of increasing your sec status than just shooting random bits of pixels in a belt as well. i'd be happy to bash more ideas around about this, especially alternative ways of raising sec status.i think it's ridiculous that they have been allowed to sit as is for over a year, and for nearly three years previous to that. i have no idea why ccp seems almost scared to do minor tweaking and balancing every couple of months until they hit the sweet spot. there should be a dedicated team of people that work specifically on this sort of thing, actively soliciting feedback from players instead of working on things and then surprising us with dev blogs or changes on sisi from nowhere. that's the entire point of my campaign: the ever-increasing amount of game mechanics that continue to sit stagnant year after year yet more new stuff keeps getting added to the pot. well, i worked on a lot more than just dominion but if you are looking for someone to 'blame', for the state of play right now i'd suggest you look a lot higher up than me. i was one man on a team and the ultimate decisions as to what would or would not be in dominion were not made by me. as i've stated elsewhere, the new sov system is just one of the many things in eve that were started and never finished. you can watch the presentation i gave at fanfest last year for a few hints of things that didn't make it into dominion or since.it's not my decision that sov, factional warfare, lo-sec, wormholes or, hell, even certificates were never iterated on. this is why i'm running for csm - i want to know why, just like you do. i know what was in the cooker before and i remember how many of these decisions were made. i can use that knowledge to help csm6 work together better than ever before in trying to at the very least get some answers. i won't make false promises that issue x or y will be fixed because i know all too well how things work."
"what are your thoughts on this?"
"vile rat is the best of rats and will do great things for all."
"you say 'break' intended distribution. how so?you point out things that you view as being broken. this implies that you can see things that are not broken. what about moons would you like to see happen so they are not broken?"
"the moons are fine. they haven't changed.tweaks in production that shift bottlenecks around are poorly implemented and cause great damage to game balance."
"large fleet battles are epic, so is small scale pvp. do you feel it is possible for both to co-exist?what are you thoughts on jump bridges in regards to logistics and power projection?do you have a black ops battleship? if so, do you get to use it much or how you would like to?what ship do you secretly love no matter how broken it gets, if any?there is a ton more people playing the game than five years ago. what are your thoughts on the increase in players per system and that 'into the vast unknown' feeling? is it still there for you?your last truly satisfying small scale pvp experience where strategy, experience and skills were used in every aspect that gave you felt good about?"
"im going to dis you goonswarm people because of your ceo, hes lying. now go troll his post."
"no longer must we be subject to the sycophancy of the csms of the past. a vote for vile rat is a vote for the well-being of all and not just the priveleged elite."
"i support vile rat and the mittani for csm. as well as that other guy white tree. you will have all my votes."
"absolutely. no question they both can exist and should exist. the problem is mostly goals, there's no achievable goal in the game that can be accomplished with a small group (that's worth doing) where a larger group isn't the best counter. hratli smirks did a good write up (it's on k.com if you're interested) of a \"king of the hill\" style lowsec goal that would be a good achievable idea that would help to fix this issue. really when you reach the end there's one goal and in my opinion that's where things fall apart. i don't approve of anything that would reintroduce tedium such as making people jump 40 jumps just to get back and forth to empire. that's not to say i think you should have a safe run of it. two separate issues in play here and they aren't necessarily two sides of the same coin. you can have quick logistics without it being safe logistics. i did. it blew up because i was a dumbass. i like the concept of the ship but it's just a mini titan without the fun part at this point and not very fun to fly. we get a lot of use out of them inserting bombing squads and there's a great deal of utility in that but they're just support ships. i would love for dreads to be worth flying again. i'm a bit bitter about what supercapitals have done to the usefulness of regular cap fleets. that whole implementation is just so broken right now.that fell apart when bloc warfare became the norm. now you have people huddled into hubs and it's become boring as heck. can you imagine something like iss happening again? the blue pill? small groups owning little outposts holding small areas independently? no of course not. they would be crushed the day they dropped the outpost egg. my first day in game i was in a punisher in syndicate and i've never known anything but \"you're likely going to die if you aren't really careful and smart\" and the game is a lesser place for that being rare these days. our directors sneak off from time to time to querious in our alts and mittani yammers on about his sabre and khefron goes on about his billion isk drake and i usually jam hella dudes in my falcon. it's not much but what you're asking for is damn hard to find without having another 40 ships float in mid fight. every fight these days is a gank or a trap and the lack of achievable small scale goal contributes to this in a big way."
"what is your position on jump bridge removal/nerf?"
"don't let the name fool you, as long as you don't spam in his intel channels vile rat is a very nice and very smart man, who would be an excellent choice as a csm candidatea vote for vr is a vote for a better eve!"
"i actually thought that the rumours that nc and goonswarm gad planned a massive campaign to claim all seats on the csm were a joke until i read this.pitiful, depressing and shameless. bad enough that nc / goons have killed 0.0 alliance warfare through lazy defence pacts. even worse that they're now manipulating the playerbase into voting them in to positions where they can control ccp policy to suit their own self-preservation.shame on you, vile rat.the sooner this game is reclaimed by genuine players the better."
"i like this guy, how do you make thumbs up and thumbs down stuff? hope you support this."
"what topics are you willing to concede to your peers so that you and your peers can present a unified voice to ccp?"
"two shots, your repetitive. including the fact you didnt address his post about you and mittani."
"just in case you're not trollin' :some of the other campaign websites here are gorgeous, that's true. i must concede that i am more at ease with code, and pretty much suck when it comes to designing interfaces and fancy pages.sadly, with both rl taking it's toll and me trying to spend time talking with the players when i'm on eve, i am left with little time to work on a website. if you're willing to design me an awesome website so i can publish my ideas in a more fashionable manner, please do ! this would be very appreciated.--------------on to the deeper questions : (sry, content > presentation)it strongly depends of what we're talking about. it seems critical to bring a unified voice to ccp in terms of what topics should be debated, what is a priority, and so on, if only for efficiency purposes. but in that case, there are multiple simple ways to make everyone agree on it, and we can even call the players for an estimation of how much a feature is needed / would be appreciated. (remember the prioritization crowdsourcing ?)when it comes to the details of a particular problem thus, i don't think it would be a good idea to come to ccp with a smoothed, united point of view. in fact, i'm certain of the opposite. eve being what it is, it's home to a lot of different players, with different playstyles. instead of making sure we all come to an agreement and convincing each other, csm representatives would probably waste less time and archive better results if bringing all those points of view to ccp, showing the multiple sides of a problem. of course, part of the job is to organize those to present them in an orderly manner, preferably with some figures (people like figures). this doesn't mean we should fight in the middle of meetings, although some dueling rules could make it enjoyable, but clearly conceding a point as a csm member is only a good idea if you see you're mistaken. if i strongly believe that my opinion, although different, is carrying the voices of a sufficient number of players, i will insist for it to be added to the report. (template : \"so ccp, on the topic of x, it seems that y, but also, some players may experience z, and we need to take that into account.\")thank you for your kind support, profiteering . concerning the issue you just raised, i must admit i'm not completely sure of what you're suggesting exactly. your post is quite short, and the second post of this topic, although more complete, may not reflect your opinion and lacks a bit of clarity.what i can say so far : there is already plenty of modding available for ships, in the way of tech variants, modules, rigs, and in the case of t3, subsystems. it's undoubtedly a great feature of eve to be able to custom our ships.even if it's not the purpose of the csm to steer the whole ccp game design department, i have good hope that additional features in terms of customization will be added to the game anyway. for sure, other t3 hulls are coming. two other possibilities that have been mentioned (but are less certain) are custom ship paint jobs (microtransactions ?) and ship crews (that could possibly be appealing to ccp with the upcoming incarna content). i don't think this issue really needs to be raised, as ccp has probably something in the pipes already. however i'll be happy to help them refine it so it suits the players' needs to the fullest."
"hi eve communityhello gehen,as a leader of our small comunity in game, you helped us discover eve world and many involvment we may have in it. as a friend, we discovered altogether wormhole life, crafting experience of t3s, so i must say you have a fairly great knowledge of the game in itself.your knowledge of french comunity is important , but you re mostly an open minded guy, and your contacts with french comunity represent a small part of the people you deal with ingame.if i write here, as a member of sos, a wormhole french corporation, well established and a 0.0 discoverer, it s to ask you some questions:1- wormhole :it seems a great way to amplify the pleasure of the game : risk and danger there makes it a tought challenge usualy and pvp delivers a lot of adrenaline. what will you do to make ccp advance in wormhole game design, game threat and interaction?2- t3 :you re one of the most prepared guy to the future t3 builds, like the \"possible\" frigate t3 project. the game got an interesting new interest when the t3 cruisers appeared. what do you think of this \"project\" and the way this frigate would enter actual gameplay ?3- games event : you were one of the first when planetary interaction was released to try it and explore it. your leaded most of us in the sansha's incursions' series of game events. do you think the csm should impulse be involved in the making/helping of such events? do you think it's what players are looking for ? does it helps long time players to stay in eve/ continue their roamming4- pvp :actualy pvp can be done quite easily, in different standards. massive region pvp ( select luxuary style pvp for larger corpos?) , nation wars ( easy to get involved in, not as dangerous as can be massive pvp though), rat pirating, wormhole solar system controls, etc etc ... are there any new form of players interactions (pvp or not anyway) you would like to discuss with ccp while in csm ?anyway, as a friend of gehen in game and in real, i would like to thank him for what he does to the community. as a long time eve traveler (2004) i wished more csm candidate would be less \"weel known\" by the community, but more \"involved\" in the \"everyday\" improvment of the game.i ask my friends,the people i work with and play and enjoytime with, to ask gehen questions, to avoid judging him on how well known he is, but to discover the man, the player , and how he cares for people around him. you ll discover that usualy the best person are those that do the job, not those that spend time talking about it.ask gehen, listen his answerzs, and vote for him !"
"hello jazz - long time no see ! still in sos then ?that's an awful lot of questions you've asked there :) as nothing is perfect, w-space could also receive some love from ccp. however, with the focus being on lowsec balancing, 0.0 logistics and other related topics, i fear that w-space is not under the spotlights at the moment for ccp, and we may not see another iteration on this in the close future.however, w-space will most definitely be impacted by some of these changes. a perfect example is 0.0 logistics. if force projection is nerfed (which is the way the csm was headed so far), w tactical value as a \"shortcut\" in k-space is bound to increase. i'll make sure no-one overlooks that.in short : unless ccp has plans i don't know about, i don't think there will be a lot done for w directly (sorry, i just won't lie to you.) but i'll definitely make sure w-space residents are not forgotten when it comes to indirect changes. t3 frigates is indeed something i'm expecting eagerly on a personal level. i don't think the topic has been raised with the csm so far (at least, not from what they disclosed), but obviously, introducing a new type of ships in a game with such a delicate balance is no easy task.with the extensive use of faction and t2 frigates in low / 0.0 small and medium gang warfare, and the various gates that only allow frigs in various contexts (fw, ded plexes...), it will be tough to produce something balanced. let's wait and see.your question is a bit confusing (pi / events ?). about events : in the end, blowing up or mining stuff is always the same : pixels. but the social interactions, found through corp buddies, alliance diplomacy, 0.0 warfare, and roleplaying, are the endgame of eve. what makes you stay when you tried everything.live events created some good narration, stories of heroes and traitors, unfolding of a tale of epic proportions. they're definitely the kind of things that people enjoy, makes vets stay, and they should evolve to become more than a way to introduce new gameplay content.they already have a lot planned i think. we all know ccp is pushing incarna and dust 514 forward. i will be happy to discuss those with ccp, and make sure they serve a proper function, and are not elaborated pr stunts or eye candy.in a more general way, there is some room for additional \"cooperative\" player-to-player interaction, other than teaming up to defeat a stronger force. perhaps in the field of industry. as a conclusion, thanks for your vote and your confidence in my ability to represent the players. i especially liked the part about me doing the job, not talking. yep, that's what i do."
"your plan, as i understand it from this response, is to completely avoid taking a hard stance on the issue of uniformity. in one sentence you state that you understand the importance of the csm presenting an unified voice to ccp, and in another you state that you will exempt yourself from this if you personally feel that the need arises. from this i can see that you want to do a good job as a potential csm delegate, and that you want to give voice to what the players want. if this were an ideal world, then that would be a great attitude to have and you would make the best possible kind of politician; but, this is not an ideal world. while in principle your stance is a good one, in practice it will lead to nothing but disagreement and friction on every single issue. were you to be the only delegate who decides to take a tangential stance on some issue, then it would not be a big deal; but, you won't be. if we are to assume that it's a 'good idea' to elect you, a person who has openly stated that he will definitely go against the consensus of the csm should his personal desire warrant it, then we must also assume that we would elect other delegates with the same intention and opinion. in other words, by electing one csm delegate who is willing to allow a fractured message, we give every other delegate carte blanch to do the same. while the result of a single csm delegate voicing a different or even opposing view may not have much impact, the potentiality of every csm delegate expressing a slightly different perspective or suggestion is exactly what will make the csm useless. in your above 'template' example, you say these words exactly: \"so ccp, on the topic of x, it seems that y, but also, some players may experience z, and we need to take that into account.\" this is exactly the kind of response that allows ccp to present a 'bad idea' to the csm and then walk away from the discussion and honestly say that 'game mechanic idea c7xf41 has met with some approval from the csm'.by providing an outlying opinion, you enable a quadmire. please don't do it."
"he's not opposition to other candidates, his bloc makes him a shoe-in."
"good way to self-terminate a campaign i guess."
"i asked my own alliance, ushrakhan, to explain it to me. we spoke about logistical advantages for fleet activity, how easy jbn make it to trap an enemy fleet, or escape from one. low upkeep costs, they dont appear on the overview, etc, etc. there are a lot of reasons why nullsec alliances love jump bridges, thats for sure.i also spoke with three other alliances. i received pretty much the same information, leading me to believe that the information my own alliance provided was relatively unbiased. thats the key for me, really. there are always two sides to a story, and in the middle is the truth. i want to work with the csm to provide a solution that is best for everyone.csm delegates should be expected to understand the mechanics they're offering feedback on, yes?"
"i asked my own alliance, ushrakhan, to explain it to me. we spoke about logistical advantages for fleet activity, how easy jbn make it to trap an enemy fleet, or escape from one. low upkeep costs, they dont appear on the overview, etc, etc. there are a lot of reasons why nullsec alliances love jump bridges, thats for sure.i also spoke with three other alliances. i received pretty much the same information, leading me to believe that the information my own alliance provided was relatively unbiased. thats the key for me, really. there are always two sides to a story, and in the middle is the truth. i want to work with the csm to provide a solution that is best for everyone.csm delegates should be expected to understand the mechanics they're offering feedback on, yes?don't tell me an individual in his alliance misinformed him? think of the children.that part of his blog is \"in character\"... i.e. the character he rps is a sexist."
"i remember you, the guy who twice flew minmitar faction war fleets around aimlessly, avoiding combat. then spent the rest of his time claiming to be a minmitar fleet commander. next time i heard of you, was this capsuleer thing. now i'm guessing that you see the csm as a vehicle to advocate your app, with the intention of earning money for your self."
"hey so what're you going to do about jump bridge units not appearing on the overview? that ****'s really annoying man, i often get lost when trying to use jumpbridges because they don't appear on the overviewgranted i'm making a big stink over a very small part of your campaign but when you're that clueless about a very key issue i'm not sure i can vote for you :( sorry"
"you can trust me with your vote just not your isk. is there anything about my campaign you particularly dislike?"
"wait, i thought the issue that you burned out, but was it that your dbank project just fell apart and you stopped posting?"
"they would be quite the same thing. burned out so instead of attempting to recover dbank just took the isk and didn't play for a while."
"aside from the major topics, such as the adjustment of jumpbridges and several others, the issues that you consider to be my \"pet projects\" are extremely limited in scope.they're extremely easy to implement, and yet they can make the life of the players a whole lot easier.one thing about the \"commit to excellence\" resolution is to truly finish every project that ccp works on, and making a whole bunch of small changes to increase user friendliness fits perfectly into that line of thinking. in fact, ccp has already started with solving a whole truckload of smaller issues (they've dedicated an entire team to it), as such, it's quite reasonable to assume that if the csm proposes a small, easy to implement change, ccp will actually do so."
"now that you've said that, could you answer the question i asked?exactly and methodically, can you walk me through what you, as an individual person, will do to help get these things done?"
"less sycophancy please. why don't you try interrogating your dear leader's rather flawed analyses before dropping in to every thread to foist his rhetoric on everyone else?"
"i assure you that my rhetoric is my own. i love calling people out when they are hypocrites, or when they allege, promise or threaten something they cannot possibly deliver. it gives my little goon mind an euphoric rush of the warm-and-happy, with a chaser of :smug:."
"what makes you think that \"adjustment of jumpbridges\" is topic at all? are you implying that you will be in favor of changing jumpbridge mechanics? what kinds of changes you are looking for?how many jumpbridges is your alliance operating, and how many systems are you holding sov in?how often do you do alliance logistics?thanks."
"could you flesh this out further?"
"does he know if jump bridges appear on overviews?"
"hi. what will you be doing with regards to the massive impediment to new people moving to 0.0 unless it is as part of or under the protection of an existing bloc/alliance, and the lack of incentive to do so? i'd love to move my corp to a backend system - but it is simply an impossible proposition as things stand."
"i'll be ignoring the goons, seeing that they are here simply to troll the csm candidates.that said, i do operate together with pl (on another character), and they don't exactly use jump bridges.there are just too many variables at work to really give a definitive answer about the issue however. exactly how they have to be modified is still up for discussion so that the best solution can be worked out.the main idea, is to hopefully make logistics into nullsec quite a bit harder. this has the potential of breaking up the massive powerblocs that we have now into smaller entities, making it overall easier for other groups to come in and claim their own piece of the territory.there's always the possibility that the changes don't quite work out as anticipated though (eve players have a knack for doing that)."
"if you were the leader of an alliance in the northern coalition, such as mostly harmless or wildly inappropriate, then how would you go about seeing to the affairs of your pilots during the transition from present-day super-blocs to smaller entities? how would you propose to set up supply chains to get needed goods to and from empire space, and how would you propose the newly-neutral mostly harmless or wildly inappropriate deal with the fact that it has a super-capital juggernaut right next door?"
"lets pretend for a second that one of the people asking you to talk about your jump bridge idea is running against you."
"why should he? with the amount of goon sh**posting going on in this forum, he (and every other non-goon candidate) can safely dismiss you as 'just another goon troll/spoiler' without looking bad to any non-goons who come by this thread, even if you yourself are perfectly sincere and reasonable. by your corpmates' actions shall you be known..."
"non-goon here, and i think it's childish to ignore a key point just because the person who raised it is 'in a bad crowd'."
"i think, if anything, my candidacy should show that i'm a bit more serious about my questions than the average \"goon sh**post\"-er.*steps on soapbox*also, i've worked within the larger community, specifically that of the market discussions forum for years now, my candidacy is not for the goons, but to highlight the market and economic interests that ccp has been ignoring. i feel that our in-game economy is one of the best and most important facets of what we have here, and something that should be defended, expanded, and corrected in the future."
"stopped reading."
"armor is fine i'm sorry that your blasterboat is too slow to get in range maybe you should cross-train minmatar???"
"why you talkin in the 3rd person bro????"
"maybe you should worry more about hybrid hull bonuses and slot layouts then a non-existent problem with armor tanking."
"do you actually know what i want to change about armor or did you literally stop reading at armor improvements?"
"another random goon candidate to bleed votes away from non nullsec alliance candidates?"
"i'm running independently of any organized null sec efforts.primarily, i'm running as \"the voice of the md forum\", not as part of goonswarm."
"lol, this reminds me of the fourteen point peace plan after world war i. although i like some of your ideas, some of them i have thought of to :3"
"the best part is: i have no article x to trip the whole thing up."
"wasnt it article 10? i hope this doesnt ruin your amount of votes because i said that xd"
"x = 10, i thought this was taught in primary school, good ol' roman numerals"
"i give your trolling a 4. perhaps i'll rank it higher when i'm sober.edit: spelling, sobriety. (i give it a 2)"
"as a regular md poster i support kalrand's candidacy wholeheartedly. i wouldn't trust him with my isk but i would fully trust him to pursue a sensible and clear-eyed approach, that would take full account of the role of the economy in this game, to all the issues that might arise during the tenure of the next csm."
"i trusted kalrand with isk once, and now i'm posting on the eve online forums."
"quit lying two shots...oh, i forgot about roman numerals."
"now the answer to the first demands an answer to the second.\"fix xxxxxxxx\" has been a rallying cry for some folks and a lot of players. xxxxxxxx has, in its time, represented lowsec, nullsec, the ui, faction wars, lag, blobbing and the fact that someone else is having more fun than me (or making more isk)anybody who claims they will, if elected, fix any of the mega issues . . . is lying.you, mynxeee, and csm 5 did the right start to crowd sourcing for suggestions away from the forums. you also did not try to 'make one fix' but focused on smaller items that would improve things a little bit at a time. sweeping changes sound all nice in the board room (until they are misquoted or misunderstood) but they often are exchanging one problem for another with the added benefit of alienating the customer even more. (we players being the customers)anybody who claims they will, if elected, work on fixing the mega issues . . . is more realistic.having someone in the csm who will choose to champion a cause, as mynxee did with lowsec, is a good thing as long as they keep in mind that there are other issues on the table as well. (which mynxee did). this would be along the lines of 'cabinet posts' do not elect people to a specific seat but once the csm is elected ask if there are any special projects that people want to take on. they would become the lightning rods for complaints in that area and might try to get more direct access to the ccp devs already assigned to work on them. but this is all grand theory and you did ask for a specific answer.so far i have liked the predator prey model that was floated in your making lowsec matter. what i don't want to do is make piracy harder, or illegal. it is a valid method of play and as such should not be damaged just because the pirates have over-hunted their territory. i also don't think adding more goodies to lowsec is going to bring in hoards of new targets for the pirates to kill. that is like taking food to the desert.i think the answer is going to lie somewhere in another mechanic, be it bounty hunting, smuggling, or faction warfare becoming a militia/block watch. next question?m"
"hello to all, i will be seeking re-election to the sixth csm and here's why you should vote for me.there are many candidates who are running on a single issue. these are bad candidates. regardless of how much you might agree with that issue, they fundamentally misunderstand how the csm actually works. the csm does not, for the most part suggest ideas to ccp. rather we highlught problems and then provide feedback on ccp's proposed solutions. from time to time ccp also come up with new ideas and they bounce those off us first. all of this is about ten billion times more important and more useful than voting yes or no on somebody's 55 page pos proposal which ccp will then go on to ignore anyway. seriously, look at the platforms of any of the single issue candidates for the last few csms and see how much of that they even got to push forwards, let alone achieve in game.ideas are largely useless. nobody is really interested in ideas because generally, the playerbase (including the csm) don't have enough information to suggest usable changes beyond the most superficial balance tweaks. we don't have the ability to look into code and see how things are done, we don't have the overview of ccp resources and how they would need to be allocated to implement any given change and we don't have the strategic vision that drives ccp's release schedule. what is useful however is the ability to look at other people's ideas and to point out all the reasons as to why they are wrong and bad. as it happens, i am very good at this - it's actually my day job.at the meetings, in the internal csm forum and at the december summit, i have been very active and vocal in providing quality feedback and constructive criticism on a multitude of topics raised by ccp as well as working with the other delegates to ensure that the playerbase as a whole is properly represented in those discussions. i have had long discussions with members of ccps community management department about messaging and issues raised by the playerbase. as someone who has worked for many years as a community manager in aaa mmos previously i am uniquely positioned in this regard.if you would like to see more professionalism in the csm, a candidate with professional experience in modern mmo games design and community, a candidate who is committed to holding ccp to their promises and a candidate who will tirelessly fight to shut down the plethora of terrible ideas that pop up from all sides then you should vote for me.you can read a little more about my platform on my personal site and i look forwards to taking your questions in this thread."
"even as someone who is technically running against helen, i'd like to say that over the last year, the technical ability of helen to raise, expose, and explain points within the working in the csm has been top notch. if i wasn't running personally, and wasn't under orders to vote for the mittani, i'd be voting for helen."
"i have withdrawn from the election.hello again! i am pleased to announce my candidacy for csm6. you may remember me from csm3 in which i represented the interests of a broad array of eve online players. with your support i hope to succeed by being re-elected and bringing more players into the voting process for csm candidates.why should you re-elect me to the csm?i feel that i was successful during my first term in listening to the interests of players and bringing them to vote with the council and then on to ccp. there were 21 individual issues which were represented by me (click this link to view a list of them via my web site.) and they covered aspects of the game which sorely needed some attention from ccp. my attendance for csm meetings were stellar save for one time in which i was absent, fortunately the meeting was rescheduled due to others not showing up either. i hope these two examples demonstrate the dedication i showed to my role as a member of csm3 and my ambition to continue taking the responsibilities seriously for csm6. by having already served on the csm i have the benefit of my past accomplishments showing i can get results rather than making promises for what i \"could\" do if you voted for me.do you care about pve (missions, exploration) and mining?i do too! ccp needs to do more to add new content for missions and especially mining. let me be your advocate in telling the developers that the empire community wants more options. the worst thing that could happen for the economy is people get sick mining and stimulating market growth with the isk earned from running missions. are you sick of unfinished (faction warfare, lowsec) content?enough is enough! there needs to be real attention giving to faction warfare and especially lowsec. ccp has shifted high level missions towards lowsec but not giving that area any true development in helping either side of the carebear/pirate coin. i will continue to press forward on the successful community feedback members of csm5 gathered. we need this to be at the top of development queue once ccp finishes with incarna.are you worried your voice wont be heard concerning incarna expansion?you should be! look at ccps track record concerning past expansions. they like to generate pr buzz then move on to their next great idea. incarna needs to mean something to the players. i personally hope that it will evolve into something outstanding. each station having the potential to be its own community where commerce and socializing thrives. this wont happen without a strong voice telling ccp what the players want from this content. i can be that individual for you. i will focus solely on the concerns of empire dwellers as a member of csm.through my seven years of playing eve online i have sampled every play style imaginable. most recently i was heavily involved in nullsec life but that is no longer. i have since returned to empire where mission running and other activities have taken up my time. if you elect me you will have my full attention in making sure ccp hears your voice. most of all i will work with my fellow csm delegates.this past csm showed that a unified front among the delegates in how they approach is essential. ccp will have a hard time ignoring players when their representation stands together and works well with each other. vote for me and i shall do my best to bring your concerns to ccp."
"reserved"
"reserved"
"reserved"
"in what ways do you intend to work with the other csm members, so that ccp is presented with a unified voice?"
"dont respond to two shots, she is being repetitive.."
"pot, kettle."
"gayest post ever"
"against."
"i fully support sir general of the windy pops"
"just 500m?trebor has a price pool of 12 billion isk... (scroll down to the yellow section)"
"sorry mr. lollipops but i cant vote for you because im voting the sansha kuvakei for csm!you are not good enough, go learn politics from vuk lau :p"
"well, that's fantastic, and i am glad that an established csm member has got that much isk to share. the good news is that whilst he is paying out money to buy votes i am paying out to do pretty pictures, so you do a picture for me and vote for him if you think having lots of isk makes him a good candidate.that's the beauty of democracy."
"my vote is for sale for as little as 100m isk.it's a nice vote that has gotten plenty of exercise and is in good condition.please transfer me the isk in advance of the election.in case of multiple payments, the highest one will get the vote.if there's a tie a vote will be chosen randomly amongst the highest payers."
"dammit! i was going to write that. oh well, my vote can be bought for as low as 99.999.999,98 isk."
"moved to jita park from eve general."
"i have two campaign promises. 1. somehow i will stop hep from posting.2. i will get a point on a dev much like i did to dbrb.vote for change. death to supercaps. death to the mittani."
"this man is a poster amongst postersa man who both lives to post and posts to live"
"yes, my second campaign promise is to post a lot."
"see i'm already ****ing doing it and i haven't even been elected yet"
"also, i barely play this game, but 15 bucks a month is nothing so i keep this account active. i'm not even a lawyer, it's just not a lot of money, jesus."
"i'm just posting because i'm imagining my avatar just told your avatar that he has a big tool ready for him and your avatar is now all nervous."
"that's a really good question and i'm happy to answer iti feel like the new avatars are a really good change but my first action as president will be for full body shots because honestly who is looking at faces i bet you have a tight body"
"speaking of fitness what is your stance on exercise equipment in stations as soon as the much anticipated \"walking in stations\" is completed? my favorite part of grand theft auto: san andreas was having carl hit the weights. i love to feel the burn even though i'm not actually moving."
"i am a huge fan of exercise in videogames honestly when you have been playing for six or seven hours you need to take a break from the game, pop in the station, and play an exercise minigame so you don't get diabetesthis is my second campaign promise"
"well i'm sold! death to supercaps! death to mittani!"
"in fact if you don't exercise in game your avatar will grow fat, you will need to exercise in station for at least an hour a day or you will get a fat avatar"
"what happens if my avatar lets itself go for several months because i am not actively subscribed? :ohdear:"
"congestive heart failure"
"or his hangar goes kaboom and the janitors have to clean it up."
"will you use your position on the csm to improve the quality of the eve online forums?"
"group market orders:"
"i don't see the issue. you are describing one of the very basic mechanism that makes eve work, and which - among other things - enables it to actually have a feasible and more or less working (botting derivative influx being an issue) economy as a derivative of player interaction. everything moves in cycles. what goes up, also comes down, due to interdependancies. and simple human behaviour.or is this some sort of \"fear argument\" maybe. if you thinking getting ganked is bad and not part of eve then i will fix that for you - something along those lines. i honestly don't get it."
"i'm sorry but you seem to be completely clueless in regard to not only the csm process but some fairly fundamental ideas and mechanics of eve online. i cannot support this bid, but i wish you the best of luck"
"so as you all know i am schalac. i am throwing my hat into the ring for csm because i feel the little guy has been forgotten in all this need for numbers race that is eve today. i also feel that fw could be a lot better and i know how to fix it. first off we need bubbles in lowsec. bubbles you say? yes. there are many ships that can deploy and make great use of bubbles. they should not be 0.0 only, if concord doesn't want to police lowsec for whatever reason, we should be given the ability to do so ourselves. second is fw plexes. they mean nothing right now. so lets work together to make a fw plex system that would get pilots interested into doing them. which brings me to 3. make state ships obtainable only to generals in the fw loyalty point store but to make sure they are not widely used make them bind to character when they receive them. which brings me to 4. remove npc corps from fw. militia should be exactly what a militia is, the term militia (pronounced /m'l<U+026A>/[1]) is commonly used today to refer to a military force composed of ordinary citizens[2] to provide defense, emergency law enforcement, or paramilitary service. i feel that npc corps are state run and should not be apart of fw. if you want the goodies then join a player corp involved with fw and go for it. this would also serve as a natural deterrent to spys as all people inside of the militia would now be open for wardecs if they are thought of as such. so vote schalac csm and i will push to have those main issues brought up at all costs and i am also open to listen to others complaints about eve and let's make this the best mmo out there for the next 50 years."
"so... um... what are you planning on doing about all this? breaking in at night and fixing it yourself? ignoring your constituents concerns and pushing your own agenda regardless? following incredibly simple instructions and posting in the forums where things belon- oh wait."
"what is this structure you speak of?"
"no bubbles in low sec plz"
"congratulations are in order."
"please, elaborate."
"well, you managed to show your complete incompetence in this thread. that definitely deserves a congratulation or two."
"i am also running for president of the united states of america in 2016. that will be the first election that i am eligible to run in, and i have my original pa state seal pressed birth certificate in my possession for all to see, if such a question arises."
"i hope you have alot more smarter ideas then what you posted or else your not going to do well.#1. bubbles in low sec would cause the already low population to decrease even more. lowsec is under populated as it is because of choke points which allow people primarily pirates to camp. adding bubbles will only make this easier and restrict even more potential traffic.#2. this is true the fw plex system is horrible. however its not the plex system per say that needs to be changed its the whole fw system. focusing solely on fixing fw plexes wont fix fw.#3. bop and boe(bind on pickup, bind on equip) this is eve not wow. its not like ranking in fw is even a special thing or hard. its all about plexing and whoring lp in a sb. see point 2 this doesn't do anything to fix fw.#4. iam guessing you are wanting this done because of spies? even so eliminating npc corps greatly reduces the chance of people actually getting into fw. it may surprise you but a lot of player corps suck and because of this there are alot of people who refuse to join them. so forcing the issue isn't the answer and will only cause less numbers in fw then what there already is.after doing those rebuttals i'm really starting to hope that you are a troll. if not you need to sit back and really think about what would be best for eve in general and not what would be best for you."
"you'd fit right in, go for it."
"moved to jita park from eve general."
"then people need to buck up and bring a fleet worth a damn to low sec. fixing the plex mechanism will do loads for fw. more people would do them and more fights would happen over contested systems. sure it does, if you make plexing the way to get those lp and standings instead of easily soloable by sb level 4 missions. as it stands t3 ships make you lose sp when you die in them, why not make the best of the best ships in a faction bind to the person that purchases them from the lp store? you already need a nexus chip to buy faction ships, just expand on that idea and make up a cerebral link chip that is linked to the character that buys the state ship and only they can fly it because,\"the state only trusts those with outstanding credentials to possess a ship with such power\" those numbers will be there to fight though not run missions all day to fund their alt. fw should not be the easy isk faucet for 0.0 drones that it currently is. no you need to quit thinking about what is best for you and wake up. eve is supposed to be a cold, harsh place for us pod pilots. if you want to get into fw it should be the same, not the isk faucet that it currently is where there is 300 people in mil chat and only a dozen or so are actually there to be in fw and the rest are certifiable opposition isk making mission runners most of which are in npc corps and the player controlled corps are held hostage by a person reporting fleet movements because if we shoot the known spy we risk huge faction standings and the possibility of being thrown out of militia because of it."
"there are some fairly good ideas in here, but they're incredibly vague. also, the faction warfare aspect, while indeed in dire need of a rethink, is a minuscule part of the game (arguably because it's in dire need of a rethink), and without fleshing out your views on more wideranging issues (which i fear you omitted because you don't know what you'd attempt to do yourself) i can't support this bid. i do, however, wish you the best of luck in your campaign"
"[moderator: i would appreciate consideration for this to be a sticky until after the elections are done, if possible.]** hear ye, hear ye! ** all 'official' (will be confirmed after the list of accepted applicants is released march 2nd, 2011) csm6 candidates...the lost in eve podcast is hosting a debate special on march 5th, 2011 with a reserve cast on march 12th, 2011, pending the number of people that informed of their interest, respectively. we want you, who are running for csm6 to consider joining the podcast for your opportunity to state your case, your thoughts and opinions about how to go forward with the game we all love, eve online! we are not interested in inter-corp/alliance politics and propaganda but we want to provide a real opportunity for people to convince the community why you are the one to vote for. give yourself an opportunity to address a wide listener base on one of new eden's most popular eve podcasts!questions are currently being collected & formulated for the podcast, many of which are being addressed by the community itself! it's time to go grassroots! this is a pivotal year for ccp and the csm and many are excited and concerned of the future direction of eve online! come and tell us your views and intentions of why 'you' would make a good fit on the csm!contact jade at lostineve[@]gmail.com to state your intention to join in with the following information:1. rl name2. in game name3. your email address4. your campaign site addresspracticalities:csm debate - episode 1 - march 5th, 2011 @ 21:00 eve time csm debate - episode 1 - march 12th, 2011 @ 21:00 eve time**** pending total amount of interested partieswe use skype for these debates so please go and download it and get yourself set up prior to the event to ensure no technical issues arise.good luck and we're looking forward to hearing from you!"
"will be there"
"i also will be participating."
"yup, plan to make it.m"
"assuming i can convert that into center of the universe time, i'll log in."
"to make this clear....only those that email me their intention and commitment to join the discussion episode/s will be penciled in. we're doing this via skype so once the official list is published, i will email all parties that have emailed me thus far and prepare them for the episode and practicalities.please note, however, that i cannot respond or rely on those that choose to reply to this thread. it was not an option in the op. ...but thank you nonetheless. we have a good group for one episode at least. looking forward to it a lot! a lot of good, yet eccentric candidates running. should be fun!"
"i sent mine via an honest to god carrier pigeon. look on your windshield, and let me know if it ever made it to you."
"what the pigeon didn't know was that the windshield was being replaced. a well placed 'splat!' did, in fact arrive and i'm wiping myself clean at the time of this message (reminds me of an honest to god story involving fish, rocks, and seagulls...but it's too traumatic to bring up here). cheers! will be in touch after march 2nd with more info."
"i will also be in attendance."
"i'll be there"
"ask him about being a larping internet spaceship ceo who flies sabres and bought a house with cash that his puppy lives in."
"he has kittens now, too."
"seems like goonswarm wants to take over and somehow regain what is lost."
"the only thing of value is our posts, and we can never lose those."
"lololololol, and you could be lying to me, look at all those freaking goonswarm candidates."
"are you suggesting that there is more than one spot for president of america, or that only one person can run for it at a time?"
"i'm actually an ex-lawyer, i retired and have no desire to practice law again anytime soonplease visit your user settings to re-enable images.my puppy"
"two official, several un. what's your point?/un//very un///running for md."
"from the money he maid from selling isk?"
"thread locked.ranting and trolling."
"giev back eagle and rokh plx!"
"bump"
"i'd rather have something like the new one, but more akin to the one they have in battlestar galactica where it's a bright flash of light that goes from the fore to aft part of the ship."
"obviously."
"-100% to recharge time means the recharge time will go to 0 and cap will recharge instantly. or crash the node with a div/0 error.but it's a good start for fixing cloaks, something which should include more then just this change which focuses on supercaps"
"i can support the cap reduction if its on capitals only. shield regen is just stupid.here is why its a bad idea for subcaps:example: i jump into system with my vaga with cloak, ***gots are camping both gates, but i managed to run the first one. now they got more people. i cloak up in scan range of both and wait for my chance. 10 min later i have no shield or capacitor when the camps have shrunk and so:1. i cant warp to gate because i wont have cap for the whole warp2. i cant burn once i get on other side3. i have no shields. even if they all leave i will be so angry while i sit twiddling my thumbs for 10 minutes waiting for my shields to come back (i cant cloak and wait for it either so i ahve to pay attention). this is also a soloer nerf. so no, i dont support it unless you change a few things."
"he's not proposing to make cloaking drain cap/shields, just that it stop them recharging while the cloak is active - if you cloaked up with, say, half cap and 60% shields, you'd still be at half cap and 60% shields when you decloaked. that's all."
"i'd want even more radical changes to cloaks, but this is a good enough step."
"ah ok, sorry if i misunderstood. then i dont mind"
"i support it, just hope the space-time continuum stuff is ok with it too."
"seems like a practical and sensible approach to minimising lag and making the game playable in large fleet fights. supported."
"firstly, minmatar boats have plenty ehp, the only reason they have less ehp and rely on speed to stay alive is because everyone shield tanks their canes these days and it's obvious that they're not meant to be shield tanked (4 mids ). if you armor tank a cane, you'll get a lot more ehp, you're still reasonably fast, and you'll either out dps a harbinger, or you can use your utility slots to fit neuts and ruin his day.secondly, kiting needs to be nerfed. it's become the end all and be all tactic of everyone in low sec. everyone uses it. cynabals, canes, drakes, hell even harbingers are shield tanked these days it seems, though not as often. the only way someone can compete with short range guns these days is to make sure they can hit inside point range, and even then, with faction points or loki boosts, that's impossible because of increased point range. buffing gall ships so that they can actually fit an armor tank and still catch things would actually bring some of this back into line because you couldn't keep your ships out of scram range continually. i believe it should be a challenge to scram people too, but not the impossibility it is nowadays."
"nanofits abound because faction warfare idiots routinely bring 5 bcs and a couple of falcons to fight soloists. the problem is you.also, i've never had issues catching or disengaging from kiters in my armor ships. try not sucking."
"while i agree that you can blame the blob mentality of most people to some amount for it, it isn't actually a fw only problem. it is a increasing trend over all lowsec since the beginning of 2009. basically qr backfired by requiring nanoing even more as before since dumped close range efficiency for solo/small gang pvpers(outside of frig pvp) and since they are hard to catch this way, the predator adept(similar situation as before qr).also i hardly got away against 5 nano drakes and a cane yesterday, doing 1270+ m/s with my pest(1800+ after overload, ended up around 120km off the last guy that warped in...). in any armor fitted cruiser, bc, bs you would have been mostly toast.you can ofc state that armor fits stand a chance but if most serious fits are build around catching and fighting nanoed targets(that are everything but paper thin, different to pre qr hacs) this days you rapidly running into situations where you fail to catch targets but become a easy one for most others at the same time."
"this is what the problem currently is.pre-qr nanos were balanced. they were surely fast but to gain their speed they had to sacrifice their dps and hp heavily. this principle no longer works. to get a nano ship these days you fly faction ship or minmatar boat but they have same hp and dps as your slow boat...the game is broken in this regards and needs to be fixed. nano ships are definitely good thing but needs to come with drawbacks."
"the entire gallente sub-cap line of ships is broken. hybrids are broken. the ships are too damn slow. blasters (and rails) require far too much fitting to make any setups viable. i flew gallente for a year, but as of today i've completed my cross-train to minmatar and haven't flown a gallente non-frig, non-capital ship for a year."
"i think the solution lies in lowering the relative pg/cpu cost on hybrids. either increasing the max grid of the ships or reducing fitting on these weapons would be a good place to start. the other porblem lies in teh speed of these ships, i propose a small speed increase across the board to gallente blaster ships.another problem i see has to do with the trade off for a \"substantial\" drone bay. if you take a look at the brutix or the thorax compared to their matari counterparts you will see -1 slot and hardly any more drone bandwidth. i believe the solution would be to increase the drone bay on many of these gallente ships. i do not think that a drone bandwidth increase would be a good idea as dps potential may become skewed. matari ships operate outside of web range and have superior speed, lending itself to kiting. amarrian ships have long range high deeps guns that again are very effective outside web range. gallente ships do not have any significant advantage when compared to these ships even if they get in web range, it is for this reason that gallente blaster ships should have increased \"versatility\" that a larger drone bay would provide.-increase drone bay on the thorax and brutix by 25m3 (not bandwidth) and the hyperion and megathron by 50m3, again not bandwidth.-decreasing fitting req on all medium and large blasters.-increase speed on thorax by 25m/s and brutix by 20m/s-give brutix 1 more low slot."
"gallente cruiser and battlecruiser blasters boats :. very poor range. severe tracking issues at range. bad(worse) reload ammo time. single type damage. cap using weapons. meh base speed. meh agility. bad/worse signature radius of their class. very strong fitting issues. default tank profile that cripples ability to field/apply damage. worse tank bonus when presentfor what ? a mere 10% paper dps advantage you'll never really see in practise unless fighting unaware or lesser experimented pilots ?/supported"
"interesting idea, might give more people a reason to go to low sec. it should include anomalies in low sec as well, since it is basically the same risk."
"sensible idea.edit: and supported to boot!"
"i agree that it makes kind of sense to remove sec gain from 0.0 rats. it's lawless space so why would empires care if you kill something there. in similar way i don't see why incursions would give concord lp in 0.0. it's infested with sanshas anyway.other than that i do think whole criminal mechanics in eve really needs overall oomph in long term, because if you do crime in hi sec you get major security hit and you will be blown up by concord. now if you cannot get security status up, fine, but you still need to get to hi sec to pirate stuff. srs."
"logic and reason from a pirate. the world must surely be on its last legs need to scale up gain as rats are smaller and system security higher.preferably with an added complimentary system affording chance of achieving same gain as ratting but without the need to sweep a bazillion systems.ex.: concord agents in space (1 per constellation or so) giving out beacon-on-ov \"missions\" to destroy xx pirate lair."
"i like this idea."
"no thank you."
"+1nerf it to the ground & take a look at cynabal too, they are making plex fights a joke."
"sounds reasonable."
"comparatively, cynabal is p much fine. slightly better than vaga in some areas, slightly worse in others, imho so little \"better\" that balancing by price does work there atm. fw being permabroken is a different subject :d (they should have tweaked the plex entry rules with the faction ship boost, no?)"
"also put faction ships with their t2 equivalents in fw complexes instead of with t1."
"the dramiel ruined frigate pvp."
"i would be really happy to see ccp do something about the dramiels. they really are an issue, nothing else. go podcat"
"nerf dram boost burst"
"you forgot to gief support"
"posting in an \"ephemeron makes himself look stupid\"-thread.also::excellence:"
"speaking of which, the whole tier system for frigs and bc/bs etc should go and ships rebalanced and we would suddenly get 3 times the number of useful ships to play with instead of adding new ones. totally different issue tho and a lot of effort for ccp to pull off."
"completely agree."
"so basically op wants to change dramiel into a firetail with fitting issues, where you pay 40mill for 2 drones.for the sake of balance, not supporting."
"still loads faster, and \"for the sake of balance\"???"
"badger > dramielsupported ofc. would be nice if flying something other than a dramiel was an option again."
"no, the speed he describes in the op is exactly what firetail does under web with faction ab. a pirate faction frigate should offer something over a navy faction frigate, dont you think?"
"like, say, >20% more dps plus more speed and substantially better agility, you mean?"
"obviously not speed if you read the op. on the damage output i'd be sold if it was fully turret based, and agility does tend to rapidly diminish in actual value once you reach a certain base treshold.as lined out in the op, it wouldnt be worth the pricetag given the alternative is less than half the price for 90% the performance.ed: i can see the scanres nerf argument tho, and probably dropping 5m<U+FFFD> drone bandwidth, but thats pretty much it."
"oh..nerf dram boost burst and i gif support"
"no, tick box when poastingand shut up lilith and give support, we all know the changes won't go in as is - if you agree the dram needs toning down please do it (with any and all disclaimers you'd like)"
"op is kind of contradictory on speed. the suggested 20% speed nerf would still leave it as the fastest ship in the game, it just wouldn't be doing 1 km/s while webbed (eft warrior time: current speed with a heated gistii b ab under a 60% web: 1073 m/s; with a 20% nerf, that falls to 858 m/s. a firetail with the same heated ab under the same web does 768 m/s).there's plenty of room to cut its speed down to a more reasonable value without knocking it off its perch."
"yes i know it will not go in like that, so why on earth would i support it? if you want support, line out something reasonable and i'll be glad to tick that box.i'm definitely not supporting something like this and put a comment that nobody reads anyway on page 3. for what its worth, what i would support in the proposal is explained in my comment, that has to be enough."
"i don't get why so many people cannot grasp the idea of item/ship balance by cost/supply.that idea is already fundamental part of this game, as we accept existence of t2 and t1 as something normal, even tho t2 is superior to t1 in every way. we accept the existence of meta 6+ modules that are clearly overpowered, only because the supply is limited and the cost is high.yet when it comes to adjusting game balance by manipulating supply/costs, people hit a brick wall in their head. it's all around you and yet you are unable to see it."
"dramiel pilot detected /o\just admit that you will be rly butthurt if someone touches your dram with dirty hands. a faction frigate should not be the best / overpowered in most of the roles it may fit into. it should be unique.overpowered < > uniquesee the difference?edit: ephemeron, you dont need to fit your ship in a special way when fighting a t2 fitted / t2 ship? also who told you that its normal for a frigate to be able to fit dual prop, full tank, guns and everything just like that, enough cap for intensive mwd use? pg/cpu restrictions anyone? lol .. try fitting a slicer and see the cpu wall that you will hit. there is no \"best\" ship in eve, and yet dram pilots think that they should screw frigate pvp because they are used to the way the ship is in the moment. and btw the dramiel costs like 40 mil or so more than an empire-faction frigate. for that little difference in price the performance boost looks a bit too much (compared to the t1-t2 difference that is like 3-5% most of the time)."
"i read over this post and i have to agree this would certainly help balance things out quite a bit.good job and i hope this goes somewhere!"
"well, that sounds pretty much exactly like the values i wanted? the firetail is also worse on all other stats. and it sounds more like it gets close to the firetail when you compare webbed speeds. its still 6290 m/s vs 5400 using mwds which is a hefty difference (basic cy-1, zor implants and no speed mods on the ships). before nerfing speed that dram did 7860m/s.by knocking the dram below 1k/s ab it means other ab+web only ships can control range on a dram without a web of its own like it is now. one of the reasons this change is needed. you shouldnt have to use dual webs and ab to range control another ships \"standard\" fit of the same class.also the dram has drones and will have more dps as well so it will still be the best general frig pretty much, just not untouchable"
"remove plx."
"ah, the two week old main with combat experience. no kills, no losses, no character named \"loire\"the char in game name \"loire\" has been in an npc corp for the entirety of its time in game. all three of the chars whose names even start with \"loire\" have been in npc corps for their entire time in eve.believe it or not, pointing out that other people are trolling is not, in fact, trolling.i know, who'd a thunk it?as for your logical fallacy, i don't have to show why any feature is \"totally okay\", or whatever you'd like to challenge. those who are arguing for changes have to show why they require changes. that's the beauty of the burden of proof, and of course why you're trying to shift the burden of proof. and you'll pardon me for not believing how honestly you want to debate the issue. your very first comments were trolling me with the lie that i've called everybody who simply disagrees with me, a troll. you've continued trolling me in the very post i'm responding to now. doesn't exactly build confidence, is all."
"pretty much this.people asking for jump bridge removal but no one is capable to formulate why and provide reasonable analysis of what is wrong and how jump bridge removal is a solution to presented issue.force projection - is non-issue, higher mobility of forces is definitely good asset as it provides dynamics in 0.0 warfareability to control large areas - is not depending on jump bridge network, it is purely depending on fleet strength you controlso again, can anyone put some coherent reasoning why jump bridges should be removed?"
"i believe there is a fundamental misunderstanding of the situation in your post. the burden of showing that bridges should stay, with tweaks or indeed, at all, is on people that want them staying. for arguments as to why they should go, you need but to read this thread (it helps if you skip finny's posts, the tldr version of them comes down to \"my opinion is facts and those that disagree are trolls\"); the csm minutes"
"\"fleet strength\" (odd way of referring to blob size but whatever floats your pod) is greatly diminished when the individual has to exert :effort: to join it.bridges allow spur-of-the-moment fleets of several hundred people which completely negates any sort of surprise (fail spies do exist) resulting is excessive blobbing 99% of the time.the intended geographical restrictions (upkeep costs) is made void when one can cherry-pick systems regardless of distance and connect them with bridges.force projection through bridges is only good for established entities, the larger the better (numbers and size). they provide not only defensive but offensive ability as well .. the wider the network the more areas can be reached.once set up, bridges afford security that surpasses that of high-sec. every node is a heavily armed fortress and very rarely does one need to leave the network (especially when they are spammed).bridges allow for easy access to high-sec hubs making any sort of investments in the motherlands infrastructure beyond isk generation redundant.need more?in short: bridges have allowed null-sec (the frontier, the badlands, the outback) to become high-sec ver. 2.0. better security, faster travel and less work required to make a living ..."
"if you want to remove jump bridges, it is you who is invoking the changes thus it is you who have to come up with reasoning. without reasoning, there is nothing to argue about as the purpose of the changes is not presented.two wrongs do not make one right and again, argumentum ad populum is fallacious reasoning. i might be old fashioned but i do not think it is fine to base changes on flawed reasoning..."
"must be late, your reading comprehension is going. i gave you the reasoning twice already (relevant quote and url) but what the hell, there, you can have it one more time, now with friendly bolding.thank you for ascribing me the glory and status that come with a job at ccp, but i assure you that i am not ccp greyscale's alt."
"post with your main. just like you don't understand what an analogy is, you have no idea what the burden of proof is. hint, you're performing the logical fallacy known as shifting the burden or proof. currently there are bridges, you want there to be no bridges. your whim is not proven and people who oppose you don't have to support why things shouldn't change. they just have to refute your claims. this is shockingly basic. trolling by lying isn't a particularly smart way to troll. trolling by lying and then complaining that you'll be called out for trolling? even less so.anybody who wants to can read over the thread and see the actual arguments and logic i've used, which you continually lie about and try to handwave away, yet never actually answer. as for the troll about \"zomg, bridges!!!\" the fact that the maps are only scare tactics for those who have no facts has been shown. the actual effect of bridges have already been shown, and you lied and trolled on that point and called the facts \"opinions\" because you have no other option, having no real argument. both are lies. you claimed that 40 accounts out of 200,000+ is a \"consensus\". you're also claiming that 1 dev, spitballing and not even stating an definite course of action let alone ccp's official position, is \"where ccp wants to go.\" this is, at least, a tiny bit better than your lie that \"ccp\" claimed that jb's were not working as intended and/or were an exploit.more lying and trolling from you (quick, claim it's not because you're lying to troll, but because you simply \"disagree\").you've been lying about that single point for about a dozen posts now. letting children crayon draw ships was an analogy for why something could be a bad idea even if it didn't impact gameplay, and was in response the troll that i should support removing jb's, since (the lie went) i said they do nothing at all to effect gameplay. at the time you pretended not to know what an analogy was and lied, saying that i was 'changing the subject'. you know this. and the fact that you keep lying about it in order to troll shows what your argument, and your protests that you're only identified as a troll due to \"disagreeing\" are worth. post with your main, alt troll.and stop lying. there are no \"half an hour of jump bridges\", you are lying. again. even the very eastern tip of nc space all the way to the heart of fountain saw something like a 15-20 minute decrease due to jb's. not to mention that all your ignorant babbling about jb's has already been refuted (those are the arguments you're ignoring and/or lying about in order to avoid, in case you're confused). but since you've never actually been in a 0.0 fleet you have no idea how they work. you are lying in order to troll, again. on a point that has been debunked a dozen times. again. the actual fact was that altering game mechanics to break player-created politics breaks the sandbox, not simply changing things.but you can't rebut it, so of course you're lying. people can count the number of times you've lied in order to troll, in one post alone, and make up their own minds as to whether or not you're being honest."
"join date 2006. part of a 3 member corp since you began playing. sec status 5.1and apparently zero kills, zero losses. yeah... you know a lot about nullsec wars. as it happens, even before jb's were invented there were coalitions and \"blobs\". ah yes, bridges that work, regardless of distance. you sure are knowledgeable about bridges and 0.0 war, what other sage advice do you have? indeed, people are ganked by dictors working in concert with bomber wings all the time in highsec. yep. in addition to the bridges that have no range limits and your five years never leaving a carebear corp, what other insights do you have about nullsec war? can't disagree with someone without trolling them, eh? as it happens, that bit of bull has already been addressed and debunked. a subjective belief that life is \"too easy\" is not proof. for all your trolling about facts and opinions, you'd think you'd have the basic understanding that a subjection opinion about what is \"too easy\" is not a fact. one thinks you might also note the inherent contradiction in trying to make eve fun again by making a large part of it as un-fun as you can manage. to say nothing about the fact that even if we were to 'pull back' from allowing everybody in the game to conduct logistics without spending all night playing the game like it's their job, that doesn't mean that bridges/jf's/etc... have to totally be eliminated. your argument is simply a mass of logical fallacies. that one, by the way, is called bifurcation or excluded middle. no, but you are a blatantly obvious alt troll. what are you afraid of? the fact that you won't even use your real character, you lie constantly and you're trolling people who disagree with you shows how confident you are in your actual argument. post with your main."
"i do not see how making the game to become a work is beneficial in any way... however.lack of surprise attack, upkeep costs and 'cherry-picking', fortress systems - those are flaws and attributes of failed sovereignty revamp. you cannot surprise anyone if there is no selection of objectives to fight for and cherry-picking and fortress systems is the result of utilizing space - you only claim the space you use, that was the driving, albeit flawed, idea behind sov changes.jump bridges are beneficial only to those who operate them...well, that isn't really surprising, is it? it has no impact on ability of new entities venturing 0.0, i think that is quite obvious - in case you were implying so.your raised concerns aren't related to jump bridges at all and their removal isn't addressing anything of what you would like to see changed. the issue is how sovereignty and territory management works.some of the concerns raised in this thread or even cms minutes might be addressed by changing certain game mechanics - ie. jump bridge network disruption but most importantly, nothing said so far implies that jump bridges should be removed. that would be unjustified and reasoning lacking stupid game change."
"that isn't a reasoning, that is a statement and opinion."
"i don't think you know the meaning of the word lie, either finny. i am wondering whether you are truly this obtuse, you do massive amounts of acid, or what?all of your points were debunked, repeatedly, line by line, quite a few pages ago, by several people.the problem is that you are completely unable to accept reality over your little castle where you are right and everyone else is wrong, liars and trolls (which is why the \"consensus\" has largely moved to ignoring you).do you have anything to contribute other than the same debunked points, double standards, weasel analogies, fallacies (minigin was lol) and tired memes? (post with your main, troll? really? is the best you got?)by the way, the consensus of this thread, is that they go, of the similar thread on scrapheap, is that they go, the lack of outcry would indicate that nobody cares for them staying (and really, the post that started this was a rant against csm and a call to arms to let them, and ccp know that the bridges should stay. i'd say it didn't go as intended).as for shifting the burden of proof? i am not the one making the changes (although i must admit i support them) and i would think that the people wanting ccp to change their mind should be the ones trying to do the convincing. but maybe i am wrong, who knows.i must say i find your reality shaping hilarious, every time you post ccp grayscale becomes smaller and smaller. i am sure that by next week he will have become \"some random irrelevant janitor at ccp who happened to be scrubbing the floors and chipped in\" according to you.i must also say that i love how you state something, and later reference yourself and your opinion as if it was a fact. weren't you asked for actual numbers a few pages back to back basically, anything you said and you have failed completely? thats what i thought.ccp doesn't lie.the maps don't lie.the empirical evidence of the ease and mobility of force projection and unused territory in the hello kitty land of 0.0 doesn't lie.i guess that only leaves you.by the way, any argument (or lack thereof) is enhanced greatly by gratuituous memes and the word troll. don't be shy with it, it adds readability and power to your posts."
"remove bridges for blue status at least. they can stay within same alliance perhaps. i remember when i started playing eve and we would do big convoys of freighters and defenders through hostile space to move stuff. it was very scary and very fun. jump bridges arent fun and make disrupting logistics hard (eg its a small gang nerf)"
"speed nerf hurt the small gang warfare. pretty good example how important force mobility is and how force projection works."
"yes, you are trolling with an obvious alt and you should post with your main. not sure what's difficult about that for you. more trolling. again, people can look over the last post of your in which i pointed out, what, a half dozen lies, and judge for themselves. a lie is, of course, something you're saying which isn't true and you know it isn't true. this is also a lie. not only were many of the facts not addressed by people, but those who tried to debunk them used spurious objections. this is why you're lying and claiming they were rebutted rather than actually citing them. again, people should look to the last post where i pointed out many, many of your lies and realize that you are not a source who can be believed. especially without a link. readers will note that she's gone from \"the consenus\" to \"the consensus of the players\" to \"well, okay, 40 not necessarily individual accounts, in this thread.\" fallacy of appeal to ignorance. that we don't know what people actually think here(beyond 40 not-necessarily individual, and several obvious alt trolls) is used to pretend that we really know what \"nobody\" thinks. also, predictably, you are using blatant hypocrisy. the whole 40 not-necessarily-individual accounts who oppose jb's are hardly an \"outcry\" either. but you're trolling, so you don't have to remain logically consistent. yet another basic logic fail. let me put it really, really simply (don't worry, i'm sure that you'll pretend that you don't understand and troll on this point later). -the null hypothesis is the status quo. -the null hypothesis must be falsified in order for a change to be accepted as valid. -the burden of proof lies on those who are trying to falsify the null hypothesis. -the null hypothesis has not been falsified, so the reasoning behind those pushing changes has not been supported. -this is why you're trying to shift the burden of proof, lying, and trolling. because you have got nuthin'. more trolling. you were caught lying and first claimed that \"ccp\" said that bridges were not working as intended/were an exploit. caught in that lie you claimed that greyscale was speaking for all ccp when, in fact, he was just spitballing, not speaking on behalf of all ccp, and not even making an official pronouncement.you cannot address these facts, so you're lying about what was actually said. no, that's just you lying, again. seriously, anybody curious should check out her last post where she lied something like a half dozen times with some really obvious whoppers, and still hasn't retraced a single lie.yes, they're correct, and they show you're wrong. which is why you refuse to show what you actually know/can prove about nullsec war and why you're posting on an alt-troll account. post with your main. again, readers should look over rafia's posts and see how frequently she lies in order to troll, and then wonder not only at her credibility, but why she's trolling so often and then using the fact that she's being called out as a vindication of her position. and why she post with an alt troll not her main."
"so in short, you'll use whatever nonsensical reason (like lol-kb stats) you chose in order completely ignore common sense and logic .. troll you are not, because a troll has purpose .. you just don't know any better.ps: if you must know, try exchanging first name with veshta .. also \"lol\" at 1.8k kills with less than 100 losses, blob much? .. see any fool can pull nonsense out of his ass quite right, but bridges serve to exasperate the problems inherent in that flawed system. upkeep was obviously meant to keep sizes down, but the ability to bypass unwanted systems entirely subverts that intent.blobs have almost always existed but their ability to move in complete safety across the entire map is a much more recent development .. one that coincided nicely with the introduction of bridges.null empires were small'ish coherent things comprised of an equal measure of carebears and combat pilots. forming a blob was an exercise in planning and administrative prowess .. enter bridges - security through the ability to move unhindered planted the seed of 'static' empires and the boom in capital numbers which further increased the security .. ad nauseum.bridges and the high-sec access they provide (combined with titans in low) completely removed the need to build anything \"on site\" and made basic mining largely obsolete.blobs are now formed by a single fleet advert with rally in a bridge system, no planning and intelligence behind it .. press a button and off you go.so keep telling yourself that bridges have not had any impact and their removal/change has no merit."
"ah, more trolling. and oddly enough trolling where people just have to scroll up a few posts to see what the truth is. your errors were pointed out and debunked on factual and logical grounds. the fact that you also have no clue wtf you're talking about was also mentioned. the fact that a carebear with absolutely no experience with combat or nullsec (let alone nullsec combat) wants to hold forth on it is just amusing. your claims are wrong on the facts and logic, however. and you're trolling with an alt... because?post with your main, assuming it is yours. also, good trolling about \"blobbing\". the word has literally no meaning other than a snarl. why am i not surprised? exacerbate. and no, they don't. and now we (again) reach the fictional poi nt of the discussion. \"blobs\" (which means nothing at all other than \"grrrr!\") can move in \"complete safety\", in fiction town. in the actual game there are many ways to gank fleets, especially if they're moving by jb in a large group. ah yes, the well known bob carebear empire. of course, because before you had to say \"hey pilots, click the fleet invite and get to the rally point. but now they need to click fleet finder and get to the rally point. it's totally different!"
"if you were to remove the jump bridges, that will not remove blob warfare. the fact is now instead of just lagging out a few systems with our 400+ man fleet we lag every system from point a to point b. lowsec pirate bodys will be overran by large alliances securing routes to highsec. instead of having a 10 man pirate gang holding a lowsec gate, you now have 70+ man highly organized alliance fleets holding that same gate. larger alliances will not recoil into their space, but reach out for more to secure that route to highsec. as for the \"risk free travel\" of jb's how many have used a jb and watched 30-50 bombers decloak when you jump in and throw bombs at you? (raises hand)"
"your 400+ man fleet willing to take jump bridges will be a hell of a lot less willing to take gates due to :effort:.oh and that bomber **** camping bridges, yeah, once they are reported no one takes the bridge anymore and just has it rerouted or takes one of the many other bridges to just get around them.your argument on it making things worse is a joke. also finnagain, you need to shut the **** up already. you just keep making the argument to not mess with the jump bridges dumber and dumber. in short, your not helping the side to keep them. ffs man, you have spewed nonsense in this thread 84 times."
"yes, bridges are quicker. luckily, that was never in doubt. of course, as coalitions waged war before jb's and coalitions can wage war now by deploying to a forward hq without any jb's as it's in enemy territory/lowsec/npc 0.0, your objection is spurious. what's that? a bomber gang can provide complete area denial and shut off entire arms of a jb network? why, sounds like a pretty effective counter. i know, i know, it's no fair, your targets aren't herded into your guns by ccp and they can take another route (if you didn't camp that, too). i've also heard that if you have a camp on a gate, your enemies can go through different systems, too. ccp should probably fix that, eh?good trolling though on the number of posts i've made, that's sure novel, and intelligent! now put on your big boy pants and actually refute the facts and logic involved."
"seeing as roth pulled the info from my post in another topic, allow me to reiterate. alliances will not stop fighting at distances just because it becomes less convenient. also lets remember were wanting to change the jb structure, or remove them in entirety rather than fix things that actually need to be fixed. we had an alliance discussion over all of this several hours ago, and between a group of people playing eve for varied amounts of time, we have came to a conclusion that most of the people who want the bridges removed are either small pirate corps or highsec carebears. what the pirate corps don't realize is they will not have room to operate once the jb's are removed as the large alliances will secure routes to highsec for supplies. also highsec carebears will lose business if they are removed because the nullsec alliances will begin to manufacture their own equipment."
"why is anyone giving finn the pleasure he so apparently receives from playing the glenn beck of this thread? and to you finn since when did you become like this? i've read plenty of your posts that included great idea's fleshed out entirely coherently without once telling your detractors that they are lieing trolls. i asked you for your opinion in a respectable fashion and still you refused. is that because you have nothing left to say on the issue? why are you so attached to jump bridges? are you unable to play without them? since you are so dependant on viewing my mains killboard, wloire, it doesn't seem to include all of my deaths (because there were many) or all of my kills but certainly i haven't broken 1000 such as yourself. i don't believe i need to match your combat record to have an opinion on the matter. so how about it? are you going to switch back to intelligent finn with good ideas? because i'm still willing to hear you out."
"no and nor should they, but there is a big difference between being able to cross the map, attack and still have time to rat \"back home\" and then needing to first bring people+ships into position for an attack.very few (the clinically insane ) has said that removing bridges is all that needs to be done. the industrial sector in null needs a hefty boost to create the potential for self-sufficiency and the ehp based sovereignty crap has to be changed into an objective based system or something else not \"blob required\".the manufacturers in high-sec are only there because that is where the market is, why move when the whole cluster comes to jita on a daily basis?the miners and producers will move to null the second that changes, but their has to be a reason for that move.ps: have fun trying to \"secure\" routes on any sort of permanent basis .. low-sec is eve on hardmode and the null-softies are in for a rude awakening if they think its going to be easy once the traffic increases so will the pirate population .. it has dwindled substantially over the years but will spike like crazy if convoys come into play again, i suspect it is the :effort: involved that makes null fear any bridge changes."
"yes, despite you admit that the bridges are not a root cause of the 'issue', yet you keep pushing the removal agenda. i do not understand your desire to apply some pseudo band-aid instead of focusing on mechanics that needs improvement...do you even know what you are talking about here?! this is the least desired thing eve online needs as it would mean 'instant death' of the game...removing jump bridges would only cause more harm than good because it does not address any specific issue."
"a little sunday bump come and support this, guys!"
"i miss balloon-animal clothing very much."
"what is this about not being able to make people fat or skinny? you can do either quite easily (increase weight slider, pull that belly out, pull the jowels of your cheeks out, bam, fatso).i also managed to make my character (in one of the shots that i didn't use) look like she just got injected with crack, her smile was so big. i don't see what you mean by \"every expression is now very mild or moderate\".edit: as for more stuff in general for customization, i do support this, even though they already said that they would be developing stuff like that along the way (not immediately), and make a way for recustomization to be done at a given time"
"please visit your user settings to re-enable images.i used to look worried, suspecting, and determined.now i look sort of dreamy.my eyes are too small, and the eyelids seem swollen.the four bloodlines used to have much more variety, and the vherokior used to be eurasian mutts able to look like either side of the scale.also, our founding elders didn't escape ammar-slavery so that we could dress in socialist standardized garb!i want back my traditional tribal clothing. i don't care about the current fad of 21century fashion-wear. i am a patriotic minmatar, and am willing to show it to the universe!"
"bolded the relevant part. but perhaps you are right, perhaps it will be easier to die. that is not the same as it will be easier to kill you. maybe mechanics will be emplaced such that only the most dedicated, focused individuals will ever even get the chance to gank you in hi-sec stations. that sounds like a reasonable compromise to me. breaking news: empire scientists have invented an infotrope transmission system no larger than a credit card. capsuleers rejoice!in other words, \"lore\" is a poor argument for or against any kind of mechanics in a game, because the lore can be altered. for that matter, given that no plans have been released, there is nothing to say that you would be \"killed\" in stations. for all anybody actually knows there may be a mechanic, in hi-sec particularly, where emergency services personnel get to your clone before you \"die\", saving your precious implants and expensive clone.and again with the assumptions. there are mechanics solutions to all of these issues, but you don't seem to be able to see past \"omg risk, not in my hi-sec\".if people want ccp's efforts of the last 4 or so years toward incarna to be nothing more than a pretty chat interface then so be it. i for one would like there to be some actual substance to it.ambulate safe o7"
"it's not poker till your very presence can change the flow of the game."
"the \"/not supported\" has been used here in assembly hall since day one when ccp added it to the forums because they forgot to add the thumbs down option. honestly, your just arguing just to argue. just like in the jump bridge thread, which isn't even a proposal, just some guy who copy pasted something from the minutes. you do realize that you argue non-stop with anyone who does not share your exact same view on things?your like a little child who is mad. if someone doesn't agree with you, you look for something else about them to try and insult. grow up finnagain."
"i meant i had no clue as to what his point was, his posts were full of sarcasm and general nonsense. i have no problem with lore getting in the way, and there will obviously need to be some wireless pod tech for dust 514.as for the second part, if your implants are saved then what is the point to combat in stations?same thing here, if death out of the pod means you keep your clone somehow then there's no point to combat in the first place. i am fine with risk in high sec, it currently would take a lot of dedication for someone to suicide pod you. and again this is all speculation, but i fail to see how pulling a gun on someone in high sec would be anything but easy."
"hehe, finn is obviously getting frustrated with people saying \"nuh-uh, no pod=perma-death\", \"nuh-uh, people will elevator camp and the world will be ruled by spoon-gangs\" over and over again.regardless, what is the point of pvp anywhere? the chance of losing your implants and clone is astronomically small in empire, but people still suicide gank there. i was not illuminating an actual mechanic, merely pointing out that assuming any mechanics at this point is premature at best.spoon gangs scooping out implants is one end of the spectrum, emt's saving them is the other. i'm trying to say there is no reason it has to be binary, i am sure that a balance can be achieved.yet keeping ones pod in empire space is by your own admission virtually guaranteed unless you stuff up or the other party shows an extreme amount of dedication. by your own argument that makes empire pvp pointless, yet it still occurs. perhaps one loses a clone in station but your attache saves your implants, that satisfies the infliction of loss on somebody while restricting said loss to an amount that risk averse people may be able to stomach.pulling a gun on someone in empire space may well be easy, who is to say that getting a gun into hi-sec stations will be? we are the rock-star demiurges of space, why wouldn't we have access to bodyguards, or decoy clones? yes, we are fragile out of our ships, why could that not be balanced by making the opportunities to shoot us take just as much dedication as \"suicide-podding\"?there is a lot of potential for mechanics that would address the concerns of the risk-averse whilst still maintaining the possibility."
"if by that you mean i don't particularly enjoy trolling or \"rebuttals\" that have already been shown to be utterly hollow? yah, i don't accept those. that's the whole point here, the fact that nobody yet has offered something that hasn't already been shown to be false, or trolling, means that there aren't any solid objections (so far at least). that's encouraging. i know, facts are hard to argue with. that's part of why you can only get upset and can't find a way to show that a pvp game should have an entire sphere that's space second life. or, of course, space barbie if people are only using it to play dress-up. naturally, you're calling that fact \"trolling\". because, again, you can't actually rebut it but can only get angry at it. i really wish that people who post about logical failings would actually know what they mean. there's no \"circular reasoning\" inherent in the very clear set of facts and logical postulates i've laid out. but if you don't have any valid arguments other than \"nuhn uhn!!!\", i suppose that making up logical fallacies that don't actually exist in an argument is as good as any other tactic. please tell me you realize the problem here?it's already been addressed and debunked, specifically, in this thread. several times iirc. yes, if you actually have a ship worth someone ganking it's almost always more expensive to lose the ship. and judging from the number of people who autopilot pods all over empire, your claim on that point is wrong, too. to say nothing of the fact that, again, you're rationalizing objections based on assumptions. if the concern was the cost of losing clones, you could advocate station-only insurance contracts on a clone's implants, or what have you, instead of saying it shouldn't exist at all. by people copying wow emotes. guess what \"not supported\" works equally well. it's just funny that you can't even admit that basic fact, is all. my just? his just? their just? you're arguing, on the other hand, because you can't actually rebut the facts or the logic involved, so you're reduced to this ad hominem nonsense. i'm arguing because i've laid out the logic involved to support positions i believe in. yes, how very unfair! if someone doesn't agree with me, i look at their arguments and their logic and deal with those. how utterly unfair!i suggest you write your government, i'm sure that's banned under the geneva conventions."
"while it's a bit annoying (certainly frustrating to see the same trolling and the same debunked arguments used over and over again), but it really is encouraging. i'm looking at it like stress testing. if the people who're getting so annoyed over the proposal could show how i was wrong, they would. that they can't is a good indicator."
"well the point of hi sec suicide ganking is either to grief miners or for loot drops from mission runners and haulers. now, you don't hear about many hi sec suicide poddings, and probably because there's no isk to be made and because of the consequences. so maybe that means not many people would actually do this in stations if they could, who knows. i feel like i'm going in circles here so my main point is this. if there is any possibility that i would lose my clone in a station from a gank, i would never leave my captain's quarters unless i was in an implant-free station-walking jump clone. this is the same reason why i never fly around in a pod anywhere or fly around in a shuttle in low sec. that's the only precaution that would actually work 100% of the time, and jumpclones are not available to everyone. doesn't that seem a little over the top? players shouldn't have to grind standings just to be able to purchase a jump clone so that they can enjoy the content of incarna. and if everyone is walking around in empty jump clones then what's the point of ganking them anyway?in the end i doubt we'll be seeing this anytime soon if at all. people aren't going to put their clone on the line just to walk around to participate in a currently optional social interaction. if clones are insured then why kill anyone? you are hit with a security loss and your target loses nothing. as for the pod comment, is it not a safe assumption that a squishy human body would be easier to kill than a human body inside an armored pod?"
"you can already lose your clone in all of nullsec, easily. in all of lowsec, reasonably easily. even in highsec if someone wanted to turn on a smartbomb after their mates suicided your ship. so you already have a non-zero chance to lose your pod when you undock, and yet that doesn't stop you. your objection is spurious. again, we have insurance for ships. why couldn't wis include in-station-only insurance for implants? besides which, unless you have a head full of v's, chances are losing a ship is nearly as expensive if not more so than losing a pod. a pair of smartbombing battleships on a gate can easily pop and pod you in a shuttle. a single smartbombing battleship can do it if he staggers his smarties. are you going to stop traveling in a shuttle now? you put your clone on the line each and every single time you undock.your objection is spurious. \"if ships are insured, why kill anyone?\" i already mentioned in the mechanics thread that it might be possible to extract resources from corpses, just like salvaging a wreck. even if you couldn't, you can still take isk away from a rival. eve has insurance at 100% efficiency, including the deductible? ccp makes up the rules, rather obviously. if combat is balanced based on players being able to equip shields and suits of armor, and weapons having certain characteristics, there's nothing at all to say that station ganking wouldn't be very similar to taking down a tanked ship in space. stop assuming things not proven by facts, and then using those assumptions as if they were accurate and factual."
"this proposal is just bad, and not just due to the op's attitude, although the \"gbtwow\" bs towards people that disagree with him is amusing.simply put, this proposal doesn't actually propose anything, or address anything, and it uses that lack of detail as a weapon to say \"well, i didn't propose anything, so how you think it might work is not how it will work. i can't however tell you how it would work because i dunno, lol\".while i would love for this to be implemented, be functional and be awesome, the reality is that games with divided focuses between ground and space combat tend not to end up very good (sto?) not only that, but it takes the focus away from where it should be: spaceships.is it really necessary to adapt the wod engine to have station combat that doesn't come out completely idiotic, to the detriment of the actual focus of the game? i don't think so. what would it add? if the reason is circular logic about how eve is a pvp game, well, eve is a game about spaceships. if the argument is that the nature of eve should forever remain constant, then it should be so in every aspect, not only the convenient ones.but you can't even really say that its a pvp game and purely that because it has been moving away from that towards more pve and other content since it came out. missions and incursions for instance, are more pve than pvp.in the end, when thinking that ccp's research, development and programming time may go towards a half baked (or possibly entirely awesome, like pi!) on foot combat simulator instead of focusing on more t3 ships, the missing subsystems, more balance, and more content in general for the game i actually pay to play today, then i have to say i want them focusing on the later.if you want to gank on foot, go play sto.not supported."
"really pathetic trolling. the op links to an entire thread where mechanics can be discussed (several people have whined about that fact). this thread was started on the advice of the csm chair in order to have an 'elevator proposal' thread that didn't focus on mechanics. which you'd know, if you'd bothered to read the thread, or its op for that matter. so instead of having focus split on pvp in stations and space, we should have pvp in space and second space life in stations. and designing content for second space life won't shift focus away from spaceship combat, unlike how ccp has already done and broken down with hard numbers showing that incarna-without-combat already occupies the lion's share of devs compared to eve's core content, because, um... hey look over there!seriously, i know you heard a term and don't understand it, and think it's cool, but please, for the love of basic reasoning, find out what a term means before you use it. in fact, \"circular reasoning\" does not mean a fact that's used to support further arguments which are logically connected to it. ... which is about to have space barbie in it, and should maintain its inherent dynamic in it rather than having centuries of man-hours wasted on second space life. no, the argument is that eve core dynamic should exist in the massive, major, freakin' huge new expansion that's coming down the pipeline. but i support a strawman works for you if you can't address the actual argument. yes, you can, because it is. pvp is the engine that drives the entire game, and even while you're pve'ing you can be ganked. there is no safe space, there are no pve servers. there is one server, and one server only, and it's a pvp server. fallacy of the excluded middle: ccp can focus on iterating on incarna and fix things that are wrong with the game. right now, they're devoting almost all of their resources to incarna anyways. we might as well make sure that they iterate on it rather than letting it rot on the vine."
"oh wow.i guess not supporting your terrible proposal and clearly stating the reasons why is \"really pathetic trolling\". i think you need a dictionary, or a visit to the friendly search box on the upper right corner of the page, and to start looking up words.or to spend more time on your terrible proposal and less time posting."
"yet more trolling. let's ignore your lie about what constituted trolling, shall we? let's look at what was actually said, and not your \"clearly stating reasons\" (we can ignore your bit about how pvp in a pvp game is terrible). here, i'll underline the relevant parts: so yah, i see that rather than retracting your trolling, you've just decided to compound it. trolling, on my eve-o forums?i'm shocked. shocked!"
"given this thread is about whether pvp should be included in incarna or not:seems kind of contradictory."
"the chance of someone ganking your ship in high sec is more or less zero as long as you don't autopilot around in a hauler with 1 billion in cargo. the chance of losing your pod there is even less. as for low sec, if you know what you're doing then your pod is safe. i recently spent about 2-3 weeks doing solo pvp in frigates (and against frigates) and i never lost my pod once. obviously the risk is higher so i used a less expensive clone. the same goes for nullsec - preparation and common sense goes a long way. i ratted solo in null sec in hostile territory for about a week or so and never lost my pod or even my ship.now it's been a while since i've read through the earlier parts of this thread, but i just did again. i was going to post a sarcastic comment about all of us walking around in iron man suits with a shield generator slapped onto our backs, but apparently you already thought of that. seriously? how does that make any sense? instead of everyone needing to walk around in their own personal tanks, wouldn't it be easier for station security to ban weapons? airport security is extremely tight as it is now. it makes no sense that stations would even allow weapons, even if we had wireless pod tech. again i haven't read the beginning of this thread in a while, so i forgot you mentioned this. insurance on implants and extracting implants seems to \"work\" at first glance, but i'm not convinced. for one thing it injects more isk into the economy like ship insurance already does, plus there's a chance that the insured item isn't even lost. more importantly i'm still having problems seeing the logic in this whole situation, but whatever."
"no, it's non-zero, even through simple random chance from someone looking for lulz. your objection that you wouldn't participate in something that had any chance of clone loss is a rationalization. just like how you use a shuttle in lowsec when a single battleship firing staggered smarties on a gate can pop and pod you. a not-uncommon occurrence in lowsec. to say nothing of the fact that it's simply not true that you're guaranteed safety for your pod in lowsec. a lag spike, bad session change timer, whatever... and you're podded. again, you claimed you wouldn't engage in a behavior if there was any chance that you'd lose your pod. you are again making the worst possible assumptions and then using your fabrications to argue as if they were facts. for all we know, shield generators could be the size of a credit card and armor can be fibre-weave into normal clothing. the \"fiction\" argument has already been raised and rebutted, in the very first post of this thread in fact. more to the point, ccp has said that people can smuggle even crude explosives onto stations. there's no gameplay mechanic that demands that combat on stations be impossible because it \"doesn't make sense\". if it's fun, and if it adds to the core content of eve, that's all the sense that has to be made. again, worst possible assumption that you treat as fact. maybe possession of weapons is totally banned on certain decks and you have to try to conceal them much as you do boosters in highsec. insurance does not inject isk into the economy. insurance minimizes isk lost to sinks like pvp. someone had to pay for the ship you're insuring, and you simply lose less of that investment when it pops and is insured."
"ok, i thought this over and have decided that i do support this after all.game impacting content as opposed to just another shopping mall.maybe the ability to run an operation to shut down the station's defenses for a brief time. something that should require a large team to infiltrate multiple security-sectors and hack the gibson, to accomplish. giving their corp-mates waiting outside in their ships just enough time to do one heinous crime to somebody near the station.or allowing them to disrupt the npc-convoy schedule until concord-support arrives. (and no insta-warping here) maybe other npc's in the system could then try to hire other players to fend off the culprits until the cavalry arrives.meanwhile, in the station, npc's would hire anyone to storm the defense-centers, call on the militia, hand out weapons, etc.-just brainstorming here. there are plenty of carebears out there that would be willing to partake in such a limited pvp, especially if system-wide trading is affected."
"oh, and think of how this could affect mission running!<U+FFFD> fly out to the deadspace complex<U+FFFD> kill all the rats in the area<U+FFFD> actually board kruul's pleasure hub (tm)<U+FFFD> run through a maze of corridors<U+FFFD> fight your way past the body guards<U+FFFD> spend minutes trying to convince the damsel to flee with you<U+FFFD> eventually just knock her out & carry her back to the ship<U+FFFD> free some amarr prostitutes on the way<U+FFFD> undock & fight the reinforcements<U+FFFD> warp back home & drop off that useless tramp<U+FFFD> party with the hookersedit: come to think of it, this could also be played more along infiltrating the hub bond-style, fighting kruul inside, with an awesome getaway scene at the end...and then there's the furrier-mission (something nightmarish along avp-lines, but way cuter)..."
"heh, see? a whole lot of potential content is opened up once we leave space barbie behind and decide that incarna should be more than second space life."
"______________________________________________________________________________________________________________ update!!! with the new dev blog by ccp zulu - shader model 2.0 support discontinued april 5th - we are finally given the info that we needed regarding this matter. apparently shader model 3.0 is needed for the cc and is apparently the reason why many of us can't access the cc. the grace period has been extended for another couple of months which should give us plenty of time to upgrade our systems. there are still other issues with the cc, but this is a start. (i originally withdrew this proposal without giving it any thought. a new post below got me rethinking that decision. subsequently, i am not withdrawing this proposal.)______________________________________________________________________________________________________________since the expiration of the grace period for creating a new portrait is drawing near, i figured it was time to bring this issue to the assembly hall. the issue:there are still many, many, players who cannot access the character creator and when the grace period expires, they (myself included) will be locked out of the game. there have been many suggestions posted here in the forums in numerous threads and more given by ccp support in answer to petitions but most only work for a very few lucky players. i know i've tried them all over and over again in various combinations as has most everyone else at this point, and i've even tried some of my own experiments but nothing works even though i can play eve with most graphic settings on high.there are also many who can access the cc but with limited capabilities once they have it loaded and finally, there are those who just refuse to use the cc because they don't like the results, the lack of options, etc.ccp is aware of the issue but has been more or less silent on it and has given no indication that they are even investigating the matter let alone working on a fix.the proposal:my proposal is to add an option on the character creation pop-up window in the character selection screen which asks if you want to enter the cc to create a new portrait. the option would be to use a randomly generated portrait relevant to your character's race, bloodline, and gender, without entering the character creator. this option would come with the following caveat...warning!!!use of this portrait will expire when incarna is launched. you will have one redo available to create your own portrait at any time before that launch. at the launch of incarna, you will be required to create your own full-bodied character or you will be unable to log into eve until such time as you do/are able to create your new avatar through the character creator.pros:no one gets locked out of eve due to this glitch.everyone has at least a few months until the incarna launch to either upgrade their current hardware or buy a new system.ccp doesn't lose any customers besides those affected by the sse issue.cons:this will almost guarantee that ccp will not look for a fix.we may end up having some really crappy portraits for a few months.the problem will still be there until systems are upgraded or replaced and some will undoubtedly procrastinate and get locked-out at the incarna launch.if you do agree with this please don't forget to tick the support checkbox along with your reply."
"1.0"
"the best option is for ccp to fix the cc performance problems but i suspect the issue is that the demands it makes are simply an order of magnitude to great and unfixable by straight forward code optimisation.fwiw, i feel your pain, i can run the two instances of the game with high quality setting for textures and shading, but i can only run one instance of the cc and have to use the lowest quality settings other wise it become unresponsive.unless ccp have something in the pipeline they are not talking about that improves cc performance, they need to follow this proposal."
"i can see this is going to take some doing to get the ball rolling here. most players affected by this have more or less given up checking the forums because there has been no response from any devs on this matter. even though the announcement has not come out yet, it is bound to be near. even if you aren't affected by this, your support would be greatly appreciated. locking players out of the game for a feature that currently does not affect gameplay is not fair to anyone, especially since those same systems can run the game with no issues.i've written a post (under my other account's main character - spyke blackice) in my blog - mortal immortals which goes into more detail on this issue."
"these small factions in general are residents to \"easy access\" npc 0.0 while bigger factions live in \"harder to access\" npc 0.0. compare mordus and guristas for example. in that way it makes sense that their lp stores are also less useful.for those easy access npc factions in 0.0 everyone gets standing by making missions to related empire faction. i.e. you do missions for caldari you get access to mordus agents too.so there is clearly some thought behind this. except that npc 0.0 is less free area than probably originally intended. because there is no sentry guns unlike low sec and you can use warp disrupt bubbles and smaller ships it takes more effort to move around. which means you can make living in these npc 0.0 pockets pretty painful for anyone trying with relatively few people.not supporting, cos lp stores are relatively fine."
"the problem with that is unless these lp items are worth it (the items themselves, not the lp/mission or whatever) nobody will live there. outer ring has been historically empty because it's just not worth living there. every place in eve should have advantages and disadvantages. missions have disadvantages, and or(and syndicate, and npc pureblind) all have terrible security status, belt distribution, and excepting pb terrible moons. there should be some redeeming features.plus, there's no point having useless items in eve, much less ones that are the only option in the store. in the ore/syndi store there are literally no useful items. in mordus/thukker it's questionable. regarding venal/etc, npc fountain is just as easy to get to as outer ring, but has awesome rats and missioning. for any corp with more than a capital or 2, logistics to anywhere in eve isn't really a problem."
"i agree with op and this."
"+1 to this and op."
"1) i agree completely that it makes no sense. if you refit armor plates in space, your meter shows no difference. if you refit shield extenders, suddenly you're down 10%.2) if it's impossible to fix the shield issue, due to underlying math... how about making some slow trickle pos rr mods? not enough to make it overpowering during a fleet battle or something. but a module you approach, activate, and it *shoop shoop*'s your shields up. make them cpu heavy, so they go offline during a siege.just a thought =)"
"so much this."
"i like thatbut as said before need more big billboards and/or more of themcause if not people will continue using secure can as it's free and more visible :/"
"supported"
"i support some form of openspace.it should be possible to travel between systems without using gates, just by flying at warp speed in direction of destination."
"learn to fly a capital jump ship...issue resolved..."
"nearest solar system to earth -> alpha centauri = 4.2 light years away1 light year = 63,241 au -> alpha centauri = 265,612 au awaycovops frig warp speed -> 13.5 au/s = 5.4 hours of constant warp.t1 frig warp speed -> 6.0 au/s = 12.2 hours warping.freighter warp speed -> 0.75 au/s = 98.4 hours warping.eve is already a big enough time sink, imo"
"it should also be noted that this is, like, 7000 times the speed of light."
"10 minutes slower than using gates... between systems...40 jumps... 10 minutes per jump.... 400 minutes... go **** yourself."
"i guess that is impossible to create new warp drives in game capable to reach enough speed to make interestal warps....oh wait!"
"i'm trying to find a way to do it without flying capital ships...just any ship.and not only one. what i'm talking about is to create lower security areas sorrounding the highways of stargates.is like leaving the road to fly \"cross country\"."
"first - i dont like it. but thats just me :psecond, you dont create lower security space, you create null sec.hi-sec space is defined by concord and sentries (only those in low sec). without those its just null sec.unless you put concord in there to monitor you killing someone else no one will give you sec status penalty. third, 10 minutes per jump...hhmmmm... no."
"perfect. all opinios are welcome. the security status if it is null sec or just a level lower than the systems is not the critilical point for me. i think that it must be lower just to make this kinf of travel a little exiting. but not as dangerous as passing thourgh some gates full of pirates. it's a detour.travelling thorugh gates are one warp and one jump. opensace i think should be one warp, a cap recharge and another warp. it's not 10 minutes rigth? maybe one or two."
"optional:"
"sorry i was being very vague. (srs)i really only tried referring to their promise of incarna not impacting station performance negatively in any way, so it should be fine either way."
"yeah, this is another question on the census, do you read dev blogs :p"
"compulsoryall the station features should be quickly accessible from the captain's quarters or \"balcony view\". it's time for the current station interface to die.captain's quarters is single player mode, there's no reason why accessing anything from it should be any slower. that's what the dev blog actually says if you learn to read: nothing will be harder to access, not nothing will ever change."
"instead of making the blasters and railguns bleed-through armor and shield themselves, perhaps there should be special ammo types for this. you could use regular ammunition that does full damage and then \"bleed-through\" ammo which does slightly less damage but can penetrate shields/armor by the 5% you described. in fact, we could have ammunition of varying degrees of penetration.just to throw an example out there:100% base damage, 0% penetration (regular ammo)90% base damage, 5% penetration80% base damage, 10% penetrationbasically a trade-off between sheer damage output and bleedthrough (maybe other penalties to balance ammunition with more bleedthrough but you get the point)thumbs up for concept."
"i too like nerfing active tanks. i hear they really need it.-liang"
"there's no difference between ignoring an active tank and ignoring a buffer."
"there obviously is.-liang"
"and if you can't see the difference, you obviously should't be making sweeping design decisions like this. -1."
"+1i like this idea"
"market bots are a myth.well, maybe not and a few people developed them, but its unlikely they would ever share.so, for the most part you're whining about active traders, who shouldn't be punished for being active (or having no life if you will - that's already a punishment)."
"incorrect, market bots are very real, and widely distributed. why one of the sources of mining bots is selling one for a monthly cost akin to the one ccp charges.they are certainly very, very real.as a trader i think the system needs to change but this is no solution.i can just put up smaller batches and instead of moving orders in price just list more stock as we price war. so in effect this makes the person with the largest item stack the winner every time as he will be able to set more orders and win the market, while the opponent will have to relist and eat the whole profit of his items up.by the way, most items have profit margins that are under 5%, 1% is ridiculous.not supported."
"about 3 minutes of efficient research tell me that what i say is true. i doubt you can back up what you say."
"probably not on the forum as it is forbidden to talk about these things, and certainly, to give out where they are found.i can, however send a evemail for informative purposes should you be uncapable of \"efficient researching google\", or you can simply put the name of the game followed by what you are looking for in google, and see for yourself whether or not such a program exists or is sold. the thing in question was the first result for me, ymmv."
"i'm fairly capable. odds are you fell for that 'scammer' loudmouth (not sure what to call it).it's the first result i get with all viable queries.better luck next time."
"protip: use the word trader in your query. so much for every possible one huh? also, not talking about the fail blog you refer to.i guess your fairly capable falls far below the average fairly capable."
"so much fail in this thread it's hard to decide where to start.1) opposed.2) the idea takes no account of how the eve sales tax system actually works (hint tax is paid on the actual transaction), and broker fees are paid when an order is modified. charging tax as well on each bid is absolutely asinine, it's like charging tax every time you change ammo damage type.3) a skilled trader can make billions of isk without resorting to the 0.01 isk game or using a bot. trading is market pvp, and somebody has to lose.4) trade bots do exist and if it wasn't against the rules i could link several separate trading scripts on two separate multi-platform cheating systems.5) market bots are actually easy to beat once you've worked out how they work, do not play their game of 0.01 changes, and when you find one raid it's wallet with targeted market manipulation.6) the vast majority of items in eve are price inelastic."
"are you suggesting the average person can use google? fairly capable just means 'not utterly ******ed'.anyways, good read. not sure how i missed it.. pretty sure i used that search term.. i'm suspecting it was auto-corrected to 'trade'.. i spent all of 3 minutes on the search.i wouldn't consider that 'bot' to be a big problem in regards to the market, tho.it's apparently just a macro (no injection) and slower than a human (which might be allowed).there's very interesting other stuff on there, tho."
"csm is a player voted council, not a ccp voted council. from what i am reading, people from ccp are \"proposing\" things to csm when in reality, it should be csm going to ccp saying \"players want this\" instead of of certain ccp people (greyscale) going to csm saying \"hey what do you think of changing this?\" it puts ccp pressure on csm into voting the way ccp wants because a ccp brought out the proposal."
"this is highly true. personally i, as a player, do not agree with alot of the ideas that ccp is coming up with. for instance, if you were to remove the jump bridges, that will not remove blob warfare. the fact is now instead of just lagging out a few systems with our 400+ man fleet we lag every system from point a to point b. lowsec pirate bodys will be overran by large alliances securing routes to highsec. instead of having a 10 man pirate gang holding a lowsec gate, you now have 70+ man highly organized alliance fleets holding that same gate. larger alliances will not recoil into their space, but reach out for more to secure that route to highsec."
"just because the players voted for the csm doesn't mean the csm represents the entire player base.try asking the people who've lived in deep 0.0 for a long time, that live in these large collations, that live in small alliances in 0.0 if any of these changes will help. make sure the guys who give you opinions have experience in multiple small and large alliance, so they can tell you what they would do if you made a change, the high sec carebears know nothing about 0.0"
"i'd like to propose something like this for incarna station contents.station missionsmessage delivery: deliver message to someone on station.receive message at administration office, find person message has to be delivered to.finding person could be asking key personel at shops, bars and so on.escort services (not what you are thinking about!).visit station concorde office and get your orders.prissoner escort: escort person from cellblock to your ship, fly to other station, deliver person to cellblock.there could be combat on route depending on prissoner status."
"i always wondered why we have officer modified large guns/launchers but not medium or small ones.from game balance perspective, there's no good reason not to have it, the high cost and rarity of the items would preserve overall game balance.the new officer modified medium weapons could be used as a tool to boost low sec - by introducing cruiser sized officer spawn that only happens in low sec regions. it would encourage people to go hunt there in hopes of scoring rare loot. perhaps add some other officer modified items, that currently have no high end variant, such as burst ecm's, racial jammers, nanos and overdrives (these better give more speed)"
"yes please.\"this is how it should be\"supported.this fits well with my suggestion that customs office (when containing stuff) should be visible in assets window."
"let me start off by saying that i am in fact in favor of ninja looting. eve is a pvp game, in hisec, in lowsec, and in nullsec. this is an important part of eve and should be preserved.however, eve is also a game of consequences. participating in pvp activities should carry a risk, and that risk is sorely absent in incursion pvevp content. there are two problems that need to be addressed.mothership cans are not \"owned\" by the winning fleet. they can be stolen from without drawing an aggression timerwe cannot pod ninjas without getting concordoken'd. hell, i'm okay with a security status loss -- but when all that ninja loses is a 50k isk frig, there is no risk. make him a war target for 15 minutes."
"what would you achieve by being able to pod the ninja looter?chances are you'd destroy whatever they looted in the meantime.find ways to be the first person to get to the can."
"guy has the possibility to steal a revenant bpc. you get to pod him for 15 whole minutes!do you think you have skewed risk / reward back to parity with your idea or is it still a bit off?"
"+1 fleet mate[covops, doesn't matter which]covert ops cloak ii1mn mwd\"it's going down, get ready...\"*kaboom*\"go go go!!!\"*ship zooms to can, snatch and grab*seems to me, their tactics could just as easily be used by your own fleet mates as well."
"use the mwd+web+scram on the ninja and blow him? eventually pod him all you'll loose is a cheap ship while he'll loose a lot more between sp/implants. feel his tears"
"support!!!"
"this does not constitute a proposal.locked."
"add motd (message of the day) to corp chat.(only ceo or communication officer can change corp chat motd)also add welcome message to corp mail"
"agenda updated and free image competition changed to space cats as to not interfere with other candidates promotion.please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service."
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"here is my submission for the space cats competition and i will be participating in the census as soon as i can"
"i support this product and or service."
"definately a space cat contribution:"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"\"i support this product and or service\""
"\"i support this product and or service\""
"i support this product and or service."
"i support this product and or service."
"\"i support this product and or service\""
"i support this product and or serviceadditionally... soe full metal jacket competition was the most fun ever."
"i was unable to find any link to a census tool on your website... though, i have forum images disabled and your original post has a gigantic mess of broken html because of it (ccp's forums are broken, hopefully the new ones will be better)."
"i support this product and or service."
"census tool is disabled and being reworked as we speak due to a late change in programmer.ah i see the problem, some forum error. it has hopefully been fixed."
"i support this product and or service"
"i support these goods and or services. also space kittens."
"i support this product and or service."
"i support this product and or service."
"i support this product and or service."
"i support this product and or service"
"i heard about this product and or service.c-c-c-combo breaker?"
"i support this product and or service."
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service."
"srsly, i support this product and or service."
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service."
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"\"i support this product and or service\""
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service."
"need more spacekittens.please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"\"i support this product and or service\""
"i support this product and or service"
"i don't like cats but i still support this product and or service.space kitten is watching youtech 2 space kittensadditionally, i was never a popular submitter to the fark photoshop contest threads..."
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service-senjo"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and/or service."
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and/or service."
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service.-z"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service.and good luck to all :)"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"\o/oh yea baby, stop the press's i can get on with my toon... selene d'celeste dam sweetheart you be looking maar volus... and hell yea sure do miss having some real t'amberness tho thanks for the memories good luck all semper fio7 t who loves ya baby o7"
"i would be interested in hearing what your ideas are with pos"
"there have been a number of good suggestions in threads like this >"
"prom4csm, all my votes are going for him."
"so far the best candidate, understands eve and knows what is wrong and right.vote for prom"
"so if you get elected, can i keep my rook?"
"i vote prometheus exenthal!solo pvp is exceedingly fun and there should be incentives for more players to try it out."
"wow, you must think the eve playerbase is thick as pigs**t not to notice that the nc have launched a massive campaign to take control of the csm to influence gm decisions to meet your alliance's priorities.just a coincidence that mittens happens to run at the same time as goonswarm join the nc? how exactly are the majority of eve players helped by having one single alliance controlling all of the csm?depressing to see metagaming get this obvious. i'm sure you'll take the more gullible players along with you, as you have a significant player following, and you deserve some of that following. sad to see mittens cashing in on his role as a genuinely neutral commentator outside the establishment just to promote his alliance.shame on you mittani."
"boogaloo more like bloobloobloo"
"ok i guess it's just a coincidence that about 15 members of the nc have all gunned for csm roles at the same time. it would be great if we vote all of them in."
"you're dumbthe 'nc' has no unique political interests on the csm that would distinguish it from any sovholding alliance in nullsec, with the possible exception of technetium (which anyone with a brain acknowledges should be nerfed). if you want to be yammering about idiotic conspiracy theories, here's one i'll spell out for you:put me, krutoj, vile rat, seleene and elise randolph (or prom, depending on who the pl bloc votes for): holy crap you have a bunch of old vets who know a thing or two about both eve and the completely idiotic things ccp has done over the past 5+ years as we're all ancient grizzled bittervets, you might actually see a united csm try to get some **** donein the csm fight you can only vote /for/ a candidate, not against one (since it's not a run-off). it's a fair assessment that krutoj will take the drf/rus vote, seleene will get awagon + nonaligned nullsec, vile rat and myself will get cluster****/gsf votes, and elise or prom will get pl + tri/ncdot/ev0ke/generic nonsov elite pvp. killer2 is the official nc candidate. meissa or trebor will get the hisec bears, possibly roc if his campaign takes off."
"the current csm seemed pretty damn united about the removal/nerf of jump bridges. which shortly after was when you went into a rage and decided that it was time for all the seats to be taken over by sov holding power block members. i posted the quote above you sent out. do you no longer stand by what you said?"
"... you said wow... lmao... anyways to prove your idea flawed here, wow was build around pve. eve isn't. the whole idea of pve is to run around in your epic (officer) gear, study encounters and execute them with precision. yet we all know that an officer fit nightmare is 75 billion isk. i mean ye sure, grind a dungeon with your corp for 6 months you might actually get it. but would a normal person who has invested 6 months gearing his nightmare even undock it from the station? you need a safe environment for the pve'ers, they're even worse then carebears.is this your vision of eve pve? loldon't get me wrong i too agree that pve in eve needs a boost, incursions and all is a good step forward but i would like to see encounters that require all sorts of combat tactics, not just tanks and logistics.edit: one more thing, do you think you can manage the goons while being off in iceland doing csm business? we've seen empires fall coz their leaders where busy with stuff outside eve, it and atlast being the most recent ones... yes atlas here i said it..."
"you get my vote sir"
"remember guys nc want to control all csm seats so they can prevent all forms of pvp from 0.0i know the flying monkeys will blindly follow him, but do you really want 0.0 to have less pvp, do you want supercaps to be buffed, do you want naps to get bonuses, do you want bots to be allowed freely?if you dont want these features (as mittani calls it) to happen in 0.0 then dont vote for mittani or any other nc insecure clown, they are on a mission to make 0.0 worse than it already isa vote for nc is a vote for combat free 0.0"
"will you not, not give me isk for my vote?"
"removing jump bridges would be ****ing ******ed.hisec douchebags (particularly those who hate 0.0 dwellers) are ****ing ******ed.people who believe disgruntled flying monkey are ****ing ******ed.your puppy is not as cute as my puppies, but you still have my vote(s)."
"i also heard that throughout man's history, all military commanders have complained about the unfair advantage offered by defensive installations. i do hope that at least ccp will think this trough and offer the attacker an equal chance in this awesome internet spaceship game."
"that's a clever way of trying to establish a perception of a range of candidate names as being \"evil block vote dudes so everybody don't vote for them pick a wannabee independant while mittens is safe with his effective block already in place\" there's a fair few candidates with their own established groups, but not blocks. it's a bit silly to just throw in a few big names for the sake of the agenda of standing on a guaranteed goon block with only the risk of possible competitors - for effective leadership within the csm following the elections - present because of a variety of candidates who have a quite professional grasp of how to work with ccp (in more ways than one) other than the angle of hurf blurf fist on table there are no conspiracies. the nc has a tradition of block voting, and it is part of all the choices people have in all of this. sure it is a mindset topic, but that is normal, this is eve. krutoj getting a block vote remains to be seen, there's a fair few possible candidates starting to have their coming out. it seems sokrates is gunning for the tri/add votes once again, and little seleene (who could very well be an impressively professional csm member given his insights beyond the party line) doesn't have a block. down in the south they don't really have a tradition of block votes beyond some experimentation with it.less posing man, and stop worrying, you already have the chair in the pocket. there's no need even for posing other niche goon candidates to overshadow \"independant\" candidates on a per topic or \"catch the mindset\" basis even honest question though. it's been clear how ccp react badly to the hurf blurf fist on the table approach in previous csm's, your entire presentation seems to come down to that. i could be wrong obviously, it could just be the :lolelections: part o it, i hope so. unless you'd be banking on social engineering lines it just never gives any results for eve as a whole, only for own interests and you don't strike me as just going out there to preserve your state of the union. so, how exactly are you going to approach ccp when it is time to sit down at the table, where there is a very good part of ccp who is willing to listen if the work is done .. but also a very bad part of ccp which just wants to do new shiny stuff and gets butthurt when a csm does not agree with something being :awesome:. to the point of literally turning their backs on the csm, isolating them, slapping nda on things while at the same time taking everything to the media. i am sure you understand the challenge, but do you have the methods for it. i'm not asking for some overview of background but for how you are really going to approach matters."
"i support not only the removal of jump bridges but i will go you one farther and ask that pos's have their reinforce timer shorted to 2 hour maximum. because this crap with infinite isk streaming out of a dead weight brainless structures is killing any hope of warfare by attrition. botting is a no brainer, kill it. i refuse to believe that none of the technology used by other mmo's to track and prevent alterations to game client cannot be used in eve. mittani is not interested in changing a thing, even though a causal observer can look at the server killing supercap fights and the real world problems associated with alarm clock ops, people told to skip work and school to be present to shoot pixels is obscene, and run screaming. voting for carebears, and by that i mean people casual minded is absolutely a better choice because hardcores :read mittani: want the bar of entry to match their current play schedule and have all else treading water. this simply put is why no sov holding allaince can hold anything without forming a multi alliance power bloc. look out at the map how much has actually changed hands in a years time, and how did it really change, was it by actual war or did most of the sov change hands because the sitting defender splintered? has eve gotten more interesting or has null cooled to the most stable state it has ever been."
"this thread and mittani's emotional instability has made me change my view on ccp, i for one am glad they dont listen to the csm and hope they never decide to.0.0 is flooded with naps and bots, however rather than focusing on these issues what do we see? nc team up to make 0.0 safer and worse than it is.i think ccp should just put 0.0 on a total different server and have the bi-polarity no longer affect the people who actually want to play a game and not run a business."
"look ****bag, some of us aren't allowed to talk about our csm candidacy on our own alliance forums because dear leader decided he wanted to meta game a bit higher up the ladder than he had been able to before.helen and avalloc have both been on the csm before. i'm a genuine candidate, but i really don't see how i can prove that to you unless you look at my quite extensive, usually constructive posting history over in market discussions. twig andberries is probably trolling you.the reason you're seeing so many goon candidates this year, and never before is that it was customary that there was an internal primary. mittani canceled that, and so anyone who was seriously thinking about running went \"well, **** that guy\" and is going at it alone."
"prove it."
"mittani knows (even though this is common sense) that people will vote for the leader anyway so no one really cares who is running as long as they have alot of sheeps to follow.most people see the corp / alliance ticker and vote for them, if you even knew what csm past or present suggested maybe you would not vote.like vuk lau who wanted to end number warfare, end power napping, allow smaller alliances to defend for themselves without having a **** load of blues.no one even reads what nc csm candidates even propose, its \"oh that guy is nc, lets vote for him\".but like i said im glad ccp dont even listen to csm otherwise 0.0 would be worse than it is, afterall it was ccp who suggested getting rid of jump bridges not csm ;) so if you think you can change it by controlling all the seats then you truly are kalmad"
"i think you missed my point if you think i'm part of any effort to control anything."
"obviously i wasnt talking about you"
"you're really bad at this. stop while you're behind."
"yeah, that's why rzr's candidate last election cycle was easily elected and... wait...."
"mittani is mad, very mad. this thread needs more lolgoons.mittani just wants a free trip to iceland. i just summed up mittani's whole election manifesto.removed a trolling comment - adida"
"i'm going to call this campaign smoke being blown up the ass despite you saying it's not. and here's why.ccp created the csm. the csm serves ccp not the other way around. if you think you are going to go in there and start swinging proverbial fists and bring ccp to the table to listen to \"us\" and what \"we\" want then you're crazy. ccp brought the csm in to this world it can take it out. and your attitude because you're some big powerful guy in a big alliance doesn't mean **** and could possibly cause ccp to just simply get rid of the csm. i kind of get the feeling you're about to walk in to the mentally handicap room at a school and start swinging. that ain't gonna last too long, ya know? (no offense ccp just making a point).sure there's things that suck but at the end of the day it's a game we play and ccp owns. it's their game. i also believe that you realize that the csm v has done some hard work and got a foot in the door to where ccp is more inclined to listen to the csm bringing forth player concerns and issues and take more of what they say to heart. and because of the work by the csm v you see an opportunity to go in their and ravage the little bit of soft underbelly that they (csm v) got ccp to show, finally. finally i'd like to state that it is quite hypocritical to call anyone a hypocrite and liar when you are head of an alliance that allows lying and scamming. by your very existence as head of goonswarm you too are a hypocrite and a liar because you allow it to be done by your members. \"recruitment scam by goons\" it's all over the forums. as leader it goes to your character as well. so don't call others hypocrites and liars. the buck stops at the top buddy."
"the nc don't want an nc hegemony of the csm you inbred ***gots, they want a csm that actually listens to the opinions of the roughly 75k+ players that live in sov holding nullsec alliances. if you don't think it's full ****** for about a third of the game's population (and that's not taking into account the guys in low/npc null) to not have a voice (or to have a weakened voice)then you clearly need to diaf (in game). sure, more people live in hisec but to quote my own post on k.comfix lagfree kartoonif you ask any nc goodpoaster if they'd be happy to have seleene/krutoj/elise or any other nullsec person in the csm they'd probably tell you 'yes, of course, keep the bleating \"this sandbox game does not look well enough on my style of play\" crowd out'the csm is a sounding board, any deluded enough to think they can make sweeping reforms is just that, deluded. but we can at least have a sounding board that will call ccp if they drop a ******ed idea once in a whileremember the dominion sov system? technetium hegemony? let's keep them from happening again"
"if only those people who decide it's a good idea to go to the forums and whine about being recruitment scammed had thought to go to the forums before being scammed, then perhaps they might have been better prepared. if only those people who decide it's a good idea to go to the forums and whine about being recruitment scammed had thought to go to eve-search or google before being scammed, then perhaps they might have been better prepared. if only those people who decide it's a good idea to go to the forums and whine about being recruitment scammed had thought to do any kind of research about their prospective new alliance/corporation, then perhaps they might have been better prepared. if only those people who decide it's a good idea to go to the forums and whine about being recruitment scammed had thought to read our alliance diplomat's in-game description, then perhaps they might have been better prepared. if only those people who decide it's a good idea to go to the forums and whine about being recruitment scammed had thought to visit to our website, then perhaps they might have been better prepared.eve search - goonswarm recruitmenteve search - goonwaffe recruitmenteve online - goonswarm federationeve online - vile ratgoogle - goonswarm recruitmentgoogle - goonwaffe recruitmentgoonfleet wiki - joining goonswarmall of the above links are publicly viewable by anyone who looks."
"oh god if you fall for the goon recruitment scam you really need to do diaf (in game)what is it, 2006?also the vile rat link doesn't show anything two shots but here's what his bio says for those of you who still don't get it"
"correct. my point was not that the scams aren't easily findable. and quite frankly i don't have a problem with it. people who get scammed deserve it. my point is your leader is calling csm candidates liars and hypocrites which is hypocritical on his part because he heads an alliance that lies. despite whether or not it is allowed or ones view on it, favorable on my part. it's a game. if someone is going to lie and scam and it's within the game eula, which it is, it is still lying. and to head an organization that allows it (lying to scam) is hypocritical. therefore there is no ground to stand on calling others liars and hypocrites. therefore, for me , it null and voids any legitimacy to this campaign. that's what i'm saying two."
"he's caught onto us!"
"the alliance itself is actually very open about not tolerating scamming by its directors, recruiters or ceos. you can't say the entire alliance are scammers because a few members decide to take some idiots for a ride to get carrier killmails and a few mil isk. that's like saying i'm a murderer because someone was murdered by someone from my town"
"your town killed my family and raped my dog."
"or we could back up even further to the point where people can't differentiate between in-game and \"real life\".perhaps i should clarify that recruitment scamming & such constitute \"in-game\" asshattery and the csm is unrelated. all the posts about the nc \"taking over the csm to bend the game to their interests\" or equivalent drivel are some of the dumbest things i have ever read. (in fact the game is already skewed greatly in our favor and yet we are still advocating a fix, see previous discussion of tech moons.)every 0.0 bloc perceives the stagnation and barriers to entry in 0.0 just as clearly as everyone in this thread coming up with laughable conspiracy theories, and we don't enjoy the end results too much either. the difference is we actually understand why it is happening. (something that mittani does much more than me, which is why i will be voting for him despite his horrible posting style.)"
"i'm going to collect intelligence, make some calls and probably wing it from there. how hostile ccp will be may depend on the composition of the csm; the best approach may be a subtle one, outside the formal process rather than one that involves meeting minutes. it might be best done within a formal process but i doubt it. most legislation is theatre irl, with the real drama done in the back rooms before a vote. one of the easiest fixes and one that seems extremely obvious to me is just to get the whole csm on skype/conference call during their biweekly meetings, they apparently do not do this at all and i suspect that's part of the reason why they had rings run around them. i've been talking to mynxee to get a brain-dump from her about her views on the problemsthe biggest issue that i can see - and this is a theory, we're at the spitball stage here - is that the issues we see in terms of unbalanced, half-finished game combined with schizophrenic shiny feature-chasing is not the disease itself, but the symptom of an archaic corporate culture, and organization problem within ccp itself where best practices don't exist/aren't communicated. if this is the case past csms have been playing whack-a-mole at the symptoms, which new idiocies are spawned every day by the structural problems. dunno if this is real though, just a hunch (my hunches are p. good)"
"this is an awesome post because this dude completely lost his ****1. i'm conniving. i'm not going to bang my fist on the table. like i said in the previous post, i'll do what it takes to forge an effective advocacy group. that probably involves a lot of work on the down low. you blurt out a bunch of dumb **** about how the ~straw mitten~ who lives in your brain will behave, but it's obvious that you know nothing about me or how i work; anyone who's played this game for more than a year knows that i never choose the direct or obvious route. 2. you're mad about scamming in eve online, you should probably play a different game"
"in other 'mittani is a liar' news, i used a zizek quote in our alliance description even though i can't stand zizek or lacan booyah"
"do you guys even realise that the main issues csm6 will be called to give feedback on are going to be a possible incursion iteration followed by captain's quarters and incarna iterations thereafter. anything major sov-related is probably at least a year away if then.as far as i can tell your only expertise in those areas is pretending they don't exist.your posturing about what you're going to do about sovereignty to your own voting block is no different then the people who say they're going to fix faction warfare or blasters or whatever. i know it's pointless to try to reason with you people on this particular subject but sov warfare is not the core gameplay of eve. it's all expansion content and mostly expansion content that is old and in the past and not really a priority right now as far as ccp is concerned.also \"chasing shiny things\" is what took ccp out of the disaster that was eve's launch and gave them the constant slow growth no other mmo on the market has ever managed. they're not going to go into maintenance mode and lose that edge so that their population can slowly start to die off just because of a few bitter vets."
"i don't really see anyone posturing about doing something about it so much as knowing a single goddamn thing about it.hey if sovereignty doesn't come up for a while, oh well, but at least there will be some people on the csm who can provide intelligent feedback about how ccp's terrible ideas will affect it. (see: technetium, jump bridges)"
"that guy thinks that ccp follows a structured development process and doesn't just randomly brainstorm ideas (many of which are bad) outside of their scheduled releasesheh"
"i, for one, think that ccp should remove jump bridges and remove local (or even delay it).this will make 0.0 a completely tedious place to live and everyone and their brother will have a bot out there, because **** actually living there."
"i did, actually, particularly in the last para. you just either didn't read it or didn't understand it.csm5 showed us that if you listen to eve online players, capture their concerns and suggestions, and then present this as real, factual data and metrics, ccp will listen. you start every sentence with the phrase, \"the players have told us that...\" rather than \"i think that...\" trebor's efforts on crowd-sourcing was an excellent example of this in action.my particular means of gathering player suggestions and concerns is going to be through round-tables. i'll be holding three before the election, on three topics: empire war-decs, jump mechanics, and pvp blobs. if i'm elected, i'll have follow-on round-tables throughout my term. i'll also be following player discussion on the assembly hall very closely, and reminding ccp of past agreements they have made with past csms."
"unimaginative character name, awesome csm delegate."
"my first version wasn't nearly as good. but my wife is an artist, and she helped me tweak it.better that than the other way around!"
"perhaps i'm missing something but there is nothing about how the winner is actually chosen."
"my current thinking is to generate a randomized list of the entries, then pick a winning random number using crowd interaction at fanfest -- generate a random digit string (rolling a dice, or calling out digits) and modulo it with the number of entries.at that time, we won't know the size of the prizes, but that can be announced later.if anyone has a better idea, i'm open to it."
"vote trebor daehdoow!!(cos he is awesome!!)edit for content: now if you could push for changes to the science and industry ui, it might be you this time getting the livestock! you pretty much have backed what i would have backed so as my representative you have done a stellar job!awesomeness..."
"well, there have been broad hints dropped that the change to the 64-bit inventory system will finally make it possible to do things like properly badging bpos and bpcs, and that might lead to some improvements in s&i.as someone who ran a complete triple-orca research & production pipeline in a hisec pos for a year, it's certainly something i'd personally like to see.ps: with regards to the livestock, appreciate the thought, but my \"tastes\" lie in other directions."
"i am just gonna get more people to vote for you.without entering that isk thingy of your's. i will point them out to it so if they wanna participate then fine."
"out of curiosity, how will you deal with the possibility of - should you get elected - select other csm members confusing the concept of accountability with hurf blurf, emo or fists on a table (you know what i mean). accountability is one thing, the other stuff has made ccp run away consistantly as well a caused much kneejerking over the years. it usually only ends up in social engineering, which at best gives no results (look at mazziliu and elvenlord) and at worst makes ccp throw their company values even harder out of the window.and as a second question, how would you deal with repeat occurances of ccp running for the hills the moment csm does not agree with them (like they did with incarna) and isolates the csm while still feeding it all to the media. the only instruments you have there are those that hilmar emphasised (transparancy, communication), but that means keeping all occurances within the public view, which is not liked by some parts of ccp. it's a tough thing to approach."
"agreed, hence my proposal to iterate on wis so that pvp is in it. if you check my initial post with a link in this thread (and ignore the trolls in the linked thread), it goes to an 'elevator proposal' thread that mynxee suggested i started, and the op of that thread links to a mechanics thread."
"ccp abathur... i mean seleene, you have my axe!"
"about mei have been an active eve player for well over 3 years with near daily activity in game and with extensive understanding of most areas of game play.i have run both high sec carebear/industrial corp and corp/alliance that lived out in 0.0. i was highlighted as a key leader of the alliance when e-on published an article on us.i understand what it means to live in both empire and in 0.0, i have done both (with various toons) for years. i have experienced market trade work, research, invention, t1/t2 manufacturing, mining, pos management, small and large scale pvp. my main point is i have been around and i know what this game is about.in the real world im a senior it architect, a person whos used to identifying and resolving complex challenges on a daily basis and leading people. driving progress and holding people accountable. i do feel i can translate my years of professional experience into real progress for our community.why am i running?over the years there i have seen so many change to eve, some great some not so great. some are great starts but are never evolved. i really enjoy this game and really look forward to ccps long term goal of a fully immersive sci-fi simulator. i want to be a part of that progress and ensure its done in a way that aligns with the communitys desires.the csm and me.anyone that has paid attention for more than 5 seconds knows that the csm members cant go in and demand certain feature or things be added/removed. csm is to serve as a sounding board to ensure that ccps directions are on track with what we as a community want. so please dont sit here and post i will vote for you if you promise xyz. the csm is used to help mold and align ccps plans not set ultimate direction. while in some cases the csm does help stress the importance of certain areas, chances are only made if ccp agrees. csm does not get to do what it wants, and a csm member can not promise you anything beyond their abilities. so dont believe them if they do.my campaign objectivesas i stated above, csm cant force results to specific items, they can however help ccp understand the impacts and present ideas and brainstorm possible solutions. if you feel my stance on a specific issue is relevant to your vote, please ask and i will tell you whether i endorse a specific thing or not.to that end, here are a few important areas i feel need some/continued attention.here are my campaign focus points* address lag issues through better game mechanics* hybrid/gallente balancing* black ops boost* capital/super capital balancing* fix low sec (lets make it worth being there for more than just pirates)* ensuring old features are not left out to die (ccp is starting to do this, lets make sure it continues)* fixing poss (to many things to list)* getting rid of macro/bots* hold ccp accountable to the player community (their customers)why vote for mevoting for me will put your vote towards professional leader and experienced player that wants to work to make eve all that i know it can be. as i discussed i want to focus on the large overall game mechanics instead of a few individual topics. i want to play my role to help facilitate progress from the csm and ccp.not just for null secyes, my main character has spent most of its life in null sec and low sec, but my various alts have been involved in research, trading, manufacturing, mining, invention, pretty much every other part. i am not campaigning to just protect the interests of null sec, i'm here to represent the eve player regardless of play style and location. i have good in-game friends that very from hardcore pvp types, to those that are afraid to to even loose a ship regardless of reason. and i feel i can properly address those concerns that are most important to you."
"added 2/28/2011people have asked about my last bullet\"hold ccp accountable to the player community (their customers)\"i would like to give you 2 different but related topics where accountability does not exist.1.) cyno effect - since the day ccp change the cyno effect people have spoken up. overall the community wants it back (or better). i feel ccp should at the very least be accountable to step up and formal state.. yes we are willing to discuss/change, or no we are not changing it (for whatever reason). instead we have thread after thread of the same thing over and over.2.) black ops - the issue here is the same. im not going to discuss the options. after well over 1 year (prolly 2) there have been hundreds of threads, many active for over a year. my problem here is ccp delivers a product (eve) and a part of that product (black ops) doesnt work in the way the customer base expects. whats worse is you have the community begging to make them usable versus something thats simply not used like t2 plates because theres something better for the job. i think at the very least ccp needs to be accountable to address these types reoccurring issues. either start some dev blogs to inform the community they are working on it if its complicated like black op, or just post a sticky thread where ccp can put formal responses. so after that every time a person says: we want old cyno effect they can just be pointed to that thread and its ended."
"hi i have delt with you as a \"care bear\" for a long time. you helped me when i first whent into t2 production. high sec is also broken as far as pierats on gates. i as a player think that the csm should brouch the subject with ccp as a persinatent problem. shoul you get on the csm i as you to try to get in in the talk topics."
"i can agree with you that something needs to be done to 'fix' low-sec. i cannot see any advantage to living in or playing in low-sec over high-sec or null-sec, except for the ability to crow about how awesome your -10 security status is. some sort of major incentive or bottleneck resource needs to exist low-sec to make it livable and worth inhabiting, while at the same time not detracting from high-sec or null-sec. i do not know what could be done about this, nor do i believe you or anyone else running for csm does. but here's to hoping."
"well in all honesty there are generally benefits to being in high sec or 0.0high sec - you can relatively safely mine or manufacture with minimal risk. while you can't moon mine, ratting and manufacturing can be done to a point where the volume easily makes it worth it. (ok maybe not ratting)for example.. you can easily spend 3 hours mining ore in high sec and while that same 3 hours in low sec might produce more profit the risk doesn't make it worth it. loosing 1 hulk will literally counter any potential profit for days if not longer. ratting is the same way.. the profits dont always justify the risk.0.0 - if alliance owned, you can get a certain level of safety, or really a certain level of safety just due to the low population. ore and rat values are such that you can recover the loss of a ship in just a few hours.there are many potential options such as making some items only available in low sec, which would increase their value making it worth the risk to go after them, or making certain items only available here. right now anything available in low sec can be gotten in 0.0 with much less risk, so there is no drive to use low sec. there are also some very radical (paradigm changing) options that might reduce the risk to low sec carebears instead of only increasing the reward. any of which are probably not very relevant at this point.crunchytwit, i will touch base with you in game to ensure i understand your concern before addressing it here."
"draco can fight a bear with his bare hands and once killed an elephant just by peeing on it. vote for him."
"good campaign, best of luck"
"so i suppose i'm not getting your vote huh?"
"historic precedent suggests there are few grounds for concern about the csm's ability to control ccp policy, even if every seat was occupied by equally obnoxious clones of the mittani. it's apparently hard enough just to get a few tweaks to game mechanics, let alone affect policy."
"nah, they won't control ccp policy, even they are not naive enough to think ccp are blind to their manipulation and would listen to a one-sided csm.they panicked because csm5 managed to get ccp to pay attention and they just want to undo that work and sink csm back into the irrelevancy of previous years so it can be ignored again."
"vile rat once banned me from the deklein intel channel and i'm still going to vote for him."
"vile rat, your hypocrisy is amazing, it is up to players if they wish to end bloc warfare, ccp doesnt force you to nap so explain wtf you are talking about here.when goons / nc have made it their mission to control all of 0.0, nothing is forcing you to reset instead you encourage more naps, it has been leaked already what your csm mission is, to control all seats so it is easier to make isk and rmt in 0.0 and prevent pvp.saying that no doubt your blind monkey will vote for you, just because you snap your fingers, lucky for players ccp doesnt listen to csm and accept that you will get your jump bridges removed!"
"vile rat best rat. please fix my eve."
"you're so full of **** that it's coming out of your ears."
"in the interest of balance within the csm and to ensure that all views are fairly represented on the csm, i think it's good that you're running and wish you the best for your campaign.i will certainly not agree with all of your ideas, but then for me that's the point of having a mixed csm and not just one powerblock of say hi-sec, or 0.0 people."
"just so you know, the average goon hates that we're blue with everyone that's anywhere near us. from what i hear spoken of from people who understand the game a lot better than i do, the presence of the existing number of super-capital ships in certain alliances makes it pretty much suicidal for the alliances that are already blue to them to reset them."
"i don't hate anything but supercapitalsand i love jump bridgeshey vile rat i'll vote for you buddy"
"you are not the average goon. you are h. ratli smriks, bona fide good poster.can you confirm that a vote for vile rat is a vote for good posts?"
"hahahahahahahahahahaha, if this were the case then goons alone would have reset nc back in 2009 instead kept them blue because bob might come back wtf, as long as theres no risk involved in naping half of eden everyone will do it.dont get me wrong i know drf and it did it too but i find it funny how vile rat says he will fix it considering every previous csm from nc has said the same thing and only promoted it.the whole purpose of removing jump bridges was so conflicts could arise locally and it would be difficult for a few active directors in a powerbloc to hold so much space, thats why your leaders and every other nc leader is angry at the suggested change because in effect it makes naps pointless due to travelling and maintenance of space without ease.oh and only because someone will say it.yes 0.0 was dead before jump bridges but its also dying now, the population has been going down and down as bots and supercaps goes up, jump bridges didnt make 0.0 even remotely more habitable, 0.0 has been growing at a steady rate until dominion and then started to go down.logistics wont be harder for smaller alliances, what will be hard is getting a mega blob from a - b and being able to suck up all that moon goo, ccp mentioned this already.as a result people will start focusing on fighting people 5 - 10 jumps away instead of 50 jumps away.then maybe goons can actually go back to their roots.but thats besides the point, nc want to control all seats either directly or indirectly and considering some of the stuff the nc csm candidates have said it makes you wonder if they even play eve at all."
"edit: because i cannot wait 2 minutes to add more words!i don't think you understood my post.i said that the average goon dislikes that we're blue to everyone. the average goon does not make alliance-level decisions.if the average goon made alliance-level decisions, then we would all be flying free dramiels until the alliance wallet ran dry.... wait a second!"
"i do think it is bad people are being stereotyped based on which alliance they are in but lets face it, you are who your friends are or should i say best friends are."
"my best friend doesn't play mmo games because they are a waste of time."
"you're aware at the beginning of the fountain campaign, we would regularly fly 20-30 jumps to the titan system, and then bridge the last few jumps (usually on top of the objective or near a pos)?jump bridges are used for the common joe in alliances, hardly for force projection. you'd just be making the day to day in 0.0 a lot ****tier.also, the reason many hate jump bridges is due to looking at the nc's jump bridge set-up, which i can agree is hilariously convoluted.is this a problem with jump bridges? nope. it's a problem stemming from technetium, which everyone can agree needs a nerf.seriously, **** technetium."
"obviously titan bridges need a nerf, too."
"e: e"
"i understand your concern, but there is no need to worry that much. i feel like i did not express my position clearly enough :in short (back to the original question) i don't think presenting a unified voice to ccp requires a lot of concessions amongst the csm members. this unified voice is important. i did not imply that i would take a tangential stance in any issue, what i meant was : i will make sure that the stance presented by the csm is as thoroughly and carefully selected as possible. it's a two-step process :when the csm is internally debating, i have good hope that the csm representatives being sound and reasonable people, wishing to represent all players and not their sole interest, a consensus on what stance the csm should adopt can be reached on most issues.in the (hopefully rare) case that a reasonable consensus cannot be reached, what i meant was : it will be crucial to make sure that in the finally selected stance, all the (sometimes contradictory) opinions will be reflected, so that no-one is forgotten. i don't see this a fractured message, but as a complete one, and possibly suggesting ccp that some consequences of a particular change were overlooked. this is the kind of input they are bound to appreciate, as they use scrum method.when the csm is reporting to ccp, there will be only one message, possibly containing the word \"but\", which will encompass all the representatives' (and, incidentally, players) point of view.a good example was the recent discussion about the captain's quarters. \"we think it's a great idea for immersion and showcasing your new tech, and it would also improve the npe, but this should not make any existing process more tedious : for example, no need to walk through all the station to speak to an agent.\"perhaps some csm representatives, focused on immersion / enjoying the eye candy or focused on the kind of content this could bring, overlooked this particular point. but in the end, they presented ccp with a \"yes, but\"-type answer, which is exactly what i intend to do.the csm doesn't have the power to make ccp steer completely the game design to other topics or to refuse any new feature. but we can make sure every interest of the players is taken into account when we report about those.\"microtransactions ? yes, but only vanity items.\"...it was the type of answers provided by the csm 5, which was, so far, the csm advancing the most in terms of relationship with ccp, transparency, and efficiency.what i implied in my answer was : i will just make sure no \"but\" is forgotten. ('cause sometimes, you know, people have huge buts)"
"one of the issues that the csm will have to talk with ccp about will (assuming it's not already patched into oblivion before they're elected) is the nature of jb's/cynos/jump freighters/etc... i think it may very well be detrimental to have a csm delegate who doesn't know anything about how those work or, worse, have a mistaken impression about them. put it this way, if highsec ganking was an issue you felt was important and one of the csm's said that his position was that everything should stay as it is because \"it's impossible to gank anything in empire bigger than a shuttle\", would you feel confident voting for them?"
"i think that roc's campaign has an interesting perspective. he's approaching it from a different angle to many players could. the thing to remember here is that this is a council or representatives, not a single representative.i'm essentially a hi sec carebear, (nb i've been in null sec and will eventually go back, i also plan to try wormholes) however, i would not refuse to vote for a candidate who was a ninja salvager for example, even if their gamestyle directly conflicts with mine. the csm needs to be balanced by having lots of differing opinions - a council full of the same people will fail worse than a titan pilot hitting jump instead of bridge :p"
"i believe (rightly or wrongly) that the csm needs to have a good mix of people in. as essentially a hi sec carebear (i've been in null recently and have experienced jump bridges on my overview, but not as a beacon like a cyno which is what i think roc is referring to).as a carebear, i would not refuse to vote for a ninja salvager as i believe eve is what it is because of the diversity of players and gamestyles. i believe that roc's experiences could add a unique benefit to csm6 - and remember he will be one voice amongst many, not the only voice.if he is voted on, i'm sure he will face much frustration and disappointment as some things he thinks are important are simply voted down or not seriously discussed due to other topics needing to be covered. i also think that, despite his ic person being an arrogant and mildly sexist guy, i also think his passion and enthuasism for the game will make him a good candidate.i'm also open to change and have not yet decided where my votes will go, so keep posting your manifesto roc, and come vote day best of luck, whether i vote for you or not"
"there's nothing wrong with having a mix of players (in general).in specific, however, if that mix of players has members who are ignorant of key issues that will be very important for the csm to tackle, it's not good. iirc, meissa is pretty carebeary. he seems like a good person to support if you like that sort of thing."
"politics is fun. let's go with that.so far, i've been misquoted, had ideas twisted around to be interpreted to suit someone else's point of view, been labelled as things and accused of things completely untrue.i must be doing something right.let me reiterate again the important parts, as some people seem to only digest the parts they want to:1. i am not interested in being an amateur game developer. i simply show examples of ideas to illustrate that i am a thinking candidate and not a puppet.2. i don't know everything about eve. having jump bridges show up on overview may not be a solution, but as has been noted, csm should be comprised of several individuals with differing experiences. if other csm can intelligently debate the pros and cons of a proposed solution, then i am open to learning more about this game i love.3. roc is roc, a character. i am not roc. this refers to a term called roleplay that obviously several people don't understand. i'm sorry for your ignorance.4. as i have stated clearly in my eve api blog post, i have zero interest in monetizing capsuleer. that app is dead and shall not be resurrected so get over it already.5. at the end of the day, nothing the csm recommends or fights for/against may be successful. so why do it? because i can. i can stand up and intelligently fight. i can eloquently defend my positions with experience and candor. i can. and if voted in, i will.what i will not engage in is silly arguments with close minded individuals that believe they know me, or know about me, but honestly have taken neither the time nor interest to read anything beyond what they wish to make of me. that's fine, and you're entitled to your life, and your vote, but please don't expect me to engage you directly unless you're genuinely interested in my positions on issues regarding csm, and how i hope to serve the community best.for those of you continuing to be supportive, i thank you for taking the time to understand my intentions in this campaign, and appreciate the effort you put in to spreading the word to #rocthevote"
"he is also a terrorist"
"this is a non sequitor. players can have differing experiences and still understand core issues that will be of central importance for the next csm.there are many important issues that the csm will have to discuss with ccp. not knowing about the most basic facts of the key issues is not okay just because others on the csm will have that experience. in point of fact, those who have that experience are the ones who should be voted in rather than having to compensate for a csm delegate who can't pull their own weight. since you're discussing it, you've already got dev cred for creating the app in the first place and making it so successful. you could most likely parley that into employment or at least resume experience. so ccp won't pay you for it, okay. why not open-source it so the eve playerbase can benefit from it?"
"capsuleer will not be part of my campaign discussions, as i have gone over this repeatedly.the only thing i will mention regarding open source is that it is not simply a matter of going open source... i agree basic mechanics of gameplay are important, but i also believe that if a csm delegate has never research data cores, it shouldn't be something held against their contributions to the csm."
"well manalapan, i have looked over your proposals and am is 100% agreement with your standpoints and proposed revamps of current game mechanicsim voting for ya ^^"
"people posted legitimate reasons why the change was a bad idea, and he admitted that he hadn't thought of those things at first, and that they had changed his mind. you would prefer someone who would continue backing a bad idea even after being given many good reasons why it should not be implemented? what purpose would that serve? how could that possibly be seen as a good quality to have for someone who is going to help shape the future of eve? and when did you first realize that you don't actually like eve?all of the dishonest methods of earning isk (scamming, pirating, stealing, etc.) are important parts of the game, and help separate eve from the lesser mmos. i would never support a csm candidate who didn't endorse these aspects of eve, as removing any or all of them could seriously hurt, if not kill, the game."
"i'm sorry, i asked you how you were going to help new corps get into 0.0 without help from well equipped and funded alliances. your answer is that you want to make the logistics of moving harder? i also asked you how you would increase the incentives for being there. i can mine (mostly) afk in perfect safety in empire, build at low costs with almost no waiting times, and transport minerals, and product, with absurd ease. the draws to nullsec for me are idealogical. i think it should be fun, and exciting. but when i try and figure out the reality it is nigh on impossible to make a case to be there. unless you are in an alliance with access to multiple outposts, which misses the point of wanting to have fun in a backend system with a small group of mates."
"having spent most of this afternoon reading the forums here, i'm thinking that this csm election might be really interesting to follow.i'm not trolling, but am starting to find it difficult to take seriously the constant trolling of other csm candidates by certain people.i have three accounts and intend to use the votes for a mixed csm, not for a csm based entirely on one part of the eve world, namely 0.0the csm will be much richer with people like mike, roc and arden involved as it will have multiple perspectives. it will no doubt also benefit from some serious 0.0 representatives like vile rat. i only have 3 votes and will decide who to vote for when the election takes places, but we all play eve, and the chance for the csm to have the experience of trebor, the insight of working with ccp out of game with roc, the antics and game mechanic knowledge of somebody like arden, the more carebear side of hi sec influence of mike and the 0.0 powerblocks like vile rat could make for a really exciting and powerful csm.dominating the csm with all0.0 people will mean an instant fail.congrats on standing arden, and best of luck with your campaign."
"no i don't actually know since all you said was:which doesn't actually say anything other then armor is too slow, in your opinion. also, armor is fine."
"yes, so basically thats what i'd change about armor, the speed penalties. failing that, a slight increase to the base speed/flexibility of gallente hulls or the ability to reach their top speed faster than anyone else would be fine."
"i endorse this product and/or service."
"just checking in to look over peoples grammar and spelling"
"yes they should, you havent explain what you would change or do to allow thisbecause?because?we have incursions already :pmarauders are still heavily used in pve situations from missions to whs and although black ops can do with a buff they still fill a rolelol norebalanced? how? bad choice of words tbhyeah revamp mining and all forms of npcing, it has been asked many times, ever wonder why there isnt invention bots, manufacturing bots, pi bots, exploring bots, cyno bots, pvp bots, pos gunner bots.fw more profitable, omg lol you know fw is the best and easiest way to make isk and brings in the more isk than everything except lvl 5s :pyes it doesyes it does, how would you go about making this happen?i like how 0.0 alliance leaders criticised empire yet fail to even understand how things work, just because you have an oversized blob empire on the sov map doesnt mean you know how everything works in this game.saying that i see goonswarm in your name so i expect you to be voted for despite commenting on stuff so badly"
"i think you're missing the point of the csm. i'm not going to be able to tell ccp how, exactly, to implement game changes. what i can do on the csm is highlight issues, and provide feedback on the things they are doing. the value of me pointing out that say, marauders are only used in some pve settings and blackops ships in certain 0.0 logistics settings and that that is quite a niche area compared to the t2 frigates and cruisers, is more likely to start a discussion than coming to the table with how maurauders need xyz, and blackops need abc. you'll notice, to once again use that particular point as an example, in my point i don't use the word \"maurauders\" or \"blackops\" anywhere, but refer simply to the class of t2 battleships. any solution to that issue is going to be hampered by focusing on what we have right now, and not enough on why we are looking at that particular issue, namely the very large chasm in abilities of a t1 battleship and a t1 carrier/dread. this is an area that a t2 battleship could fit into.my list of eleven points is a list of eleven generalities that are sourced from a general viewpoint. i'm not here to make specific recommendations to ccp, and promises to you. i'm here to show you the type of feedback i'll be giving ccp.if there is one thing that comes out of the csm5, it's that the most effective way to work with ccp is to take their ideas, and tailor them to fit how the game \"should\" be. one of the most fitting examples of that was the discussions covering micro-transactions. ccp has a business need for them, the sandbox economy of the game would be devistated by them. we had a csm, that rather than slamming their fist on the table and saying \"microtransactions bad!\", came back with \"well, there are a number of vanity things you can give players the ability to buy, that wouldn't affect gameplay. that would work.\"this is what the csm needs to do."
"so basically you want to be a messenger providing feedback, no different to what obsidian hawk is doing in assembly hall.by all means go back on everything you have said and explain why theres an issue, obviously you can ignore the botting issue since it is obvious how that hurts the game but i would like to hear how you feel certain things are so broken that a t2 orca / salvage drone can fix it csm has no place for people who want to sit in the back take notes and smile, the problem with this years election is everyone is applying for the sake of applying and judging by awful comments by say you and mittani it is obvious you guys have no clue about eve let alone 0.0.but its fine im sure when it comes to votes your ticker is all that matters"
"i think i've pretty clearly delineated that there are two things the csm can and should be doing.1) highlighting problems with the current state of the game.2) providing feedback on the future changes that ccp brings to them, in order to help them tweak those changes.i have never seen a proposal that started with the csm saying \"we think x is broken and you need to do y to fix it\" ever working out. highlighting that x is broken gets the problems onto ccp's radar if it wasn't already. ccp's designers have a better handle on what the ancient spaghetti python code is capable of doing. when they propose a change, that's when the csm comes back into play. i don't bot. i don't like botting. i don't like the mittani's decision to take a laissez faire approach to botting in the goon's region of space. i don't like what botting does to the economy of the game. it was point #8.as to those particular examples, with the introduction of the noctis, salvaging has become a popular side profession for a number of people. salvage drones would be something that would \"fit\" with that. a t2 orca would provide a \"step up\" from an orca, which by all accounts is wildly popular, for the small corporations that use them as a centerpiece ship. how is that bad? the mittani has dictated that he and vile rat will be the two goons to receive the votes from goonswarm.please don't let his awful comments affect your perception of me."
"ok, so i think that the current csm have done a brilliant job. i haven't agreed with all their calls, but then i shouldn't as not everybody plays this sandbox how i do and if i agreed with everything, then be definition i think they' be doing a bad job.so if you get elected, following on from the excellent work of csm5, can i ask the following questions:1. what 3 small things would you want to see fixed as a high priority. i'm talking about things like the recent quick wins such as dragging directly into cans (although is it just me insofar that you can't split a stack this way?)2. what 3 long term things would you like to see (not on the broad scale of \"fix low sec\", but for example removal of jump bridges (i'm not in favour btw) or t3 frigates,3. if you were elected to csm6, have you thought of a strategy to avoid the \"burn out\" that seems to affect so many of the previous delegates, as it saddens me to see some of them affected in this way.keep blogging and best of luck for the elections."
"turns out this was all true, you can already see the slimy nc trying to take over everything, perhaps to make up for having no power as a child.a vote for nc is a vote for combat free 0.0vote for prom!how can anyone vote for mittani when he blatantly says he wants to make eve worse, remove pvp from 0.0 and punish people in lowsecfont size removed as per the forum rules.steviesg"
"this game - your game - is under attack.as leaked in various websites, at the upcoming csm election youre about to see the single biggest powerbloc eve's ever known launch a cynical, deliberate and manipulative attempt to seize control of the csm. the northern coalition and their partners goonswarm are no longer content with managing most of 0.0. (and the hundreds of billions of isk they receive weekly). theyre now conniving to take control of your council.theyll use the information gained under non-disclosure agreement to wheedle every possible in-game advantage, exploiting the privileged access to safeguard their own political interest.worst of all theyll almost certainly succeed. the nc and goonswarm will use massive block voting (carefully co-ordinated between member corporations) to ensure this. theyll have tens of thousands of votes available at the drop of a hat, and squash out strong minded independent candidates like me.im going to make some predictions about what well see in this campaign.* numerous nc / goon alliance leaders standing - leadership types, not 'average joe' members - to ensure that their players toe the line while voting.* slick spin doctors and media manipulators attempting to present their takeover as the mavericks against the establishment. nc / goonswarm no are the establishment, and to pretend otherwise is now ludicrous.* wheedling between these candidates, meetings behind closed doors, to steer the campaign* organised forum campaigns to smear opponent candidates it cant possibly be good to have a single group controlling all the assets in game and the mechanism for influencing the devs. its therefore, with a sense of duty, that i stand for csm.primarily, my purpose is to disrupt the 'jobs for the boys' mafia taking control of your game. however i will also take the opportunity of candidacy to champion:- zero tolerance stance on botting- a major 'community' refocus within eve - enabling app development, social media tools, and open architecture.- revitalisation of empire warfarei'm also committed to representing the voice of the silent majority in eve. unlike most candidates i will not be representing any one alliance, political view or self-interest. i will be encouraging the whole of the eve community to vote for what they feel is most important. find out more on my campaign website."
"reserved"
"reserved"
"with the same caveat of running against helen i hope he and i are both elected as watching helen over the past csm's has done nothing but impress me in both skill and thoughtful nature.but i would still like some votes as well. we are electing a council, not president.m"
"does this make 5 goon candidates ?"
"anybody can sit and just shoot down ideas. sorry but there is a plethora of other candidates that have more motivation than, \"vote for me so i can shoot down all ideas non-stop.\""
"there's a difference between just flinging **** around and spending the time to come up with compelling arguments for or against an idea. if you think that protecting eve from bad ideas isn't important then read the first couple of pages of the assembly halls forum and try to imagine what the game would be like if they were all implemented.as i said in my post and on my campaign site, ideas aren't really important. anyone who says that they have great ideas on how to fix eve is going to be disappointed when they reach the csm. anyone who says that they will make ccp sort out <issue du jour #65826> is either not paying attention or is just trolling for populist votes from voters who aren't paying attention. what is important for a csm delegate is a strong and comprehensive knowledge of the game so that when ideas are floated you can provide clear and useful feedback on them. most of the time that clear and useful feedback comes down to 'this idea is bad for these reasons'. that isn't the same as 'shooting down all ideas non-stop' rather it's pointing out that there are consequences that haven't been considered and the idea needs to be refined or reconsidered. a delegate who can do this is 100% more useful than a delegate who has a bunch of really neat ideas on how to fix blasters or how to redesign the sovereignty system. and this is what i do professionally."
"i'm trying to run for csm, but i can tell even this early that i'm not doing well.honestly i'm doing badly. there is really about 3 or 4 seats up for election this time around, depending on who you talk to. the \"great 0.0 powerblocks\" are instructing all of their members on who to vote for in order to focus their votes into 5 or 6 candidates, ensuring that they get enough to win seats. they don't have a majority of voters, but they can line up their voters to make their votes count.i am not one of those candidates, despite being in goonswarm.that being said, i'm honestly running to promote idea that the in-game economy is the most important aspect of eve. i'd like to think i have the same general agenda as the majority of the people here. i'd think that would be something the people here could get behind.i don't have an effective gimmick, so there won't be any mlm-style campaign. i think my ideas are decent, but i also don't feel any kind of name recognition from anyone not on this board. i can focus my message, but i'm not quite sure where i should be going to get that message out there.so what i'm saying is, i'm a candidate who's not going to win unless i get some help. either with ideas or with your advocacy.what should i be saying differently, now that you've seen my message?what's important that i missed? and finally, if anyone can help me with introductions to some of the empire manufacturing and research alliances, i'd love to talk to them."
"you have my vote if you can bring \"change\"."
"the only change i can really promise you is that someone on the csm will have an understanding on the in game economy, and make that their focus.and post here a ton."
"i can let you borrow my over-sized banner add :-pgimmick - vote kalrand, 1. isk never sleeps and neither will he!2. isk talks and bullsh!t walks3. he's too big to fail!4. vote dollar-democracy! (doesn't translate to isk well :-/ )5. locate other candidates, setup alts and make it appear they've scammed your alts or otherwise been un csm-ly. negative campaign till new eden freezes over!/me done"
"already outlined the following in signatures:the central question is to what degree kalrand (or any other md candidate) would be able to convince the other csm members to prioritize economy-related issues over other more \"mainstream\" topics.i have no doubt that many of the other csm candidates have no issue with saying \"sure, we'll add your agenda somewhere near the end of your list of requests if you support us here, here and here\" but for csm to be effective it has to concentrate on very few core messages and i have serious doubts that kalrand will manage to get the points on his agenda in there.another (more personal) impression is that kalrand seems to agree in many points with the agenda of the 0.0-backed candidates - this renders the \"i will support them on their topics if they support me with my economy-related proposals\" argument moot.his threat to vote against csm proposals he does personally support just because his \"tit for tat\" demands have not been met would not be credible. in order to trade votes on csm proposals you have to appear to make sacrifices - otherwise you don't have anything to trade with.in short, i don't think md's pet proposals are capable of winning a majority and while it is not necessary to convince the majority of voters in order to get one candidate into csm it is necessary to convince the majority of csm members to support these proposals in order to get anything done.if you want to make your votes count, allocate your votes based on mainstream issues which could get a majority of voters and csm members alike - chances are you won't see much tangible results of having a minority candidate in csm.edit:in case this isn't clear enough from the paragraphs above: my suggestion would be that if you want to vote for kalrand, you should do so based on his kugu, not on his md, agenda."
"that it's more about who you are than what you're saying. people don't vote for douchey gasbag losers.so who would that be? surely you jest if you mean yourself..."
"quoted for hypocrisy"
"i think most of this overestimates the importance of the csm. ccp will not make their decisions based on what a majority of the csm think. at best the csm's opinions will be weighed as one, heavily skewed, way of gauging the views of the playerbase as a whole. as such, it doesn't bother me too much that kal would be aligned with a bunch of 0.0 ideas that i don't particularly support. what i would like is an md voice at the table. and it's important to realise that that is what the csm are - voices, not decision makers. someone sensible who can make compelling arguments is more likely to have some impact than a majority of csm members who ccp will be well-aware represent only a niche group of players. and the idea of having at least one person on the council who might occassionaly examine the issues from a market perspective and present that perspective to ccp is an appealling one."
"@raw my basic premise is that csm can only support a very limited number of proposals effectively and that it needs to speak with one voice in order to be heard by ccp.the csm members vote on their meetings which proposals they carry to ccp, they also dec"
"i support kal in the measure that someone can be supported. that being said, the problem i see with your platform is that you are a goon.this kills any independence because i don't think you will cross the floor to oppose them on anything. and since the focus of csm is seldom market stuff, md related stuff may not even come up for discussion. and if it did, what would you change?you need to say concisely what you would actually do, beyond fuzzy stuff like \"understand economics\". what makes a vote for you not just another vote for the 0.0 powerblocks?thats my two cents anyway.but as someone else put it, its not as if csm designs the game. at most they bring up stuff to ccp with which is can or not agree (like railguns working as intended in the recent minutes)finally you need a platform that captures the imagination for the whole game, and excel and related issues tends not to be it."
"i do tend to agree with the bulk of what's coming out of the 0.0 candidates. i also have a better understanding of the 0.0 economy than any of the other 0.0 candidates. most of them have people in their alliances to manage the books, run logistics, and otherwise handle the softer side of being in 0.0.i'm not going to be threatening to withhold my vote for what would otherwise be a good idea, simply if they ignore my proposals. what i would be able to do is explain why the things they might otherwise ignore because it \"doesn't affect them\" actually do have a second order impact on the things they care about.they are not mutually exclusive; they're two sides of the same coin written for different audiences. the effective objective is still the same."
"get lost"
"you mean irony, numbnuts."
"i edited these two points in your comment together, since they hit on the same thing.i'm running for csm. isn't that enough?the mittani can't come out and ban be from goonswarm for doing that alone, but i'm not even allowed to mention that i'm running on our own forums, or else bad things will happen to me for violating his orders not to split the vote. goons are not even supposed to know i'm running, let alone vote for me.customarily, there was always a primary within goonswarm to decide on who \"our\" candidate would be, but then suddenly it was announced that primaries would be scrapped for his \"send mittani and vile rat to iceland\" plan.honestly, i'm kind of ****ed i wasn't allowed to run internally, as i'd be better suited to run as a goon candidate than as an independent candidate who happens to be in goonswarm while there's an announced plan to \"take over the csm\".had we had an internal primary, the mittani is popular enough that he would have won, but for the second slot i doubt vile rat would have. the average goon doesn't know who he is or what he does. that's why when you look back there's always a rather random goon if it was anyone other than darius johnson. i mean, who the hell is helen highwater? ran in a primary, lost but made a good case for himself, and then won a slot during the next time around. i don't see why i couldn't do that. i'd be delusional or an outright liar if i thought any *specific* proposal had a snowball's chance in hell of actually being implemented. i'm proposing that people vote for me for my way of looking at the things that will be covered by an nda and you can't even know about. i'm sure that's not ccp's super secret plan for fixing blasters. telling ccp what they need to change doesn't work. working with ccp on what they are going to change anyway is the way to be effective."
"on another note, this csm election feels like an election for president of some elementary school's fourth grade class where one kid is promising \"less homework and more recess!\", and i'm standing here going \"how about a bake sale once a month to buy new basketballs?\".who are people going to vote for, and what's more likely to actually work?"
"making a topic in md asking questions about csm (lets face it who could care less, personally it sounds like \"work\" but hey w/e floats your boat.)all these topics tho, makes me doubt your focus & confidence to make a decision, thus doubt your leadership qualities.you are a goon. ppl will see you to have the goon agenda. same as your bonds.disregard goons,acquire creditability."
"that's probably the first thing i'd do. hopefully i could get someone to sticky it up top.i'm a believer that a thread should be on a single topic, or sub topic if it's large enough, or changes enough. i've never seen a value in having a 20 page thread that discusses dozens of different things. they're near impossible for people to get up to speed, and very difficult to search.this allows people to focus on what's relevant now, and go back if the need to and find a page or two on a single topic.are you saying that my candidacy is good for everyone? much like my bonds?you may notice that avalloc did exactly that. he dropped out of the goonwaffe corp two weeks ago when he filled to run.personally, i thought it was a bit too hypocritical for me.edit: grammer"
"i'd consider voting for kalrand, though it depends on who else would be running.i'd definitely not vote for any of the official 0.0 lackeys.as for campaign strategy, i've heard that bugging missionrunners that ccp will nerf their profit if you don't get elected works"
"wouldn't be easier to get help from people here if you were talking about what your ideas are as candidate ?you're talking only about general things, saying you will put economy before the rest, but people will vote more easily for clear ideas than for obscure concepts.here you give me the impression that you want the place, and after you'll think about what to use it for.if you may get md voices like that, people outside md will hate this attitude. and you know well that you'll need also people from outside md block to be elected."
"take this crap where it belongs ffs - jita park/assembly hall"
"so this is basically goonfleet trying to steal md votes"
"the md elite get secret block votes so get a couple of them onside and you're home and dry."
"i kind of feel bad since you're spinning a convincing enough sob story, but you're stuck between a rock and a hard place; you have no natural constituency beyond maybe a few hundred you might get from md, and even if that was enough to get you in (it almost certainly wouldn't be), most players are probably going to dismiss you (and every other 'unofficial' goon candidate) as an attempt to split non-goon/non-nullsec-bloc votes, in line with the mittani's stated aim of ensuring \"that the nullsec bloc seizes control over the csm.\"sorry, you're f***ed.and tbh, even if you did have a chance, i think it would be profoundly unhealthy for one alliance to have three representatives on the csm."
"*shrug*i have no idea what your positions are.what am i to support if i don't know what you support? a summary, not too detailed, would be very nice of your ideas, positions, concepts, etc. doesn't have to be a wall of text, but something of a set of bullet points would help."
"oh i think i have a post like that: here."
"i think the rub for most people here, is there is absolutely no way to tell if this is a genuine vote for the market and economy in eve, or a back door vote to get another goon in the csm.for that matter, how could anyone be certain that your intentions and vote on the csm wouldn't start out genuine, but later (under pressure from those above you in goonswarm), could be manipulated for their 0.0 agenda?if you can address and win over this argument, i see no reason why md shouldn't back you."
"as the only \"md\" candidate, there's not really any choice .. if you want your vote to go toward pushing an md agenda, vote for kalrand, if you do not, then do not. it's not like you can vote for anyone else in the hope they randomly push md, at least kalrand is promising to do it whether he does in the end or not ;)as for kalrand's plea for help, tbh you will have to throw some non-md things in amongst your list and make promises of a delorean for everyone who votes, because 99% of the eve population couldn't give a **** if we have a more secure investment model or a way to create futures contracts.good luck, hope you get to enjoy an icelandic holiday sometime soon."
"the csm not only raises it's own issues, but also provides an early sounding board for ccp to get feedback from the players perspective (well the csm). this does provide the ideal opportunity for a economically minded fellow to provide an early response. \"stake a claim as the only proactive candidate heading off bad **** at the pass, while all the other candidates are just being reactive and/or defeatist\"eve's biggest economic problem is that dr. gudmundsson is looking at eve for instances were it is like it's rl economics. when what he/csm/we should be doing is pointing out where it differs. the most obvious flaw in his thinking is regarding the money supply. there is little financial leverage in eve, so whenever the economy needs to expand to embrace new content the money supply must be increased; inflation should be controlled not from reducing the supply but supplying more prestige **** to spend that isk on. stake a claim as the \"only candidate with a good grasp of the eve economics\"regarding capturing votes i think are in a catch 22 situation; on the one hand handicapped by your lack of leadership endorsement to goon block voting and scepticism from non-goons because you are a goon.when it comes to goons perhaps you need to think and act more like a goon, and resort to goon style guerilla campaign tactics. get into the other candidates threads and start slinging some faeces, preferable the bigger the target the better. if you win you will be forgiven they will be the ones coming begging to you, if you lose, well **** man your a goon.--edit--a few policies to think about, find some stuff players want or few can argue against, stuff that is not featuring prominently in other campaigns.1) make transports more accessible by reducing the skill requirement from industry v to iv. this would improve logistics all round for everybody. it would lower the barriers to players getting into low-sec.2) reducing the standing requirements for jump clones, this makes pvp more accessible, it reduces the cost of risk of low-sec accidents.anything that gets new players into low-sec early reduces the risk, reduces the fear is good for eve, yes it helps carebears but others should be able to see the benefit."
"-"
"ahhh, thank you! i'll read it over.perhaps putting the link into your signature for a short time might make it's distribution much wider and easier."
"well, i can give what help i may:take a look at mittani's piece of fluff complete with a friendly picture of him and a dog. that is how politicians do things, if i didn't know of his garbage plan to hand csm to 0.0, i would probably vote for him.yours is a series of impersonal points that are hard to relate to, not particularly relevant to the population at large, and not particularly alluring.i'd fix that. you said you have done political stuff. then turn into a politician. us vs them. populist rethoric, ccp is lying, etc. it works.second, start slinging ****. mittani supports (or doesn't care about botting) for instance. there is the garbage about making csm for null, lack of primaries, etc. all of those are valid points and if you are serious in that you are not a part of the goon block as you campaign, they are points you should press.you should also lose the \"we are not supposed to divide the goon vote\" garbage. you got ****ed, vile rat, a random scammer got your seat, or the one that would have been yours. he is getting to go to iceland, and goon support without running a primary or having to do anything other than promise to give mittens bjs. where is the outrage? where is the lovable underdog against the hipocrisy of the forces of evil?you know politics, politic.lastly, mittens \"take over csm\" is not gonna do you any favors. there is no getting around the fact that you are running as a goon on the year when mittens agenda is \"make csm a tool of the 0.0 blocks\"there, some couch strategizing."
"@abovecertainly, if someone wanted to play a game and relax from the sh!t of rl politics and logs in eve, he's for a nasty surprise. how a faithful and realistic representation of rl shoddiness that eve is....and they keep telling me i should not try find"
"the thing is that humans are the same creature irl and in the game. and there are certain things humans find alluring and convincing, and things they do not. that is true whether you are here or irl.in the end it comes down to pictures of babies, puppies, fluffy sweaters and how your opponent is the devil himself. there is, through history, little getting around thatby the way, i have read your real life finance and eve thread, and i like it."
"you can't have a campaign without a campaign team. first thing to do is to convince interns to work for you. second thing is to appeal to some vested interests who can back you with finance and influence. third thing is to get a legend or back-story about yourself. fourth, get some more realistic policies that fit in with the platform of other power blocks while having enough difference to stand out. and finally, get some controversy going - hit a nerve somewhere."
"i could teach people about how to do this"
"you know the dog in mittens's picture? he kicks that puppy.you wouldn't vote for a puppykicker, now would you?"
"most of the other candidates are chasing the 0.0 voting block. none are targeting the high-sec, industrialist, missions voting blocks which took somebody into second place last time.the other candidates plan for the \"0.0 alliances to take over the csm\" is setting themselves up against pretty much everbody else in eve. that will hand a seat to anybody who can/will effectively call them out on that."
"sadly, for every character in 0.0 space there is a high-sec, industrialist, mission running alt."
"that'd be very hard for kalrand to do, considering his background."
"there is undoubtedly a large constituency that kalrand could appeal to as his base - not just for votes, but for organisation and financing. there's little point in kalrand defining his position as contra the zero-sec position - he won't get those votes anyway, and it will just reduce his tactical influence if he does get into the csm.the important thing is that there is a clear hi-sec economically-oriented constituency that needs representing and that can contribute not just votes, but also organisation and campaign work.the question is whetherthe candidate and his policies will be sufficient to mobilise what is potentially a quite large vote. to develop my point earlier, i think that some form of party politics will always be inevitable in a parliamentary system, as proved by the triumph of party machinery in all elected houses since the 19th century. i'm willing to help you kalrand, in performing some of the duties necessary for you to run for office."
"my four accounts won't be voting for you."
"regular communications along with the fact i'm a pretty chill guy. i got along swimmingly with csm3 so i don't see there being any issues with csm6. the success of the csm will depend partly on having a good team of people to work with and confront ccp on issues with the game."
"what would you do in a hypothetical scenario where the rest of the delegates seem to have a consensus about an issue being a bad idea, but you have a different or opposing view? would you be 'that guy' who gives ccp the ammunition to say, \"well this idea met with some approval from the csm\" by voicing your neutral or positive opinion?"
"it really depends on the issue. let's say we have 8 csm delegates who are nullsec players and ccp asks if they're cool with level 3 missions being moved from highsec to lowsec. because i am there to represent empire players and i would yell my disagreement, despite whether nullsec guys agreed with ccp. harmony will be important when we're taking issues -to- ccp that we feel needs immediate attention."
"1. 'empire' space is a term which refers to all space claimed by one of the non-jovian, non-pirate factions. moving missions from high-sec to low-sec is not moving them out of empire.2. null-sec guys would not want high-level missions moved to low-sec. not counting the guys who bot-rat in null-sec, a good chunk of null-sec players earn money with high-sec mission-running alts. others run missions in high-sec to grind standings for datacores, or for their market alts. moving high-value missions to low-sec is not a good idea for anyone, because low-sec sucks and has no reason to exist.3. so the answer to my question was, \"yes\". that's why you're not going to get my votes. the success of csm-5 has been a result of cohesive and unified responses to several key issues. fracturing that unity will return csm-6 to the irrelevancy it has seen in past terms. you are bad candidate."
"1. you are distorting things. the people who run level 3's would not want to venture into lowsec for them. heck they would prefer 4's and 5's all in highsec. 2. we were talking hypothetical here. 3. are you trolling here? seems like you are. i gave you a hypothetical scenario where my opinion would be different than the group."
"why did you leave goonwaffe two weeks ago? are you running as a spoiler candidate trying to split non-goon bloc votes? during your first term as a csm delegate you came across as being affable but (like everyone else on that council) ineffectual. why do you think you will be able to do better this time around? you talk about lowsec, but your corp history indicates that you have no meaningful experience of living there. why do you feel that it is broken given that it is, on a per-system and per-capita basis, both the most densely-populated and most violent non-highsec space in the game?"
"i left so that i can distance myself from goonswarm. there are enough people pushing the nullsec message and i want to represent empire interests for this csm term. not at all. my motives for running this time are genuine just as they were in past elections. the csm is a learning process. previously we had 6 month terms which really weren't enough time to get much of anything done. you had one meeting with ccp and that was it. i'm recognizable by the developers and have spoken to many of them in the past. this is helped by having been to three fanfests and my one term on csm. with having a whole year to the term there will be plenty of time to work with ccp and my fellow csm to improve the game for the customers. i've been playing the game for over 7 years now. while avalloc has never been a lowsec pilot, i've got alts who have utilized lowsec plenty. for a nullsec player it is where they must pass through to access highsec. and highsec players only go there when they must. i want to see ccp put some serious development into lowsec and give highsec and nullsec people some to envy the potential play lowsec could give. thank you for the questions."
"500m that lacks dedication if that is all you are putting up. my deal from last year still stands 250m a vote if i get successfully voted onto csm."
"this isn't anything new, t'amber had the same thing last year, a lotto and picture competition.i also have these this year too, i had planned the same imagery as you but i've changed it so that there is no conflict.:p looks fun i will take part! :p"
"endorsed by patient 0"
"what is your position on directors, particularly as to whether or not they should hang.what will you do to ensure that i am able to smoke weed in space with the next expansion?"
"yes, i will post here more so yes"
"i feel as if half of goonwaffe is directors now so i don't think we have enough rope but if weed was legal we would have hemp rope so i hope that answers your question"
"due to rl (work and family wise) time constraints i'm forced to drop this candidacy. i had big projects and ideas for eve that would had required alot of my rl time, and i refuse to run just to be an \"average\" candidate.i won't be supporting any other candidacy, but i feel that your vote matters. so i plea everyone to vote in someone. the more votes a candidate has behind him, the greatest moral empowerment he has behind him when he discusses things with ccp.best luck to all other candidates running for csm6."
"thanks. best of luck to you too, in your rl projects."
"1.0"
"+1 poss currently suck."
"when i watch clear skies it makes me want to buy a widow. then i wake up. :(edit: supported for some kind of improvement. not really sure what since i don't fly them yet (even though i have a character that can.)"
"after all carebears are gone how you goin to do your hard core pvp in your pod? some of you ppl are realy dumb@$$, this game will die if there will be no carebears who build and buy your complex 'k'rap you bring from nullsec.well nvrm. its just like talking to the wall some ppl simply never will understand."
"wow, carebears must suffer is a little intense. carebears do not need to suffer but they should not be completely safe and the same goes for suicide ganking it should be difficult (which it is). the system is balanced and the increase in suicide ganking is a result of high sec residents not taking adequate precautions to protect themselves. insurance payouts on ships are lower now for many ships than they were in the past so that argument is not entirely convincing."
"supported."
"very good proposal, yeah hybrids need to deal more damage, boost damage at long range at the expense of poor long range performance.i.e. quake 3 arena - rail gun does 100 damage, enough to kill someone in one shot. yet it rearms slow and is very difficult to control at short range, especially when somebody is jumping around you.rails are high velocity slugs that are propelled at the target."
"i support this. ranged ammo for blasters is so pointless, considering they're a close-range weapon. void is now proof of concept for low tracking = more damage. so you can only use it if your target is fully tackled and you're not zipping about.the range variant for rails i actually do use in missions. however, the ammo is the same between both guns so perhaps some further thinking there?hybrids / gallente need something.edit: checked support"
"fix these and i'll resubscribe."
"hear the cries of the masses ccp!"
"i wrote a petition regarding this issue, they replied i should quit eve if i didn't like their new portrait system. i wonder if ccp is aware that some people liked amarr portraits and now they dont like em anymore because of their new system? anyway you got my vote."
"i support a change yes"
"heavily needed/supported"
"i have my doubts as to whether or not anything will change as a result of this thread, but i'll be damned if i'm going to give up. fix gally ships and hybrids (for both gally's and cald's sakes)."
"yes please!"
"both gallente and hybrids work perfectly.....ltp"
"lol. it's not a \"vote\" if the only answer is yes.but, i do support that hybrids or hybrid platforms (not just gallente) need some work in most cases to be on equal footing with the better weapon types."
"just incredible how long it took for someone to point that out.amazing to see how many people give a +1 to such an obviously wrong approach to achieve a desired effect.you might want to adjust your proposal to something like -100% capacitor recharge."
"nice catch there. i would change it to -100% capacitor recharge but sadly marlona sky account is currently serving a forum ban for a while, so it won't let me edit it. i hope people are able to read enough to know it was supposed to say capacitor recharge.that being said, can i get a thumbs up on this now?"
"strange idea..... but.... yes!supported"
"like it."
"i agree, sound like a plan!"
"if you really want to support this idea, you ought to check \"support this topic: check here if you want to give your support to the idea/discussion going on\" checkbox - it's in the reply to topic/edit post screen.by the way, i will keep bumping this topic until i die... or until the idea is implemented into the game, wichever comes first."
"i would like to be able to trade sec statusexample: a character with some excess (above 0.0) sec status could trade another player for isk (sec status for isk)."
"interesting idea. how about going a step further - allow the player to determine how (s)he is rewarded.something like this: remove rat bounties, and instead make the rats drop tokens (maybe the existing dogtags, maybe some new item) which can be traded in either for a sec status increase or an isk reward depending on who you hand them over to.how would that change things?"
"the idea is to remove sec gain from 0.0 and highsec to make lowsec different. make it feel at least a bit like a punishment when you are hunted all over lowsec trying to regain access to highsec.we don't need a simple shortcut like isk to undo criminal deeds."
"so this proposal is essentially an attempt to kick griefers out of high sec for a while so they can endure low sec instead of picking on highsec carebears?"
"nope it is to give us more targets in lowsec."
"well with this same logic why does concord pay you to kill rats in 0.0. no, we should not remove the security status gain from 0.0 rats because while it is lawless space concord is happy with you killing hostile npcs. instead change the amount of security status gained as such.empire rats : 100% security status gainnull rats: 50% security status gainbasically the justification for this would be the empire rats are more of a direct threat to the empires and as such it should be encouraged to focus on taking on those rats. the numbers are just off the top of my head you might want to separate out high sec and low sec and maybe not make the difference so much, but removing security status gain in 0.0 entirely should not happen."
"not supported at all.what a ridiculous case of self-interest. \"ccp, bring me more targets to play with, please!\"it is bad enough that the 0.0 alliance leaders' main interest is forcing more people into their arena, now the lowsec pirates are at it, too?oh wait...did i just fall for a troll? oh well."
"what?! people advocating for myopic boosts to thier play style or nerfs to others play styles in [mah] assembly hall??!!!shocking.the cool part is that the trolls, many times, dont start out as trolls so you can bet there is a substantial amount of crying behind the poaster's screens. this makes assembly hall 100000x better than \"other\" forums."
"you dont need dual webs to hold a webless dramiel down in afterburner frigates. rifter, merlin, tristan, comet, firetail and hookbill are a few examples that can do it right now without any special fittings.given 2 of the other 4 ships in the pirate faction frigate class have at least equal or even superior range control, i dont really see what you are going at here."
"it's funny that the pirate faction ship rebalancing and the rise of the dramiel came so soon on the heels of the nano-nerf. it's no coincidence. there always has to be an instant i-win option available for those players who see themselves as \"leet\" and are willing to pay to be so. the dramiel keeps a lot of spoiled crybabies from packing in their eve accounts and going elsewhere. you know, the guys who always train for whatever is the most overpowered thing in the game, and think that somehow makes them more uber in real life, when the truth is they just aren't good enough to win any other way. if the dramiel gets nerfed, it's just a matter of time until ccp comes up with something else to replace it, unfortunately."
"nevertheless...supported."
"nerf dram boost burst and breacher"
"good man!"
"so evidently it's too difficult for pl to fit hyenas, rapiers, and huginns into their fleet dynamics?or is this prompted by our reimbursement program and it's cutting into your k/d ratios?"
"strongly supported.i'm not too sure about the speed nerf. yeah it does makes sense that a faction frig should be slower than nanoed ceptor, but then you can get a mach to outperform a vaga in terms of speed/agility - :angelcartel:other than that perfectly reasonable changes to make frigsize less about \"dramiel\" vs. \"how do i trap-fit $other_frig to pwn dramiels\""
"no brainer, really.also check the proposal in my sig - it caters to the same who like this idea imo."
"yes please"
"+1dramiels are imbaand give af's a fourth bonus"
"bad troll, wrong forum"
"****, goons."
"it's not a troll.there is a counter to the speed of the dramiel. it's called a stasis webifier, followed by warp scramblers. perhaps you've heard of them."
"many people have been doing that in this thread since its inception. you just keep running around with your hands over your ears screaming, \"lalalalalalal, you are trolling! you are lying!\"just remember, jump bridges are one of the contributing factors. there will need to be several things that need to be adjusted. some nerfed, others buffed. also just because you say that my argument is spurious, does not mean it is. a nerf is coming, the question is; will finnagain zero and everyone else who makes all aspects of their 0.0 life revolve around jump bridges, be able to adapt to the change?"
"hmmm - perhaps the removal of jb's is the \"boost to lowsec\" that many have called for?just wondering."
"explain to me exactly how boosting nullsec industrial is \"the least desired thing in game\". how would allowing alliances to conduct their business without a reliance on empire space be a bad thing for anyone but bots and empire miners? if anything it will entice more empire dwellers (the non missions runners) to move out to 0.0 space and join an alliance.manufacturing in 0.0 isn't entirely safe as it is in empire so why should it not only be harder but more expensive to the point where the best option is to procure most material in jita?"
"folks don't really seem to want to nerf bridges not because it makes any sense at all, but because it will support their personal playstyles. folks who can't incap/camp bridges want them taken out, people who can't fight coalitions think that they can without bridges, and so on."
"no, it won't. people live in high sec because they do not want to lose their assets thus only time they move into 0.0 will be when you can guarantee them safety. for the same reasons trade won't growth in unsafe areas. simply put, production in 0.0 makes very limited sense which is good and fine.what makes eve online so unique and complex is that pretty much no one can be self-sufficient in a reasonable degree thus any motion towards self sufficiency is undesired."
"yeah, i guess it is the same people whining for bridge removal now are the same who were crying for nano nerf. they could not beat the nanos by numbers back in the day, and now they are getting blobbed themselves so something needs to be nerf... jump bridges and nanos are such 'i win buttons', aren't they? i believe the big part is the ignorance. they simply have no clue..."
"pretty sure i have not once said that bridges should be flat out removed, but they do represent a major part of the problem so some change to them has to be made ..how does making people commit in order to carve themselves a niche \"kill the game\"? instant-gratification is the domain of fps and craptastics like wow but eve has always been about sacrifice and that dreaded :effort: .. part of it certainly, but merely adds traffic not actual live-ins. low needs purpose for it to be all it can be.let me guess, you have zero sp in industry and get all your isk from the great null mint: static sources, sanctums and selling plex?the crap about \"safety\" is just that, crap. we have been debating that in the \"buff low\" threads and the consensus is that people don't bother because there is nothing to be gained .. exact same thing for industry in null, why bother when everyone comes to jita?it is dead easy to achieve self-sufficiency. all it requires is planning and hard work so anyone can do it .. problem is that it is not something that can be done in a few hours which is why lazy bums balk at the mere mention of iton a corp level it is easier still so i can only assume that alliances could pull it off with nary a missed step .. it is the basis of worm life for goddess sake, and they do it without bridges and only intermittent access to the world at large."
"don't. it is fine that all come to jita. that is how it is supposed to be.oh dear..."
"what do jump bridges allow atm?1. fleets can go from a - b instantly, evading combat2. allows moon goo to be transported with ease, which is produced passively anyway3. allows alot of space to be maintained however most of the claimed systems are emptywhy nc are complaining?1. because maintaining alot of space will be hard as they will have todo 1 jump at a time2. they will have to pvp for a change3. because no one will want to fight 50 jumps away they will attack local people4. because it wont be easy getting from one silo to another, meaning :effort: for a changethis is a game, if you say it long enough you might actually believe it is, i know you treat it like rl but in the end eve is a game!0.0 is a major part of the game and just because broken mechanics allowed you to get where you are shouldnt mean all players should be affected.in the end pve & pvp go hand in hand, if you want risk free pve move to hi sec, there is absolutely no reason why anyone should not want jump bridges to be changed / nerfed."
"what do jump bridges allow atm?fleets can go from 1 - b instantly, making the fights happen faster without spending hours of roaming.allows moon goo to be transported with ease, which is helping goods flow and economy. passive mining is great as people can focus on fighting over moon goo rather than staring at rocks.what jump bridge removal won't change:maintaining empty space..huh? people will do fight 50 jumps away if there are no targets nearby. the only difference will be it will be time consuming...and once again, 0.0 won't be 'harder', just more time consuming and tedious. those are 2 different things."
"onoes...large alliances will have to make some effort to control the space they currently claim because of the force-multiplying, projection of power that jump bridges create.kill the jump bridges now.as for the csm, alliance based voting blocks got what they voted for. deal."
"this is going to sound hypocritical but i do wish people would post with their mains. the issue deserves better discourse then alts flaming the nc followed by finn calling every liars and telling them to post with thier main. i don't expect my little white knight routine to change much though."
"it wouldn't change anything, if you read back on the thread, quite a few people have posted with their mains (minigin for instance, look for the green text), and despite having far more experience in 0.0 and better killboards than finny, he still ran the \"you are a lier and a troll\" act, even when offered a conversation on voicechat to better understand him.the problem is that finny doesn't want any kind of constructive discussion (i attempted that at some point myself, complete with quoteblocks and ceaseless back and forth and have hence given upon it, nothing comes of it, his opinion is facts, and real facts, maps and logic are all \"lies\"), he just wants you to agree with him, else you are a troll, a lier, or whatever his meme of the day is. this does not apply solely to this thread, if you look on the forum, you will notice that most anyone not agreeing with him, is magically a troll.i see a pattern there. is finny the only good poster in an ocean of trolls? or is he a troll with the mentality of a 6 year old who can't take no for an answer and thinks his opinion is facts solely for being his?i am convinced of the later at this point.how did your civil discourse with him go btw? i missed the post where he apologized for calling you an alt and had any sort of constructive discussion, i might have blinked or something.and did you notice that the last few pages have consisted of finny throwing ad hominem and appeal to authority at whoever, be a main or an alt, because now it seems that nobody is qualified to disagree with him as he is now officially the biggest authority on 0.0 in eve?(and if they are factually more qualified, based on easily proven metrics, they are deemed trolls regardless? [see minigin]).some people just are impervious to logic, arguments, or facts. finny is one of them.you will also notice the generous amount of weasel and loaded language he uses and his plain misrepresentation of facts and lies (for instance, as predicted, grayscale is smaller and smaller, now he is some random guy who happened to be at a csm meeting for no particular reason and \"spittled\" something of no consequence, instead of a ccp developer and head of a ccp design department sharing ccps views at a csm and ccp meeting). but thats but one example of many.i think the best of this thread came in the first few pages, so you may want to hit those, but due to finny's 86 \"quality posts\" a lot of people have plainly stopped checking the thread and moved the discussion to other venues, like scrapheap."
"the problem i have with letting finn do his thing is people tend to believe spin. jump bridges, along with jump freighters and null sec industrial as a whole needs a look. according to finnagain though everything is fine, just because the feature is already in-game those who support it do not need to provide any proof that everything's fine. yarrr look at your killboard, you have no opinion on the matter! rabble, rabble everything is fine. maybe those who haven't lived in 0.0 will listen to finn and really think everything is fine. i mean glenn beck has a load of rabid viewers does he not?"
"i think the first preliminary nerf that ccp should do to jump bridges is to put 10 million isk cost to using jump bridge.any person using jump bridge should have 10 million deducted from their wallet. if they don't have 10 million in wallet, they would not be able to jump.while that rule is in effect, ccp can spend more time redesigning jump and cyno mechanics for later patch. this price tag on jb usage will help encourage people use traditional ways of travel, without taking away the super-safe and fast option. people wouldn't use it for trivial purposes."
"there are 2 bonuses conferred upon freighters based upon the racial freighter skills. the first is a 5% per level increase in cargo capacity, and the second is a 5% increase in max velocity. the first bonus is currently the only truly useful one. a 5% bonus in maximum velocity on even the fastest of freighters is laughable and pretty much useless considering that freighters spend the majority of flight time either aligning for warp, or in warp.therefore, i propose that instead of a 5% maximum velocity bonus, the racial freighter skill should confer a 5% agility bonus instead, making freighter piloting for active flyers less tedious."
"supported - the speed bonus is useless."
"would make more sense than velocity bonus for sure.make it 3% even if its considered too powerful with 5%, still would take it over a velocity bonus any day."
"cannot support this hard enough."
"agility would make it a useful bonus."
"i never considered it... but might that (up to) 25% speed increase cause a freighter to take longer to align?#edit: eft shows no difference between a skill of 2 and 5."
"this is a completely unnecessary \"waa waa make my life easier\" proposal."
"supported.and how about a few slots and some rig slots.allso the ability to pick up cargo i space."
"something i forgot even existed in the game as they were removed back in 2004 are mines. they were removed for certain reasons...lag issues for one and the fact that they could be spammed all over a gate to blow up ships as they come in is another.the mines are something i personally would love to see back in game with a few limitations however.if mines were to come back...1. no more than 5 deployed at a time so gates cannot be easily spammed with them and to reduce lag.2. when placed they are placed randomly up to 2km from the placing ship and self destruct after a time period such as 5 minutes or when the pilot who placed them logs off or leaves system. this will prevent concordokken on players that lay mines and go into high sec. they also cannot be placed within a certain distance of gates and stations. 15km seems reasonable for this. 3. mines have the same 500m trigger range but a larger explosion radius. mines will not decloak a **** unless it makes direct contact or is bumped by the ship. the explosion if detonated by another ship would declaok another ship however. 4. mines once deployed are stationary and non-retrievable. friendly ships can detonate them and they also do harm to all ships friend or foe alike. 5. mines like bombs are restricted in high sec and are only deployable in nullsec.6. mines are deployed by a mine layer device. mines also show up on overview and in space as objects that can be targeted and destroyed if so desired. 7. make mines only deployable by destroyer class ships. give them some use...8. one mine cannot be placed within the blast radius of another. this will give space for some ships to pass without getting hit and prevent one mine from destroying another. an idea proposed to me was to use the smartbomb mechanics that are already in place but as a stationary one time detonation item."
"supported."
"yeah i know thats what i did and they edited it after it had been that way for over a week. they also changed the tilt of my head which is what made it obvious that someone edited my character. i know three people that have all had their characters edited to have their eyes opened when all three of us intentionally took photos of our characters blinking to get them closed. as you pointed out it takes a bit of work and thats what has me a little hacked off about the whole thing.sorry done with an alt instead of red..."
"why non-suppressible? don't punish the rest of us because of your short attention span."
"ok you are misunderstanding me, although it's probably because i wasn't clear enough. as i said i spend time in low sec and in null sec, and i am fully aware that i can lose my pod there. however my point (which i forgot to mention) is that i do these things because of the possible rewards of going into low/null sec. i'm not going to leave my captain's quarters and risk being podded for optional content. sure i'd probably take a quick peek outside but after that the risk would not be worth it. also i never said i use a shuttle in low sec, i take many precautions whenever i can. lag spikes are the only real risk to consider when going into low sec, and it's something i've managed to avoid so far.as for the risk in high sec, i said it's \"more or less zero\", by which i meant non-zero, but very close to zero. i'm well aware of the risks as my first kill was a suicide pod for the lulz as you mentioned. this is why i never fly around in a pod. fair enough. i'm just going off of the feel i get from eve. concord is there to punish any criminals in a moment's notice in space, so why not in stations? now i think it's pretty obvious there will be a concord presence in stations, but what doesn't make sense (not even talking about lore) is why they wouldn't just prevent any attacks from happening in the first place. i don't know how the market is supposed to work lore-wise so i can't comment on the boosters, but i suppose it's a good counterexample for things working logically.the payout is higher than the cost of the insurance. the difference of the two is isk being injected into the economy."
"i apologise if somone else mentioned it in 3 pages of text, but it should be pointed out. @ fan fest when ccp was discussing walking in stations they said up front that walking in stations would lead to ganking in stations. i personally would prefer a year or 2 of secondlife in space that gradually expands and removes bugs as they are come up ensuring that when ganking in stations comes out it runs smooth and flawless."
"i support this. however, i think a good implementation of this is beyond ccps current capabilities (then again, what seems not to be?)."
"supported"
"supported.there's no reason not to do this, and the benefits to the player base would be huge."
"how exactly does an absent portrait lock someone out?and do you think that they will magically stop allowing you to create an incarna character if you don't have one yet?iceland might not be krypton, but it's not bedlam either.odds are, if your computer can't handle the cc due to performance reason it won't have an easier time with incarna content.it's your computer locking you out in that case.they'll certainly try to get the cc to run for everyone.. and they should work on that instead of creating random characters for people."
"it isn't the absence of the portrait shoopa, when ccp announces the date for the end of the grace period, all of us players who cannot access the cc will be locked-out of the game. it has already been established that at that time, if you have not created a new portrait, you will not be able to log into the game - new character creator update.if you read the full op, you would see that i completely agree that when incarna is launched, we will have to either have our systems upgraded or just buy a new system (see the warning that would be displayed when using the option), but hopefully by that time, ccp will have announced what the minimum requirements are exactly since that seems to be the big mystery at this point.as far as trying to get the cc running for everyone, they have not indicated that they are even investigating the issue, so how can we be expected to wait for a fix that probably isn't coming. yeah, they should work on that but they aren't. creating random characters for people is not a big problem. there is already an option within the cc to use random settings if i'm not mistaken, so the code is already in place. all that needs to be done is to add that option button outside of the cc. problem solved (until incarna)."
"i see your point.i still hope they'll rather fix the cc, tho."
"idea is simple. cooldown timer should be dependent on distance in ly beetween clones.for example , you swap clone at the same station , you wait just few hours.you swap clone to the distant part of the glaxy you wait days.pros :* nerfs power projection , and makes eve relatively bigger.* promotes getting into pvp ships instead of sitting at station becuase clone has mining impalants.* gives player flexibility.cons : * i dont see any , i still think people will die in expensive implants in their head.too add to the proposal pod killmails could now include implants destroyed.updatei though about it know it could exploited by podding yourself on purpose . podding would have to bring the timer just like jump cloning ( kinda sucks )"
"i approve this product. better than current system at least. i loathe whole jump clone system, i'd rather have implant sets i could just change but probably never gonna happen."
"i would like the local switching to have an even shorter timer, but otherwise supported. the reason for the shorter local cooldown is, that i would like to take eve more in the direction where i can just log on for 30 minutes, do some the stuff i feel like doing at the time with the assosiated implant set and log out without suffering game implemented penalties because of it. with a few hours cooldown i still have to stay logged on for hours, if i want to avoid the penalties of the clone switch or alternatively not bother switching. on most days i can only play at the evening and i can't afford to play for hours, so hours long cooldown wouldn't be much of an improvement. still an improvement though, since i could do something else the next evening, which is impossible with a 24h cooldown."
"approving the distance based recharge time =)"
"few hours was just example , just to point out the diffrence .i am fine with even shorter cooldown period in local area."
"i'm not sure if you can bump these but since it's a small issue unlikely to maintain itself i'm going to do it to keep it in people's minds."
"good idea here. thoughts on something like a shield logistics array: * only activates on a given ship once per [long time]* costs pos resources to use (maybe pulls from stront bay? maybe depletes the tower's own shield strength?)* charges ship shields to full* short range / have to belly up to the array to get the boost, so it can't be used to supertank something that's currently in combatwould help defend a pos against superior odds if a ship could return to the forcefield for a rejuv. otherwise sort of silly that you can't use logistics on a badly mauled friendly defender who is sidelined in the forcefield, because you can't lock him in the forcefield."
"this is a needless gripe, and impossible to implement. all i can say is find a ship that isn't at such an obvious disadvantage for what you want to do. no one is forcing you to use a buffer-shield tank. if the shields were to recover instantly upon entering a ship in space there would be mass exploits of the mechanic. shield-tank pilots would simply eject and swap ships with each other whenever their buffer was low, and continue the fight as if they'd never been shot."
"it is not impossible to implement. it already exists in npc stations! and read the replies, multiple ways to ensure it is not abused have already been suggested. including ones that would not allow simply swapping ships with another corp member to give you full shields."
"not sure if it have been proposed before but i would ( and i hope many others too ) to see in game some faction/pirate battlecruisers hulls, hell even meaby destroyers as well.ofc tumb up for my propose.cyb"
"not sure if want.. the bcs we have are already pretty powerful.i would love pirate faction destroyers, tho.destroyers really need some love so they're not used exclusively to run lvl1 missions and gank."
"players should also be able to build these things in nullsec and/or wormspace :)"
"supported,because it might actually make it worth looking at themalso pro the idea of making them buildable in 0.0"
"supported!"
"really neat idea, but as said early on, ccp may be afraid of rage-quiters, goons, etc posting nasty stuff on the billboards.1) there would need to be a 0-tolerance policy on the rules.or1a) the ads likely ought to be submitted through a gm or isd before being posted to ensure this couldn't happen (takes more resources though). this is the best, but most difficult to implement, option. ads shouldn't take too long to review though after initial deployment, wait for dt maybe? use petition system?2) billboards need to be a lot bigger to make this worthwhile. (hard to read text on them as is)this would be very cool though as many smaller corps, and even some larger ones, could benefit from being able to solicit/advertise their business without having to spam a chat channel or search for potential customers. a billboard could potentially have three ads to cycle through in addition to the in-game ads of bounties, quafe, etc. i think it would help the eve economy in general and, as op said, would provide an isk sink i'm certain people would take advantage of."
"the \"oh my god, that isn't a wormhole!\" problem could be circumvented quite easily by limiting the ads to text and a library of stock images similar to the way corp logos are created."
"since i started playing in 2006 this has been asked for. the general consensus (i've never actually seen a dev quote on the matter) is that the developers who programmed the billboards left long long ago and nobody else knows how to work it. maybe its worth diving into the archaic depths of the billboard code to make this feature work."
"i like the concept of this idea, which why i'm supporting it. i'm not sure on the balancing issues, but like the way it fits in with eve lore. gallente developing weapons to penetrate shields, while the caldari focus on penetrating armour. the gallente ships tending to have more structure fits nicely with that back story."
"and it is what? nothing? that's what you said."
"the effect on passive and active tanks is subtle but important and not necessarily bad. i'm not sure if the op intended the bleed through damage to be in addition to the base damage, or instead of.i'd be interested to hear the details from people suggesting that this would nerf active tanks. the effect on active shield tanks is very different to active armour tanks. i imagine this type of change would have a greater impact the use of resists (active or passive)"
"you keep arguing there is a difference.name it.if there's 5 dps bleedthrough through your tank against 500 hitpoints below your tank your type (act./pas.) of tank has relevance how?"
"in a fight, active tanks shoot for the long run, effectively taking a lot more damage, but repairing it again.if damage bleeds trough, you'll get to an untanked part of the ship, thus diminishing the gain that an active tank would have in a longer fight."
"good point! i suppose that makes an impact in 1vs1 (sometimes) and pvm, but in most situations should be negligible.in fact, it might be considered an advantage to separate hybrids from the rest of the crowd a bit more."
"i think the difference is most obvious if you compare an active shield tank with active hardners with a passive buffer tanks.lets say you have a buffer tank of 1000 effective hit points (ehp) and no resists. then lets say for simplicity you have an active shield tank with 1000ehp, but 50% of that ehp is due to active hardners. of the incoming damage 95 is normal damage and 5 is bleed through. the buffer tank takes 100 damage, but the active tank takes effectively more because 5 of the damage is applied without resists.there are obviously far more factors, but i hope that simple example helps."
"i'm glad people are discussing this topic :) i've seen bleed-through working on structures before so i know its totally possible in eve right now.this could be considered a change in hybrid charges and not the hybrid guns at all.but there's different scenarios to consider, solo and fleet, active/passive and buffer, and ive been toying with the idea of t2 ammo having having an increase to 10% bleed-through------------------i completely understand the difference between passive and active tanks as well as buffer tanks. bleed-through negates all of these, because the fundamental change from current hybrid charges is the 5% of total damage that gets through to the next level of resistances regardless of the hp level that gets the other 95%. bleed-through is a consequence of penetration. and penetration isn't something that's been regularly seen in eve apart from pve structures. ------------------railguns don't have considerable alpha compared to projectiles and lasers, and i don't think they should be otherwise they just become clones. so trying to find a different flavour requires some obscure thinking.the lore angle makes a lot of sense and as gallente and caldari have a considerably turbulent past. it makes sense they'd devote huge resources to try and get the better of one another."
"the issue with this is that factors are the things that make or break a concept so understanding and including all factors needs to be the way.buffer tanks are never buffer hp only, they're normally omni buffer/resist, actives are part rep/part resist.im hoping that these encourage co-operative pvp, as this is the area that eve excels at (lol, can imagine some will contest that, especially large scale pvp) theres also a large mostly unused area in repping that frankly doesn't get seen practically at all compared to shield and armor, and that's hull repping.it would also make hybrids a new contender in fleet alpha, and spur the integration of mixed shield and armor logi gangs in fleets."
"^ what he said. (no, i'm not his alt)"
"sounds like someone owns a t2 dcu bpo and wants everyone to fit them on all their ships.pretty sure this has been suggested before. i guess the bleed through idea was part of the original design idea for hybrid weapons (so said some old player in the original thread) but wasn't implemented because it was overpowered and/or made kittens cry.honestly, i think bleed through would either do very little or cause so many people to complain about it on the forums that it would get nerfed to having no real impact. i would have been a reasonable thing to have in the game if it had been in the game since the beginning. as it is, there would be too much crying about it if it was made in a reasonable way."
"there is a lot of crying about the current state of hybrids also.-----------------------------i agree with a lot of what the op said. lasers and projectile weapons have good alpha but railguns are left behind in the dust. they need to be better long fighting capabilities. if you are prepared to slug it out for several minutes, then hybrid weapons should be the best choice.while i can understand soem fo the concerns about active tanks, is it really the end of the world if your ship is blown up after 6 or 7 minutes of constant shooting? your tank would probrably be broken long before that ever happened. the bleedthrough is really just an extra bonus for those extremely long battles.combat in eve is primarily decided in the fitting room. if you want to coutner a blaster boat, it may be a good diea to bring a single small armor repairer if you feel that the battle will be drawn out for a very long time.just my 2 cents."
"tbh on some shield ships u can still fit a 500+ passive tank and have 1 low slot to fit a small armor repper, that would protect you against any bleed-through so no dcu involved.in that sense i think bleed-through should be balanced so that t1 does 5% of damage done and t2 ammo should do 10%. t2 hybrid charge use should just about have the edge over an equally sized ship thats dual tanked (like the example given above). also consider t2 gun training times...training t2 guns takes considerably more than t2 missiles. you can have t2 heavy missile skills bt cant use t2 standard missiles. cant do that with t2 guns.and no im not an owner of any t2 bpo's... wish i had bt am not that old a character to have been a part of the bpo lottery of olde. sadface/facepalm!"
"so now we just need to make armor tanks fit a shield booster to prevent hull damage! -liang"
"not supported."
"that wouldn't help at all... or well, it would help... your aggressor."
"i couldn't find an (unlocked) dedicated (hush) thread about the local channel but it's being discussed as a sideline in a number of threads and has been discussed in detail long ago in a galaxy far, far away...and our local still sucks.now: my copypasta'ed proposal. i have picked up elements from a few suggestions. no plagiarism intended. also, fee free to share your own ideas and opinions, and, if you have the mental capacity, give reasons for disagreeing or point out the flaws with this suggestion.---------------------------------------------------- actual content starts herei think peoples appearance in local should be delayed. it's a very easy fix.the duration of the delay should inversely correlate to the systems sec.as an example (and i will say: upper limit ) i will use a base of 10 minutes.(10minutes - sec. x 10)1.0 = 0 minutes0.6 = 4 minutes0.2 = 8 minutes0.0 = 10 minutesbefore you show up in local automatically.of course the exact base delay is subject to debate, but there should be time to do something in a system and leave before you show up - depending on sec.there should be additional means to get people to show up immediately, but it should take a bit of effort.you only see (in local):a) people you actually see or saw in system (you have their transponder code; visible till they leave system)b) people who talk in local (they send their transponder code)c) allies, corp mates & fleet members should, obviously, also be always visible.d) people you scanned down (you have their transponder code; visible till they leave system)this is the point requiring most of the work and careful balancing in combination with the 'base timer'.new or improved methods of gathering intelligence would be appreciated.depending on the amount of work ccp is willing to put into this there are various levels of complexity possible.in general this could involve new or upgraded modules, skills and/or changes/additions to the scanners, both probes and directional.additionally, people 'discovered' should be shared by allies & fleet mates.the time delay alongside this is easy to explain: after tha many minutes your passive scanner should either have picked up their signal, or the infrastructure (like stations and gates) did.. but they take some time to spread this information in lower sec. systems.this hopefully will:irritate botters.help pirates and carebears alike do their thing.revitalize low-sec by not having your presence revealed instantly.limit 'easy intelligence' and add more efficient covered modes of operation to 0.0 warfare.---------------------------------------------------- actual content ends herenothing in this post is supposed to be set in stone.please note that i'm not a specialist on the matter,so i don't address questions regarding cloaks and such here.i'm certain that will be a point of contention anyways."
"10 minutes base delay is way way way too much for your idea imo.make it one minute, that still leaves you with 30sec or more in .5 and below which is plenty enough to foil deaggro games or insta-safespot isk botfarming."
"10 minutes is waaaayyyyy to long.... it basically makes local a tool for the attacker only then. 10m is too short to do any real pve activity, and most pvp gangs spend much less than 10m in a system. what happens if you leave local within the 10 minute time frame. a reasonable time would be about 10 seconds. with such a time, a quality tackler can use d-scan/probes to scan down belts/anomalies and be in warp if not on grid by the time they appear in local. everyone would appear in local, as a 30s session change timer makes it impossible to leave system before appearing in local. also, this would also allow a ship/gang a few extra key seconds of flee time between entering a system and being reported in system. while this would make it harder on ratters, they could still take many steps to help insure their safety (aligning to a celestial after landing at a belt/anomaly; warping into the belts/anomalies at range; intel channels providing reports from nearby systems, etc). note: a 10 sec delay would be a significant boost to hunters, a 10 min delay would constitute unlubed anal rapage with a chainsaw!"
"not support even a little bit.the solution to local has nothing to do with changing current local mechanics. the solution instead lies in the addition of a new scanning feature that would passively scan a sphere around your location and alert you when ships have entered or left this sphere. the range of this passive scanning sphere would be based on a combination of things, skill level, ship type, and additional modules. the range that you would be detected by another players passive scanning sphere would also be based on these factors.i also believe that gate alerts indicating ship class (not tech level) would also be needed. these gate alerts would be restricted to those that have sov of system."
"thanks for the replies. first, regarding the 10 minutes. probably too long, way too long maybe, but it shouldn't be less than a minute i think (which is 30 seconds in 0.5).please try to distance yourself a bit from the idea of local providing usable/obscure intelligence by itself within seconds.it's what the changes are supposed to rid us of, making scouts and scanning much more important.this makes me think of:people 'discovered' should be shared by allies/fleet mates!i'll add this to the op.of course i don't want to see local ruined/deleted completely like some people advocate.by 'there should be time to do something in a system and leave before you show up (in local)' i'm not referring to mission running or anything.. but a gank/flythrough should/could be possible.this isn't a long shot from 'my' idea, is it?if you added in modules/skills to what has been mentioned in the op this will amount to pretty much the same sans the 'scan range' sphere around your ship.the point of changing local isn't to give people with 150m sp even more of an advantage - it's supposed to address the 'abuse' of the local channel(really, currently it abuses itself, mostly since it's passive).in that regard it's your suggestion that blows.. but of course it could be 2x skills or so.. don't think we need more of those, tho.the whole point is to make it more difficult to judge the current situation/danger immediately without player-input simply by looking at a damn channel.try to figure out what's good for the game and gameplay. not what you want.also, a big focus lies in making lowsec more appealing to carebears so they can be reaped."
"bull****, if you want local delayed or removed make it the same everywhere and make wardecs interesting. highsec isnt safe space and it should never be. same restrictions everywhere"
"it's not intended to make highsec more safe. it makes highsec less safe..and highsec is supposed to be more safe than lowsec and 0.0 - i just try to continue along those lines.i also figured that the whole sensorium in high sec would be more sophisticated. something that's probably true.however, the tiered delay isn't necessary - a constant one would work just as well so don't get all worked up. i just figured it would make more sense this way.. with concord and navy ships everywhere, not to mention capsuleers.information is bound to flow more quickly in empire."
"it wouldnt even necessarily mean it is more safe with a shorter delay. highsec systems are lot more populated, that means going through the local channel to spot hostiles usually involves a lot more effort than in a nullsec or lowsec system."
"i think really need local nerf but as ccp dev said before (somewhere) they won't be making changes without providing proper intel tools.i would like see something like:1) reduce all solar system size so all celestial is within d-scan range of sun (or increase d-scan range)2) change d-scan so it shows ship type, pilot name and corp/alliance ticker (not red/blue so people actually have to think/check, and as anti-bot measure so they can't just check for red pixel in d-scan ui).3) delayed local like wormhole...sov upgrades to introduce a timer that can make people appear 1min after entering solar system. 4) npc sov has local based on faction standings, so with a high faction standing you either will have a delay before appearing in local and/or you will see others in local after delay."
"what he said...^^^...this is along the right track of thinking."
"supported simply for the gist of the idea. 10 minutes for 0.0 is too long but you should have the proper amount of time for a trained scanner to locate a target, warp in and make an attempt at scramming the target. unfortunately, even though they could use other methods of gathering intel, or at least maintain alignment with a warp off point, there would be a lot of upset carebears if local were to be nerfed so the idea will probably fall on deaf ears.how ever some sort of local nerf with the addition of manual intel gathering tools is a great idea."
"what happened to the old days of mining profit increasing steadily as sec status drops? you know, the days when lowsec ores were worth more than highsec ores by volume.if ccp could sort this out, it'd improve a lot of things in eve. hell, more people would have a reason to brave lowsec, again. it's just not that tempting for new players at the moment. and nullsec mining...it used to be good enough to be a lure that had highsec noobs looking for a way to get to 0.0. that was one thing the original devs had right, but it's been screwed up miserably since."
"i have been playing eve for over two years now and having gone through patch after patch i get the sneaking suspicion that ccp doesn't give a damn about what we think.since i started blasters, black ops, poss, gallente, etc. have all needed massive overhaul and there are numerous threads on these forums about it and yet ccp hasn't done **** about it. instead they continue to release buggy content and refuse to fix current content and balance ships.csm came around, and it sounded all good, but i have yet to hear one of their proposals be inacted. once again we speak out and ask for fixes, but ccp just keeps on their path of broken new features and ignoring the bugs.personally i could care less about walking in stations and doing pi, if they would just fix the bugs and balance ships!so the question is, does ccp even listen, or are they to busy rolling in piles of money to hear us?"
"ccp do listen to the csm, and have implemented many things that the csm have proposed (there is a list somewhere...), but that's all the csm is really empowered to do... offer suggestions & feedback.ccp does seem to listen to what the csm has to say and takes that input into consideration when it comes to their development plans (i.e. microtransactions), but in the end ccp chooses what they will do and when they will do it; even if that means implementing features the csm is openly opposed to while 'deferring' things that the csm sees as critical."
"ahaha burn. i really like the title.now regarding, the csm, uh, ccp probably listens, but that doesn't mean they do as he says or change their priorities.so impotent yes, figurehead probably not."
"given that the orca is considered a capital industrial ship("
"i dont think i would agree to this.1. the orca skill is way too easy to achieve.thus nobody would ever skill up to the big freighter. 10 orca jumps vs 1 big one.2. it would make everyone do 'tiny' jump runs and the posibility of getting jumped and isk vs reward would fall. thus giving a 0.0 corp more 'power' over logistics coming to high sec.i liked the 'initial idea' but i think if something like this were to happen then:1. the skill for putting no a jump drive to an orca would have to be very long, and the restrictions on cargo when this happens would have to decrease or not.not supported for those reasons."
"i do not support this, i believe what you are looking for already exists.. its called a rorqual :)def more expensive but not close to the cost of a jf, but will hold almost as much (actually more if you are dealing with compressed ore)"
"not supported."
"you're entirely incorrect. ccp does not put any proposal through, and even if they did we wouldn't vote \"the way they want us to\" just because they're ccp.the example you describe shows that ccp is using the csm, which is exactly what we need. they come to us with an idea that they like a player's perspective of. do we like it, don't we like it? do we see any problems ccp didn't think of? the csm gives ccp a place to get the player's perspective on ideas while still being able to keep those ideas private because of the non disclosure agreement the csm is under.developers seeking player feedback through the csm is something that should always be encouraged."
"spacemonkey's alliance afraid of jump bridge change non-shocker. do not be afraid of :effort: children."
"the issue is not that ccp isn't seeking feedback from players, its that they think just a few people can represent the vast majority of players, regardless of the fact that players voted for the csm."
"why is it an issue and are you sure ccp thinks that? csm represent a large chunk of players who care and want an active say in how eve is developed. the final decision is ccp's anyway and they have other ways of getting info and feedback is almost always requested on upcoming changes, so it isn't like the csm can dictate anything on it's own or that others can't voice their opinion."
"7% of all the active accounts is hardly a \"large chunk of players\" and, from what i recall, that was the percentage of voters in the last round of elections. if you add that most of the voters have more than one account it get even worse. add that the person with the second higher number of votes was banned from the csm for a nda violation and you see how the csm represent a minority of the eve players. that said it is working at is should. it is a consultation organ, they can suggest changes and can give an opinion about the effect of changes on the game from the prospective of the players."
"i would argue that csm isn't really needed at all. why not implement direct voting for paid accounts instead? you'll get a much more accurate representation of \"what players want\".even the issues for voting can be voted for, just pile all player-suggested issues into a separate questionnaire and present it every quarter year or so. it'll be a long one, but since you'd only have to do 4 of these a year, i think most of us would go through the trouble, and once again ccp would get a fairly accurate assessment of what players really want on individual basis. take top 25% of that, put it into the next implementation voting form, and presto! you now have a game where the direction of the development is largely influenced by actual players."
"the issue is not voting on concepts. csm provides ccp with unique discussion with players that would not otherwise occur. the players should vote into csm the players they feel have the ability to discuss adequately and reliably the pros and cons of ideas with ccp. the fact that ccp wants this is a step above all other mmos.do not even begin to try to argue that the forums are a good way to get discussion out of players as it is an even smaller number of players that reliably reply on forums than vote on csm. you also have a large amount of useless extremely biased 'contribution' to most any thread.csm is the best way ccp can get outside discussion in a representative and fluid manner.csm is also fantastic publicity for ccp."
"no-brainer here.doubtful anything will come of it though. look how long things have trundled along in their current way.growing a community requires a place for new people to get information.ask a question in these forums just about anywhere, and it is a dice roll on whether the first to respond will help or flame you for ignorance.the un-moderated flamers and non-informative posts pile up, generating a negative feedback that makes it worse as time goes by.the random lockdowns posted above are also a problem.i stopped reccomending these forums(other than specific thread links) to new people a long time ago. i point them to eve uni or other sites where they have a chance at being answered in an intelligent and respectful manner."
"sometimes they do let a bit too much trolling go about, but i like the eve forums the way they are. i've been in other games where the devs insta-lock anything that puts their game in a critical light, or any comment that they deem trolling (and usually they don't enforce the rules even close to equally for all players).so, in short, no, the forums are ok as they are."
"while i agree with this overall, i think there are some forum areas that should be held to a higher standard - new player help, and the assembly hall for example."
"bumping a great idea before my sub is up. see you when the walking in stations is up and running on sisi!"
"like artillery with short range, that expends cap, and mechanically acts like a missile with no flight time?i like it. low rof would go well with the idea that you hold fire until you are at facemelt range in such a ship.edit : i'm also liking the idea of railguns as defense-bypassing piercing weapons. if the ability to pierce shields is too anti-caldari, make some % of the damage hit structure instead :) this would have the potential to play havoc with pos siege mechanics however if not properly tweaked..."
"seems rather dull and unimaginative.... so a perfect fit for a mission in eve!(i almost simply assume they'll have some form of 'missions' or 'tasks' that would be a part of incarna already)"
"please no.pve in stations should be imaginative (and if it's going to be something like this, i'd rather they toss it in the bin and think harder next time), not this standardised drivel that was dull and stupid since point and click adventures.no more mailman missions."
"null-sec clowns don't let them turn eve into a joke.vote against the null-sec plan to take over the csm."
"please post your off topic trolling on the proper forum"
"moved from new citizens q&a"
"scare is over folks! the zero-sec clowns were defeated, and it alliance is no longer a threat to empire carebears."
"i support this product and or service"
"same old suspects, same old agenda, new name."
"i support this product and or service."
"i support this product and or service."
"i support this product and or service."
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service."
"i support this product and or service."
"i support this product and or service"
"\"i support this product and or service\""
"what does this even mean? it might make sense if this was my thread but ... =p"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this service and or product."
"i support this product and or service.and i would sell 200 soe shares, mail me."
"for a chance to win free plex?i support this product and/or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service.for a free lotto ticket."
"i support this product and or service (:"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"i support this product and or service"
"in short, yes. i'd like some changes, but ultimately ecm would still be the *most powerful* mechanism in electronic warfare."
"and my remote sensor booster.good luck prom, you have my vote."
"i think prom is a cool guy and eh doesnt afraid of anything"
"i support this product and/or service."
"fypit is amusing to see you pull the \"this will cause more bots!\" card if local and jump bridges are removed.edit: you also just proved the point of how lazy people would move out of 0.0 if logistic, power projection and the instant intel from local were nerfed. it would be too hard for you and you are unwilling to adapt.but this all does come down to opinion on what 0.0 should be. everyone thinks their version is the right one. the more we debate, the more everyone becomes entrenched into their opinion and the sounds of the opposing become more and more quiet in your mind."
"i wasn't being sarcastic.please. nerf. jump. bridges.local, too. why? it'll give me a reason to finally quit this game as i laugh at those who want to live in the wasteland of 0.0"
"can i have your stuff?"
"i missed the last csm election forum \"debates\" - was this what it was like last year?on a serious note, this all seems to be reflecting real life politics very well. sort of like the independent candidates trying to be positive, the larger party candidates sometimes engaging in more aggressive heckling of other candidates etc.basically, from what i can see, i think the poster above is right in that ccp will be heavily focussed on ensuring incursions and incarna work as well as possible.the really tought job for the csm, whoever is elected, will be to help ccp shape that future from the position that they are (which i agree with mittani is not from a group of work experience devs they meet every so often). also, it will be to help ccp refine how they communicate with their players.although i have some reservations about the style of campaign that you're running (whether it is you directly or friends/associates on your behalf or at your request or neither), you are quite true that improved communication between the csm itself, and also csm to ccp is vital.have you any plans for involving the rank and file player base more in things - crowd sourcing more frequently etc?the british government has a website where anybody can raise a petition and others can vote on it - i know that there's already mechanisms to do similar, but do/would you support this - would you expand this idea, or have you other ideas?"
"voting for the mittani is the only assured way to get a sound effect which befits it totally."
"you're efficient. you have my vote."
"i find the polarization here pretty funny. in the time i've been in goonswarm, mittani has un-ironically been an extremely effective and charismatic leader."
"my campaign style essentially has to be brutal and honest, because i'm not exactly known for hugs, flowers and kisses. i've been pleased to see that the csm6 'platforms' are adjusting to react to my arguments, and that there is less of a culture of 'i'll fix blasters no really' than before; at this point you could probably replace \"they're lying to you\" with \"most of them are lying, or just shamefully ignorant.\" the csm process already has a fairly serious mechanic for involving the playerbase with the assembly hall proposal system; each meeting, every csm can bring to the table a number of proposals from the playerbase for a vote. however this presents a mechanical problem; the csm has now upvoted almost every popular proposal from the playerbase, which have all promptly disappeared into the backlogthe issue the csm faces isn't so much passing and upvoting proposals, but finding leverage and power to attempt to cajole ccp into actually implementing all the good, csm-approved ideas that have come up over the years that are languishing in development hell. this is a subtle point (well, it's not really, but it's election time and people are dumb) that is missed by a lot of the single-issue voters; pretty much every reasonable proposal out there has already been taken up by the csms and moved on to ccp. this presents a difficult situation where csm6 may wish to pick four or five already-approved player initiatives and use them as a fulcrum (or at least try to) so that ccp isn't inundated with 100 new proposals, all of which can be dismissed. if the csm rallies behind 3-5 issues and makes their intentions known to the playerbase, it might make for more effective negotiations with ccp. we'll see though, the exact methods will probably depend on the personalities of the ccp interlocutors. how you approach someone as rationalistic as torfi is very different from how you'd discuss something with ccp sreegs."
"calling a game designer from ccp \"an idiot\" is pretty stupid.ccp can listen to you or not, as they want. if you think that you will be able to force them to do what you think, you're just stupid, ccp will just silence you because they can. there is no battle to fight against ccp, and if there were one you can't win it. putting it in another way: csm5 achieved so much because they worked a lot to get trusted by ccp, and cooperate with them. you are just promising to screw it up, what a genius."
"i like your style very much, but i'm yet to be convinced about your substance. can you offer any promises that you are going to be a genuine voice for \"the players\" in general, as opposed to just goonswarm/nc/0.0 (delete as appropriate) specifically?"
"i searched for the quote \"an idiot\" and failed to find any. did you just make that up by yourself?"
"here, and the linked article is full of venom and madness. you can't really think ccp is going to work with one that does so much against them. csm will never have control over ccp, period. mittani wants to go to iceland to fight ccp, that's just a silly thing to do. you hate too much, dude."
"venom and madness? want to fight ccp? please, you're projecting."
"how can you accuse mittens of being hateful? have you not seen his puppy?"
"as i mentioned when you inquired privately about the csm proposal process the other day, all proposals which pass the csm vote are submitted to ccp for review and then they respond to csm with yes or no. yes means an item goes into the backlog for future consideration, no means it doesn't. occasionally, there is some clarification discussion with csm before they decide--either at a summit in a session devoted to discussion of backlogged items or else in the internal csm forums. once in the backlog, csm items can then be included on the csm's prioritized development list which is submitted to ccp in time for its release planning meetings that are scheduled twice a year. during csm5, summit dates were adjusted so that timing of the summit coincided with the release planning schedule. backlogged csm items were the focus of trebor's crowdsourcing activities in assembly hall that aided in prioritizing csm items for release planning meetings.funny little story about the csm backlog. we learned at the june summit that no csm items in the backlog were tagged as such. there was no way to tell what was a csm item and what wasn't, according to our advocates. so we requested ccp commit to identifying a methodology for tagging csm items, then tag them, and get us a list of all backlogged csm items. they committed to do this by a date just shy of the december summit. no one  including technically savvy players from the #eve-dev channel on irc-- could understand why it was going to take six months to complete that task. there were only +/- 200 backlogged csm items, after all. neither private communications with ccp folks nor interaction on the csm internal forums impacted progress; the message was repeated that the task was being worked and wed have the list by the promised date. finally, a player from the #eve-dev channel took it upon himself to download a trial version of hansoft (the tool ccp uses for backlog mgmt), set up a databse, and enter all the items dug up from evelopedia and teadaze's database. it took him approximately 8-12 hours. total. we presented the results of this experiment to ccp and asked, \"how come it's going to take you guys months to do this?\" we got our list quite soon after that.point of that story is, certain kinds of pressure management work better than others. transparency is always required. communication is a two way street."
"no, please link a pic of dbrb"
"the mittani thinks he's good at managing people.but let's face it. running goons isn't about leadership but more about being a kindergarden nanny.throwing a hissyfit and tantrum wont work with devs and reading his garbage i see that's the only tactic he will be using. voting for a goon, any goon is something only the mentally challenged will do.ergo other goons."
"you do realize that someone who throws 'hissy fits' would be irreverently mocked by goons, and that as a result that can't possibly describe the mittani. right? or do you have no idea who goons are, outside of \"some mean guys who scam people,\" in eve online, the popular internet space ship game?"
"nicely said, although mittani never did lead goons, until he got fired from his job which was only recently, all the work put into making goons something was done years ago when mittani had little input, ofc after years of brown nosing and previous directors getting sick of him he decided to take charge become a renter in the north and now believes he achieved something from becoming a renter.inb4 someone says unironic hohoho >.>"
"i've met chronotis. he did a ******ed thing with the tech bottleneck; it is the case. he's a nice enough guy, but the implementation of the dys/prom tweak was shortsighted, unless you're part of the tribal liberation force. csming isn't a job for a sycophant, sorry kiddo"
"i run one of the meanest and most politically effective powerblocs in the game, but you wouldn't know that because you probably have no clue what it's like to be outside of the roleplaying forums:the hilarious bit is that, for all your words about how smart and cunning and ~dangerous~ you are, you're not on a single killmail anywhere. anyway, as far as management goes, the entire cluster**** is well aware of my capabilities, as is everyone who used to be in it."
"holy god pause the thread everyone go look at this at first i was just 'who is this toolshed' and it opened up a yawning gulf of ever-increasing idiocythere's poetry in there"
"i hardly think a drake army fleet qualifies for \"powerbloc\" considering all it had to prove itself was an already failing alliance, which was blobed out every single time."
"1/10, you didn't even get the fleet doctrine right"
"umm maybe not and i rly cba to go through the kb's right now, however the second part is true and you can pretty much ask any it member, the alliance was long dead before your coalition even invaded, and some1 even told me that the only reason they fought you for the 3 odd months was to get their supers in delve build, after that happend x13 and finfleet and dice packed their bags and left. i'm sure a \"spy master\" like yourself would know that..."
"it was all over the news and forums that maelstroms were the flavor of the month. how did you miss that?"
"sounds like you and your jerrymandering cronies have got this whole thing stitched up."
"sadly enough you actually think goons matter. and even worse if you think goons are known for being mean and political effective.the only thing goons excelled at is being utter ******s who's only pleasure was and still is ruining the game for others. and getting alts into other alliances to then expose their forums etc isn't political, it's just another proof how pathetic people are who need to metagame to the extreme cause else they might actually have to play the game. sadly enough i am not allowed to post my personal opinions with my main due to some higher echelons are afraid you might throw one of your hissyfits.also, thinking killmails is the only part of playing eve just proves once again your narrowmindedness. and yes we are well aware of your capabilities and that's the main reason why people outside goons should avoid even thinking of voting for you.goons will vote for you, no worries. we all know goons can't think out of the box, proof enough with the flood of unimaginary copy paste job scams in jita."
"hey there mittins.thank you for reminding people of what the csm really is and, just as importantly, what it isn't. the people who promise to fix everything and turn eve into a paradise overnight are full of it and have no idea what they're really doing.how exactly do you plan to do this? the csm has zero power. ccp can abolish it on a whim. ccp doesn't answer to the csm, it's the other way around.being manipulative is a wonderful skill to have, and i have zero doubt that you are highly skilled considering what you have accomplished in game, but i don't see any leverage here. your presence on the csm with this kind of agenda - the promise to be a bastard - could do more harm than good and cause ccp to take the csm even less seriously.unfortunately you sound a lot like the new york union lawyers i have worked with whose style is extremely confrontational. in the end, both sides lose, and the only person who wins is the lawyer when he walks away with a gob of cash.having someone so iconic to eve on the csm is appealing. you're obviously very intelligent and capable with an excellent knowledge of the game of eve, and the meta-game of eve. but, with this kind of attitude i'm afraid of what the end result will be.itt, people who cannot distinguish between an uncompromising self-admitted bastard (which i respect in many ways) and an insane psycho axe murderer who wears black and writes poetry about the deep, dark abyss of his soul. monkey, please stop posting. forever."
"perhaps unexpectedly, i actually think that mittens would be a very valuable asset to the csm. he will undoubtedly be voted in, because of the sheer power of the block voting sytem he's employing.my concern is more that whilst mittens would be a valuable asset to a balanced and diverse csm, goonswarm and the nc have instead cooked up their little plot to fill the csm with carbon copy clones of themselves for in game advantage, hence why i felt duty bound to stand.mittens? yep, he'd be good. the whole cynical csm takeover thing? not chill.democracy in action - open vote to decide my csm priorities"
"you're missing the point.it took a combined goonswarm and nc blob to take down bob 2 years ago despite the alliance being disbanded the war still lasted for almost a year. now mitten's mighty \"powerbloc\" took somewhat 4 months to beat the same guys. i mean it didn't even fight for delve. now this is just my opinion, but it seems more like that mitten's coalition was kicking a dead dog, calling that a victory is just.. well... pathetic. he spoke of, i quote, \"one of the meanest and most politically effective powerblocs\", i ask on what bases is he making that claim. do we need a reminder of what happened to the original goonswarm alliance? admitted the mittani didn't run that one, but he is a goon after all, cut from the same wood as all the other goons."
"are you suggesting he can walk on water?.. got my vote."
"an excellent question, so good that i'll drop my no-caps tildeposting gimmick for a moment to answer it. i don't think that table-pounding accomplishes anything; when i promise to be a bastard, that doesn't mean that i will abandon the subtlety and cunning with which i've murdered my way across eve for so long with. i'm a student of influence; i've studied pretty much anything involving the topic, from the cialdini books to behavioral economics. i do intend to be a zealous advocate and attempt to grow the power of the csm, but that doesn't mean throwing tantrums or behaving in an unsubtle or counterproductive way. all the same, i've made my intentions and ultimate goals clear - to be a hardline player advocate and quash idiocy - but as i've mentioned in several posts in this thread, the methods involved will be circumstantial. it might help assuage your concerns if you know that my political idols are sir humphrey appleby and the 'master of the senate'-era lbj (incidentally, anyone with an interest in power and manipulation should read the robert caro biographies of johnson, immediately). beyond that, i've downed a tremendous amount of alcohol with ccp staffers over the years, i'm not going to suddenly start behaving like nikita krushchev banging my shoe on a podium."
"from the outset, i've said that i'd be perfectly happy to see representatives from hostile alliances on the csm; the issue isn't who is shooting who in the game, but competence. what you don't seem to understand is that the issues confronting nullsec - friendly or hostile - are the same. a competent nullsec rep from awagon, such as seleene, or from the drf, such as krutoj or death, isn't going to have a wildly different perspective than your pet conspiracy theory. but the csm is less about upvoting proposals (which is presumably what you're worried about in conspiracy land, a voting bloc) in this day and age, because csm1-csm5 have upvoted pretty much any issue the playerbase can think of by now; the real issue is the goddamned backlog, where all those player-approved proposals have gone to die."
"i find myself doing the same thing. realize you have ended a sentence with a preposition, then go back and fix it only to find that a preposition is still what you have ended the sentence with."
"let's forget for a moment the content of your toughts, if that implementation was good or terribly wrong. your saying\"i am the strong man you want for the csm, i'll kick their ass, vote for me!\"sounds really like a populist try to ride the discontent. we don't need \"charismatic leaders\" on the csm, we need analytic and reasonable people to do a long and tiring work, like trebor did. if you are elected and you act as you tell us, we are going to miss csm5, and all what they did."
"bump!"
"not really keen on the new portrait :( but your ideas are good and you were one of the few decent csm last termhopefully you will get in"
"what do you think of small entities in 0.0?why i ask: i am not sure about the fact that a nerf in logistics will actually split coalitions (i would like a set of nerf/buffs to encourage local production tough). but if we want small scale pvp to happen more often in conquerable 0.0, we need small entities there. and by small entities, i mean corporations.if independent medium sized corporations are allowed to live in conquerable space it will be far more interesting, won't it?i think that there are a lot of ways to allow independent corporations to live in 0.0 without having them competing with obviously stronger entities about sov, outposts, poses. here are some possibilities, and many other could be thought of. so, in conclusion, what do you think of this vision: independent corporations in 0.0 conquerable will bring a lot of small scale pvp there;0.0 \"farming landscape\" will be more rich and deep: large entities will control outposts, moons, supercap production; small entities will ninjamine, ninjafarm, do piracy, small scale industry; strong entities will battle against eachother about big things, or try to hunt small entities (and succeeed sometimes), while small entities will fight against eachother, or do piracy or harassment on the space owner. same space, 2 radically different ways of living in it, 2 levels, both possible, for a lot more small action in 0.0."
"if by 95% of game time you mean: work in team play with other people then, hell i say twice yes.0.0 is far too much safe than it should ever be, that must be changed and then you'll get more pew pew than you have right now, but i would like that the actual abilitys of large fleets to move from here to \"there\" change a little bit more than just some clicks and \"i blob you here and i blob you there\""
"the body is nice though :dthe more entities you have in zero zero, not blue'd up to ****, the better, because it means conflict. if people can make isk reliably and find pvp close by, the need to blue up thousands of people disappears. if, at the same time, the ability to move huge fleets across the galaxy in mere hours is reduced, it means a lot more local conflict without half the galaxy involved. so yeah, what you just said there, i'd consider that an awesome future for 0.0"
"i will be participating in the lost in eve csm6 debate this weekend. if you have questions for myself and the other csm candidates participating, you can submit them via their website."
"thanks.i am currently spending my time in eve running around between major hubs shaking hands and kissing babies. everyone should feel free to convo or join channel trebor-csm."
"hey trebor, great job on csm 5. hope you make it onto csm 6. you have my vote."
"i can't predict how i'll deal with that possibility because each situation is going to require a response based on the facts of the moment. it's very important that the people elected to csm 6 understand that the bull**** grandstanding and me me me politics and attention whoring that have been demonstrated by some previous delegates isn't going to work anymore. i've seen this process from both sides of the fence and i have a good idea of what ccp thinks of certain types of csm members that don't seem to care about the fact that they are on a council and not there to promote just their one favored version of game play in eve.for months, i have been speaking with both past and present csm members and soliciting their feedback as much as possible. i believe that many of the the csm 6 candidates know how important it is now to be informed and are doing the same kind of homework. they are looking very hard at the past csms and will base their approach on what seems to have worked and what has obviously failed. if i am elected i am going to work with other like-minded csm members to ensure that we take our predecessors' hard earned lessons about dealing with ccp to heart.heh... when i look at the list of candidates running this time around, i think there is a good chance that csm 6 is going to comport itself much differently than past councils in terms of establishing communications amongst ourselves. when you get people who are long-time alliance leaders or real life professional managers (or both) on a council like this, we're going to play csm much the same as we play eve. there will be organized skype / ts meetings, analysis of enemy fortifications, plans of attack and then execution. if it sounds much like the csm is going to war... well, perhaps it's an apt analogy. if you look at some of the other campaign threads in this forum, you'll see at least one common theme among several - that of forming a proper united front.so when ccp moves to 'isolate' the csm, it becomes the responsibility of the elected members of the csm to do everything in their power and use all of their experience to bring the concerns of the people we represent to light. my former status as a dev and the working relationships i had with people who are still there will count for something when there is a situation like that. if ccp chooses to run for the hills, as a member of the csm i will call them out on it, keep the community informed about it and track it so that those trends can be demonstrated in no uncertain terms. i will work with the other csm members together to be relentless in pushing for communication with the players on key issues even if there is no response.at the end of the day, no one can force anyone in ccp to communicate with csm, but i will certainly make sure there is a record of our attempts to try. preferably, ccp will choose productive engagement with csm 6. there's no reason to make this process unnecessarily difficult."
"what are your thoughts on jump bridges, 0.0 logistics and power projection?"
"while you probably will be my choice for this election, that emphasis about an united front worry me a bit. sadly it sound too much like \"we will unite and support what the majority of the csm want, all other issues be dammed, no manpower to lose on \"secondary\" issues\".\"secondary\" issues have an habit to be abandoned in a ditch for years and even it they are minor things from ccp and the csm point of view they tend to fester and make a section of the player base unhappy.examples are the hybrids issue, afs, the sorry state of missions and soloable pve and so on."
"one of the most serious candidates.wishing you gl and see youat that csm6 with rip, i think you guys can do a great job together."
"seleene seems to be a good choice ;* approval from some known guys* no one trolling like others threads, nor zombies agreeing* was able to convinced me than being an ex-dev was good for us here* he's pretty good for writting big wall of text, and explaining things* i mostly agree with his vision of what need to be done* he seems trustworthy, and enough neutral iggot my vote"
"if there are various different activities to gain sec status in lowsec it would be great, i just don't want to see anything sec gain related outside of lowsec. just to give it a bit special flavour."
"i blogged about my thoughts on what incarna looks like shortly after the most recent dev blog was published. would i like to see some form of pvp in incarna? absolutely. however, while i don't think we're ever going to see anything in eve that resembles a 'shooter' game inside of stations, there is certainly room for incarna to expand its horizons to include things like espionage, smuggling or sabotage (kill clones / station services, etc...). if we are going to be forced to use incarna, which looks to be the case unless something changes, then i don't want it to be all smoke and mirrors. i will certainly push for some element of danger and usefulness to come out of the feature, otherwise it wouldn't be 'eve'."
"he's in a corp named thundercats. based on that alone he probably deserves an ambassadorship to a small european nation, at least."
"thanks guys.. and if you were wondering it was a very angry male african bull elephant.. but meh nothing that cant be handled."
"second post updated"
"i do have a strong opinion about supercapitals. i think they should all die. supercaps cause so many balance issues for this game and i feel they make people feel they have to bot/rmt in order to even compete. this isn't to say that people wouldn't do this otherwise, but i do feel that people are more likely to seek illgal isk generation mechanisms because they feel they have no other realistic avenue to compete in the eve endgame which has taken an unfortunate shift towards supercap heavy fleets in the past year and a half. dfm if you read my platform you'd see i largely am pointed in the same direction as you. you seem to think that we're happy with the state of 0.0 and want to somehow sneak in and cause it to continue the way it is, we're not. i'd actually welcome your ideas on the subject if you'd like to have a serious talk about it however if you're just here to throw stones let me know and i won't bother :)"
"while they clearly don't, if you wanted to make fleet combat less common and make high end logistics harder, this would be the way to do it.jump bridge nerfs will only impact member level activity inside alliances, and make 0.0 activity less practical without a blob.if only we had a some kind of council that could make this startlingly obvious point to ccp... oh wait."
"to the idiots saying were trying to have deklein and nc control the csm are idiots, were trying to get all 0.0 alliances in on this even pl and it were contacted to get csm rep's."
"butch leupold campaign video for the 6th csmvote for butch leupold for the 6th council of stellar management.i am another player in the sandbox. some days i may be you friend. some days i may be your enemy. but i bring to the council an agenda... your agenda!being a player that has done lowsec, nullsec, empire and pvp, i have done the grind. i will bring your issues at hand for the average player. i do not have uber skills or isk. i have been a pirate and i have been podded. i will bring your concerns of a more enjoyable experience by bringing your issues to spend less time in the tutorials, and more time undocked. being from a small corp of 5 members, i have no special interest or large megacorp to answer to.so vote for the guy beside you. the one mining, plexing, ratting, and running for his life through gate camps! vote for butch!<i am butch leupold, and i approve this message! :)>"
"butch leupold profile pagenothing to hide and out in the open."
"your attention to detail is kinda embarrassing typo in that boring, uninformative video at 1:28. impressive start to your campaign. restraining order inbound."
"do you think drakes should be nerfed?"
"internet lawyer said \"do you think drakes should be nerfed?\"no. the drake (and other bc for that matter) provide a versatile and strong platform that is relatively easy to get into, and has a lasting potential to it. players still rely on the bc even after they have trained higher skills and go on to fly bigger ships. with the proper skills and loadout, the drake can be a pain to take down, but (as i lost one yesterday), they can be taken down. same thing could be said about the other faction's bc.thanks for the question.and thanks to legal assistant for catching the typo. sorry you didn't like it, but at least you watched it!"
"there, i updated the video with a \"patch\". and people say i know nothing about how eve works..."
"you may not want to include relevant facts in your discussions, but why you disabled a very popular app when it was clear you couldn't make money off of it, rather than open-sourcing it is something that folks will wonder about. especially since it indicates something of a mercenary attitude. after all, if you won't open-source a product that you've already earned dev cred for since you can't personally benefit from it anymore and refuse to open-source it to help the community, what's to say that you're not looking for time on the csm as resume building experience as long as it can help you personally, and not really interested in donating your time to help the community? to say nothing of the fact that it's more than a bit odd for you to claim it isn't a part of your campaign discussions. you' ve spent a bunch of text talking about how you've interfaced with ccp. surely you're not saying that you did all that for something other project?without actually addressing your reasons for doing what you've done, it sets up a dangerous precedent. as for datacores, if datacore production was a major issue that the csm was expected to advise ccp on? then yes, it would be a big deal if some candidates had no idea what a datacore was, how you got it, or why it was necessary. it's also somewhat off putting that you're comparing the total reworking of nullsec logistics and capital combat maneuvering mechanics... to datacore harvesting."
"personal attacks removed."
"i asked my own alliance, ushrakhan, to explain it to me. we spoke about logistical advantages for fleet activity, how easy jbn make it to trap an enemy fleet, or escape from one. low upkeep costs, they dont appear on the overview, etc, etc. there are a lot of reasons why nullsec alliances love jump bridges, thats for sure.i also spoke with three other alliances. i received pretty much the same information, leading me to believe that the information my own alliance provided was relatively unbiased. thats the key for me, really. there are always two sides to a story, and in the middle is the truth. i want to work with the csm to provide a solution that is best for everyone.csm delegates should be expected to understand the mechanics they're offering feedback on, yes?isn't there a major difference between grid and system overviews? almost everything interact-able in the game is available on grid overview it's obvious that wasn't what he was referring to. is there some xml trick already to get jb on system voerview?"
"i could elaborate this point and talk about how every alliance knows the location of every other alliance jbn, and more than likely, the passwords for using them. it would reinforce the point about how broken that system is.thanks for the support!"
"i endorse manalapan!"
"to all of the goons, i do not have any experience running alliance logistics myself, nor do i have the incentive to do so.however, if a supply chain is well established, new goods can find their way into nullsec with disturbing ease.as to how inter-alliance politics will propagate should the massive powerblocs splinter, i have no idea, and that's the point. if massive wars break all out all over nullsec, i think that can only be a good thing. blowing up stuff is fun right?as for your point maria,the income margin in nullsec is several times that of highsec. true, highsec mission running is a very safe and constant income, especially when compared to null, but there's still a difference.that said, nowadays when an alliance wants to settle itself in null, it either need to have decent relationships with established alliances or otherwise it would get crushed in an instant.with changes to jump bridges and comparable means of transportation, it's true that the logistics needed for moving would become more difficult, but this goes for both of the parties (you can only transport tcu's in freighters anyway). on the other hand, the \"invading\" alliance does have a bit more of an advantage in the initial stages, since there's no possibility for the extremely fast force projection from the other side of the region that you have now."
"very nice read, dont mind goons they have been ordered by nc todo 2 things.1. degrade anyone non-nc with cliche meme's2. vote blindly for anyone in ncthe funny thing is you know more about 0.0 than any nc csm candidate despite not knowing much."
"i've done some research in this. whilst mission running is not my thing, level 4's appear to make equal or more than ratting in belts in 0.0 will. it may be that anomalies change that slightly (though asking around people disagree, l4s are considered to be as good as anything 0.0 offers) but how exactly do you expect anyone without a titan to move tcu + ihub + upgrades through hostile (as i said, it would have to be a barely used backwater system for us) space? and you wish to make it harder? there needs to be a rebalance, focused on boosting nullsec and making it easier to get there. sure, make some logisitcs harder if you believe that will break up the powerblocs (though i am not sure i would turn on people i had fought along side in battle many times just for the edification of ccp) - but everything you do needs to be considered from the point of view of 'barrier to entry'. we have a carrier at our disposable, and jump freighters are not an option. lower the barriers, increase the traffic flow. make the risks balanced by rewards."
"the only difference that you'll have with semi-nerfing cyno's, would be that you'd need more jumps to cross the same amount of distance compared to today.if you were to prepare well, you should be able to use a quick succession of jumps through potentially hostile space.while doing this, any agressors will have a harder time getting a bead on you seeing that they too are faced with an increased number of jumps.of course, with them being the defenders, they have the advantage of having established poses, but this is the case in any combat. defenders usually have the advantage over attackers."
"willing to throw my \"bad\" posting vote in for kalrand"
"kalrand,what colour should the zealot be?this is important."
"green.next question."
"this is wrong. because of your clear lack of eve online knowledge i'm voting for twigand berries."
"my signature is green, my character's background is green, and most of the things in my refrigerator are (turning) green.why would i say anything otherwise?"
"in reverse order . . . because normal sequential thought is for orderly people. good question and i think it is hard to see the causes of burnout from the outside. i think some of it is along the lines of mr. smith goes to washington where they come in having very high hopes of 'making a big difference' and then slowly see those hopes erased. for others it is the border between this being a game and a hobby. when it begins to look like a full time job and all you get is grief from folks you cannot even tell the important things to because of an nda . . . well, that would wear you down. i teach high school. i am used to doing a lot of work and hardly seeing anything come of it. i have dealt with bureaucracies and rules, confidential information and the frustrations of knowing what should be done but being unable to do it. maybe that will protect me . . . but i think my real defense is that i am a stubborn old guy who has won and lost enough in his time to be able to take the good and the bad in stride.long term things? now understand these are not things i promise to do, that was not what you asked me. these are things i would like to see worked on. i) review destroyers, function and balance. ii) add more specialist ships, not one-off hanger queens but actual new ship classes. iii) csm5 did a bloody excellent job of opening communications. ccp is beginning to come out of its shell but there is still a long way to go to make the lines of communication what they should be. i understand that business pl;ans need some measure of security but there also needs to be a bit more info flowing out about future plans.short term? again. it is not a csm members job to push through their own agenda. at least, not as far as i am concerned. but things i would like to see fixed? i) rokh hanger ii) aggro mechanics cleaned up and a lot clearer in explanation iii) mailable bookmarks for swifter corp and wh use.next question?m"
"hello everyone!you are probably reading this because you enjoy playing this awesome game.if you are playing for a while, you most likely have used tools like evemon, eft, killboards, forums integrated with eve, production or invention calculators, jump range planners and maybe a variety of other 3rd party tools.i'd assume that alot of people will agree that eve without those tools would be a different game, and that those tools add alot to your fun.now while ccp has been giving a bit of support to us (the third party developers), i still feel that we need a more direct line to ccp, and to the people at ccp who can actually make decisions - so they can be convinced to work clother with people like us, so our (free) work improves your game even more.so, if you use some of those tools regulary, please give it a thought and vote for peter powers! learn more about me on my campaign website,"
"evsco supports peter powers fully.hes an invaluable person both as a friend, but also as a developer on both private and evsco related projects.so if you value your 3rd party tools like eve-kill, vote peter in to the csm - and he will fight tooth and nail to get even more goodies to the 3rd party developers - and ultimately you, the pilots of eve!"
"remember people nc want to control all of 0.0 and all of csm to speed up the process, do you truly want 0.0 to be solely controlled by one coalition?if not then dont vote for any nc csm candidates"
"i'd try and explain just how silly this is, but merely considering that someone actually believes this mess makes my brain hurt so i'm just going to have to conclude that you are, in fact, trolling."
"don't write the zero-sec hegemony a blank cheque.image changed to url. zymurgist"
"your suffering and frustration unironically give me pleasureyou're lying about my intentions, though vov"
"okay i'll bite. how is he \"blatantly says he wants to make eve worse\"? do you have an example of this? no incoherent ramblings, i want examples (plural). heck, his tentonhammer articles (all 57 of them"
"someone needs to 'unironically' learn new (real) words, perhaps you should read a dictionary, at your next anger management session at the free clinic"
"skeptical puppy is skepticalimage changed to url. zymurgist"
"screw it, hi kalle. how are you doing? is your paranoia finally contaminating your brain?"
"its funny how you flying monkeys claim he is sincere when he has openly announced his intentions, contradicted himself, randomly flamed other csm candidates for no reason and started a campaign making him and vile rat both look like hypocrites.or maybe i am paranoid and mittani never said he wants to harm lowsec, make it harder for non sov holders to pvp and try to have nc take full control over csm so they wont have any issues with moon goo transportationthere is also a thread on kugu about this issue and leaked logs showing nc bitter about pl so much that they have to do something to preserve their holy land from receiving any pvp actionbut you cant blame mittani from trying to be like darius / suas, lucky for players ccp wont listen to hypocrites like him."
"i'm not sure you're actually reading that post you are linking. can you tell me where, explicitly, the mittani said that he wants to 'harm lowsec', 'make it harder for non sov holders to pvp' or that he wants to do this so the nc 'wont have any issues with moon goo transportation'?because, honestly, i can't read anything remotely like that at all."
"thank you for proving me right, kalle. how are you doing?"
"pity reply"
"well folks, as promised you, the plebs of eve, can now vote on my top 5 priorities. already looking forward to the witty and inspired suggestions from goonies that my priorities should be to 'end myself'. anyway, over to you. the first csm campaign that's truly and openly democratic.what could possibly go wrong?"
"i will vote for you if you manage to make one good post"
"well my posts have been good enough for you to dedicate 50% of your lifetime posting energy into replying.holy crap i can see into the future."
"thanks for the words of support for those who posted :)here are some of my comments for the questions raised.items in the backlog:the highest priority should be the war on lag. ccp created a sandbox and encouraged us to play in it because there were no rules dictating how we must play. we, the players, decided who to shoot and when to shoot them. with more and more players joining the sandbox that is 0.0, the hardware is unable to keep up with unpredictable nature of 0.0 warfare. ccp forces us to plan our battles and inform them of the location ahead of schedule so they can take appropriate actions behind the scenes. this isnt how we like to play the game. it limits the opportunity for supercapital fights because of the risk of lag. when we become the victims of lag caused by the lack of hardware required to support the fast-paced game play in 0.0, we are met with denial from ccp as they accept no responsibility for any ship lost in a fleet.we dont want to wait several minutes for modules to activate, it should be instantaneous. the demands of this sandbox force the issue: we need a lag-free environment, and i intend to press ccp hard on this issue.jump bridges:i have never met a pod pilot that enjoys travelling 50 jumps to get from point a to point b. the majority of players are impatient as theyre given limited time to do the things they enjoy the most in the game each day and would much rather get to their destination the quickest way possible. jump bridges provide a logistical advantage if they are setup correctly, both for military and industrial pilots. theres no denying that the nc jump bridge network is extremely efficient and allows us to project our forces quite easily, but i also have to state that this required a great deal of coordination and it can be quite expensive to maintain.there was once a time in eve when there was no warp to 0km option and the default was 15km. pod pilots either made or purchased insta-jump bookmarks from gate to gate. when this was first implemented, there were nothing but smiles from the majority of pod pilots even though it slightly reduced the ability for easy ganks. jump bridges provided players with a new mechanism of moving quickly and efficiently around new eden, just like the warp to 0km option. i cannot deny that it slightly reduces the potential for easy ganks by removing or reducing the need to use normal stargates. however ganks are still possible at jump bridges, it just requires a bit more thought into how it can be accomplished.that being said, i do believe that some changes can be made to the jump bridge network and how they operate. i do not believe they should be removed entirely nor do i believe they should be the victim of a major nerf. one possibility is to increase the amount of liquid ozone required to utilise the jump bridge, but this would also require an overhaul of how the jump bridges are configured particularly around their access and a more granular level of permissions.small gangs in 0.0:nothing would please me more than to see smaller gangs roaming in 0.0. but lets be honest here, anything that ccp implements that encourage smaller gang warfare will just be multiplied 100 times and used as tactics by large alliances. i dont believe this is a problem that only ccp can fix, i believe it requires a level of commitment from all of the major alliances. that being said, i am always open to reasonable suggestions and i encourage anyone to contact me if theyd like to discuss this in more detail."
"having worked with killer for a few years now, i can think of very few people better suited to drive the interests of the 0.0 community as a whole and ensuring that the players voice is heard via the csm, and more importantly, the promises and improvments are driven through to make eve the enviroment it should, and can be.jackalmostly harmless"
"i am happy to see you here killer there are many hot topics right now jb's i'm sure at the top of most of our lists (jump drives not far behind). it would be great to have a rep with true null sec experience at heart helping to make some of the changes that need to be made. this is a serious issue that needs to be dealt with, removing jump bridges in the hopes of smaller fleet fights is not the answer."
"the perfect man for the job."
"ccp wont stand a chance"
"in fact i just noticed that mittens quoted me in his campaign post so in a particularly meta display of recursiveness, i'm going to quote him quoting me on this topic:"
"my only vote goes to helen.goodluck."
"why highlight such juvenile name-calling so publically when your knowledge and experience seem capable of carrying the day without them?can you give some examples of this and describe what you find objectionable?"
"deception never quite what it appears.vote against the null-sec plan to take over the csm."
"a lot of candidates in the current election cycle are doing exactly this again. they (and the people who voted for them) are going to have a big surprise if they get a seat and discover that their personal agendas and bundles of ideas are essentially worthless.i don't want to pick on her because i think she's done a great job as chairman, but mynxee provides a great example to use here. she was elected largely on a platform of fixing low-sec. what low-sec changes have been made, hinted at or mentioned in minutes since she took office a year ago? (hint: if you answered none at all you'd be correct). that's not because she lied during her election campaign but rather because she came in with unrealistic expectations and crashed into reality.to be fair, this tends to get better over the course of a csm term as the delegates get a better understanding of what their role is. what i'm mostly talking about here is the csm as games designer stuff, it smacks of the classic tighten up the graphics on level three! advert. as each csm gets settled in, they largely lose the idea that they are going to be overseeing sweeping fixes to their pet projects and get used to the idea that they are mostly a focus group.as i've said (repeatedly), nobody cares about your ideas for the most part, ccp least of all. the truly important stuff happens on the internal csm forums, at the summits and in email chains with ccp personnel. it's there that the csm has the largest opportunity to influence the way that eve progresses and all of that is covered by nda. the public stuff mostly comes down to us coming to agreement on what we believe are areas that ccp could or should fix given our (limited) insight into their schedules - not to suggest fixes but to flag up problem areas. most of that work could easily be done by an internal cm department (and i say that as someone who has created and managed cm departments for aaa mmos)."
"let's talk about this and expose it as the nonsense that it is.firstly even if the csm were able to push through the agendas of any (or all) delegates, you are assuming that ccp has no other metrics to determine what is good or bad in their own game. really?as has been pointed out and as a cursory glance through the csm section of the evewiki will reveal this simply doesn't happen. not just because ccp isn't dumb enough to rely on only one source but also because the csm doesn't get to decide what ccp does.the most important work that the csm does is providing feedback on ccp's ideas. that requires a strong understanding of the game and how the various parts inter-relate. the best csm delegates are the ones who can point out the unforeseen consequences of someone else's ideas not the ones who are the most ~passionate~ about their particular area of the game. a 0.0-centric csm will not mean that hi-sec mission runners will be herded into cattle-cars and transported to gulags or that concord will suddenly start giving suicide gankers a cheery wave and a pat on the back. it means that players who understand the 0.0 game as well as the hi-sec and economic game will be giving feedback."
"hindsight is 20/20, as the old saying goes. that said, i promised during my campaign to pursue low sec changes and that i did almost immediately upon being elected by requesting a two-hour low sec session at the june summit. that session resulted in good discussion with devs but it was made quite clear that ccp dev resources were allocated for the next 18-24 months and there was no chance of low sec getting any dev love in that timeframe. failure to get any low sec changes are not my fault, nor anything to do with naivete or dribbling ******ation on my part...the lack of low sec changes is just a reality based on ccp focus and allocation of resources. given the situation, i feel my low sec voters got as much value for their votes as could feasibly be gotten this particular csm term. if by some crazy coincidence, ccp had had low sec in the near term dev queue, perceptions about the effectiveness of my campaign message might be very different now, wouldn't they?my point is, it doesn't matter what candidates do or don't promise. no csm term will ever go the way its fresh-faced delegates expect. there are too many factors that drive csm focus and activities, and they come from a lot of different directions. campaign platforms, however, do provide one method for voters to get a sense of how a candidate could be expected to respond to some issues if those issues come up for discussion during their term. therefore, i suggest that it's not necessarily invalid for candidates to post their views on the issues that matter most to them."
"i wasn't picking on you (honestly!) and i wouldn't even have used you as an example if you were running for re-election. i'm just pointing out that the agendas of any csm delegate almost never survive contact with the ccp schedule - a point that you've actually reinforced with your post above. you ran on low-sec changes, realised early in the term that this wasn't going to happen and had to ditch your preconceptions of what being on the csm was going to be about. the exact same thing happened to delegates in every previous csm session too and yet here we are after five terms with prospective candidates who aren't paying attention promising the sky to voters who also aren't paying attention."
"oh i agree totally. but a lot of people don't do their homework. i wonder how many of the current candidates have read the csm white paper, even, or gone back and looked at candidates' campaign threads from last year, or read the minutes from csm5 and previous summits to get a sense of what goes on in iceland--and become informed about how the process has evolved. not many, it appears."
"many people misunderstand what csm is about i guess. (in before all kinds of horrible puns)but on the subject of helen, i can attest that he is a cool guy who does the job well."
"if you bother to look at any of the csm5 output, you'll spot fairly quickly that this is the only guy on the current panel able to string together a coherent thought.i have no idea how he puts up with the cretins he has to coexist with on the current csm or with the galactic scale stupidity that passes for game design at ccp. and since the eve player base is probably the least well informed electorate in the history of democratic endeavour, i see no reason to think you ****wits will pick a better panel this time around. in fact, subjecting highwater to another term will likely lead to his brain dribbling out of his ears through overexposure to head melting stupidity. vote for this masochist. tia."
"there is probably not more than 100-200 votes to gather from the readers of this forum. to get elected i'd say your best bet is to present yourself as the guy who is going to help random joe. that is the biggest pool of potential voters you just have to get them to actually vote. look at the programme of the 'take care' party. it's tried and tested! some random ideas:- talk about how suicide ganking is too easy and has no risk at all and how you're going to change it- complain how scamming is rampant and needs to be penalized- stress how lowsec needs more sentry guns, npc patrols to protect the innocents and how people with negative security standing shouldn't be allowed to dock at npc stations- insinuate at all times that not participating in ship combat makes you a better human- promise that lvl4 missions aren't going to be moved to lowsec as long as you are on the csm - ask for mothership bpcs(?) to drop in hisec incursions- make strong use of words like \"griefing\", \"gankers\", \"gankbears\" and most importantly \"player killing\"- incorporate some incarna stuff too people dig that- talk about how miners make and break eve and how the gankers would be boned without themit's also vital that you promise a lot. it doesn't matter that you don't really get to decide anything. people prefer to vote for people with strong agendas. possibly that would be in conflict with your actual opinions but that is politics. i'm pretty damn sure this is the ticket to the csm. it has worked in the past just like that. you would have to drop your alliance though as the type of player you're going for has an inexplicable yet deeply rooted hate for anything \"goon\".as for getting voted in purely based on a reasonable low-key programme and a passion for the game: good luck with that."
"all you have to do is promise everything then deliver nothing. thats how politics work!"
"i think its actually quite easy to explain, come to think of it."
"you can go to iceland with the help of my ax!"
"the conclusion i've come to is that i have no chance of winning while i'm in goonswarm."
"give it a chance, put some of the tips given into practice, don't forget it's not just about winning votes in your favour it's also about whether the other asshats can get votes too. some of them may say something stupid killing their chances, have some scam found out about them, might get hit by a bus before election, there might be ten thousand votes from \"mr random doesn't read forums just reads the csm page with the brief summaries on it\" etc. .. last time i voted in the csm election i simply voted with all my accounts on the guy that had the highest letter count in his proposal, regardless of what it said :d"
"so this would be a good time to ask:is kalrand the only md person to be running for csm?if so, then it does stand to reason that he is the only person in md that actually wants to do something proactive about all the groaning and moaning going on around here. for example, akita t et. al. have been complaining for a year about moon mineral balancing and restructuring. this is a clear 0.0 agenda item that they don't want mentioned. why? because they love it.kalrand has said in his points that he will try to get that addressed. he makes a solid point that it is not up to the csm to decide the solution. it is up to the csm to spark the fire, and then help direct the resulting blaze. sometimes they even have to help fan the flames.unless anyone else around here is stepping up, then kalrand is (by default) the only choice for md. now, you may not like that fact. you may decide that md doesn't need a dedicated voice, and thus vote for someone else, but the logic stands.kalrand, you have my vote, and my pledge to try and get the rest of my alliance (however small we may be in the grand scheme of things) on board with your candidacy. if i pull it off, that's about 100 votes. good luck sir.side note: if anyone else here is actually standing up for the economy of eve i will do the same thing for them. because i do believe it is an area which needs serious attention."
"even if you don't make it this time around, you could at least get your name out there so that next time around you've got a leg up. that said, don't play for second place. in it to win it or not at all.edit: ps - i'll be very cross with you if i don't see your name on the list of people to vote for. this is the first time i've taken the time to care about who to vote for on csm. sorry, you don't have a choice in the matter anymore."
"i don't think that is the case; quite frankly i'd vote for someone in goonswarm over someone in some no-name corp i've never heard of, because i know at least that you have played the game, and have some exposure to a broad range of experiences. i'd rather have you than a random mouth-breather who has only ever seen the game in high-sec through the window ports of his drake/raven. the fact that you are active on md will also net you votes as many people who lurk the md forums will be given the opportunity to vote and only recognize your name from the list that is presented.you've got 1-3 votes from me, depending on what accounts are up at the time; also probably a few from my more easily influenced friends who could generally give a crap less about the csm."
"that wasn't a defeatist statement, at this point i've been doing the math, and it would appear that i have a decent shot at being a high-level alternate, and knowing how long the term is, makes it likely that i'll end up on the csm eventually anyway.i really think there's only about three seats up for grabs to the \"general public\", and i think i'll be polling well, just not top three.not that i'm not doing everything in my ability to change that, i am. dropping goonswarm is an idea, so are some ~other things~ that i'm doing."
"how many people not seriously entrenched in 0.0 pay attention to csm politics? i can't imagine the majority of high-sec, non-forum readers caring one way or another, certainly not enough to notice that you dropped your goonswarm tag. to them, it's probably just a list of unrecognizable names. i will vote for you for whatever its worth. you might be able to get in on the 50 or so md votes (although mittani def. has you beat with a larger and more dedicated base) edit: and to outdo the picture of mittani and his dog, strike back hard. have your photo taken/photoshop yourself into pictures with a: 1) fireman, 2) policeman, 3) gaggle of kids + orphanage, and 4) the american flag w/ optiional bookshelves in the background. preferably do a thumbs up in all of them."
"i am not sure how much dropping gs would help that much unless there is no doubt that its not just a ploy to hand mittens even more control over the csm and hand more seats to gs.this would be my primary objection to you. i think you are a swell dude, but its hard to trust what anyone with the goon tag does, due to precedent. what stops you from simply rejoining after the election and voting whatever way mittens wants you to anyway (if there is coercion)?. and if there is no coercion and you agree with the 0.0 csm control bs, then what is the difference between voting for you or them?from where i stand it would seem that the 0.0 block is pushing a very different view of the game than what i would like to support for instance. most of the game does not take place on 0.0, and the positions against \"shinies\" \"non pvp/pve content\" and \"change\" in general give me quite a bit of pause. (those positions are either stated or implied, here or in say kugutsu or scrapheap)."
"a preview of my \"official\" campaign statement:vote kalrand for csm the reason you don't know who i am is that i've had much better things to spend my time on than making funny websites or gimmicky new characters just to try to convince the average eve player that i can grasp the second and third order effects of changes made in a complex system. i can, and that's actually what i do for a living when i'm not playing eve.i came up with a list of **** that the average player would like. (here) either because they're something that should actually happen (example: moon goo rebalancing) or because the average player would ****ing love it (a t2 orca). doing these things would be good for the game, either to fix broken **** or give people what they want.but ccp really doesn't give two flying ****s about ideas the csm comes to the table with. they really only care about their own ideas. i'm sure they've got all kinds of stupid **** they want to put in (incarna! dust 514! sparkle vampires in space!), that really needs to be shot down with a better reason than \"**** you that's stupid.\".i'm that guy. vote for me. fly kalrand to iceland."
"1) me leaving would be entirely window dressing for my campaign. i would be rejoining with the kalrand character once it's over. i just don't want to turn off the \"casual\" empire person who doesn't know me anymore more than my normal likable personality would.2) i don't take coercion very well. i mean, without you knowing how bullheaded and stubborn i am in the real word, there's really no way to explain that here. it's something i dismiss as an issue out of hand, and haven't come up with an effective way to express it in game. i guess you'd just have to trust me."
"kalrand, you are doing it wrongrequoting myself:\"have your photo taken/photoshop yourself into pictures with a: 1) fireman, 2) policeman, 3) gaggle of kids + orphanage, and 4) the american flag w/ optiional bookshelves in the background. preferably do a thumbs up in all of them.\""
"a lot of the eve playerbase is european and the us may not be the most popular country to flag with at this time (or maybe at any, who knows). i recommend pets/kittens or hot women."
"hot women + american flag bikini w/ a kitten in the background? brillant"
"what if people get confused and vote for the kitten? the sort of people this would appeal to may be less than... of clear and present mind. that said... i would add a bazooka and rambo costume with cgi muscles."
"moved from market discussion."
"the only solution i can see to the hep posting problem is homeopathic-esque dilution with good postsbut do you believe that we actually deserve those good posts"
"no. we no longer deserve anything.also, i am quite good at world of tanks. a vote for me is a vote for wot."
"screw incarna. driving tanks in stations is something the whole player base can get behind."
"i am no longer available saturdays or sundays at noon anymore due to work"
"<---- 18 years navy, still in! :) thanks for your service though..(and yes, internet lawyer and legal assistant, i cannot spell.. but that has nothing to do with the military, rather me being an old man! )"
"end statement."
"the introductionsplease allow me to introduce myself.i'm a man of no wealth and questionable tastes.who am i? i am the ceo of the narwhals. [weare] alliance. we're very up and coming, small and don't really care about sov space or politics. i see a lot of my colleagues pledging to do this or that, remove jump bridges, increase small gang pvp, or break up the power blocks that hold the current political landscape of sov space. *******s to that i say, *******s. issues- engine trails. the primary and only apparent focus of my alcohol-fueled campaign. yes i know the graphics engine can't support them right now, but i'm sure with a bit of time ccp devs can fix anything. and hey, we can help them make it happen. - bring back the old jumpgate expressways. this time preferably to jita. the lag really can't get any worse, can it?campaign objectives- get drunk- buy ccp beer- get drunk with ccpnotesmy esteemed colleague, the mittani is correct. they are lying to you. but while everybody is claming this or that, claming to care about this game that we play, i'll put it frankly. i don't. in the end, we are the customers and it's ccp's game. we can scream and ***** and cry and moan, but in the end, their word is law. and if you don't like it, don't play it. in summaryq: is this campaign just a ploy for you to get to go to iceland to buy ccp beer?a: yes, yes it is."
"need invitation to that partyno way!! -i'll not pay one more to make hamsters barbecuesnice ideai'll vote with al my alts for this *laugh with this campaign, thx*"
