"confirming that if we had stripper bar establishments, there would be peace in 0.0.also confirming we would go to war once prostitutes get pimps."
"i support this change."
"this."
"nah. if a 6 month old toon wants to fly a perfect titan, they are just going to go to the character bazaar and buy a toon that can fly one. at least it will have the support skills trained. (i would hope anyway.)what i'm talking about here are new toons being able to get into battleships and flying horribly fit ravens that have 300dps tanks for pve. i have seen a lot of players flying around in battleships with less than 6m sp when they don't have anywhere near the support skills to be flying those ships. a new player dumps all the isk they have into one battleship and then loses it for whatever reason because they are in truth unable to fly it. then they have no money to buy another ship. that is more of a detractor than not training as fast as people you've never seen. we need to come up with a better way to teach people to fit their ships. either that or a way to bang it into new players heads that they need to train support skills before they get into a bigger ships, not after."
"i'd very much like to see what you posted about too op, i think it would add alot of depth.\"not firing\" due to line of sight is ridiculous however, most certainly fire - friendly, neutral, or hostile be damned. would add a brand new perspective to the game. as destination pointed out though, in the event of missiles i'm sure they are given calculated routes at some point - it would become the same with guns however and there would be a ton more checks involved.imagine primary'ing a target thats clipped between 20 more ships. that's alot of junk for the server to try to sort through, and i frankly dont see it as feasible despite how much i love the concept and have thought about it for many years now."
"why on earth would you not employ a \"dislike\" button next to the \"like\" or \"thumbs-up\" button?fix it.edit: inappropriate wording removed, ccp phantom."
"because this is a forum for eve players, and there are no limits to how many reps you can give. conclusion: i reckon it would take between 2 and 8 hours for the negrep wars to plateau at peak intensity and stay there forever."
"i think you're underestimating the abilities of the playerbase."
"the answer to life, the universe and the question \"how many seconds does it take to abuse the **** out of a dislike button\", is 42."
"negrep wars would take over from actual in-game pvp."
"aw you poor thing...hes got no friends...go join a better corporation or something. maybe they will let you use gang links so you can finally find your happy place.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"got any killmail links to back that up? :pcalm down dear, your pmt will be over soon."
"so a while back there was a dev thread about removing npc police in high sec for fw, which i honestly think would kill low sec entirely. this was my counter proposal, but i'm afraid it got lost in the thread, which went long. i've thought about it for a while now, and i honestly think that it could work, and bring a new dimension of war to eve.npc standing could really matter related to fw. so for example assume i am in amarr fw. if you remove the npc intervention, you could make it so if i go into a high sec system with a station owned by a minimatar loyal corp (boundless creations, for example), i would automatically be kos for any non-fw player in that system with a standing of higher than some set amount (5.0 or so) to that corp. there would no longer be the npc threat, but there would be an added player threat. there would be a local flag, similar to when a pilot is gcc or a wartarget to signal that i was a valid target. of course, as soon as a non-fw player would agress the fw interloper, they would become a valid target for return fire. this would provide new pvp opportunity for all players, not just fw members, including a easy introduction to pvp for the high sec missioner. it would also open new and interesting pvp mechanics, like hs gate camps to catch potential interlopers, missioner baiting as fw members could scan out active missioners and bait them into agressing the flashy red ship that just warped into their mission. it would ad an element of surprise and danger, as npc corp standings aren't readily available, so you wouldn't know if that ship next to you was able to shoot you until the bullets start flying. this also wouldn't minimize low sec, because the mechanics there favor the knowledgeable fw pilot more than the new, risky mechanics of enemy high sec. it would also address the \"npcs shouldn't fight battles between players\" issue in a sandbox game like eve.the real advantage of this is that it would make the ongoing struggle between the 4 factions a much larger part of gameplay for all players in empire, high or low. it would matter to missioners who they grind for, as that could influence pvp opportunity.please critique, as i am sure there are issues that i have not thought of that could cause problems."
"ah, but it's not as stupid as saying it's stupid to make stupid posts about something that's stupid. that would be beyond stupid and would give stupidity a bad name.but back on topic (sorry mods, couldn't resist ) i do agree that people should think really hard about hitting submit on their latest brain wave and think just how many people it would affect first. if it's less than 2 (ie the proposer only) then for the love of god, don't submit it."
"in this case i must agree with zim."
"moved from features and ideas thread herecould be a cool way to deal with it. hire some dust marines via contract to access and disable towers defenses, effectively causing it to unanchor or transfer ownership based on the details of the contract. zubzubzubzubzubzubzubzub"
"this is one idea ccp should also consider adopting, though probably after dust gets sorted out :d."
"should also confirm that most shirts already available for ladies would be impossible to actually manufacture as they are. unless they're made from latex."
"meh...we can write that one off to future technology in synthetics and clothing material in general. we, however, cannot write off the lack of boobie movement to this...no man in his right mind would make a bra that completely stops movement...and no woman would want to wear it due to the pain it would cause."
"i have an alternate solution for those that won't concede to the obvious fact of fleet boosters needing to be on grid.instead of requiring fleet boosters to be on grid make them act like triage/siege modules. can't activate inside a pos's sheilds, cannot warp and takes a 5 minute cycle time.now we can do exactly what the idiots are saying and scan for the fleet booster and kill him."
"fix shield boosting to not suck dilz when warping between grids, and i see absolutely no reason not to require the booster to be on-grid."
"+10good idea!"
"for whatever reason.. +1never really liked killrights anyway, and security losses in lowsec seem sort of redundant; not to mention they hinder pvpzubzubzubzubzubzubzubzub"
"+1 for support of the general idea of removing much of the security status hit for dipping into losec for casual pvp ... currently it's just not worth the security status hit to go \"get a taste\" of pvp ..."
"wasn't sure if i would support this one, but the more i think about it learning implants are a further punishment for risk takers and a reward for risk adverse pveers, which is bad.alternative solutions would be something along the lines that characters with +4 and +5s forfeit concord protection, but would really be much simpler to just remove them."
"i honestly don't think i agree with your first sentence.i don't see eve as a race to get the most sp. i really don't care if someone has more sp than i do, so long as i can train at a good speed. if someone of comparable age to my toon has more sp than me because they sit in +5 implants all day, it really doesn't matter to me. i personally don't sit in +5s. i have a clone with them but i generally only use it when i know i'm not going to be playing for at least 24 hours. that way it doesn't interfere with something critical. however, i don't see it as a punishment. the reason being, is that i choose not to sit in them. everyone in this game has that choice. the same goes for high-grade slave implants and crystals. those are far more expensive than +5 learning implants are. if you get podded in 0.0 and lose them, your out far more isk than if you lost +5 implants. so people generally choose not to fly with them in, whilst in 0.0. from my understanding of your first post and from the proposal spoken of, it should be the same thing. however, no one has made mention that i recall about the removal of such implants. why ?i'll tell you why. they don't have a +5 training modifier on them. the way this game is set up, you should be completely fine flying with +5 implants or high-grades while in lowsec. 0.0 is where the problem arises for people. which means that many pvpers use both set of implants. a fair number i would assume. so in truth, not all \"risk takers\" have to deal with this \"punishment\", as you call it. there is also the fact that if someone in highsec trains in +5 implants and eventually passes you in sp because your only using +3 implants, it really doesn't matter. if a pilot who is only interested in pve is in a corp that ends up getting war dec'd, he is going to get massacred if he fights. he will have little to no concept of pvp and against a single skilled pilot in a t3 or hac, will lose his golem/paladin. high sp doesn't really mean a whole lot if you don't know how to pvp and fit your ships for it. there are plenty of pilots out there that have over 70m sp and still don't have their armor compensation skills trained to level 5. so i don't think its safe to say that not training in +5 implants is a punishment of any kind. its about being able to play the game well in the area of expertise you choose to apply yourself."
"this is where that \"graphical skill tree\" idea that you shat all over would really help. \"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" - abrazzar"
"this has probably been proposed in the past, and somehow ignored?but if local is to remain as it is - please allow us to filter the 'local' channel by standing at least please.is it ever hard to scroll through a million people in major trading hubs.i don't care \"who's\" in local, i just care about 1 or 2 other people that 'could be in local'.if the arguement is as in this thread \"local is too powerful alread\"..."
"don't see any harm in treating local like a bit of an overview in a sense.+1================ stop the evemail spam!"
"... wow, i didn't think i'd ever see it. a local thread that isn't horrible. i'd actually be completely fine with this. 99.999% of eve players will still leave it showing everyone, but if you want to limit who you can see in local (but still show up on local yourself), i see no issue with it at all. of course, i don't know how much need for this there is, since most people will leave it showing everyone and there are already private chat channels to use. but i see no issues with this idea beyond the possibility of less than optimally used dev time. i'm also interested in the possibility of 0.0 bots being caught because their owners forgot to set up their local filters properly and they didn't see the hostile come into their system, that would be amusing."
"i suppose you could argue that missiles are \"guided\" and they would be able to menuever around obstacles to hit a target but then you may or may not have to account for the distance in that menuever around said object. missiles would indeed be a little trickier to change."
"because no one needs to worry about fratricide/\"friendly\" fire in a game where no one really dies and people go through ships like addicts through crack, amirite?(also remember: missiles can maneuver.) field of trolls: \"if you chum it, they will come.\""
"as proven by destination skill que...at this point, they should just remove the like function as you can easily like a whole page at once."
"yeah...the \"like\" button is pretty pointless. really the only place that needs it is assembly hall and that should be more of a \"support\" button. frankly ccp should add the functionality of using polls to the forums. it would be a lot easier to tally support for an idea than a \"like\" button which is really just another form of epeen."
"jeeze, how did you get elected? what you're actually saying is that you have no idea whatsoever. obviously you can't go into more detail because you don't know anything or have been bought out by ccp and sworn to secrecy. everyone can see right now ccp is busy placating the subscribers with mediocre fis game updates consisting of re-balancing and fixing (long overdue) various bugs. it's also generally understood that this new focus will continue for a while.basically you and the rest of the csm are too scared to ask ccp if they have made any definite plans for or against future wis development. summit minutes, what a joke. that's like asking for the missing watergate tapes."
"i think this guy has got it right."
"you have already been sufficiently downvoted on this thread. time to give it up."
"it's also a huge disadvantage to mmo's .... playing with others can be severely overrated :)yeah, i can be anti-social at times ... and so can lot's of potential ccp customers ... ccp has already invested all the money to develop the system ... to maximize returns, they should cater to as wide a customer base as possible.i'm not taking either side of the debate as to allowing solo fleet boosts ... just pointing out that it's a valid point to debate - why shouldn't an fc flying solo, get all the same benefits of his own skills first, even before fleeting up? it's never made sense to me that a solo fc wouldn't be able to get his own boosts ... just doesn't compute. it doesn't break the game or anything, sure, but just doesn't make any sense from a fluff perspective."
"it would be a \"noob\" baiting paradise, i have never seen a flasher not be attacked by some hapless child with dreams of glory except when said flasher was one among many. the human brain behaves rather specifically when confronted with red light, even more so when the light is flashing .. just sayin' it is a novel idea and might be worth exploring as part of a major pirate expansion in conjunction with a complete overhaul f the standings system (ie. brand new code). it would not benefit fw in any significant way however as the vast majority of 'action' occurs in the designated areas with only a few incursions into enemy high-sec and those are most commonly by large'ish gangs, thus suicide to engage for the most part."
"burn this op, its poster and his crappy who gives a f&*( alliance with fire."
"it is very typical of a goonswarm member to post fail posts."
"i think the point is that learning implants tend to restrict gameplay. one person may only need one clone if all they had were standard hardwirings to worry about, and for those that pvp, they are at an unfair disadvantage when compared with those that do not.overall, learning implants, or the requirement for them, inhibit gameplay and prevent players from taking risks they might otherwise. either you sacrifice training times to do what you want, or you sacrifice the ability to do so without podding clones that aren't intended for that purpose.having 24 h timers on jump clones is just an extension of this. zubzubzubzubzubzubzubzub"
"i agree, which is why i think we should also do away with skilling entirely and give everyone level v skills on everything from day one. pesky skill training restricts my game play.\"the world as we know it came about through an anomaly (anomou)\" (the gospel of philip, 1-5)"
"uneccessary sarcasm. also out of context.this isn't about training skills. it's about everyone having unrestricted training times and-importantly-alternative options for implants, while being able to play where-ever they may be, without having to worry about clone-jumping to jita and flying 40 jumps into 0.0 just to get in a battle.alternative example, clone-jumping to jita and 2-1/2 hours later finding out your corpmates need you in stain to help them fight off an offensive by a rival corp, and you in your civies.another example: playing for 6 months as a pirate in delve, while running basic hardwirings and having 19 and 20 respectively, in your current primary attributes. with pod-a-day podding, who's going to fit 300 million isk in implants?zubzubzubzubzubzubzubzub"
"if your going to 0.0, then be smart about it. don't go flying around in your most expensive clone when you know your going to possibly get podded. simple.this post is straying horribly from what is best for new players to what is best for people in 0.0 who are upset because they choose to be there."
"this risk/reward argument falls apart pretty quick when you realize that 0.0 has become a desert with so many moving to high-sec to pull 100m+ per hour with incursions (something which you /cannot/ do with anoms post-nerf)so get out of here with that risk/reward argument, you know it's bullshit \"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" - abrazzar"
"so you're the arbiter of what is and is not appropriate sarcasm? puleeez.if you don't want to lose your implants, don't use them...simple. stop whining, there is no need to remove learning implants. they add meaningful choice to the game, which is a good thing.\"the world as we know it came about through an anomaly (anomou)\" (the gospel of philip, 1-5)"
"issue raised 20th december 2009, a single dev post saying you should definitely get kms and it'll be looked into. two years later nothing?seriously?[center]\"i don't troll, i just give overly blunt responses that annoy people who are wrong but don't want to admit it. it's not my fault that people have sensitive feelings\" -mxzf[/center]"
"i agree with nyssa litari; no insurance +1, timed based on class size +1, no loot +1, pilot record shows a self-destruct loose +1km shows fit -1."
"great idea. +1"
"when you are chasing war targets / or you are at war, you really only care about your war targets in local. you could care less about the 100's of other people there.i understand most people leave it as 'all' in low sec and null sec, but i have my corp in my corp tab, so i dont need to see them in local, and i really only would like to filter out who i need to.i am playing against a \"few\" eve players at a time, not all 1000 of them in jita thats why i would like to filter local. scrolling through places like jita just is pointless."
"no.this is essentially a boost to local chat intel, a broken element of eve that many including myself would rather see removed altogether. even ccp has in the past said they want to see it go, why would they want to improve it? ...unless they changed their minds on the issue, they wouldn't."
"as nice as this feature seems... it just makes intel (i.e. spotting enemies) way too easy.i can't support this."
"it already is way to easy...this changes nothing...its called 20 to 30 inch screen and a good scrolling mouse. ================ stop the evemail spam!"
"the speed reduction on javelin missiles is an overly harsh penalty for such a mediocre gain in range. you only have to look at ammo such as scorch or barrage to realise that no1 past mission golems uses javelins.a full rack of javelins on a sacrelige (5 launchers) slashes 300ms off its mwd speeda drake will go 730ms with javs loadedi understand the reluctance to allow for easier coasting but wouldnt it be nice to make use of our beloved cruisers mobilitywould a hurricane use barrage if it lost 20% speed would a slicer use scorch as much?all of this for 10km range! javelins never needed this nerf, by the end of the speed nerf javs were more or less balanced"
"i can only agree with this. scorch, barrage, etc. do not carry speed penalties, so why the javelin missiles carry such a penalty is somewhat of a mystery to me."
"i could understand if javs were common on minnie ships, but some of the slowest ships in the game use missiles as a primary source of damage.so yeah, this penalty is ridiculous."
"tend to agree. you fit the mod's, you cycle the mods, you don't get benefit from the mod's; or your own skils for that matter. logically, you can conclude-if that's the case-neither will anybody else.alternatively, we can kill 2 birds with one stone, and just remove gang links and leaderships skills alltogether. i'd actually consider that a blessing and be happy to reinvest my ~6.5 million sp.zubzubzubzubzubzubzubzub"
"you're not an fc if you don't have an f to c. doing this would mean you'd have to totally change the way bonuses are applied, as you currently need valid squads for them. it's just not worth the dev's time."
"they give bonuses to fleets, not individual ships. one player with two accounts is paying twice as much to play as a person with a single account, this clearly has benefits."
"gang links are the worst thing for solo players using their single account to roam around low sec space. but not having an alt scout is worse because sometimes the single solo player jumps into gate camps where the player with the scouting alt wouldn't. part of the game. however, i would like fleet boosters to show up on killmails since many times they contribute just as much as the firing ship in getting the kill."
"if it's widely accepted by eve's player community that paying more real money should result in big in game advantages, perhaps ccp should revisit the nex store and put purchasable game breaking benefits for loads of $$$. ...no, i'm not actually advocating that, but it is the implication from what i hear some posters saying about this issue.i don't support the opers suggestion, but he's right that there is an issue. gang links and especially t3 ships using them off grid needs to be looked at."
"0/10, bad troll is bad."
"having started a hauler alt, i feel there may be room for improvement in the courier contract system. as it stands now, there is little reason for anyone to create a short-distance, low collateral, low reward courier contract due to the broker minimum fee of 10,000isk. as such, most contracts tend to be a little pricer with subsuqently higher (often times hilariously so) collateral requirements. i'd love to see the broker minimum removed. if it were approved, i would anticipate an influx in courier scams spamming the system. to balance that, i would suggest changing the broker fee basis to the collateral requirement, rather than the reward (or maybe make it based on the higher of the two). it even makes sense in game since the broker would be safeguarding both the reward money and the collateral. scams can still take place, but there would be a requirement for more skin in the game from the scammer. at the end of the day, it also opens the door for low-collateral, low-reward, short-haul contracts. thanks in advance, sorry it isn't a pew-pew suggestion.after review, i've updated my proposal below. unreasonably high collateral keeps rookie haulers out and absolutely encourages scamming to the point that there isn't really a viable courier contract system. the basic suggestion is changing the deposit and brokerage fee basis to the collateral requirement rather than the reward and eliminating the 1/10th reduction on courier contracts."
"not supporting for 2 reasons.1: the fee is a fraction of a penny as far as worth is concern...its nothing.2: courier contracts in high sec are a ####ing joke. as a freighter pilot myself...public contracts are an insult to common sense and nothing more than a stupid scam.collaterals require you to have a obscene fortune to haul pittiance to overkill in cargo with 1/100000th of the value for a reward.too easily scammed...and few actaully use it legitimatly...and if your doing this for a business..that implies your already carrying a fortune in your wallet to afford it....which means your only complaniing about your bottom line.not convinced...i may change my mind with enough reasonnig...but this isn't a frequent subject to be sure.this kind of industry is a quiet private one...who you know...and not easily found. too many people prey and gank for lol's and iskies as it is. a legit business...but this change i think accomplishes nearly nothing.ps: i thought there was a skill you can train to lower the fee?================ stop the evemail spam!"
"i agree that 10k is not an insurmountable obstacle, but when you just want someone to deliver a 30k-50k skill book to you a few jumps away, it's a significant percentage of the base price. i conceed that it's a pretty niche occurrence, but i guess i just don't see the reason for the minimum in the first place. i guess to prevent spamming the contracts system?i think those who are blowing up haulers for the isk are usually doing it for the collateral gain. if you base the brokerage fee (which the issuer does not get back) as a percentage of the collateral (maybe even a significant percentage), it would probably reduce the likelihood of scamming (as some ships will probably get through) and make hi-sec hauling a more serious occupation.i believe broker relations can reduce the fee, but there is always at least a 10,000isk minimum."
"there's not much to be had in the changes if thats the case....all your focusing on is just the brkoerage fee right?is it really that big of a deal? can you give a valid example that its a problem? aside from a frsutration or nuscaince.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"not particularly, only the niche case of rookie haulers who can't afford unnecessarily inflated collateral charges. as i work through it, i think there is more benefit to be gained from the second part of the proposal than the first. tying the brokerage fee to the collateral amount as the base instead of the reward would probably do a lot more to lower collateral and open the market to rookie haulers than eliminating the minimum brokerage fee."
"the problem with the bulk of these \"fedex\" contracts is the bloody collateral...not the brokerage fee.just tossing it in as the base price would only make it go up..not encourage it to go down.perhaps knowing what your shipping would allow you to set that collateral at whatever you want...but if you wish to \"surpress\" and \"hide\" contents...youd be capped out at a certain ammount collateral wise...wild idea off the cuff.but don't think its gonna do much. ================ stop the evemail spam!"
"damn forum ate my post. my modified proposal is this: base the deposit and brokerage fees on the collateral requirement rather than the reward. here's an actual contract in gallente space at the moment:reward: 15,000 iskcollateral 15,000,000 iskunder the current system (i think the percentages are correct, but i could be wrong) the player issuing the contract provided the following:10,000 isk deposit (minimum) (refunded if courier fails)10,000 isk brokerage fee (minimum) (non-refundable)15,000 reward (refunded if the courier fails)if the contract is not picked up and expires, the issuer is out 20,000 isk (deposit and brokerage fee)if the contract is accepted and completed, the issuer is out 25,000 isk (brokerage fee and reward)if the contract is accepted and failed, the issuer gains 14,990,000 (collateral less brokerage fee)under a system where the collateral is used to set the deposit and brokerage fee (and eliminating the 1/10th rule that currently exists for courier contracts), the player issuing the contract would provide the following:150,000 isk deposit (15,000,000 * 1.0%) (refunded if courier fails)60,000 isk brokerage fee (15,000,000 * 0.4%) (non-refundable)15,000 reward (refunded if the courier fails)if the contract is not picked up and expires, the issuer is out 210,000 isk (deposit and brokerage fee)if the contract is accepted and completed, the issuer is out 75,000 isk (brokerage fee and reward)if the contract is accepted and failed, the issuer gains 14,940,000 (collateral less brokerage fee)the reward for the scam is still in place, but the barrier to entry is much higher and there is a much greater loss if the garbage contracts aren't accepted (10 times in this case).i don't think it solves the problem in its entirety, but i think it would help to lower collateral requirements and bring rookie haulers into the mix."
"not a bad idea. +1 i wonder if it could be extended to all systems and to non-fw as well. if you're on grid at a station you have low standings with, then you are fair game to all other players while you are on grid (the guy manning the station guns conveniently forgets to fire them because you have consistently picked on his corp mates). apply the same concept to gate guns in low sec."
"pro-tip: merely being able to see a target isn't in and of itself a massive or unfair advantage. however, being able to prevent people even looking at you via mechanics that make cloaking a pointless, ineffective part of the game is a \"fairly nice advantage\" - to players who already have a lot of options and advantages in their \"avoid pvp at all costs ;_;\" arsenal"
"i didn't say that being able to run around and choose a juicy target a \"massive or unfair advantage\", i said \"fairly nice advantage\". if you remove cloaks from local, cloaking becomes a \"massive or unfair advantage\", and adding probes to that mix would still not take it all the way back to a \"fairly nice advantage\", but at least it wouldn't be as massive a cockstab just to shoot some rats as just the \"no cloaked ships in local\" idea is."
"pathetic and sad or ironic and funny? both?field of trolls: \"if you chum it, they will come.\""
"kettle... meet pot.================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"no u!...(at least you didn't try to say that with a straight face.)field of trolls: \"if you chum it, they will come.\""
"greetings capsuleers! i wanted to inform you of a recent presentation thread on new industrial class ships in the features & ideas forum.mobile manufacturingthe bare bones summary of this thread is the introduction of two sets of new types of ships - mobile manufacturing ships and mobile reprocessing ships.mobile manufacturing ships (mss) these ships contain manufacturing lanes that enable production in space. the purpose of the ships is multiple, but the most important advantage is the ability to produce in-space, and thus not need station lane manufacturing. the details of how these ships behave and are balanced are in the thread. there are three variants, one standard industrial and then two capital-industrials that mimic the same ideology behind the orca and rorqual.mobile reprocessing ships (mrs) these ships are advanced industrial ships that enable modules, compounds, ore, ice, etc. to be reprocessed in space. the ships are not as efficient as stations (with standings), but enable reprocessing to take place in the field. there are two ships, tech i and tech ii, the tech ii having improved refining efficiency and slightly more cargo space.why? these ships are designed to enable a total manufacturing loop in space - in other words, for the first time ever a truly nomadic playstyle is possible for a corporation. as of now, the only way to manufacture goods is through pos or stations - the same applies to reprocessing to gain minerals. these ships have many other inherent trade values and will benefit high-sec all the way to w-space, and everything in between. please view the thread for more information and - as asked there - give your feedback or ideas! i will occasionally bump this thread to garner more interest, but i will not be replying to questions directly. please take your discussions to the actual thread. thank you! i ask that csm members interested in the industry field and especially those knowledgable of worm holes and nullsec please read this thread and give their input. i feel strongly these ships could play an important and desired role in the future of new eden and open up many new tactical options for all players."
"thread locked.please keep the discussion to this one thread in features & ideas."
"i don't think this is a good idea. first it would clog up jita and centralize markets even more. second there is no real need to have a mobile manufacturing ship. a pos does the job just fine. as for mobile reprocessing, i have no opinion on that but it doesn't really seem needed either. you need a base of operations, read pos, even for nomadic playstyle."
"this looks amazing!! +1000devs we know you are out there and some feedback or thoughts on this would be great. or at least an acknowledgement that you have seen and read this."
"also a great idea. want to boost, get in combat man. not hide in pos or safe spot."
"i like this idea, a lot!"
"afaik, this is already the case. you can shoot -5 to -10 in hi sec as well as low sec without any form of concord retaliation (ships in hi sec, sentry guns in low sec)as for the rest, meh.sounds like putting rainbows and unicorns in low sec.w/e"
"negative means \"less than zero\", not \"less than five\". so under my proposal, people with status in the 0 to -2 range would be free targets in lowsec, but still able to go to highsec freely.i don't see the unicorns, maybe you could elaborate?what happens in lowsec, stays in lowsec, lowering the barrier to entry to lowsec pvp:"
"no"
"absolutely signed."
"1.0"
"i disagree with generating a killmail simply on the fact that in order to do so you will have to give credit to someone who didn't \"actually\" kill anything. the ship self destructed. what i would agree to is increasing the time it takes to self destruct and prevent the self destructing ship from being able to target anything and from using modules to avoid abusing that. maybe make the self destruct timer based on the ships size. the whole point to self destruct is to deny your enemy the satisfaction of a kill. there is no other point in eve for self destruct other than that right now. 5 minutes or so on self destruct for capitals (as they are really the only issue here) sounds about reasonable.i do agree that self destructing ships should not pay out insurance."
"- insurance (rather then reprocessing the ship for materials during times when the mineral basket has fallen below platinum insurance level). but i'm not overly attached to self-destructing ships getting or not getting insurance (as you could just duel so"
"lets see:\"exploration > radar > invention > bpc market \"with your suggestion these fine tuned and well done parts of the game would just have to dissapear what should be done is replacing original t2 bpo-s which exist with fixed (yet to be determined) number of bpc-s of the same type"
"airlock airlock"
"this would probably make life a bit too easy for high sec war targets.[center]\"i don't troll, i just give overly blunt responses that annoy people who are wrong but don't want to admit it. it's not my fault that people have sensitive feelings\" -mxzf[/center]"
"well then make a proposal to remove local all together and ill support it.either its broken and they dont want to fix itor they were to remove it and they have not."
"/signedalso there could be two icons right to player name - \"corp\" and \"alliance\" - which shows corp or alliance names on mouse over."
"meh. i like the idea of being able to sort local to see hostiles at the top of the list. there's no logical reason for someone to be surprised by a wt just because they couldn't see the red star as they scrolled through jita local.ffs we're flying spaceships faster than light, and our computers can't sort a list for us?"
"qft / w================ stop the evemail spam!"
"i am with drake and floppie here...if local is going to be there then there is no reason a sort feature shouldn't exist. if your argument is that local should be removed then i agree...but we don't see that happening soon. no reason to make it a pain in the ass while it is there."
"as for removing local, i'm against that idea. i feel like it would strip out any notion of community in the game. as it stands now, when i land in a system with friends i strike up a conversation with them. you get to know people because you run into them frequently. new players would encounter significantly quieter, less friendly local channels as people would have a lot more reasons to not talk. most of them would eventually stop even paying attention to local because it would so rarely be of any use. the worst part is how badly they would be victimized by more experienced players in high sec: neutral scouts would become even more valuable, and newer players at war wouldn't know they'd been spotted and followed by a neutral scout. not knowing there might be wartargets immediately upon undocking from a station is a bad thing."
"i think the overall consensus to removing local is to do it only in nullsec. frankly i could care less either way as i would simply adapt but removing local in nullsec would alleviate the issue of afk cloakers entirely. leave it to constellation chat. you are correct that local should be kept for highsec at the very least. except maybe in jita since all it is there for is the constant spam of ads and scams."
"i think the removal of local is limited to null-sec...but not low-sec/high-sec (empire space).and honestly....local is nothing more than trouble....aside from intel gather...its smack talk..spammnig....just a total waste of time...most socializing i do is in allinace/corp chats or private convos. but that's just my personal opinion.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"signed."
"one year is too long, maybe 6 months?"
"nice. scammers heaven: infinite isk.:sand: over :awesome:"
"csm vote time comes around, when you login, vote screen comes up, you must vote may or may not include a donkey vote - haven't thought about that much yet i'm interested to hear what people thinkthis way everyone gets a voice70% of the players are empire dwellers, but the csm is obviously run by 00 alliance headswhy has ccp not implemented this already i wonder ?it would stop a lot of the rage that is currently taking over many topics of debate because the majority of people aren't really being catered for by the csmedit: please keep in mind only 15% of people voted in the past election ! (awful)"
"mandatory voting on something that 80% of the playerbase doesn't know anything about just leads to people clicking for whoever happens to be the first name they see on the voting screenso either you randomise the order of candidates, which means the mandatory uninformed votes are distributed equally and so have no bearing on the result, or you don't, which means the first name on the list gets to be chair regardless of affiliation, ability, or campaign"
"so you're saying a random selection would be worse than having what will probably be an all 00 csm from now on ?"
"nothing is stopping empire candidates from organising a csm campaign of their own except their lack of competence and effortand as highseccers are so fond of telling us, 80% of players live in highsec and have no interest in 00 matters at all, so taking the chair position on some sort of empire first platform should be like candy from a baby, right?"
"i am all for this, but only if *i* get to write the software"
"\"i can't get an organized campaign because i'm a stupid, worthless pubbie so they should change everything in our favor even though 00 will still control the csm!\"there is no reason to force every last player to vote, especially when the bulk are mission grinders and miners who literally do not care about the direction of the game \"it's easy to speak for the silent majority they rarely object to what you put into their mouths\" - abrazzar"
"forcing players to vote is a horrendous mistake, it makes a farce of the entire thing as 70% of players will just choose randomlyhaving the ballot paper pop up upon login is a great idea imo, as long as there is a giant 'x' in the corner so that people who dont want to vote dont have to upon clicking the 'cancel'/'dont vote' button, the ballot paper should not pop up upon login again for that election, but should be avaliable for people who later change their mind - perhaps as a link on the character selection screen, or something similaryou could easily provide space for, or a link to, a short 'mini-manifesto' which allows players who have not been following the election campaign have some idea what each candidate stands for this should help curb random selection votingjust my thoughts"
"i am all for this as wellhowever, as stated in the second post of this thread it will lead to a bunch of people with no clue whats actually going on voting for random people since this is how it works in real life anywayi don't see too much of a problem here in other wordsdon't change anything because then goonswarm can't control the csm and keep the mittani in his seat"
"yes because forcing players to vote will fix everythingare you people really that dense?================ stop the evemail spam!"
"i am not really sure it matters much either way even the people today that vote either don't know what the hell they are voting for or get outvoted by the powerblock the only thing this proposal would do is grant a slim possibility that the powerblock lose i guess whether that is a good or bad thing depends on the powerblock that is winning"
"wrongforcing every player to vote means every account that signs in must votethats a guarenteed landslide victory for powerblocsthis proposal was ******** the moment it was posted and the motivation behind it is nothing short of a pitiful crybaby seeking retirbution for something that the op has no idea what hes talking aboutthis changes absolutelynothingps: the population of the high sec crowd peolpe tend to presume is just a bunch of carebearswhat they dont think about is the number of alts of major alliances and everything elsestats are just numbers on paperworknothing guarenteed there================ stop the evemail spam!"
"they are major contributors in many kills, they should get some credit."
"you wanna get credit for a kill as a fleet booster? participate in the fight and actually shoot stuff."
"well i was looking at it from both sides. a loss to a guy with a fleet booster shouldn't count for as many points as a loss from a guy without a fleet booster. the battleclinic rating the l33t \"solo\" players with fleet boosters would plummet."
"do people really pay attention to that?"
"logi should certainly show up too by that logic. so should probers, scouts and spies. how exactly would you implement it? also, ccp doesn't control the kb's. the scoring system on whatever kb you use is an issue between you and a company other than ccp.i for one hate all the major kb's isk efficiency and k/d ratio's. not one of them is accurate. an accurate isk efficiency and k/d ratio would count 100 dudes killing 1 guy as 0.01 kill per player involved, not one (which is 100 kills when totaled up across everyone involved). same rule needs to apply to isk values and points. battleclinic used to divide points like that, but never the actual kills or isk value."
"implementation: if the fleet booster is active when the kill is made, it gets put on the killmail.extension to others (logi, others): if beneficial effect is applied to you by some other ship when you are on a killmail, that ship is also on km.done."
"it makes more sense to credit logis, especially now that they inherit aggression.give logis killmail credit, and give them aggression timers so they can't dock/jump for 30 seconds.edit: you know who never gets credit for kills? scouts. i've set up so many warpins that resulted in fleets being wiped...yet i never fired a shot. those kills wouldn't have happened without me, but i get no love.then there was that fight where i decided to just tank the bejesus out of a gang while my own guys melted all their support ships. i docked up due to lack of aggression, repaired, and undocked to finally join the fight. i only got on one of the kills, but my action turned what would have been a close fight into a slaughter.after a while, you get used to not getting the killmails. the dudes you fly with know what you did, and that's what matters."
"a couple of years ago the gang system was a bit buggy (big surprise), however what the bug did was to let you create 1-man gangs where your gang mods and gang bonuses were applied to your own ship. it was actually a really nice feature to have the year it lasted.now solo pvp = main + cloaking t3 booster alt so if anything this would add some more variety back to the game."
"currently: when a person joins a corp, they get a generic autoresponder saying they've been accepted into the corp.fixed to allow: the ceo or a director should have permission to create their own custom autoresponder message to be sent to new corp members.the same should allow an alliance executor to create a custom autoresponder to new corps who join.pretty simple request which would give ceos more flexibility in the corp communications department.high five. yeah! c'est la eve ."
"i'm sorry....either its because im approaching the end of a very long day at me job....or this just doesn't seem to add up.i get what your tring to accomplish...but the key factor as far as i'm concerned is not the broker fee...but collateral.this will not stop people from charging outragous collateral...and **** poor rewards.wrapping the brokerage fee into the collateral does not change that...your presuming its going to lower it...or make people put smaller ammounts in.i say it will not change one thing...and even at the numbers your indicating...its still very small pittiance..perhaps an another big time hauler would care to offer an 2nd opinion?================ stop the evemail spam!"
"thanks for your input in any event drake. i think we both agree that the outrageous collateral requirements on so many contracts is detrimental to the system. i just think the population would be more open to changing what the fees are based on rather than direct regulation of collateral requirements."
"i've been thinking for a very long time that change would be good for fedex contracts...but i've failed multiple times to come up with something feasible for it.i think half the time people do not cnosider the true message they give in making such things.i can recall countless times where'd i smack talk the living crap out of someone in rens for making a 200mil collateral contract to ship 3 jumps in high sec for 2 milllion isk reward.seriously?oh and the cargo amount is freighter sized no less.maybe the reward should be at least 50-75% of the collateral value of your cargo...lets be serious here...if its that valuable to you...then you better be eff'ing serious about getting it shipped there.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"people only put such low rewards on contracts because other people will accept the contracts. it's the market that sets the price, and it should never be dictated by a hard limit. sure, i know that 500k isk is not nearly enough of a reward to move 1b worth of stuff halfway across known space - but if i also know that if i put it up, somoene will move it within the next 24 hours, why should i waste any more isk?"
"very poor assumption...i've seen contracts rot on the market with such settings...im sure someone or some filthy rich (with way too much time on his hands) pilot will move it...but the incentive for new hualers is very poor. in other words the bar for starting in that market...and i used to be one of these ocd pilots....is way to bloody high. some of us dont have that kind of time or the money to spend on plex's to cash in for isk to start capital up to haul crap with insane collaterals and *emphasis* **** poor rewards.and furthermore....those in alliances like ours ( o/ o7) why hire when you can get your m8's to do it for you with 0 collateral and a bit of isk to line pockets...or a nuet hauler.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"i sincerely and honestly do not understand this proposal. the overwhelming number of scam courier contracts are based on the inability to deliver, not on ganking for collateral. i'm still clueless as to what the desired effect of the proposed change is."
"i had this idea for long time, however i never got time to put it on paper. idea is not originally mine, it is taken for my old beloved and never forgotten game, shadowbane. shadowbane had \"resource mine\" fights which was best pvp i played so far. anyway, i gave my best to adapt this idea into eve universe and mechanics.main goals of this system are to generate persistant pvp conflict, revive and boost low-sec, encourage small to mid size pvp fights, enable planned time pvp on regular basis, lower impact of high end 0.0 moons, allow smaller corporations to fight and hold their valuable piece of eve universe, which is now limited exclusive to large alliances and nap-s in 0.0 space.i am open to suggestion and criticism, so please post possible problems, suggestions or solutions. i will try to include them and upate original post.my current goal is to get this idea into csm focus, and my ultimate goal is to get such system inside eve universe one day <U+FFFD> i am sure it would keep me and many others entertained for a long time.also, english is not my native language, so please forgive me for possible errors, and i hope it is understadable enough.prefacerecent advance in planetary mining technology and geology pulled by ore syndicate scientists allowed prospecting and yield of valuable minerals - previously available only deep in moon cores. new eden's <U+FFFD>golden rush<U+FFFD> era starts as ore syndicate deploys hundreds of planetary mining facilities throughout the galaxy. empire factions immideately claim exclusive rights to planetary mining operations. 0.0 space however provides little or no security for ore engineers to assemble mining facilities, so those resources remain untouched.dozens of greedy corporations start endless conflicts to claim undefended low-sec facilities to get their share of wealth.goals- generate persistant pvp conflict - revive and boost low-sec- encourage small to mid size pvp fights- enable planned time pvp on regular basis- lower impact of high end 0.0 moons- allow smaller corporations to fight and hold their valuable piece of eve universe, which is now limited exclusive to large alliances and nap-s in 0.0 spacemechanicsplanetary mining facilitiy <U+FFFD>planetary mining facilitiy<U+FFFD> is new structure in planetary oribit. it is similar to customs office. it provides fixed daily ammount of high end moon goo. minerals are stored in customs office hangars, so they need to be hauled out on regular basis.claiming mining facilityall mining facilites have powerful pos-like shield which renders them <U+FFFD>invulnerable<U+FFFD> for most of the time. however, shields must go offline for one hour maintanace every two days. during that time facility is in <U+FFFD>vulnerable<U+FFFD>, and offending entites are able to shoot down its defences and claim it as their own. once defences hitpoints are brought to zero, facility is in <U+FFFD>claimable<U+FFFD> state.claiming is done by a player ship being in range of and succesfully using <U+FFFD>defense reconfguration module<U+FFFD> on facility. this is new item which has 6 minute activation time. using the module renders ship unable to move, similar to using cyno field generator. there is also a new skill <U+FFFD>defense systems hacking<U+FFFD> which lowers <U+FFFD>defense reconfiguration module<U+FFFD> activation time by 10% per skill level. with maxed skill pilot would need 3 minutes to claim the facility. after successfull activation, facility is in <U+FFFD>claimed<U+FFFD> state with clearly visible claiming corporation.once the maintenance window is finished, facility is owned by corporation (not idividual, and not alliance) who was able to claim it last. it goes to <U+FFFD>invulnerable<U+FFFD> state again.window of opportunityeach corporation can define its own <U+FFFD>window of opportunity<U+FFFD> time. that is one hour period in every two days when all corporation owned facilites are in <U+FFFD>vulnerable<U+FFFD> state. this way corporations can plan defense of their facilities in times that match their timezone play time.<U+FFFD>window of opportunity<U+FFFD> cannot me changed more then once in two days. for corporations that are part of an alliance, <U+FFFD>window of opportunity<U+FFFD> is set on alliance level. this is to make a bit harder for large alliances to take and control multiple facilites.having this <U+FFFD>window of opportunity<U+FFFD> on respective alliance and corporation level will make harder for single entity to hold multiple facilities at once. at the same time, this will allow smaller corporations to claim and control one or few facilites close to their base of operations.star mapstar map will have new filter to show all planetary mining facilites. color of system would reflect time until facility is vulnerable. red (more then six hours) > orange (one to six hours) > yellow (up to one hour) > green (vulnerable).constellation chatconstellation wide signal is sent once facility enters in <U+FFFD>vulnerable<U+FFFD> state. this feature is here to attract unaware individuals or gangs of possible ongoing conflict opportunity.problems and solutionsimpact on economyimpact on economy would be unavoidable. however, number of facilites and mining yield should be carefully calculated and scaled to predetermined percentage (lets say 20%) of current high end moon goo production. possible solutions is to allow this new input of moon minerals, which would result in anuavoidable decrease of t2 items prices. another solution is to decrease yield on current moons to keep nominal total yield intact. i like this one more.others yet to come..."
"/reserved"
"i have a version of this idea for moons using pi networks located here."
"i did not see your proposal before, but after reading it i should first congratulate you for such extensive and elaborate work. it certainly took time to put it all down together. people who enjoy pi would certainly enjoy it even more that way.however, what our proposals have in common is only verb \"planetary\" in topic title.my idea is to provide more internet spaceships pew pew. anything related to pi does just the opposite. people spend their time in eve in cloaky ships configuring \"sim city\" networks. only place where i can see them is after stargatejump before they cloak..."
"thank you. yes, it took almost a year or more to get to that point.but getting back to your idea.i had hoped that my pdf would illustrate to you areas where pvp will be introduced with that proposal. namely, pvp in orbit, atmospheres and above star ports on city networks for a duration of multiple days per planet/moon.i do fear however, that with regards to your proposal's goals, the only one that will be met, will be the fostering of small scale pvp, while at the same time, decreasing the overall level of pvp and large scale engagements.i expect this to happen for 2 reasons:1) your facility capture mechanism. its a rehash of the fw button mechanic, which in itself is extremely wanting. its just an anom with some rats that expects a single player to fly around the button for 3 minutes in order to capture it. once this happens, the facilities timers are reset and i presume your shield (if its offline for 2 hours over x amounts of days while being captured) will just reset and give the attackers 2 days to rally a defense fleet. why would you bring a 1000 man pew pew fleet to grab a moongoo operation, if you only need 1 ship for 3 minutes every 2 days?sure, you could bring 50 ships and try to take down the shields of a structure that has no defenses... but why bother if you can just sit and wait for the shields to drop in the first place?2) moongoo. right now, the only reason we even have a good old pos bash is 2 fold: to wipe the moon mining tower off the grid to enable us to place our own once we take your system. and to prevent the proliferation of super caps and safe spots for corps and alliances out in soviet mordor and whs. by moving moongoo extraction operations from a pos (which is a very good idea) to a similar structure around orbit (which is not a good idea) you are merely moving the location the fight will take place in. it will in no way increase the amount of people involved in this fight (see reason 1), nor will it provide any actual challenge or fun beyond the same old pos bash method. so we will no longer see dread fleets taking out towers with large support fleets, when we can afford to risk a single frigate to do the same job in a fraction of the time. in fact, this could even lead to gate campers and ghetto pirate roaming gangs taking on moongoo operations. this in itself will increase small scale engagements. but as you could imagine, this would decrease the large scale engagements all together, thus lowering the average amount of pew pew.now... if you were to move moongoo to a mechanism such as pi (which you could make vulnerable to spaceship pew pew by sub caps in the atmosphere of moons and planets + dust mercs who would want more sub cap and capital ship support in their fights for it) and capitals (in orbit that would require sub cap support to prevent ambushes and embarrassing roflstomp capital kms), in a way similar to my pi suggestion, then you would force both the worlds of dust and eve to collide at gun point in the pursuit of moongoo and easy isk. naturally, sacking cities as laid out in my proposal, will be a process that spans multiple days vs your 3 minutes on the fw button mechanic. that's a significant window of pew pew opportunity in a world where the more ships are involved, the better the outcome. and we all know a target rich environment is not a single frigate, but a blob of sub caps with a whale or two in between.don't you think?"
"nope. facility remains vulnerable for full hour. once that hour pass, facility is \"claimed\" for corp of last person who claimed it, and becomes invulnerable again until next \"window of opportunity\" in two days. if you come with only one ship to defend your facility, i am pretty sure you will get killed and it will be lost to some other corp who will be last standing on the battlefield.it will. right now majority of eve population remains in high sec. this will encourage them to go to low-sec and fight for it.also, big alliances will not be able to come with blob-s, since they will have to defend multiple facilities at same time (window of opportunity time is set on alliance level). and once you get it, you and your corp mates must fleet up and defened all of those you gold every two days for one hour."
"if the defending corp is in lowsec, odds are they do not have the numbers to be online 24/7, with the average corp size numbering around 23 odd people. and if you've spent time in the fw scene, you'l know that fleets very rarely exceed 50. if they do, somebody brings a capital or two along and we read about the tears in the news the next day.so you will be looking at instances where 5 or less pilots will be engaging these facilities. sometimes, without opposition. and as i stated, this will lead to the 1 frigate doing the work of 3 digit fleets in mere minutes before the vulnerability hour is up.in 0.0, your looking at a different story. alliances with thousands of players who can afford to be on standby 24/7 incase things go down. but isn't that the same place we are now? with 1 pos mining moongoo behind the lines of thousands of ships?there might be instances where your prediction comes to pass. granted. but 80% of the time, it'l be a situation of team a roflstomps team bs facilities because team b are offline or docked up for safety or dont have the numbers.i can promise you, the majority of hisec dwellers are not in hisec for the moons. nor do they care for the uber valuable low sec moons. they will not leave hisec to capture anything in the ghetto or 0.0. this will not encourage them to leave hi-sec at all. yes, it might lure some people out, but it will not change the demographics in the bigger picture.your also forgetting the golden rule of 0.0 warfare. if it can fly and fit guns, blob it for win. i have yet to see a single 0.0 alliance that does not blob for kms, sov or lolz.the alliances will blob it if they own 1 system or 100 systems. even at alliance level, there is nothing to stop them from only holding 1 system and making it impossible to dislodge them from 1 or 2 odd moons. if an alliance with 3k pilots, owned 10 systems with 10 moons each, that translates into a 30 man gang.... on each moon across 10 systems. i'd like to shake the hand of a low sec 20 man corp that can effectively seize and hold that.i dont mean to be critical or take a dump on your battery.i firmly believe your idea has merit, provided we separate this orbital structure thing from moongoo and opt to have those facilities provide bonuses to sov holders or ghetto dwellers instead."
"hey something has always bugged me about some of the npc regions in the game, although most of them are fine with plenty of stations in constellations such as stain or curse.regions such as great wildlands , venal (i know it has tonnes of tech that makes it great for entities that can hold it) and outer ring has good potential to make the space decent enough so that the smaller alliances might venture there or even live there. it seems such a waste to have space that could be a home for smaller alliances. i'm not sure if there's a deliberate reason why these aren't developed a bit more, but it seams like a + thing for the game. i can't really see a downside.it would be nice to see some constellations get a station or 2, and also even in the more developed regions it would be nice if more stations got cloning services(since god damn having to have your clone about 20 jumps from the place you live sucks). maybe have at least 1 station a constellation have cloning services.so ye, tl;dr. some more stations + cloning services in npc space that needs them/benefit from them would be nice.anyone think of any other changes or if this has been discussed? i searched and found nothing. also if any downsides please post, i'd like to know what other people feel about the crappier npc regions.ta o/"
"we are after all fighting for an npc faction. i mean it can never be entirely player driven unless you want to buy into the politics of null sec. but the npcs should share information with its own militia about when important military complexes are being attacked. by allowing this it really can be an advantage and not a drawback. the whole idea here is to have fw offer something new. specifically it should offer frequent quality small scale pvp. this proposal would go a long way toward that. fw would be too fast paced and dynamic for the slow blobs to form and be effective. if the mechanics just end up giving us more of the same \"blob up send alt scouts out and gank what you find\" mechanics then it doesn't offer anything new for subscribers. make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"hmmm good points made here. i do not think sd should generate a killmail ..... love those nullbear tears ..... nice to deny mods cargo & killmails to a ganker. every gank should not be a guaranteed reward. if the pilot can survive long enough to sd ganker should lose out ....... boo hoo go ahead and cry about it. i agree no insurance payout for sd. sd pilot must lose something for that choice also."
"pretty much what i've been saying for a long time.as for killmails: currently when someone goes gcc and concord attacks them, the system will generate a killmail for the player who did the most damage to them before concord did the killing. this makes more sense (and is more consistent) than giving it to the last person to take a shot."
"i don't get the km hate in this thread. it's a good feature in the game that allows players to review combat situations, check fits; it is useful in recruitment selection and of course the lol-mails for amusement. if people want to inflate their e-peen through kms... let them. it's their choice to have their kill-board as their home-page and to hit refresh every time they press f1 in combat so that they can feel good about themselves.if you don't like km's... don't post them, don't look at them, add fukung as your home-page.... w/e. +1 to the op's proposal."
"epic arc 3 monthscosmos 6 months? seems reasonable"
"supporting this. a horrible waste of dev time and pve content to allow you to do them only once. the 6 months timer seems like a reasonable limit and should address any farming concerns. not that the loot you can get is good enough to bother farming it anyway."
"@op: i noticed you like rp. and i can understand, that you try to combine and appoint a real happening with rp speech.one fatal fault of your side was, to do that without advertising either that it is a (full) rp given text or that you are mashing up ooc "
"margin trading should be removed. don't got the cash? don't trade. there are too much 0.01 isking going on. we should weed out the bums who do nothing but stay docked all day updating far more orders than they can afford."
"guess you don't understand eve. you and your friend should move to providence so you can roleplay with others instead of posting."
"in other wordsabloobloobloo i am mad because somebody i dont like got voted into csm a bloo bloo bloo"
"most players ingame don't know what the csm is nor visit the forums to force these players to vote on something they don't know anything about could be disastrous we could get another trebor, ankh or mazz as a result of an uninformed yet forced voting systemsummary of eves last four expansions:"
"yes, it would indisputably be worsewhy should people be forced to vote if they're not interested in the csm? and if they're not interested in the csm, why are you getting outraged on their behalf?of course i know full well why you're 'outraged' on their behalf actually you don't give a crap about whether they're represented, as evidenced by your open indifference to whether candidates that people actually want get elected it's because the people who do care about the csm have had the insolence to vote for people you have decided you don't like"
"\"it's not who gets the votes that counts; it's who counts the votes\" - stalinside note: stalin introduced mandatory voting too!"
"why don't you just cut to the chase and propose that ccp reserve 4 or 5 csm seats for people that you nominate?"
"because \"modern\" politics/democracy has never been about inclusion but the legitimisation of condensing power onto small'ish entities (corporate, parties, individuals etc)take a hard look at the voting system in whichever country you hail from and ask yourself if anyone/everyone has the same chance of 'getting in' and if everyone has the same ease of voting the only contemporary system that has any right to even bear the title \"democracy\" is the swiss (in my opinion) i would move there in a heartbeat if it wasn't for the odd cuisine they have hahahahaha"
"then again, the mittani does enjoy using a stalinist gimmick \"it's easy to speak for the silent majority they rarely object to what you put into their mouths\" - abrazzar"
"this would lead to better selection of csms than the joke we have now"
"so because you don't like the current csm, the next one should be voted for by the uninformed drooling masses, through mandatory voting, in hopes that it will accomplish absolutely nothing? what an idea \"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" - abrazzar"
"csm 6 has been the most effective csm to date in bringing solid, tangible improvements to every single section of the eve playerbase. fact.sorry that you're so rage-blinded about your hulks getting ganked or something."
"exactly, i'm not really a fan of km's in general. i do keep track of it as a record of what i've done, but they don't come anywhere near telling a full story. really i like bf3's method best. you get a statistics page with win/loss ratio, how many guys you revived and so on. actual k/d ratio is pretty much just a foot note at the bottom of the page. and of course, it's included in bf3, it's not third party. i'd like to see eve move to that type of model. the current system is clunky, incomplete and ultimately misleading."
"honestly...eve went from about 50k peak concurrent users to maybe 35k when incarna was released... coincidence?the vast! majority of players are not interested in wis, there are several other games/playgrounds for that. eve is a game about spaceships and ccp focusing on spaceships is good. for all i care they can remove the captains quarters completely and throw all wis completely out together with emo teen girl mmo game they were working on (vampires...)most of us are into eve due to \"spaceships\" not wis so ccp focusing on the core demographic isn't bad, its good. if you can't stand that maybe eve isn't for you?"
"you're delusional in many ways that have been adressed too many times to bother again.eve is gonna die without wis. fis content can only be developed so far before jumping the shark and breaking the core game. so you need something else to do, and that something else is wis."
"or, they add a few thousand more nullsec and/or w-space systems, and we keep shooting at each other as intended..."
"the figures you quote you incorrectly attribute sorely to incarna, when anyone who has been following the trend knows that the decrease has been happening for a while.no-one has provided any evidence that the 'vast majority of players' don't want incarna. evidence has been provided that some don't. but then again, some players don't want faction warfare, pvp, planetary interaction, or their favourite ship to be rebalanced. different players have different preferred ways of experiencing eve.whereas to provide support for my claim that a significant portion of players do want walking in stations, i can provide you with fanfest videos, a 100 page thread on the forums that is largely in support of incarna (except for a handfull of trolls), threads in the features and ideas forums on how incarna can be used, csm minutes that show that the csm is in support of wis as long as it has a meaningful connection to fis and doesn't detract from the rest of eve.what do you have? poor reasoning, and goon rhetoric."
"1.0"
"the courier contracty system is completely flawed, what ccp should do (i'd love to say they need to but that's laughable) is set restrictions on the range of variance between the collateral required to accept a courier contract and the reward for completing it. as it stands now, the only person who really benefits from the contract agreement is the person who created the contract.a contract is set w/ a collateral rate of say 2.00 billion w/ a reward rate of 250.00 thousand (i could kill rats in .5 for more payout than that) reward and one of two things happens. 1 - the contract never gets picked up because most players floating around in high sec (expecting trolls to come out and start some **** here) don't have the amount that people ask for in collateral. 2- those that do have the funds to 'buy' a contract, yes i said buy because that is really exactly what is happening, you're paying the contract owner to wait at a gate to come shoot you down and take your collateral and whatever loot may survive. the mechanics of this system are so completely flawed that it goes largely and mostly unused and there is no profit to be had for anyone but the rare few who catch a sucker by some force of luck."
"after giving it some much needed thought, i believe your right.it will close down the funding mechanisms for new players, but it will definitely close down the all the loopholes for magic isk for spi banking corps/alliances."
"not to mention it would keep people from creating alts, moving the isk elsewhere (say, to another alt or their main), then biomassing their alt."
"agreed. these changes won't really change the problems with sentry guns, though; instead of being at a disadvantage for being flashy/being at an advantage for being not flashy, you'll be at a disadvantage for having negative sec/be at an advantage for having positive sec, so that particular issue will still persist. also, \"no loss of sec status\" (in cases where your sec is above -2) obviously cannot be part of not having repercussions for shooting any negative sec pilot or else the mechanics aren't gonna work."
"not seeing it. why should the law allow for rampant drive-bys in the suburbs?sounds like you want to play with the big boys in ls (ie. the fun pew) but keep your bunk at the high-sec hostel you call home.put forward proposals to increase population in ls rather than merely making it into a tourist attraction/hunting reserve and we can discuss specifics, but this is just too silly. killing anything within the sphere of 'civilization' (read: here be cops!) should cost one dearly."
"this thread has now become the \"jack dant for csm\" thread. jack is really the only scoundrel scoundrel enough to represent low sec while at the same time maintaining meticulous spreadsheets and proper smugness and the class of a true gentleman down on his luck.with proper sard caid funding this will happen. also, vote ron paul in 2012 while your at it."
"+100 to this idea.... and i also support jack dant to low sec csm position!!tetrahydroc"
"rl comparisons don't really work. for example, irl the law would try to intervene if two criminals were shooting each other. but in lowsec, the sentries just stand aside if two flashies fight. but can you imagine a situation where police ignores violence between gangs in the suburbs, but arrest any gang member that sets foot outside them?anything can be explained or discarded on pseduo-rp terms. the important thing is, is it good game design? will it hurt the game or improve it?and that's bad why? why should people be punished for pvping in lowsec? but in any case, personally i haven't lived in highsec in two years, and i have the alts and resources to easily supply my outlaw lowsec main. but others don't. they are the newer players, the single account players. why should they be punished? this is the point, increasing the pvp population and increase pvp engagements, not the carebearing population (never going to happen). i want to build on the strong points of lowsec, not trying to turn it into some parody of highsec or sov 0.0.what happens in lowsec, stays in lowsec, lowering the barrier to entry to lowsec pvp:"
"thank you for your kind words, titus. but i hereby deny any intention to run for csm now or in the future. i will, however, lend my full support to the \"dirty protagonist for csm\" campaign what happens in lowsec, stays in lowsec, lowering the barrier to entry to lowsec pvp:"
"i'll be running on the \"drunken disorderly pirate\" platform~"
"best suggestion i've ever read regarding lowsec and possibly eve. fully supported."
"i think this is a great idea.i also like the idea of nullsec npc kills not giving sec status, and only having lowsec/highsec rats give sec status."
"+1i like it. we are looking at encouraging more pvpr's into ls not bears - although they are always welcome as they are delicious and refreshing.a cap at sec status penalties will encourage those who want to pvp to come in and will still be able to go bac"
"seeing as jack graciously turned down the possibility to run for csm, i therefore change my support to warlord protagonist who has humbly accepted to run. also i fully indorse and support mr. dp's platform of \"drunken disorderly pirate\"!!tetrahydroc"
"you sir are like a god.this would make eve 100 million and ten times betterregards"
"as a person that's lived both the non-outlaw and outlaw paths for several years in lowsec, i like this change.1) you're not removing sentry penalty, and therefore non-pvpers or pvpers who put the effort to grind their security status will have sentries on their side. this, as you mentioned previously, removes the potential of lightly tanked support ships acting with impunity on gates, except against those who choose to make themselves vulnerable. this is a feature to lowsec that that i'd like seen preserved.2) your suggestion allows pilots to easily conduct logistics and access to the greater market hubs (rens, jita, amarr), rather than limited to local hubs with typical item markups. logistics is perhaps the greatest challenge to dedicated lowsec pvpers without access to outside help (hauling alts, etc).3) pilots who chose to aggress neutral targets will still be penalized by being kos in lowsec, but won't be faced with a massive security status grind unless they chose to kill capsules. given that capsule kills are more of a 'cherry on top' for pvp than anything else, you've effectively catered to the -10.0 pirate element of eve, while giving casual pvpers the ability to engage in a very similar environment.4) highsec ganking remains taxing in terms of security status loss, which i feel is balanced to the rewards seen in the activity. losing easy access to highsec markets and logistics is, as stated above, a significant blow to solo, small scale or casual gamers.very elegant suggestion. i support this change."
"+1supported"
"personally i'd recommend lemon party.[center]\"i don't troll, i just give overly blunt responses that annoy people who are wrong but don't want to admit it. it's not my fault that people have sensitive feelings\" -mxzf[/center]"
"agree with this.why should you get a km if you didn't actually kill the ship?"
"actually, the problem with self destruct is that it's done for one out of two reasons: \"my precious kill/death ratio!\" or \"oh **** my fit is so moronic i have to hide it\".if killmails are given to the highest non-npc damage dealer, even if someone self destructs, then maybe they'll go down fighting instead of being an absolute coward and initiating a fleet-wide selfdestruct of all dreads or whatever. literally the only thing they're accomplishing (apart from ~their k/d ratio~), is making their defeat quicker and less costly for the attacker. it's dumb as rocks."
"or as grath said, 75b+ going kersplode without anyone shooting a single shot at them.dumb.as.rocks."
"when was it fixed? did i miss it?"
"crucible. it worked fine for few weeks.read and support: don't mess with our wh's what is your stance on wh stuff?"
"the sigs where so close together. no veriability in the last 3 numbers that people did not notice that they were static. i scan and i did not notice they where static. might have worked in some places but not in others.the fix to make them more random broke the new static fuction. having them static made it to easy to scan for new sigs. while nice someone might have asked for a rethink."
"dangit! put it back! put it back!"
"maybe something will be change.ccp punkturis wrote:\"hi,there are a few new things from team bff in the latest build.please play around with them and let us know if you have some issues big smilenew agents list, it tells you if you've been offered or if you've accepted a mission from an agentwatch list can now have 15 peoplewatch list can now be ordered by dragging and dropping pilotschat member list can be made more compact, right click on chat tab and \"show compact member list\"new icons for online/offline, blocked and voice in member liststhe online/offline notification which pops up when your buddy/enemy logs in is now has standings iconsaid notificaction can be dragged to chat to info link that pilot and right clicked onyou can now shift click modules to overload themoverload button shows feedback from when it's been clicked until it's activated/deactivatedyou can now filter the skills you see in your character sheet and skill queue to find the skill you want\""
"let me guess, the proof of that is unfortunately heavily nda'd so we will just have to take your word for it? csm6 got that \"badge\" because ccp failed on such an epic scale. if ccp had not, the course correction would never have taken place and csm6 would have gone down in history as the spacebarbie csm.it does however seem like csm6 may help make more frequent direct contact to ccp the norm by their abuse of skype or whatever 'open comms' they are using, which is a very good thing. especially since ccp employee \"real game time\" appears to have diminished over the years (judging by the disconnect that happened between ccp reality and actual reality)."
"the proof is plain for everyone to see, since 6 was the first csm to actually get anything meaningful done. csm 1-5's main achievements were in generating a massive backlog of outstanding issues (without ever getting ccp to look at implementing any of them), generating layers of petty drama and csm bureaucracy to smother any attempts at useful work in, throwing spoons at each other, resigning in protest at some pet issue or other (which again, made no impact whatsoever with ccp), and breaking ndas for personal gain."
"i don't know, look at crucible and see for yourself. why are you so dumb? \"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" - abrazzar"
"everyone seems to forget that csm5 did achieve 2 major things.nerfing anoms and jbs to a mere fraction of what they used to be, thereby severely diminishing any reason to bother with sov. in other words, creating an incentive for entities like pl who don't hold sov, yet wield the might in the 0.0 landscape that should be mainly in the hands of sov holders."
"you're serious, aren't you? the anom nerf has turned 0.0 into a desert. \"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" - abrazzar"
"let me try to put in another way, csm6's biggest achievement so far has been to be the csm in place at the time of ccp incarna/nex failscade. they had close to nothing to do with the course correction (unsubs/media spam was driver) and all the things they are \"getting done\" are mainly taken from the very backlogs that the previous csm's were instrumental in getting made.claiming that csm6 are all that you claim is like when bush tried taking credit for the bullish economy left by clinton or democrats dumping all blame for later meltdown on bush.see above.in short: being in the right place at the right time does not make one better at anything, just means one is lucky."
"thats the point. the only thing any previous csm has achieved of any note was to virtually destroy a large segment of the game. specifically the segment that they use to sell them game, for the most part."
"ahahaha you are so dumb it's almost painful \"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" - abrazzar"
"let's assume for arguments sake that \"your\" csm were not merely lucky as i claim. that would mean that they used social engineering to intentionally cause the failscade, aka. incite the riot, and are directly responsible for the sacking of 100+ people and goddess knows what other fallout has yet to be identified.are \"my precious!' sanctums and the virtual currency grind important enough to wreck 100+ lives, even if temporarily?so which is it: lucky as hell or evil, possibly guilty of breaking several laws?"
"nonsense devolves into paranoid ramblings and a false dilemmayou pubbies are amazing \"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" - abrazzar"
"its not \"your\" csm, its \"the\" csm.(fun fact, there's been goonswarm/goonswarm federation members on every single csm to date)without the 'summer of rage' we saw last year shaking some sense into ccp there's a good chance they would have had to let go 100% of their staff rather than 20%.but please go on and tell us more about how csm6 are literally real life criminals."
"solution :33.333% of csm members from 0.0 sec33.333% of csm members from low sec33.333% of csm members from high sec"
"response: mittens is on for 0.0, vile rats high sec alt is on for highsec, andski's pirate corp alt is in for lowsec.how do you define the groups, since nullsec players actually live in all 3 zones, plus the wormholes you chose to ignore. lowsec players have, at the very least, highsec alts, and alot of us move around based on what we are doing at the moment.your proposal is not actually enforceable."
"so hilmar's told you exactly what it was that caused it, has he?so it was clinton's fault bush left the country with a massive deficit, war everywhere etc etc etc, 8 years later?"
"ok so i haven't played this game that long, but i have good and bad experience of the politics of mmorpg's.personally i think the csm's shouldn't be elected, having elected csm's seems to favour one type of player or play style. having csm's nominated instead allows for a much broad range of csm's from the player base. it would allow ccp to choose players who represent the player base better i.e. rp'ers, mission runners, industrialist and pvp'ers"
"you see the problem here?it's that you are kind of hard of thinking."
"i too claim credit for aur protest fallout."
"i, too, claim the aur protests were what caused ccp to change their minds."
"ccp can check client ips for main and alts."
"quit while your ahead kiddo. you've been pwn3d....time to surrender.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"i think it's reasonable to say that they were a contributory factor. the playerbase unsubs, the protests, the csm, and the threadnaughts all played a part imo.personally i think the csm were highly useful in that they provided a calm, detailed 2-way discussion of what the real issues were - extremely useful at a time when ccp had lost touch with their customers - and had considerable input in pointing the new direction the right way. saying that the csm were \"useless\" is flying in the face of the facts, including ccp's own statements.that said, csm5 weren't by any means useless either. much of the groundwork for the successes of csm6 were laid by csm5. csm6 is the most successful csm yet, but csm5 were the most successful csm to date as well."
"please don't bring any of these \"facts\" to the mix, there is no place for them, only delusional, paranoid ramblings \"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" - abrazzar"
"i realise my mistake and i apologise unreservedly."
"of course the aur protests etc were part of the reason, but maggots like whomeverthefuck here seems to want to be about as good at talking about facts as en24 is."
"which means if it involves goons or the clusterfuck, either ignore it wholeheartedly, or just cover whatever they didn't do."
"i'm giving this a like with the exception don't put it on the log in screen and make it required to log in put it in a separate box on the char selection screen so it is still optional but easily accessible to the player base."
"there being a 100 page thread means very little.i remember several threads longer than that about poses, sov mechanics and moon-goo which was ignored. i'm not disputing that there are people who want wis. however it is a fact that pcu are down since incarna came along, it might be a trend from before but i remember there being around 45-50k players online at all times when i logged on before incarna and after my 6 month hiatus it hovers around 35k. sure the reason might be something else than the lack of wis... it could be crucible and that we had 45-50k players until it was released i don't know. but given that ccp has publicly apologized for incarna and publicly revealed they will focus on spaceships i'm fairly certain they can read statistics.like it or not, ccp has faced a significant drop in active accounts due to not focusing on spaceships. regardless of support for the idea of wis i'm nearly 100% certain that all in the csm agree with that spaceships are the basis of the game and always need to come before wis (if any of them say otherwise please point at it).so wis will come when ccp has gotten eve back on track with growth and pcu up. what more do you need to know? (this is also what ccp basically said in their communications with the playerbase, they still want wis but will focus on fis)"
"an increasing number of eve players who got into eve for spaceships want more than just spaceships. eve has that potential to add more to it's core game play beyond spaceships, without forcing you to leave your spaceship way of gaming. it can even allow players to forget about spaceships and do things differently all together without effecting your game at all.if you can't stand that... maybe eve won't be for you much longer."
"i'm delusional? hmm perhaps. but what does sharks have to do with anything?why do people need something else to do? it is a game about spaceships (well subs in oil really but anyways) from what i've seen and read the core demographic isn't interested in wis. at least not enough for it to be the focus of the game. there are other dressup games around, second life i think is still around.i'm not saying they shouldn't eventually get wis if they can do so without taking resources from the core game which is and always should be spaceships since quite frankly most who are interested in wis (or similar) to the degree they play a game with that kind of gameplay would not be interested in eve. thinking that they will come is foolish.wis had the majority of ccp development assets for what 1-1,5 years and the result was disastrous for the core game. but sure ccp could always again tell you that it is on the back burner but their vision is for it to come eventually."
"t2 orca:unless noted all stats are the same as the orcahalve the maintenance baycut the corporate hangar bay by 25%get rid of the cargo holdincrease the ore hold to the size of the cargo holdmake all skills/mods/rigs that modify cargo hold capacity increase the capacity of the ore hold.make the ore hold able to hold minerals as well (this would be great on the orca too).allow the fitting of an industrial core (90-99% reduction in cpu and power grid needed to fit a industrial core)add one high slotincrease time to align.increase top sub warp speed while decreasing acceleration (increase time to get into warp).goal of this ship is to provide high sec corps with a dedicated mining platform for grav sites and large belt ops.other mining thingsmost of these thoughts are to better define miners v. industrialist.capital mining ships: would like to see some bigger ships for null sec mining (while being first on this part of the list this is the least important to me personally.)tech 3 mining ship can not fit offensive sub systemsnew \"mining\" sub systems sub systems would give bonuses to specific types of ore yieldore specific mining lasers: ^ore specific mining upgrades: ^^rigs for mining shipsadd dedicated gas harvester"
"we do not need a rorqual for high sec.if your so hard pressed to make a profit....move to whs or 0.0.not supporting.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"you know, i could swear i've put minerals in my ore holds....ofc, if i'm in a mining op, i'm far from sober, so i could be wrong :-d"
"this."
"some of us don't have the time to dedicate to null sec or w-space."
"you must have been way gone."
"if you got time to write this tripe of a proposal and not bother to do your homework on mechancis and balance of those mechancis....and infer use of equipment on the scale your indicateing...you got time to go to whs/0.0 and mine.i think you have alot to learn before you make such a statement.i suggest you make the time to go to whs and 0.0 and then come back here and evalaute your proposal as such.you quite obviuosly have no concept of living in 0.0/whs when it comes to industry.and buffing high sec with a rorqual like ship is a threatening dare to crash the economy as it is.you have orca's...you have hulks...and you have pi....and yet you want bigger better orca's...maybe you should take a step back and think about the ramifications of your statement.i'm quite sure we would love a non-capitial rorqual out here....we'd literally make a killing.whs would be out of control when it comes to profitiblity with industrial core presense...specially if the ship is as big (or should i say \"small\") as an orca in mass and size.but you didn't think about that did you?================ stop the evemail spam!"
"this ^if we actually need another industrial ship of any kind it should be a dedicated gas harvester."
"hate to give him +1 but he's absoltuely right...this is the only industrial ship i'd support adding. if not a gas strip miner.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"good idea added to the other mining stuff"
"check my employment history. you should find i'm ex-f-con so i do have an idea on what living in null sec is like. i have also lived in w-space and it would be a great support ship for c1-3 wh where rorqs can't pass in and out of. also i will concede the point on mass, it may have to be bumped up. instead of straight up knocking the idea why not contribute to refining it."
"just because you where in the alliance i'm in doesn't indicate anything... no one who are even above my expertise would ever suggest the ship you outlined.that you can count on.you assume so because \"tis so awesome\"awesome is not the point here...its balance....we have prefectly good mining equipment at our disposal...we do not need to buff it.i stand by my words....there are no improvements needed because the orca is a mighty fnie ship.and we can use a rorqual out here.you can even build one in whs.high sec however does not need this ship..it will break ecnomy if not severely harm it,.it's bad enough with the bots and crap...don't add to it.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"c1 - c3 has grav sites, and pos have refineries, and you can buy a bpc pack for a rorqual for about 500m (give or take, i haven't bothered looking in a year or so).sure, you're going to burn a lot of time and minerals in doing this ... but if you want a rorq in w-space, then there's nothing stopping you from getting it. and, putting a rorq inside gets you even more bonuses than an orca would anyway.as it stands, you can drag in nearly 2900 m3/minute with a maxxed hulk and orca pilot. hisec doesn't need any more buffs.if you want a rorq without the time commitments of null or w-space ... there's always lowsec."
"this.ore compression in whs is a mighty fine solution to the painful torture sessions of refineries at pos's.rorqual becomes a immoveable structure in whs (c1 - c3)...but then again if your that serious....well the rest is obvious.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"i don't support this either .. how aboutincrease the maintenance bay by 25%remove the corp hanger entirelyreduce the cargo hold by 50%increase the ore hold by 50% and make the size increase with skill leveladd an extra high slotincrease its agility and accelerationincrease its shield and armour resists by 15%basically make a t2 equivalent which mirrors the t1::t2 hauler/blockade runner"
"yeah, but if you're refining the ore so you can build the rorq, then you're not really compressing much for a while... but once you can compress the ore, it'll pay for itself pretty quick, since you can get *more* ore out to the world in your haulers ..."
"correct/confirmed/btdt ================ stop the evemail spam!"
"you get the limited-edition nex t-shirt too?"
"this...i could...possibly get behind...maybe a +1 to warp stab and make it a low sec orca or something. nothing extravigant.but then one would argue a rorqual fits that bill in lowsec.and orca is hard enough to kill in high sec...i'm hard pressed to make any changes on it honestly.perhaps a rig to modify cargo space alottments or something..but that doesn't make sense either because your still getting the same total cargo space overall.and nuking the corp hanger isn't going to work...its the perefct anti-gank tool.anything in a cargo bay outside the main cargo bay...is toast if the ship does get ganked. yes i understand your making ore hold bigger...but the corp hanger helps when your delaing with large operations for various corporations who pay out differently.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"nope..that got burned in a fire when someone got a lucky space bomb shot on my cov ops frigate....had to get a change of shorts too..barely survived. ================ stop the evemail spam!"
"pants? where we're going, we don't need pants.back on topic... at this juncture, there's no need for a ~6 billion isk ship that performs just ever so slightly better than a 500m isk ship (yeah, i know i'm high for the orca. i just pulled the 6b from what i remember of the jfs), and about 33% worse than a t1 capital that can do other fun stuff (i.e. compression, jumpclones, etc)."
"@ pants commentso yeah...rorqual is worth what... ~2bil? (owns a jf and a rorqual)yeah....just not that reasonable or rational concerning comparisons.the orca is great becasued its priced fantastically cheap (aprox half a bil) and does good for what its d"
"he just hates my bouncing boobies thread..."
"some of us are more interested in more crucial things concerning the game and less space-playboy.sorry....but its just my honest opinion.that and your ideas are sometimes off key...but i do keep an open mind. ================ stop the evemail spam!"
"exactly...and in my eyes its not so much the collateral thats the problem as per se....i get why they do it...even if its a scam.its the stupid assed rewards....its crap.and i've already indicated that a possible way to fix this is to force the collateral to be a significant portion of the refund...as much as 75 to 90% of the value they decalre.if your really that serious about shipping that....then you damn well better be able to afford it becasue the risk should be shared...not one sided.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"this is one of the more bizarre threads i've seen in this subforum. from what i can piece together, op wants to discourage bait/scam courier contracts by requiring an extra deposit. the supposition, if i read it correctly, is that few people will want to put up the extra money. it doesn't seem to factor in several things, namely that most suicide ganks don't use bait contracts, most gankers/scammers are not isk poor, and if ganker/scammer is going to get the isk back anyway, why would they care? could someone please tell me what the 1/10th rule is?"
"3) contract gets picked up and succesfully delivered.at the peak of my business i used to issue about a dozen freighter-sized couriers every week, with the reward being about 0.1% of the collateral. every single one got picked up and delivered within three days, a majority in less than a day.just because it's not a sufficient enough reward for you doesn't mean that i should be forced to pay more if there are people for whom it is. or do you think that there should be a mandatory minimal sell price of minerals too, because \"there is no profit to be had for anyone\" in highsec mining?i am able to afford it, because there are people willing to pick it up at that price."
"the brokerage fees and deposits for courier contracts are 1/10th item contracts. under taxes and depsits here.the main point of the proposal is that the system currently does not require enough of a potential loss to prevent junk contracts. if the fees were higher (since i think it seems a little heavy handed to hard cap the collateral), it's going to hurt more when their junk contracts don't get picked up. right now they're out 10,000 isk unless the contract reward is astronomical. eve players frequently talk about risk vs. reward. in this situation, there isn't nearly enough risk for the issuer."
"10.0"
"well, new players... who are legitimately new players, and not purpose-created alts... can gain access to funding soon enough, once they subscribe. that said, there should be absolutely no magic isk faucets in the proposal; the system should be a game-mechanically formalized means of transferring isk between players, not a way to abuse the system to game isk from nothing (say, by taking out 'loans' with unusued alts, giving the isk back to their mains, then having the loan expire, putting them into negative balance, then forgetting about the alt forever, or even biomassing them). i think it'd be fine if unpaid loans could show up on your profile, in the same way as failed contracts would. if some alliance is free enough with their cash that players can use the loan system to make off with money they can't, or don't intend to, pay back, that's the fault of the alliance in question, and not something ccp should be reimbursing (as per the negative isk thing)."
"glad to see this thread is back, i still love the idea.- friendly bump"
"i'm glad to see all of the major lowsec players in here."
"eve is a game of consequences, if plugging in +5's limits your playstyle because you're risk averse then don't plug them in.risk vs reward.do not support."
"tell me more about risk aversion, npc corp forum alt poster \"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" - abrazzar"
"plex for remap can only remap once a year using a plexorgive us remaps every 6 months instead of a yeareveryone is happy."
"i'd suggest that you're more likely right in one respect; and that would be those training up alts for botting. in no way is it remotely productive to pay4plex or isk4plex to train a character for resale. anyone doing so would have to be half a fart short of a full load.~$20-30 per plex and $20 transfer fee for a slight reduction in training time that could not already be had-within normal perameters-by starting remaps? effectively it takes potentially months to train up a character for sale under current mechanics, and all for a net gain of maybe 2-3 billion isk. anyone forking out 600 million to remap during that period-for the same eventual value-is out of their freakin' minds.ideally, in order to retain value, you have to start your mapping with exact attributes for the build, then not spend the extra remaps on top of not playing the character to avoid affecting in-game standings with corps and players. essentially, the most valuable toon is an unknown with little or no impact on the game, for all his/her training. an empty book.so no, plex remaps on a toon is stupid, when you're considering training for resale. training for resale is also in a rather poor state in the last year, as the end-value is not worth the-paid-months it takes to train them. old and current plex prices considered.5 months @ $15 a month + $20 character transfer = $95 + whatever your times worth. not sure what that will get you in resaleable plex from ccp right now; but i'm sure it's more than the potentially 1-2 billion isk the toon will sell at depending on market.zubzubzubzubzubzubzubzub"
"i'll take the 2nd option sir.zubzubzubzubzubzubzubzub"
"supported."
"i am a rookie, but i am not mentally challenged. i am fully aware of the implications of my remap, i am aware of what the length of a year is, and i sought advice both from corpmates, the forum (through lurking and trawling through old posts) and evelopedia before making my choice. if i do suddenly do a u turn and completely rethink what direction i want my pilot to go in, i would be far more interested in relocating my skill points than another remap - although on a personal level i object to that as well, as i believe the choices you make should actually matter. if i do realise that my remap has been a big mistake, i still have another one remap gathering dust. thats why newbs have two remaps, so they can muck one up and be able to redeem their pilot.being able to trade plex for this is an advancement of real money trading, something eve needs to avoid at all costs. i've seen what that leads to, when four of the top ten players spend a combined total of $6000 per month on a game - there is no way 98% of the players can compete with that. end result - the game is dying fast. one of the reasons i have taken up eve is the lack of noticeable advantage that can be gained with real money trading, only a small amount of space barbie faggottry is currently present. any move to expand the advantage gained with real money needs to be stamped on asap - once you open the pandora's box of real money trading for ingame advantage, the game is dead. it may stagger on for months, maybe even a year or two, but trust me - real money for ingame advantage will be the end of eve.but full credit to the op for writing up the proposal so well. i'd much rather read a shocking idea eloquently written than a good idea full of butthurt."
"so if a small gang manage to hold down and slowly damage a supercap it's ok that they should be denied a km, but massive blob fleets reliably get one?why disincentivise smaller fleets from attacking supers?"
"ships which are finished off by concord, gate guns, npcs etc still generate a lossmail."
"posting in a pl \"i wants me kill mails so i can stroke my epeen\" whine thread.\"the world as we know it came about through an anomaly (anomou)\" (the gospel of philip, 1-5)"
"posting to confirm pl never bring enough deeps to beat the two minute timer.they should probably bring more supers and titans to fights.[center]\"i don't troll, i just give overly blunt responses that annoy people who are wrong but don't want to admit it. it's not my fault that people have sensitive feelings\" -mxzf[/center]"
"this doesn't make any sense. the only reason to self-destruct in combat is because you know that you're going to die. this means that you have decided that your death is inevitable, meaning that activating s-d is, effectively, crediting your opponents with an inevitable kill. so it's entirely appropriate that s-d should generate a killmail if other parties were involved, presumably measured by an active aggression timer.the purpose of s-d is to deny your opponent loot and, arguably, ship fitting information. both of these should remain, the latter simply by generating a killmail and lossmail containing no module information and with an extra message stating that the ship self-destructed."
"okay first i readily admit i am no master of eve game play. i would like to propose as a possible middle ground position in this get a killmail for not actually killing anything argument this compromise: if any aggressed ship chooses to sd the ship having done the most damage shall receive a killmail, now the offer in kind is that any ship that is concorded after aggressing any other ship shall also generate a killmail for the owner of the ship he attacked and was concorded for. in essence sd will generate a killmail for the attacking pilot, gank will generate a killmail for the attacked pilot if the attacker is destroyed by concord. sometimes you have to give to get, thus i am suggesting some give on both sides for some get on both sides without implying that both are of equal value. all thoughts thumbs up or down are appreciated."
"suppppppoooooorrrrrrtttttteeeeeedddddd."
"because missles are gay learn to use turrets noob"
"perhaps replace the speed penalty with a cap recharge penalty?"
"wait...what!they already used to have that moronic penalty on rage missiles, remember? it was horrible. they replaced it with the signature bloom.perhaps they should just remove all the ship penalties from both javelin and rage like they did for all other turret based t2 ammo?keeping ship penalties on missile ammo is simply imbalanced. but i have been crying over this for what seems like forever.patribe careful what you think, for your thoughts become your words. be careful what you say, for your words become your actions. be careful what you do, for your actions become your character. and character is everything. - author unknown"
"i doo agree, and while there are allot of ballance issues surrounding missiles, this one seems to be the most rediculous"
"my first thought: forced voting? wtfrequiring people to vote before they can log into eve is damaging. what do you hope to get out of this? a scramble of eve patrons to the forums in some mad dash attempt to figure out wtf is going on, and try to maybe figure out what they should do.fact is, yes, 80% of the population lives in empire. many of them are also alts of various 0.0 allaince members. probably more than 20%.random math:if the current population of the game is 350k, the 0.0 population is 10% of that number, and each 0.0 population meber has a mission running empire alt, while 30% of the 0.0 population has 2 empire production toons, and another half of the 0.0 population maintains empire trade alt's in jita; what is the percentage of 0.0 alliance members in the population and current number of subscribers based on a population of 350k?also, i brought up in-game voting propaganda last year before csm, and it was promptly tromped on as immersion breaking. this, despite csm being a \"council of stellar management,\" which is rather in line with current game structure and mechanics. i thought it was relatively feasible and easy to meld into game dynamics myself, but apparently the majority believe otherwise. not a bad thing, but i'd still like to see more people vote, and take part in forum discussions. the fact that i recognize nearly every poster today from last year, and previous years, is a profound statement of the state of the forums and relative stagnation of discussion here.some things have changed, as have some people; which is nice to see.zubzubzubzubzubzubzubzub"
"you don't see any problem with ccp staff hand-picking the people they want to use for consultation and advice?silly question, no, of course you don't see the problem."
"technically, they can do that now, by rigging the voting system. we have to trust tat they don't."
"forced voting is a horrible idea. why would you want ignorant or just plain don't give a **** players to vote? informed players will know about the vote and be able to have a voice in who's in the next csm if they choose."
"+1 for mandatory voting."
"move to australia, then."
"not even speaking about alts, what exactly defines \"from high sec\" etc. ?<<insert some waste of screen space here>>"
"3 of my 5 chars are in hisec. i guess that makes me a 60% hisec person."
"easy solution:make fleet boosters only provide boosts while on grid.look now you can get on the km by shooting!"
"having lived in whs myself i'd have to disagree with you there drake. your argument is fundamentally flawed, in that it took a mere 5 minutes to write that post i'm sure; where just scanning down a wormhole can take 45 minutes. in fact, the simplest activity in a wormhole is pi, and even that takes potentially hours at times.scanning down sigs and exits, running surveillance, and managing operations is no small task for veterans.i've heard that in 0.0, nullbears can just run anomalies or whatever, whenever; so you might be right about that.edit: not that i particularly agree with the ops idea. i think the orca as is, is good enough for highsec; though perhaps it and the caps could use some fleet/corp hangar/ship bay tweaks. couldn't really specify as i've never flown one, but even just accessing one seems a bit wierd from what i recall. i've also heard similar things regarding caps and orcas from others.what's the purpose of the industrial core in this case i wonder?zubzubzubzubzubzubzubzub"
"yeah, a fitted rorq is ~2 ... maybe 2.5 bil. i need to get myself a jf, just haven't had the time to throw the jf skill in yet =/"
"plan for 3 to 5 months of wrist cutting. (5,5,5 skills)================ stop the evemail spam!"
"i just need jump freighters"
"would be cool"
"not everyone has that kind of isk abdiel....my target crowd is the small time freighter pilot who just bought his/her first fenrir or something.collateral prices you set might be reasonable to be sure..but if you live in high sec...you'd find that most contracts are just flat obscenely expensive or utterly ridiculous.and i still stand by what i said...we aren't likely going to hire out or set colalteral when we have a nice fat alliance full of haulers for out beck and call.this is aimed at people who are just not that well off.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"not everyone has 1m to pay to get 800k m^3 of their stuff hauled and save themselves an hour of work? then perhaps what you're doing doesn't require moving 800k m^3 of stuff around?then don't force us to pay more to people who are willing to haul for pretty much free.a small-time freighter pilot who just bought their first fenrir should have considered how much can they make and what competition will they face before buying said fenrir.i wouldn't want the time of my alliance members to be wasted hauling crap around highsec, when you can pay almost nothing to someone else to do it for you. (maybe to that guy with a shiny new fenrir.)once again, it is an open market. as long as someone is willing to move my stuff for 1m, i don't see any reason to pay anyone 10m for the same job. and forcing me to do so is against the core principles of eve economy - just like the example i gave above, mandatory minimum prices for sell orders."
"my idea is probably not a new one since i cannot understand how easy this question is why don't we have show fleet only in overview as a filter?[url="
"fw: do plexes in complete safety in bomber -> go own noobs who don't do plexes in bombers in dramiel whatever wtfpwnmobile"
"support for the idea of getting more people into against because as others have pointed out, they are both an isk sink, and something shiny on killmails for people to gloat over.in fact, i fully support, because i believe the removal of learning implant will justify more people to actually use hardwirings, which would fill the isk sink/podmail gap."
"are you suggesting there's a risk in posting with my main?you and your friends gonna dec me?risky."
"no, but by posting with an alt you're showing an aversion to a perceived risk, regardless of its existence. \"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" - abrazzar"
"so by posting with an alt i'm minimising potential risk?if only there was a risk minimising mechanic for implants.something like jump clones or not flying, oops, i meant not wearing what you can't afford to lose."
"lol you're dumb, all of this was discussed, go roll another npc corp alt and perhaps put it in a vanity alliance along with the monocle lmao \"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" - abrazzar"
"don't be like that broski."
"not supporting and obvious mittens troll backed by remunerated test-goon slave and pet labor."
"i wish i was a ~free spirit~ like youoh wait, no, i don't want to be a peasant lmao \"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" - abrazzar"
"lolwut?"
"in relation to my posts, yes.i use them and lose them, because i cannot afford to leave them out of my training regimen on the off-chance i'll get podded. that also means i don't generally take much in the way of risk in many cases; choosing instead, to stay in a pos shield, sit on a station, stick to highsec lanes, or not go anywhere without much intel.unfortunately, there are times i have not had the ability to mitigate risk to to circumstances, and then i usually have ended up taking a billion isk chance, including ship, fit, and implants getting my ass somewhere safe. sure, i could have stayed in, but i really had to gtfo. wh's drive you nuts, and sometimes, 5 jumps to an exit 15 jumps into 0.0 is better than staying in one.frankly, i don't do that-wormholes-anymore, and i've gotten rid of that character, but it hasn't stopped me from considering that one less risk amongst all of them, would make this game a little easier to play.implants on killboards though; wow, that's more points for pods. heck, that's gotta make a podkill worth as much as a faction bs now, in some cases. awesome dude.i'm sure someone's thinking that out there; even if they won't admit it.fact is, you don't really have a valid reason for arguing changes like this, or many others. it's not a mechanics issue, it's only mildly impacting on the economy, and it isn't really neccessary after the removal of static attributes, and introduction of remaps.lots of other things impact the economy, give more to make isk off of, create dynamic change in much more noticeable fashion; and with only a few exceptions, nobody says anything about them, except maybe, \"i want moar!!\"edit: also, i'm not out in 0.0, and have nothing to do with it yet, nor have i, wormholes aside. i just take the time to consider others before i formulate a response to many threads and posts within them.post-edit: ..and meaningful choice, is not taking a battleship fit with faction mods into 0.0 solo, when you really could.zubzubzubzubzubzubzubzub"
"not one dev response or csm :/[url="
"this depends entirely on your definition of \"kill\" when a self-destruct is involved. you could argue that you did not lay the final blow to the sd-ed ship but since the ship is destroyed and your were involved in its destruction - you indeed committed a kill."
"no insurance for selfdestruct otherwise i don't careit just doesnt make sense someone pays you for destroying your own ship it's dumbwormhole guys can still exploit insurance bullshit by shooting their corp mates rorquals"
"except these are two completely different issues, and so as invaluable as i'm sure your support is i don't feel particularly obliged to \"trade\" you anything for it. if you wish to propose kms given to the victims of concorded ships, do so in another thread.this thread is not about suicide ganking, hell, it isn't even about high sec since very few ships big enough to sd in a (normal) fight are allowed to fly in high sec.[center]\"i don't troll, i just give overly blunt responses that annoy people who are wrong but don't want to admit it. it's not my fault that people have sensitive feelings\" -mxzf[/center]"
"if someone getting suicided wants killmails, all they have to do is aggress the guy. downside to that is, however, that they lose their killright. vov"
"i know there are a few other pi suggestion threads doing the rounds, so apologies if this has already been suggested.there have been some good improvements to pi since iteration 1, however it is still a repetitive click fest. one of the ways this is frustrating is when having to move a set up on a planet, to make use of resources in another location. in these cases, the new structure layout is often identical to the one you just destroyed.this could be made considerably quicker by the use of templates. a template could be as simple as putting down a set number and type of structures in one go, right up to the structures, tubes, schematics and routes. indeed everything but the placement of heads could be done with the placement of a pre-saved template.this would seem like a very simple way of saving lots of time."
"+1 speed penalty is just ridiculous"
"as stated by subject.ccp once stated they weren't looking into it because bpcs can have varying stats (runs, me, pe). in practice, however, the people that have the most bpcs are the ones making copies, which usually have identical stats and would thus be very stackable. the benefits are less cluttered hangars, which would make players and ccps db guys happy."
"this is technically very difficult to do. bpc's (like used bpos) are a singleton*. put simply they are unique items and so cannot have a quantity value other than 1. far from making the db guys happy, any attempt to work around this would likely make them miserable.while it may be possible to have some client-side filter than makes them appear as a single stack, this could be very resource-intensive as soon as you start dealing with large numbers of prints. a much simpler solution is to just keep similar prints in a can or hangar division. perhaps ccp could allow use of blueprints out of cans instead?*apparently we can't use url tags anymore -"
"ok, you want to go technical:i know that with the update to differentiated bpos and bpcs ccp merged the semantics of the singleton and quantity column into a single column (where quantity == -1 equals singleton). that change is basically a crutch to get the easy differentiation client side done that now hinders further improvements to bps. the better solution would have been to give bpos and bpcs a different type id. further, the singleton design is not really needed. in the cases where you want to set a foreign key to a \"singleton\" bp you could just as well use the auto stack splitting that is used in many other parts of the game and set the fk to that newly created 1 unit stack. in fact the solution i propose requires the singleton concept to be abolished, as the bp stats come from another table that are joined to the actual inventory row. the only slightly trickier part is to avoid stacking bps with different stats or which are part of a pseudo singleton fk (for instance bpos in research)."
"6 months sounds pretty reasonablei've been playing this game for years but i haven't bothered to do cosmos yet since i've been waiting for ~perfect~ time to do them since you can do them only oncealso it seems pretty lame that if you want to \"grind\" cosmos you need to recycle characters to do them and cosmos is only source of some items so obviously someone is doing this."
"the current drone navigation computer module is ridiculous. no one ever trades a mid-slot for an increase in drone mwd speed. if you have a spare mid slot that can only fit this module, then you've fit your ship wrong.conversely: drone ships frequently have spare high slots. i can use a high slot to increase the range of my drones, but that's pretty much useless since 5 heavies are going to take over a minute to actually get to their targets and start shooting. they're vulnerable while mwd'ing. and more importantly, you don't use them like this on a pvp ship anyway.punchline: who needs a med-slot dnc? no one. make it a high slot module like the drone link augmentor, and make ratting in a drone ship stop losing dps to slow as hell heavies getting to kiting rats."
"if drones had more potential dps, you'd probably see it in use. really, the mwd speed of drones is mostly irrelevent as heavies are more commonly used for pve than pvp. they tend to be too big of targets in pvp and awful slow. neuting domi drone boat maybe, but mostly not i think.couldn't say a 100% as i've only actually ever run across drone flinging bs/ishtar a bare few times anywhere. mediums and smalls tend to be the thing from what i've seen though.if you actually had a drone boat capable of slinging 500-600 dps on just drones; would you fit a dns in your mids? 700-800?op i know, given each is a seperate target, in addition to yourself. solo pwn mobile really.i tried fitting an ishtar with one once to see how practical it would be; but didn't think the benefit was worth it myself. if it was high, i think it would be used much more, as you suggested. main problem i found with the ishtar, was it functions better in many respects as a shield tank. kind of rules out the mids for that use, even as a dedicated drone boat; and i was using the high for acsreally doesn't leave much, unless you happen to be looking at a possible use for a hyperion?? haven't looked at one in awhile. faction bs?? no idea. as a mid, i can't immediately think of a use.wait.. typhoon? that might do it.edit:[typhoon, dns check]damage control iienergized adaptive nano membrane iienergized adaptive nano membrane iilarge armor repairer iigyrostabilizer iigyrostabilizer iigyrostabilizer ii100mn afterburner iiwarp disruptor iistasis webifier iidrone navigation computer idual 650mm repeating artillery ii, republic fleet emp ldual 650mm repeating artillery ii, republic fleet emp ldual 650mm repeating artillery ii, republic fleet emp ldual 650mm repeating artillery ii, republic fleet emp ldual 650mm repeating artillery ii, republic fleet emp lheavy nosferatu iiheavy nosferatu iimedium graviton smartbomb iilarge anti-thermic pump ilarge auxiliary nano pump ilarge auxiliary nano pump iogre ii x5valkyrie ii x5not a bad fit, i think; of course, it's completely untested as far as i know.zubzubzubzubzubzubzubzub"
"excellent plan.by forcing the csm to include less capable highsec players through positive discrimination, rather than allowing the election to only choose the best candidates, it means that they'll be more susceptible to manipulation by the more knowledgeable and politically adept 0.0 and lowsec members.we'll have jita made into a 0.4 and halve the ehp of mining barges within a matter of months!"
"thanks for clearing up the confusion over the goons agenda."
"actually, it makes sense from both sides for this to be implemented. effectively, server logs all fleet members of involved parties in system and active modules at time of kill with no more than modifications to the current query. a secondary query might extend to neutral assistance like logi's who have become involved in the fight and inherited aggression timers.all logis get in on the kill, as do the gang boosters. this makes sense, as the fight may have gone very differently if it were not for those contributing factors.gang boosting and logi support counts for a lot in any battle.on the other side, everyone gets to see what was really used to accomplish the kill; neutral and gang boosting alts get exposed, and the measure of the battle is more evident.points system can be reworked to accomodate.side note: battleclinic and other scoring systems seem to be weighed a bit poorly, when you account for things like what king rothgar mentioned. using decimals might help.sure, you end up with a lot of 0 dps additions to the killboard; but you also get far more depth for potential battle analysis. that helps everybody.edit: calculating logi repair per second as a counter to dps on both sides might also be interesting, and would be far more informative. adding link bonus might be useful too, or at least some measure of the gang boosters skill.zubzubzubzubzubzubzubzub"
"force fleet boosters on same grid like they should be so they must participate in fight and actually get killmails"
"reiterated that same invalid point isn't going to strengthen the argument. a fleet booster does participate in a fight, even off grid. not saying they shouldn't be required to be on grid in at least some cases, but being required to shoot the target isn't neccessary for them to swing the balance of the fight.pretty much the same with logis.zubzubzubzubzubzubzubzub"
"yes to topic and yes to ongrid boosts"
"i'm glad fis is being focused on, but anyone who says wis has no place in the eve universe need to take a look at any space sci-fi material that's out there. none of it's confined in ships. even the eve chronicles emphasize on this aspect of the lore. heck if eve had swtor gameplay mixed in it would be the only thing you'd need for a space sci-fi fix, but that's asking too much. i've ended my subscriptions in the past not because of a feature i didn't want to see, but because i simply got bored with the game. really got burned out with flying all the time. i'm one of those who would like to see a different aspect to the game i can fall back on without having to switch games or hobbies (though that may be healthy)."
"yeah. it's really stupid. most players are wanting clarification on where wis stands now. no-one is asking that fis is abandoned in favour of wis. the haters can't seem to fathom this."
"it seems everyone wants to make this ship a general purpose hauler which was not my intent with the ship design. i would like to see a better definition between miners and industrialist. miners being the people who get the ore and industrialist being the people who build stuff. personally i think the orca is too easy to get into so obviously this ship would have many many more skills required. second the only thing this does the same as a rorq is compress ore. it does not give better bonuses or offer jump capability or give people jump clones. all it really does is offer a way to move more ore and it does it slower than the orca which is by design.so lets get off the t2 orca now and hear what people have to say about t3 mining ships to help differentiate miners form indy players."
"*chuckles* when thinking of a t3 industrial with warp interdiction nullifier.zubzubzubzubzubzubzubzub"
"currently, running an advanced search specific to a forum, with only a keyword entry, results in all instances of that keyword from all threads.for example: advanced search + cloak + features & ideas forum. try it.what i'd liked to see is the limitation for all results returned from the same thread to be collated down to one result pointing at the specific thread.just a checkbox added to the advanced search. it might take slightly longer for results to return, but it beats wading through results for the same 2-3 most recent threads in which it was mentioned. anyone who did that search will understand what i mean. granted, the engine may accomodate cloak + sb returns; but that will likely return all instances in which word and acronym were mentioned, as well as those for both. the latter might be filtered to the top of course, as that is i believe standard for search engines.it will still return a plethora of unwelcome results however, and it would be nice to just have the option of seeing results that indicate specific threads with possibly the addition of number of instances.zubzubzubzubzubzubzubzub"
"actually, all the devs would have to do is make it so you are always a valid squad.seperated from fleet = valid squad = invalid fleetsolo = valid squad = no fleetin fleet formation on grid = valid squad = valid fleet...and for the fix so many of you want:in fleet off grid, sperated from fleet formation and squad = valid squad = invalid fleet. i.e: if you're the gang booster; you don't boost.really though, there has to be a level where it is system wide, and where it is on grid. for example, a cap ship with gang links should boost system wide as a fleet commander; but not as wing commander, or a squad commander.conversely, a battle cruiser acting as a squad commander, wing commander, or fleet commander; should only boost on grid; while being unable to boost system wide due to limited onboard hardware and the like. much smaller ship = limited projection.might be nice if they worked some of this into reworking fleet mechanics; such as they mentioned they were eventually going to do, some time ago.edit: technically speaking, a sniper is always a valid squad. whether he is entirely alone, or with a spotter; he is still a valid squad.zubzubzubzubzubzubzubzub"
"would be nice. i thought of that some time ago and made a workaround where players got a welcome mail when they joined a list. not quite the same thing though, as they have to join corp, then you have to tell them to join the list and give them the info for it, so you can give more info in the list welcome.so, yes; good idea. +1zubzubzubzubzubzubzubzub"
"isn't rainbows and unicorns what you guys load into your smartbombs anyway?i'm all for this, it'll bring a definite influx of fights to all low sec."
"what"
"+1this is how to fix low sec this is what eve needs. this is for for all pvpr's. and jack is more than right to say poking carebears into low sec will never work."
"it's a good idea to examine any new proposal for exploitation potential, but my response to the \"griefing\" concern you have raised can be summed up in the old cliche:\"don't do the crime if you can't do the time\"re: your other query: if anyone or everyone can take the bounty, then it's too easy to burn it off with fullly insured t1 ships although the perp doesn't gain anything (actually he will take a small loss) he can make the person who placed the bounty lose his money without getting revenge it would cost the perp maybe 5-10% of what the person who placed the bounty spent to nullify the effect being able to get rid of a 500m bounty by spending perhaps 25-50m isn't something that should be achievable without some clever gameplay like infiltrating a bounty corp or corrupting one of their members"
"we do"
"do wat?[url="
"have a filteroverview settings include color tags, filters, and a plethora of other things it's the most customizable feature in the gamezubzubzubzubzubzubzubzub"
"yet you don't have the option to show fleet members only right now you can only make so you see all players on grid not only fleet members[url="
"as far as i recall, you hust check off the fleet as visible on the overview setting tab, and uncheck everything else i can't log in to confirm, but i think you must be missing itgoogle arcturus overviewzubzubzubzubzubzubzubzub"
"in the olden day's it wasn't possible unless you assigned standingwhen you remove for example neutral standing, all them randoms that are in your fleet are removed so you'd need to set all your fleet members to excellent standing or something the same difficulties arise when you want to display only your corp/alliance unless your ceo/director is on the ball with setting standingspersonally think it should be a logic structure where you can add a number of different rules of who to display or not displayexample:show neutral standing or good standing or excellent standing and fleet member"
"you can, they have prioritieschange the order in the filter list, higher priority rules take precedence just gonna understand the rules(good luck figuring them out)"
"and its the same now, in order for it to work you need to assign standings to fleet members and revoke them if they leave[url="
"you're confusing states with appearance states has no priorities and no way of altering the order of it you can make fleet members show up yellow in background even if they have a mediocre sec status even if in fleet, or you can have the purple override all, but they will still suffer from the exclusive list of statesif the states tab was inclusive we wouldn't have this issue, but arguably others the method mr frost suggests would be a very effective way of solving it all, and allow for best customizability, but arguably also the highest entry barrier on the other hand, why have a broken but seemingly intuitive system?"
"1.0"
"there should be a way to fight cloaked ships other then waiting all day long for it to uncloak... cloaking totally spoils the game the way it is, as it is often used to evade fights and grief... also it is really boring to hunt one of them, since they can only be killed if the cloaked pilot is inexperienced and have a bad timing.proposal: cloaked ships should be detected by some sort of combat scanner probes. this way there would be a real possibility to uncloak it and there would be more real pvp and less griefers...obs: there should be a warning for the cloaked ship every time it gets detected by a prober ( like: \"a scanner probe has locked x.xx% on your position\" warning or some graphical thing.)this way the game should be fair! ( cloak should make invisible. not invincible.)edit:coming soon!!i will definitly fly one of those! new pos system new sov system"
"no.and bring back unprobable."
"you spoil the game with your idea...what do you suggest we do about it?================ stop the evemail spam!"
"obvious trolling thread. his opinion is the exact opposite as indicated herewhy do people do this?zubzubzubzubzubzubzubzub"
"yes please looking for the one i want i have to click on every damn one do they want i us staring at the market more then usual?"
"i personally have no issues with the isk/hr given by incursions, what i don't like is that there is an unlimited number of sites that players can farm to their hearts content at all times.you can do incursions for an infinite number of sites per day, the sites are always the same with little variation or diversity, making them easy to and quick to do.no other pve gets that. nullsec, lowsec, wormholes all have sites that can be done only once before they disappear, leaving you the rest of the day to do nothing. incursions can be run all day long, never ending until the incursion runners decide to kill the mom site, which requires a significant fleet to do. what i propose is that there should be a limit of the number of sites given per day.make incursions so that there is only one incursion for each security level of space.1 each for highsec, lowsec, and nullsec. make it so that incursions only of have a certain number of each type of sites. if there are no more vanguards then the players must do hq's and assaults in order to make money."
"so what you propose is the massive overcrowding of incursion site (not sites) in each security zone and imply they are run solo.you really don't think these things through do you?very poor troll with very poor common sense.-9/10================ stop the evemail spam!"
"no.and sanctums and moon goo should be moved to highsec."
"nerf high sec incursions somehowsome changes are needed."
"no, nerf you instead. some changes are needed for you, not me.^see? that's what it's all about."
"if i remember correctly multiple fleets can go in the same incursion site and whichever fleet is the most effective wins the reward. yes it would be crowded in highsec but you could still get a fleet up and run an incursion normally. you just wouldn't be guaranteed that it would always pay out all of the time.i have seen a lot of \"lets move carebears into lowsec\" threads and i think incursions are a perfect way to do that. reduce highsec to one incursion region every once in a while and make lowsec the place where there are two to three constant incursions up at a time.i honestly think poco based sov is a good idea"
"then make sure theres at least 1 incursion in each empire....limiting it to 1 in high sec is just plain stupid.incraesing them as they head out towards low sec to 0.0 however is reasonable....even perhaps making them low sec/0.0 only.won't happen however...kinda breaks the whole point of an incursion.but that's not gonna change my stance on this thread.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"i support this if ccp completely reworks cosmos, including the stats of storyline-modules. besides standing and some nice imps there aren't many reasons to do these missions at all."
"bo-ho you loser. if you fell for a scam its your fault. that is something people do in this game to make money and if you loss you isk or whatever you lost its on your head. if you lost a mill stop complaining and go run a incursion. i lost all my isk once and had to hammer missions daily to get back to the top. this was way before incursions. i didn't quit i bit the bullet and got my isk back. now i'm doing great. plus a law suit!?! your a huge loser. now stop whining and go make some isk."
"i'm not sure but. as far as chatrooms. the way to activate a chatroom is to click the icon and enter the room name or perhaps bookmark it in the chatroom menu page thingy? what about a quickbar which would hold chatrooms just like the market quick bar does. its whatever."
"you should consider the combination of heavy drones + target painter then. add in a couple of dns and a dts and your ogres will eat even frigates alive. which makes the combo of a fast tackling, target painting minnie ship in combination with a hard hitting gallente drone boat, all the scarier."
"makes sense. a module that increases drones' speed should take the same slot that increases drones' range. supported."
"swap the target painter to high slot too. :d"
"no, make drone control units fittable on subcap instead."
"ban npc forum alts from csm forums"
"can't open the image but the idea is freakin epic. make it real and i would pay cash."
"this also means your vote counts for 3/5th only. just like... you know."
"and how can they not move when getting a bit of air from an open jacket?"
"this would make me at least 100% more likely to get involved in lowsec pvp outside fw. definitely supported."
"fantastic idea. i approve.edit: please make sure that sec penalties from remote support (logistics) are also included in this proposal! there's more to sec loss than just blowing stuff up, after all."
"i can't think of any drawbacks to this.supported."
"prpbably solution is crerate a online report system for tiefs. so to say ceo or corp director reports thieves and puts bounty on his head.any way corp ceos reporting them. so way not keep online data base of thos chars, and work with thos contracts wat was proposaled befor.this not include scamers."
"eperor is a thief."
"bump"
"just a little bump to bring this topic back up for other readers and new ideaswrath"
"you know, if you were a computer game character i'm afraid i would remove you too for your infuriating insistence on spelling 'ridiculous' 'rediculous'.having said that though, i will support your proposal. :)"
"frankly, i've always thought all the penalties were a waste of time. i almost never use t2 ammunition as a result; because it just handicaps the ship too much. it might be okay in very specific, controllable circumstances; but overall it's a penalty that is completely out of scope with the benefits. never made sense to me.why would you severely incapacitate an entire ship for a little bit of range, or a bit more damage. sure, the rage torpedoes dps nicely; but they suffer from other penalties already. as far as i know, all t2 ammo does.example:standard torpedo:max. velocity 1500 m/sflight time 6 sdamage 450explosion velocity 71 m/sexplosion radius 450mrage torpedo:max. velocity 1250 m/sflight time 6.4sdamage 576explosion velocity 61 m/sexplosion radius 650mwhy would you need to penalize the ship; when you've already balanced the missile.special reference - caldari faction torpedo:max velocity 1500 m/sflight time 6sdamage 517explosion velocity 71 m/sexplosion radius 450mthe cn torpedo boosts damage with no adjustment to compensate for that increase - because it's faction and limited supply/increased cost.the boost is 67 points, with 59 points between it and the t2 rage. the rage loses in explosion velocity, explosion radius, and speed, and ultimately range. base range is 1 km less than standard and faction torpedoes.why penalize the ship? it doesn't make any sense. you've already killed it's effectiveness against smaller ships, and dedicated it towards attacking larger targets. i'm pretty sure this covers the major portion of t2 ammunition to similar effect. every one i've checked out was that way, as far as i can recall.so yeah, +1 on this and de-nerfing t2 ammo in general. the penalties aren't worth it 98% of the time.edit: ..and if that argument isn't enough for you; the current penalties just give one more reason to blob. this is just one more reason not to fly solo or in small gangs.zubzubzubzubzubzubzubzub"
"i can't support this sorry - i like the fact that they all have names that are (at least in some of the cases) hint at what they do. for example, the ice mining implant sets are called 'yeti'. it adds a little bit of mystique (not much though, admittedly).would you like the typhoon to be renamed 'battleship - split weapon system - needs a lot of training to use effectively', or the falcon to be renamed 'force recon - ecm - will cause a lot of tears', or even the rifter: 'frigate - autocannons - i win butan'nice idea though."
"no, but i would not like to have my ships namedroden 'enforcer' zx420and neither would you."
"i think the simple solution would be to remove the first part including the corporation name and move that to description; unquote the name, and adjust it to be more suitable to the implant, and retain the last part.mk 2 always reminds me of star trek; this is not star trek.so it would be more like this:- arc zmf 1000 - (replacing: zainou \"deadeye\" zmc 1000 - missile flight time bonus)- arc zmv 1100 - (replacing: zainou \"deadeye\" zml 1100 - missile max velocity bonus)- arc zha 750 - (replacing: zainou \"snapshot\" zme 750 - heavey assault missile damage bonus)- arc zhm 1000 - (replacing: zainou \"snapshot\" zmh 1000 - heavy missile damage bonus)something like that anyway. my issue with selecting implants isn't so much the name; as it is ignoring the broad spectrum tags like snapshot, and sometimes indecipherable acronyms.what does zmc stand for, for example? first part is easy: zainou missile _. the c, i don't get.the second issue i have, is the length of the name and quotes; as it makes for too much clutter, which results in poor readability.zubzubzubzubzubzubzubzub"
"it's an engineering term."
"you're just mad because you're probably a big incursion carebear. the problem with highsec vanguard incursions are that it trivializes the much more dangerous ways of making isk in low/null/wh space. highsec incursions are simply unbeatable when it comes to isk/hr to the risk involved.logi's disconnect? well what your logi disconnects in a wh site? what if your mission ship disconnects while taking heavy fire. this is an invalid excuse for risk.gankers, griefers? in non-highsec areas there is no concord, therefore you can be killed and griefed with much greater ease than highsec. there are griefers and gankers in all space, this excuse is therefore invalid.which means that there is virtually no risk in highsec incursions for the fairly high isk/hr.therefore highsec vanguard incursions should be limited or made more dangerous."
"then nerf low sec and 0.0 moneymakers. is it unfair that those groups get moon goo and sanctums and ice mining and incursions and etcetera etcetera etcetera? if it's unfair for people to get money in high sec, then its unfair for low sec and 0.0 to get everything they get.stop trolling with stupid, ludicrous, and whiny posts about how its unfair that ccp paid attention to its high sec members.people who live in 0.0 get tons of toys, and all of ccp's attention. to the point that mittani ran a boycott that got ccp to release an entire expansion, complete with ships and nerfs and buffs galore, all for the gratis-faction of 0.0 dwellers. seriously, a small group gets all of the attention and love from ccp and yet they have the nerve to complain that the realistic isk generator in highsec needs to be nerfed? htfu and stop complaining, you don't hear incursionists bitching and griping about how the csm ignores high sec, or about how only low sec and 0.0 get moon mining and abc' ores or mercoxit."
"aaaannd! alliances nap it up in 0.0 space and lock down their systems (excluding the occasional afk cloaker) and run mining sites and sanctums with.... (drumroll) no freaking risk!!!! shut up. you're an idiot of most epic proportions."
"couldn't you just make it so, that once you get the mothership site to spawn the number of site spawns will slowly dwindle down to a low minimum or even finally end. basicly just change it from a large inifinite farmable resource for the duration of the incursion to a much more limited resource as more farming is done. it makes farmin incursions a non-issue and is much better for incentivizing competition, since every site done by others is a resource not available to you and the supply is now much more limited after the incursion has passed a certain point. it also creates a strong incentive to attack the mothership and end the incursion, since a dwindled down incursion can't possibly supply enough sites to keep every farmer busy."
"explain that to white noise."
"explain that to test... every try to rat in fountain? >.>"
"awww..look at that...the nooblet carebear thinks i live in high sec....isn't that cute.get over yourself... this proposal is a troll and everyone knows it...================ stop the evemail spam!"
"we tried...they didn't bother showing up...let alone saying anything.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"so alliances actively maintain and defense sovereignty and shouldn't reap the best rewards?put together a group and go out there and contest some if you've got a problem with their mining and ratting. from experience, it doesn't take many people to drop some sbus and put a pretty big slope in an alliance's pve activities.in nullsec, you're free to stop anybody from doing anything. that's not the case with highsec incursions, and you bloody well know that. stop making foolish arguments."
"i suggest heading out to \"vale of the silent\"should't be hard for you to carve a niche out of wn. space. :)*going with floppies ever logical suggestion thought train*================ stop the evemail spam!"
"i'd like to see eve adapt to changing times and technologies; while allowing people to take advantage of newer model gpus and improve rendering. directx 11 has been out for some time now, and there are many benefits to it's use; while newer directx 11 gpus are readily available, cheap, and offer better performance than older models of comparable price-range and quality.- directx 11 optimizes performance- you can maintain backward compatibility- it's cheap and easy to afford- directx11 offers tesselation and advanced rendering capabilities- it's the smart choice to move to directx 11incarna and cq will only be fully realized in a directx 11 environment; while eves primary features can only benefit from the added rendering capabilities.vote for directx 11 today!this advertisement has been brought to you by eve rogues; an alliance formally dedicated to improving you eve user experience.ceo and chairman,mars theran.zubzubzubzubzubzubzubzub"
"any idea why ccp hasn't made the switch to dx11 (or dx10 for that matter), it seems odd given their desire to be on the cutting edge of 3d rendering."
"heh just saw this thread nowif you check out sisi you'll see some nice changesalso, dev blog this week (probably) eve brogrammer  team five 0  @ccp_punkturis"
"a like button is not enough for this, we need a love button too."
"i think this is still relevant. let's see if we get any more support."
"nice solution.if implemented, it would require some sort of visible aggro timer on the client. the length of your timer depends on other people and you can't rely on a simple stopwatch anymore.what happens in lowsec, stays in lowsec, lowering the barrier to entry to lowsec pvp:"
"well, it'd be as simple as updating the timer on your client to whatever the timer is on the person you're assisting. pretty simple, really. if your timer is longer than that of the person you're assisting, then obviously no action is necessary."
"if ccp can pass partial timers, this would be perfect. it would even allow those timers to be chained through logi without creating an infinite loop.even if it does take some substantial coding, it needs to be done. logi shouldn't be exempt from aggression rules."
"ok....then i suggest you give us a logical reason for eliminating scamming from this game...or kindly get the hell out before you embarrass yourself. this is eve online...not hello kitty online...don't like it bumble? wow is that way [/quote]why the hell should i? you might notice that i'm not advocating the removal of scamming in this game, rather i'm defending this chap's right to make a (somewhat confused ic and ooc) proposal.additionally, by deploying the lame '[game name here] is this way' meme, you again show your true colours: namely, a lacklustre regurgitator of tired and hackneyed one-liners."
"why the hell should i? you might notice that i'm not advocating the removal of scamming in this game, rather i'm defending this chap's right to make a (somewhat confused ic and ooc) proposal.additionally, by deploying the lame '[game name here] is this way' meme, you again show your true colours: namely, a lacklustre regurgitator of tired and hackneyed one-liners.[/quote]dont go around making suggestions or ideas without having a logical argument of your own.you defend someone who wants scamming eliminated...we expect you to have a sound reason for not having scamming.otherwise tis obvious your just a pathetic troll looking for a fight.as you \"bumble####\" your way around the forums...try engaging brain first before posting.================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"enough with the tired \"underpants gnomes\" episode reference from south park. that was so fourteen years ago. let it go.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"please stop trolling....your a grown man for lords sake.================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"never.the underpants gnomes are the ones who run ccp, after all. we have to let them know we are on to them"
"can somebody move this to \"out of pod experience\"?"
"i thought eve fiction would be a better choice? he went the rp route, after all."
"i belieave thats \"intergalatic summit\" your referring to. :)================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"correcto[url="
"try harder flying logi, you kinda need to know how to do things like this i know *my* logi overview only shows fleet members(no matter what their standings) so i am inclined to think the fact that yours doesn't is a pebcak error, no matter how many of you fail to learn to configure itits not intuitive to make it work right, if you think it is that might be your core problem right there"
"if so then please post your settings since i tried pretty much everything and also the wiki @ eve uni tells the same thing i have trouble with[url="
"gonna take some time just got a new ssd raid setup, and am having to reinstall everything as soon as i get a functional client going from my backups, i'll post a link to my overview fileprepare to laugh tho, it mostly fails ;)"
"sorry if i misunderstand something, but the state filter\"pilot is in your fleet\" does not satisfy your needs? make a fleet tab and uncheck all the other states, and you will only see your fleet members"
"it does not work since if you uncheck everything but \"pilots in your fleet\" then it will remove people from overview if they are in your alliance but also in your fleet etc issue is that you cannot set priority or chose logical gates like other people in this thread postedi want to have only fleet members in one tab called fleet, is that to much to ask for?also please read the eve uni overview guide = overview guide\"note that this preset will show all pilots in space, not just fleetmates\"[url="
"ok, i see now it has not been designed to accommodate fleets of mixed pilots from various corps or alliances with neutral standings yeah, this should be like the colours tab, if you could set their order it would work"
"iirc it was something ******** like dragging the entry up the listsorry, e-uni is not the end all be all of eve knowledge, any more than goon wiki is"
"what entry[url="
"from this thread a lot of support has been given to the idea of upgrading the current npcs you see when flying around. at the moment outside of missions, plexs and anomalies the only npc ships you see are the concord faction ships at gates and a few haulers flying out of random stations and slow boating off grid. this really shows how little npc activity goes on in eve it's like pod pilots are the only ones flying around which is not the case, there are trillions of people in the galaxy there should be more npc traffic.what started as a cosmetic change, (just seeing more ships flying back and forth) has become more practical after suggestions from others, a whole bunch of player activities set to challenge a pilot have been suggested. my proposal is that ccp take some time from their development cycle for summer to add new scripts for npcs to move about the galaxy. some ideas thrown about in the thread were:haulers travelling from station to station or system to system delivering goods which can be dropped if the npc is destroyed.haulers travelling to low sec and null sec with an armed escourt with smart ai (incursion level) that low sec players can attack for loot or protect for faction rewards, like a dynamic mission source. other rare ship types like luxury yachts cruising around planets.nocti roaming battlefield complexes providing salvaging missions. factional fleets fighting pitched battles in fw, highsec, low sec and null sec, which players can join on either side for rewards. the full realisation of this concept can be done in stages, the first iteration can be improving to original caravan script so that ships go station to station or system to system and add more ship types, before adding more opportunities to the npc environment. the npc activity could be scalable to server load to avoid performance issues also. i think a more dynamic npc environment is better for the players than waiting for certain identical instances to spawn be that in missions, anoms or incursions a bit of variety would challenge players more, increasing fun. what say you?"
"i say yay because a richer enviroment is better for everyone. especuly piwates ^_^"
"+1view the latest eve online developments and other game related news and gameplay by visiting ranger 1 presents: virtual realms."
"1.0"
"+1incarna - newest business example of mismanaged capital. ccp - continuing to gank independent pi producers every day pvp's latest incentive program ** unified inventory ** 'cause you gotta kill something after trying to use it"
"uuu nice ideas there+1"
"+1 please make this happen."
"+1 very good"
"while i find the prospect of being able to design my own monster ship appealing - the biggest concern i have regarding this is how to ensure balance currently with the right skills trained and using good fit/tactics most ships in each class are more or less balanced - some lend themselves better to certain roles than others this allows players of different races etc to compete on a fair if not completely level playing field and ensures not only that there is a role for different ship classes and players of different skill levels but that there is a counter for just about any tactic you can come up withthe tactical/stragigic nature of combat in eve relies on developing a knowledge of possible tactics and countertactics and trying to predict what you are going to face this is only possible if you have a defined types of assets on the playing field <U+FFFD> in this way it is similar to chess a defined range of pieces with rules for how they can interact which are known to all players of sufficient skill<U+FFFD> but try playing chess with the rules changing every few moves or a new superqueen suddenly appearing on the board mid game.ccp takes great pains to ensure this balance and the fact that they need to periodically rebalance ships is a testiment to the difficult of predicting how ships will be fit and used on tq as new expansions or an unexpected tactic unfairly favours one ship type over another.and players will be strongly motivated to find the most unbalanced ships possible.this proposal is likely to result in either a small group of win ships or a horrible mess in which there is such a range of ships/ships changing so fast ity is no longer possible to play in a stratigic manner either of which are likely to fundamentally break the game.and if that occurs it will be far more difficult for ccp to intervene and rebalance player designed ships than ccp designed one - imagine having a ship you have spent huge amounts of isk and time designing being nerfed and also this would have a massive effect on the market.ensuring balance in advance for any system that would allow changes in ship specs significant enough to be meaningful would be almost impossible in addition the design of player created ships would need to be factored in in the design of new content potentially making it impossible to predict the effects of new contentccp should not put themselves in the position where it is likely they will have to intervene post hoc and on a regular basis to change the result of player actions anyone remember the kick off following the removal of test alliances sov structures.while initial attract this proposal would be likely to lead to chaos and the breaking of eve if implemented."
"dont forget precision missiles, they have speed penalty and half flight times too."
"currently if you attack a pos of any worth that is regions away from the owners hq, all they simply do is log on a strontium alt and set the timer to come out at their optimal time. or if you anchor a sbu or attack station services, owners are immediately notified and are able to mobilize and repel potential invaders with ease due to under attack/contested mails. this is incredibly powerful for empires that are mostly afk, stretch well beyond their actual inhabited space and use this system to abuse not actually patrolling the area.first let me say i am not saying to remove 'low on fuel' mails or anything like that. just the under attack/contested mails from sbus. if an invader actually does attack/sbu space that is actually inhabited, the defenders will know what they are up to almost as fast as the current mail system. the difference will be when an empire decides to hold a moon/space far away from where they actually live. then we will see things change dramatically. if such empires still want to control stuff far from home, they will need to patrol such assets/space regularly.yes i know some of you are raging already that 'patrolling' is ***** work and you wont do it. that sounds fine to me. i'm not going to make you.what is everyone's thoughts?"
"i too would like to remove fights."
"fights? oh you mean where both sides size each other up before a timer is done and if one side decides they don't have enough guys they just choose not to bother?seriously, that will still be done. if anything this will cause more fights to happen and on a smaller scale as large blobs spread out to cover their territory. if they want to keep it that is."
"are there ever any fights over the initial reinforcement ehp grind? wouldn't remove all of them, but:- if structure has a reinforcement cycle ahead, then no alert goes out.note: this means that pos mods, including jammers/bridges can be knocked out without an owner being automatically told.have to keep tabs on what the hell goes on in ones space, either by scouting, employing spies or you know actually being in the space one claims as ones own.we have timers to ensure that reinforcements ends at a less disadvantageous hour so scrambling a defensive fleet when an actual alert goes out should not be a problem. if it is then perhaps the defender is trying to hold more than he can and deserves having some fat cut from his bloated carcass."
"you're just mad because you are getting too many riches off the wndot campaign"
"all these buttmad people fail to realize that in one thread ccp has already stated that hi sec incursions are under review because they generate too much isk.can't wait for that patch, the rage will be worse than the anom nerf over the summer."
"let them farm to their hearts content, just drop the payouts to around 25% of theit curent amount in hisec.make lowsec and nullsec incursions the place wheer the money is. risk should always = more isk and hisec incursions are no risk."
"make 0.0 guys more tears"
"mad? why would i be mad about that?================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"i would hazard a guess, it's because they are focusing on open gl, and carbon io; as well, they may not have the resources or programmers that specialize in that sort of thing. just a guess though.really, if it's partialy or entirely the latter; i would say find someone that is specialized in it. really, 2 guys is all they'd probably need to bring it up to directx11 by the end of the year. i would think anyway.really, i'm not the least bit experienced with it; but given that it is such a small part of software development, it shouldn't require a lot of manpower. figure a game like swtor can be developed in 4 years and released, with all that goes into that; it stands to reason that the percentage of development put into directx is small in comparison.like i said though, i don't know; i'm just making a marginally educated guess.i do think a lot of it depends on the 3d artists and related programming. obviously, the development period for software intended for directx 11; is benefiting from 3d artists and the like who are focused towards that goal. makes things easier when everything is designed for it right from the start.there may be a lot of issues with updating to directx 11, for a game devloped on directx 9 and earlier.here's hoping that it's not a whole lot of work, and ccp can get it updated by the end of the year; if they deside to start, (or have started), focusing resources on that goal.zubzubzubzubzubzubzubzub"
"well they do still have those dx10 models they have still done nothing with after showing them to us, what the hell happened there?"
"isn't that just hdr?zubzubzubzubzubzubzubzub"
"first, no thats not just hdr, they updated shaders on the trinity expansion and gave the engine a big push. also they are updating the shading on each ship with the project (v3) that will give better look and options for the ships like skins, corp logos etc. second where do you get that they focus on opengl, that would be awesome and mean that eve would one day be playable on a tablet like android.third, dirextx is nothing you just update , there is allot of testing needed and allot of rework of the engine to support a newer version. then they need to test it for several versions each time they release it. also the wine and cedega project will have issues adopting the direct 10/11 support so just dropping dirextx9 is not an valid option since that will be like showing the finger for non windows users.[url="
"well i wont go in detail trough all of ideas. for now i ll post general thoughts. eve sports. in the link bellow its explained a bit better."
"......... (my reaction as i read)your point with this thread is?"
"did you just suggest...achievements?get out.edit: riddles that you have to solve? they'd all be solved and searchable on google within a day of release. you underestimate the tenacity of eve players and the speed with which we spread information."
"sorry to say...i agree...partially... not entirely agiainst acheivements but still...gotta say not supporting.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"i'm completely against achievements. i think they've wrecked gaming. look at batman arkham asylum. you spend maybe 10 hours actually playing out the storyline, and another 40-50 trying to complete the achievements. they're an easy way out of good game design.this is especially bad in multiplayer games where people you are depending on suddenly drop what they're doing because they have a shot at some hard-to-get achievement.you want achievements in eve? certifications. level 5 skills. wallet balance goals. flying any paritcular ship you couldn't fly last week. winning pvp against the odds. you shouldn't need some arbitrary reward system to tell you how you're progressing or give you new goals. not in eve."
"i think achievements add a bit of humor....if not some sort of kudos to ones self....eve is a daunting game and has tendecy to crush ones heart and spirit in one fell swoop upon the \"squish\" noise of your pod being blown to atoms.achievments are not the devil you make them to be...they are simply that...achievements.hell floppie...killmails are worse than achievemnts. most people parade them around like some stupid falic prize to be pushed in peolpes faces.i'm just saying...its not that bad....it wont break the game or mess up mechanics....as for the rest of this proposal...i agree with your sentiments.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"oke good, good finally some discussion. well my point was exactly to bring up a discussion about these ideas, because i think those are some nice proposals that can add smth good to this game. i didnt go trough em in details so i wanted to see what other ppl think, so we could shape them up together.sport and tactical objective is actually what is my main focus and think that can be introduced quite easily and would give some more depth to this game.about achievements, i never ment smth like in other hello kitty games when u do it u get some shinny pop ups. hell no, its more like a personal satisfaction of solving riddles or being stubborn goin trough google and doing em as much as u can. the real achievement would be the items (relic) u get. it would add more content for ppl that get bored looking at the spin counter. why not in future those relics not be viable to show off in establishments. and yes some will get trough google looking up the solutions, but some believe me will actually try do em by emselves. it just adds some more content for everyone, doesnt need much skilllz. u d need to scan em and kill some **** inside. some of those actually d be difficult and u d need a minor fleet to defeat it. solo collector could pay mercenarries for help.and would add even more depth to the market, collectors would bargain for em and some would even kill for certain relics.relics wldnt be the only thing u get from those kind of missions, ppl would get some useful items too, so it would be another and let say quite interesting way to earn isk.about capital balance. well it is just an issue that bothers me as most of eve population i think. so just wanted to know what people think of what i proposed and maybe tweak it a bit."
"its on sisi.i just wished that there was a much bigger indicator that hte module is overheating like the entire cicrlce is popping out and the black areas between sections pulses into a fire red and black.dust 514's cpm 1 iron wolf saber eve mail me about dust 514 issues."
"i suggested something in reference to this idea before it was fully fleshed out in features and ideas to \"test the waters\" and get ideas/support for the idea before making the proposal here.the original posting can be found here:"
"just make it a freighter...no slots...no rigs...just a big fat hanger bay with the limitations you got.freighters (including jump freighters) can do fine with a modest fleet for defense or common sense.and you get my vote.jump drive capble? not sure....ill let others debate that.ps: only reason i'm open to the idea.....orca's are just not the best thing for 0.0 transportation and carriers are not the best either for mass transport of equipment....and the staggering number of battleships we field are insane. would be nice to summon up a fat assed freighter with fitted ships all the same. slots would make it too powerful...jump drive or lack thereof...remains to be seen...but even jump drive ships have dangers.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"i only suggested it have mid and low slots due to the fact that it wouldn't just be utilized for mass movement in fleet operations. it would also be utilized for moving across long stretches of space, and if cut off from a fleet, it would at least be able to defend itself long enough for fleet support to arrive. two to three mid/low slots with no rig slots wouldn't be game-breaking for this type of ship.and the purpose of it being tier 2 is to round out the role a little more, and create more immersion.with above listed slots, it wouldn't allow for a massive tank to be fit to it, or a large amount of ewar to be fitted to it with the limitations to powergrid and cpu that would definitely be in place.as for jump capable, i would go ahead and say no to that one. unless a tech 2 variant of said ship was eventually created.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"as a space trucker, i support this idea (as i did in features & ideas discussion). although, drake draconis brings up a good point. i propose the following:maximum locked targets: -5 so no number of signal amps would be able to allow them to lock a target, even on the 5-low slot variant.when i thought about these ships and proposed their per-level bonuses, i did so with the idea in mind that they would have these mid and low slots which is why i think they should be kept.also, the support tug per-level bonus of +0.6 warp stability per level was intended as part of the tech 2 variant and would, of course, either have to be dropped or re-implemented as a freighter per-level bonus. if the +0.6 warp strength were to be implemented, i would definitely take a significant amount out of their agility."
"i am a little confused as to why another transport ship of any kind is needed right now...but...whatever...more diversity can't hurt.+1"
"i absolutely love this idea.it would be kinda like a non combat high sec carrier.(an orca can not hold even a single battleship)currently at best using courier contracts with max skills you can put two fitted battleships in a freighter. most rigged fitted battleships when put in a courier package are over 400,000m3. to have a new freighter style ship big enough to hold 3-4 fitted battleships but in a ships only bay that can not hold normal cargo.it is a pain when moving across the galaxy to have to fly all the battleships with rigs that you do not want to lose. true you can always sell them and rebuy or take packaged ones with you, but having a ship that could carry multiple battleships through high sec would be really great."
"the orca is an industrial ship. it's designed to carry a pair of mining vessels and was never intended as a transport ship. its prerequisites are absurd for someone who just needs to move some fitted ships.i'd like to see a specialized freighter that could carry 1 million m3 of fitted ships. this would allow for a pair of battleships, or one battleship and a small fleet of support ships. it should not be able to eject ships, but could place them into ship maintenance arrays or unload them in stations."
"i spent hours last night moving ships around because my battleships were all over highsec in weird places. i still need to go get one more. if i could train my orca alt to fly a freighter like this, i probably never would have left them out there when i changed out for whatever cruiser i left the system in."
"and this is the way all ideas should be done (features to assembly hall)+1"
"i'm liking the positive feedback that this idea is getting, and would like to seek more support.i would also hope to get the attention of the csm and devs with this one.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"i blame the magic strapless super tight and supportive bra."
"/signed[b]cargo pilots unite!!!"
"i like the idea of the contract system, however not necessarily as replacement for the current bounty mechanics.as you pointed out current mechanics work like in the old wild west where death was obviously meaningfull, in eve it is not (why should you get the full bounty payout for killing someone in an empty clone? the bad guy does not care at all - he lost nothing). i would rather like to fix this first, make the bounty system eve-like. contracts could be added on top of that - would be a really nice addition.see my signature for a fixed, eve-like bounty system"
"your idea for the bounty payout is essentially the same as mine, but it's open to the following simple exploit:you put a 500m bounty on mei buy 12 drakes and platinum-insure themi kill me in those (unfitted) drakes with my alt or corpy, who consequently receives 60% of the value of each drake as rewardi receive the full insurance value of each drakei make a moderate profit and remove the 500m bounty on my head in about 15 minutes.you have completely wasted your money, given me a small profit, and done no more than briefly inconvience me.(my killboard looks like ass now, but whatever.)being able to specify who can collect a bounty is absolutely essential to stop friends/alts of the criminal essentially negating the bounty in this way. additionally, contracting a killright means that i can't \"hide\" in hi-sec and benefit from concord protection."
"alternatively, you cap the payout for a kill at 60% of the ship's nominal price less the platinum insurance value and leave it at that.since when did 'wanted dead or alive' posters specify that only certain people were allowed to collect?"
"i'm reminded of the opening scenes of \"the good, the bad and the ugly\" where clint eastwood and eli wallach are running a bounty scam..."
"this is actually a negative number for t1 ships.this is the problem: if you make the bounty high enough to be worth collected, then it's worth collecting with an alt. for bounties to have any meaning, you have to close the alt/friend loophole and restrict who can receive them."
"this is already covered in the details section ("
"no restrictions are needed.the single mandatory requirement is:damage done - insurance > payout"
"but that's simply incorrect. if i can \"scrape off\" a 500m bounty for the cost of only a few mill to myself, then why wouldn't i? that would be like sacrificing a sabre to hero-tackle a tech 3 cruiser, which any pvper would do in a heartbeat.i can cheaply and easily free myself from any real risk and i have the satisfaction of wasting a large sum of your money. who would be stupid enough to bother putting a bounty on me on those terms? only those ignorant of how the bounty system works - just like now.edit: i am strongly opposed to having bounty payments deducted from insurance. bounty payments should be a purely player transaction."
"when i talk about the plexxing i'm talking about occupancy plexxing not missions.make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"this seems good to me and a definitely an improved and interesting way to provide new pve content, but i would like to have such initiative to be function and gameplay driven. basicly keep the npc ships which serve neither of those purposes to a minimum. some fluff is fine to improve immersion, but the main drive the project should be to add to the actual gameplay and improve the pve aspects of the game.additional idea for attacking convoys/haulers would be to allow ransoming them instead of killing them and looting them. that option should be available only after all the escorts have been killed. you would get cash instead of the loot drop, if you choose to ransom. if you want to get fancy, allow dishonoring the ransom with reprecussions. one such thing might be losing the ability to ransom after a few times or other fitting sanctions. alternatively you can just despawn the hauler, make it invulnerable and have it warp away and disappear, if it was ransomed and not allow people to break the deal at all."
"me likey those ideas"
"supported."
"+1 qolde"
"is this also in favor of making eve more difficult all around as well?+1"
"+1, fantastic idea."
"as the topic says this is my idea to fix mining.first off asteroid belts shouldn't be little crescents that a couple of hulks and an orca can sit in the middle and macro mine. it should be a bit wider so miners have to navigate the field with the lesser value rocks on the outside. not all the rocks should be good to mine either. insert a few ores from mining missions in there as well as some of the rocks that you can't mine from other mission sites. also asteroids should have various valued ore not based off its name. an example of this would be that 2 rocks of veldspar are being mined, one will yield 20 units of regular veldspar as well as 2 units of concentrated veldspar, and 13 units of dense veldspar. the other will yield 3 units of regular veldspar, 10 units of concentrated veldspar and 40 units of dense veldspar, but without a survey scanner the miner couldn't tell which rock was better.this does a couple of things;1) it puts miners in the middle of the field and more difficult to warp out if in danger, but increased risk for increased reward. the safer areas are filled with lesser valued ore. 2) possibly the use of jet canning mining with more agile cruisers with orca support tractoring the cans in.3) increases asteroid scanner use to find the better rocks to mine, or for higher fleet efficiency a scout scan and tag rocks.planetary rings should became mine-able with maybe 4 'belts' to mine in around them depending on the size of the planet. they should also generally be smaller rocks, with the larger rock formations in place of the normal asteroid belts.i think this will help make mining more tactical and overall funner to do. pilots can still mine the old way, but they don't get the increased reward from doing a bit more work.cuss and discuss"
"if rocks didnt pop so quickly i would be all for this. but if i have t2 mining lazers and rocks are popping ever 2 to 3 cycles on my 6 hulk accounts i am going to kill a baby seal. this is why ice mining is really nice, they dont pop nearly as often so by focus firing on a couple of ice roids, i wont have to constantly fly around to get to them after i pop a couple in a small area."
"plenty of windows such as editing members / titles / even your bookmarks people and places screens.all these windows have data to the right but no horizontal scroll bar, and you have to keep making the window bigger to get to the data.please add horizontal scroll bars."
"shouldn't be a terribly hard feature to add to carbonui if it isn't already there. then it's just a matter of making the ui designers use it!"
"+1================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"just want to toss in this:just like a cyno can not be activated in a pos shield; self destruct should not be allowed to be activated and when entering will be cancelled in a pos force field.the main reason for this is unknown space. invaders successfully defeat an inhabitant only to watch as one of the main reasons for the attack is just self destructed over and over leaving nothing to be looted. a change like i said above would encourage more reasons to pew pew in unknown space."
"signedi was of the view loot should drop but reading on the matter and further thought has lead me to believe self destruct should destroy loot - but also insurance should be voided. if i called my insurance company and said i'd blown up my car they would tell me too **** off.as for killmails. these should defiantly be generated.... sd is used to prevent loss mails and this is flawed."
"1.0"
"can you give an example please?"
"i'm presuming he means when you move out, and cannot take your ships with you. this could be overcome by destroying it with an alt, and not posting the kms. but it's boring.no insurance payout for self destructing ships if they have aggression? would seem to solve that issue.[center]\"i don't troll, i just give overly blunt responses that annoy people who are wrong but don't want to admit it. it's not my fault that people have sensitive feelings\" -mxzf[/center]"
"cloak means cloak.not probe me to find me"
"how is doing nothing griefing?"
"funny, i never noticed that bit. even using cloakig to gather intel and spy doesn't qualify as griefing; it's just proper use of game mechanics.zubzubzubzubzubzubzubzub"
"the fact is that ccp loses allot of subscriptions because of that...it doesn't matter you take a system and have the sov of it, some ships can enter it and stays cloaked for days while you are unable to do anything ( fighting back, mining, rating anything ).. while this is happening all industrial players stop playing... they wont put their hulks in the field to get ganked... so the game become boring for them, and as this happens frequently and there is nothing that can be done, they stop playing.... the price of minerals rise... the price of all ships and modules rise... it get more difficult to replace a ship.... and then we get less pew pew... this way cooling down the game, reducing its effective fun...about the sand box, i'm not a carebeer, i lived on wh-space, i took down some pos and territories, i mined on hi-sec null-sec and low-sec, i did all forms of pi exploration (wh, hi-sec processing, null-sec, low sec) i already participated on roamings on low-sec, also cloaked roaming. also i can fly all sorts of cloaked ships including industrial and t3... also i usually do recon operations and scout operations probing the way, for known space navigation and wormhole navigation... also i had produced for t1, t2, t3, and capital market. so, everyone have a different experience playing eve, and my fun in this game is to explore all aspects of the game. what i can say is that the game is not only pvp, it needs an industrial base, and everyone have its role, this is a sandbox.so i'm just saying, a way to fight cloaked ships is good not to me nor to you, but to the game! new pos system new sov system"
"how is sitting cloaked in a system full of people to kill griefing.it seems like a good way to shut down a alliance to me to hamper your efforts and isk making time.its your own fault that they are there in the first place with your failed system security and if your too scared to go about your normal buiss while they are there then whos fault is that.no no buff to nullsec carebears"
"afk cloaking and hot drops give so little risk to the attacker for how effective it is. it needs a nerf.i honestly think poco based sov is a good idea"
"fix'd================ stop the evemail spam!"
"there is no point in cloaked ships if they can be scanned down.either advocate for the removal of cloaks entirely, or stop whining."
"ccp will lose a lot of subscriptions as well as credibility if they implement any of your horrible ideas on cloaking."
"+1 i absolutely agree with the direction this conversation is taking. i am completely in favor of more ships and i agree; ccp didn't model every possible variation of every t3 ship, they just made the handful of components.one of the things that i think s"
"i hesitate to suggest all penalties are bad without a rebalance of hmls. they are already too powerfull imo.javelin hams and rockets are simply not used, would be nice for closerange missiles to get some nice longrange to compete better with hmls and other wepon systems"
"so wanted to get feedback and ideas on future direction of wh's to see if i am alone in my thoughts and to see if a future expansion would change more than just nullsec.1. is there enough wh systems? if not what class needs more?are they under or overpopulated?2. are pos mechanics enabling to many people to just clean out weak systems and not bother with harder targets?3. should access and roles be reworked? (doubttfull i will be alone on that one)4. should moons be mineable for goo?....(waits for the hate from that)5. should sleeper sites and other sites spawn rates be raised to foster larger corp/alliance growth.6. should site isk/rewards be lowered or raised?7. do wh pvp mechanics need an overhaul? (many things come to mind here, need to pop those carebears that jump back to hs)8.it was stated by ccp long ago that wh's were not meant for long term habitation, since they lost that bet should they now look at making them more viable for larger numbers to encourage larger scale wh system warfare and not just the russians taking out weak systems for fun.9. are wh masses and spawn times what they should be?10. do you think i am pissing in the wind here to think ccp cares about wh dwellers and our corps/alliances?edit: 11. how are the pi changes affecting your corp? are you too small that it is taking weeks just to blow up interbus? should they just remove interbus in wh's all together?/prods the public to share their thoughts and troll me back to jita with all my tasty loots.posting on an alt as i do not want my views to reflect that of my alliance as a whole and i hope many alliances will step forward. and i hope those hunters that stalk us also step forward with their thoughts."
"if anything is to be added in terms of more systems for wh space i would say high class more difficult wh's. c7, c8 and c9...maybe even c10. moongoo should stay in 0 sec in my opinion. if moongoo were to exist in wh's it would make them to money rich...moreso then they are now. if moongoo is to come it should be the low value stuff. if we are to make sleeper sites more difficult i would say remove this idiotic spawn based on what ship is killed and put it on a random timer. add more ships...make it require more people. make escalations more random in terms of numbers and what shows up. ccp invented pve dreads by creating escalations.pvp mechanics don't need an overhaul in wh space but wh games are irritating...bouncing in and out of wh's to avoid death...annoying...ice should come to wh space. no reason for it not to at this point. argue all you want about it making it too easy to live permanantly in wh space...it already is and isn't going to change."
"1. i can't really say.2. pos mechanics are seriously broken anyway, but that's partly a topic for part 3.3. yes! the original pos mechanics were never meant for corps/alliances to share towers, but that is a necessary part of wh life (staging towers, joint ops, etal).4. no. that'd provide too much incentive for 0.0 sovholders to invade w-space en masse.5. no. the problem is that most corps and alliances refuse to farm their w-space statics for sites. beats me as to why. one idea would be to give c1s and c3s a second static (always w-space) in the same vein as c2 space.6. we're doing quite nicely right now, have you looked at nanoribbon prices lately? one thing that'd be nice is to have some other consumer of sleeper salvage than t3 ship production.7. if wh pvp mechanics were to be adjusted, it'd be hs holes that'd get the changes, as you mentioned. w-space -> non hs is fine.8. no. wh warfare is the last place where small gangs still matter. keep the large-scale warfare in k-space, please.9. c2s and up are not bad, but c1 wormholes are too difficult to close safely without the hic trick. (they also take a while to pop, which is rather aggravating, especially considering that they still pose a significant security threat with the rise of t3/logi doctrines.) also: hulks/covetors don't fit into c1s, but that's a problem with the covetor hull, not c1 whs.11. we've already done all our interbus-popping, and it is a bit of a pain, but better than offline tower disposal. besides, this is the only time we ever have to do it."
"1. is there enough wh systems? if not what class needs more?are they under or overpopulated?most systems seem to have pos's in them but are generally low on player activity. there needs to be more incentive for people to log their wormhole chars aside from the daily pi rounds. maybe have c4 - c6 sites spawn a small number of \"easier\" anomalies in addition to their regular more difficult ones ?2. are pos mechanics enabling to many people to just clean out weak systems and not bother with harder targets?dont understand the question.3. should access and roles be reworked? (doubttfull i will be alone on that one)hell yes.4. should moons be mineable for goo?....(waits for the hate from that)no i like my wh to be nullsec powerbloc free.5. should sleeper sites and other sites spawn rates be raised to foster larger corp/alliance growth.i'd love it, but i don't see a real reason to as u can just cycle your static wh.6. should site isk/rewards be lowered or raised?no. we need more t3 hulls /subsystems requiring differnent materials so sleeper salvage prices go up.7. do wh pvp mechanics need an overhaul? (many things come to mind here, need to pop those carebears that jump back to hs)i like it the way it is.8.it was stated by ccp long ago that wh's were not meant for long term habitation, since they lost that bet should they now look at making them more viable for larger numbers to encourage larger scale wh system warfare and not just the russians taking out weak systems for fun.i live in w-space for the small scale encounters, c5's and c6's already allow for \"larger\" scale fights i don't really see a need for anything bigger ?9. are wh masses and spawn times what they should be?seem fine to me. i would like more \"random\" wormholes to occur , right now u see \"non-static\" wormholes occur every so often but always the same \"type\" it would add some dynamics if non-statics could end up anywhere, instead of what u see occuring now.10. do you think i am pissing in the wind here to think ccp cares about wh dwellers and our corps/alliances?ccp cares as much for us as any other paying subscriber, the problem is we make up only 5% of the playerbase. this needs to improve.11. how are the pi changes affecting your corp? are you too small that it is taking weeks just to blow up interbus? should they just remove interbus in wh's all together?we got rid of them within a week. it was a pain in the arse and hella boring, but 0% tax is nice."
"would be nice for us small scale alliances to be able to carve out a piece of 0.0 without having to suck up to the power blocks. funny thing is who knows when some would come around to find they don't have a pos in a certain system anymore because they were too lazy to watch it.i really would like this change."
"yeah, and when they do find that, which will likley be whenever a logistics guy comes to empty a silo or something, you'll get 50 titans dropped on you and lose everything.well, that or when dotlan says sov has dropped. either way, you'll be stamped out in no time at all."
"that is kind of the entire point of there being a timer.(going off on a tangent here, i'd love it if the pos timers worked the same way as outposts or pocos, so you wouldn't have to deal with all the alt nonsense at all.)"
"stop posting \"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" - abrazzar"
"could you he more specific to the topic or is this one of those 'i'm a goon so look at me!' posts?"
"allow me?your idea is bad. don't post any more."
"and the tears of those who rely on automated systems flow already.are you going to give a real reply or continue to herp derp it?"
"as it exists currently, the role of dreadnoughts is to hammer stationary targets and capital ships into oblivion. the heavy guns and launchers that fit on dreadnoughts along with the siege modules have solidified their intended use as pos bashers. i respect this role, however i do find it artificially restrictive. i would like to see these vessels useful for more than just as a 1.5 billion isk battering ram.i would like to propose a few changes be made to make dreadnoughts viable for fleet engagements and pve.add high slots to the dreadnoughts. right now dreads have at the most 5 high slots. despite their size and cost, they cannot fit as many high slot modules as battleships or destroyers (8). dreads should have at least 8 slots, and i would argue more.raise number of turret and launcher hardpoints. currently, the most any dreadnought can fit is 4 weapon modules. the amarr and gallente dreads can only fit 3. this restriction is in place to keep the number of very big weapons that can be equipped under control, but i suggest that this is the wrong way of achieving that end. control over how many ultra heavy weapons can be fitted should come from the cpu and powergrid usage (see below), not from arbitration.raise the cpu demand of extra large turrets and citadel missile launchers. as stated above, the cpu requirements on extra large weapon systems is quite low. up to this point, cpu usage has been a formality when it comes to dreadnoughts, as none of them is capable of fitting more guns than the cpu can handle. raising the cpu demand for these modules will give ccp a more organic way to control how many can be fitted at a given time. proportional boost to the dreadnoughts' cpu. as i've stated in the two previous bullet points, the true bottleneck of the ships' capabilities is the cpu. dreads have a massive powergrid, but have in some cases less cpu than battleships. raising the cpu of dreadnoughts will allow the cpu demand of the extra large weapons to grow; this would maintain the destructive potential of siege fitted dreads while allowing for alternative fitting schemes.boost the scan resolution. this is almost a side issue, but i would like to submit this suggestion nonetheless. there is no reason why a 1.5 billion isk ship capable of holding 7 different targets simultaneously should have a sub par sensor system.these changes would achieve the following: more high slots would give a dread pilot the option of equipping more logistical modules (remote repair, energy transfer arrays, energy destabilizers, scan probe launchers, tractor beams, etc.). right now, there is only one viable way to use the high slots in any of the dreads (maximum number of extra large weapons + siege module). more hardpoints would give the flexibility to load batteries of smaller weapon modules instead of a few gigantic ones. changes in the cpu demand of extra large weapon systems would maintain the current power balance and prevent too many of them being loaded on without significant tradeoffs being made. the boost to the ships' cpu will be proportional to the increase in demand, which means that none of the dreadnoughts in the game currently will need to change their fits. the added versatility would cause an increase in dreadnoughts deployed in fleet operations, and consequently an increase in dread kills. they would become lumbering strategic elements, and would define the theater and the fleets they were in. currently, the carrier is the only capital class fleet combat vessel. changing the dreadnoughts in the ways i've suggested will make them an alternative capital class ship for fleet operations.i am eager to hear your feedback."
"you are aware that ccp took away the ability for dreadnoughts to field drones in a bid to limit their versatility and force them to rely on smaller ships for support... right?"
"that is exactly what their intended role was supposed to be. however supercarriers and titans are (still) simply superior in every aspect at this role. dreads would be much more useful and used if they had some unique ability which couldn't be replaced by supercaps."
"and there was teh important word in there.. pve dreadnaughts. what a terribad thought."
"they should only make them better at what they're supposed to do. killing pos stuff and other caps."
"alas, the dreadnaught is changing away from what you're looking for, so i doubt it will reverse course now.perhaps another capital class ship might emerge that would fill a role very different from the orbital-bombarding dreadnaughts :) qolde"
"i think, dreads not need + weapon slot, just need + damage bonus in siege mode.and maybe other solution against sc-s : +1 high slot and + one bonus in siege mode increase energy pulse weapon range (smartbomb) 15 or 20%/dread lvl"
"dreads were introduced as structure bashing ships. there is no good reason to change that. \"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" - abrazzar"
"i'd like to see the dreadnaught's tracking and accuracy go up a little so that it would be a viable tactic to jump them into a fight and let them shoot at battleships.i honestly think poco based sov is a good idea"
"ccp wont do that, because they dont want to create pve dreads. thats was why they nerfed moros drone damages."
"this thread has changed to addressing possible solutions to the issue- the prevalence of tracking titans in the game- which in itself is only a symptom of several root causes, mainly:- the proliferation of massive numbers of sub capital fleets (for the most part, sub capitals in this discussion pertain to battleship dps).- the unwillingness of alliances to risk supercaps for whatever reason. - the lack of skilled supercap pilots compared to capital ready pilots.- the lack of dynamic and diverse ship types and tactics, or ability to add a rock to the rock-paper-scissors philosophy.the changes in crucible were a good start, however the changes reinforced the limited use of specific ships for specific reasons.1. dreads do not have the tracking/exp velocity in order to hit moving capital ships effectively, and do not have a significant tank to counter supercarriers effectively.2. carriers have shifted to a complete logistical role, and are glorified haulers.3. the futility of capitals against supers has led to the use of subcapital fleets where even a capital fleet would be more effective.so as a result of supercapital fleets once again taking the stage, supercapital alliances have adapted to engage these with highly effective \"tracking titans.\"how do we stop this without nerfing that which has already been nerfed? the ship itself is not a problem, nor are the mods. it's not imbalanced. but it still has that sort of effect.so to fix this, there needs to be a way to make tracking titans unwise to field. under capital dps, a tracking titan will fall much faster as a lot of its tank is used to hit smaller targets. how can we use this problem to encourage capital warfare?for the purpose of discussion, the following classes are represented:supcapitals: battleships, or battleship heavy fleet composition with typical logistic and light supportcapitals: dreads and battle/triage fitted carrierssupercapitals: titans, supercarriers.original post:so... it should at least be addressed on here, and not in passing comments. the concept of \"tracking titans\" (for those that don't know, sacrificing tank for tracking mods to the point in which the titan can essentially alpha any subcapital ship).this became much more common once the dd was nerfed to affect only capitals. proposal as such, do not completely prevent the ability to hit subcaps as that only blocks the symptom and not the problem, but to nerf the effectiveness either in the rad/sec value or in its ability to hit objects with a subcap size sig radius.examples:link 1firsthand account- dictor falls to titan.oh look a video.mael killi could point out more and more examples. frigates, ceptors, dictors. all able to be blapped by titans.there are several issues regarding this.1) yaay's analysis (and there are good responses) regarding tracking itself. 2) it is now not uncommon to see 50, 60... even 70+ titans dropped on a fleet. it is no secret that the proliferation of supercapitals has outgrown what ccp projected. it may be time to consider mass limitations for cyno beacons or even mobile cyno beacon jammers. i understand it opens up many other issues but it's worth looking at.i feel this is an urgent issue. ccp is already discussing destructible stations. what would be the point of owning a station if a fleet of supers can drop it in a matter of minutes?"
"what really needs to be done is make them easier to kill and harder to keep alive. my original suggestion still stands on this...titans do not warp away on log out. the titan stays on the field wherever it was when the pilot logged out of the game. plain as day...easy target if not protected by a pos. this makes the locations of every titan in the game obvious. other alliances then can form up and destroy them. wars will be started solely for this reason. if you want a titan then your alliance or corp will need to help you defend it and keep it alive, even when you aren't online. titans would be used less often and probably used more for defense in the deepest parts of alliance territory."
"i used to think this, however it opens all sorts of problems.with the new aggro mechanics though logging out isnt as great a tactic, but it shouldnt be so easy to log out with no aggression. but that brings in issues about dcs etc.. its a tricksy problem.how about, make the tracking on xl guns slightly better but make them so that tracking enhancers/comuters and remote tracking enhancers just dont work on them? this should potentially mean a titan can shoot a subcap that is stopped, a very slow moving bs or a fast (for caps) moving capital.possibly make their scan res worse so it takes a loooong time to lock a subcap too?no one wants supers nerfed out of use, but no amount of titans on the field should be able to beat a lrag efleet of subcaps unless they have a good support fleet."
"the issue with tracking titans is in numbers, actually. a single tracking titan as you described is actually not a threat to a subcapital ship, as pulling sufficient angular for sigres to kick in and reduce the titan's volley to a manageable level is not hard. the problem occurs when you have dozens of them on the field, which means somebody is going to have 0 or near-0 angular to you and is going to be able to blap you. increasing the sigres (or decreasing the tracking) of capital turrets isn't going to fix this, by the way."
"[quote=rico minali]how about, make the tracking on xl guns slightly better but make them so that tracking enhancers/comuters and remote tracking enhancers just dont work on them? this should potentially mean a titan can shoot a subcap that is stopped, a very slow moving bs or a fast (for caps) moving capital.[quote]remote tracking was removed with crucible.i have not tested this, but i believe tds as part of ewar will not work against titans either due ti their ew immunity.the issue isn't the titan you're orbiting. it can't track you usually. the problem is the other titan 50km away can."
"i'll tell you the fix for proliferation of supers, make them ridiculously immensely expensive to manufacture."
"that was ccp's original prediction. that they would be so expensive that there would only be 3-4 of them in the game.oops."
"exactly. there are only two ways that i see of tackling this issue: re-engineer the turret damage formula so that signature resolution is applied separately from tracking. this would be an extremely invasive change to core eve combat mechanics, and would require a full expansion cycle (or more!) to test on singularity before going live. fix the proliferation of supercaps, somehow. that way people wouldn't be dropping bunches of titans on your head."
"posting in a hobo driven \"nerf the super rich\" thread."
"this guys idea is awesome and spot on!"
"glad at least someone thinks it is....oh wai..."
"i would love to be able to repeat the cosmos missions. i only farmed them for the faction boost, but some of the rewards were pretty good. especially the level 4 ones.i would like to see a change to the storyline modules though. the specs are nice as they favor lower fitting requiremnts rather than higher stats but most of them are bpc's which require rare components to make. the modules are just not good enough to justify the added cost of those rare components. either remove the rare components from the manufacturing requirments or just give the components as a reward rather than bpc's. some of those components i would definitely keep and use if i got them or would build them if they just needed normal minerals. but they are not worth the effort to hunt down the extra components and manufacture them, they are just not that good. maybe if the bpc's could make 8-10 runs so i could sell the modules and make a little extra profit."
"honestly, i don't care if it gets any new shinies by going to dx 10 or 11... i just want it so i can use my amd dual graphics (which doesn't work on dx9)."
"what? sli and crossfire works in dx9 if you are wondering.[url="
"correct, but amd dual graphics (which is part of the a series apu's) does not."
"sprot/tactics - i'm just gonna obviously say...no way no how. missions/plex's/incurions accomplish this just fine.achievements - no....you got it wrnog.... the acheivments i'm speaking of should be something that people actually consider an acheivment.such as your first kill...or pod kill.first ship purchase of a class... first titan kill.first succesfull solo level 4 mission run..stuff that new pilots actually grin about for a while....marking time and date.stuff that can be posted with some ammount of pride wihtout the bull#### that accompanies things.may not mean much to people...but to make it a permanate award or some such.floppie has a valid point...acheivments could make the game worse as far as surface looks/value.eve online is a hard edged game....solution...make it mean something that everyone can respect/agree on.the certficate system is a flippnig insult/joke...only use for those ceo's who want to point newbs in the right direction...and everyone has a different twist on that....they dont even have certs for obvious niches which i won't get into at this point.all to easily people would post api's and that alone means more than a bunch of certs.capital balance - do not speak of things or dare propose ideas on a subject you do not have any knowledge or understanding of...thats gonna get you roasted faster than a slab of meat.welcome to assembly hall. ================ stop the evemail spam!"
"well it has nothing to do like the achievements u mentioned. so i deleted the word achievement from the main post, because i see people dont get it. i already mentioned u dont get any popus or any kind of certificates that shows that u did it on a certain date so u can link it around. what i ment about achievement its more of a personal satisfaction and about the item (relic) u got which u can collect or sell. those relics i could compare it like a drop of a rare officer module. that module u can also show off or sell. these exploration missions appart from relics would yield some useful module too, why not drop also officer modules. would be lot longer farm but let say some officer modules d be guaranteed.in other words its exploration missions or \"treasure hunting\"so i ll just delte the word achievement, but its the same thing i am speaking about. from now on let just call it \"exploration mission\".and about capital balance i do understand few things here and there, dont u worry :dddanother thing i noticed is that there is no slaping for my first 2 proposals sports and strategical targets. i want to see what are people thinking about it,"
"you forgot first solo t2 ship kill"
"3 words...what...the...****..."
"eve sports: this made me lol. if you want to run big frig brawls, just do it. there's no need for ccp to be involved at all.strategic targets: this would do nothing but make the strong alliances stronger, that's it. it's definitely not something needed.exploration missions: these are called expeditions, all you're suggesting is to add in a worthless treasure that doesn't do anything (meaning it'd be worth about 100 isk and would mean nothing at all)capital balance: as drake said, don't try to comment on stuff when you really know nothing whatsoever about the topic."
"sounds awesome.would be even more awesome if the ships in the bay had a chance to fall out as loot when the transport explodes."
"i, personally, have no qualms with this idea. imagine the chaos that would ensue."
"that was part of my original concept for it and i don't see why it shouldn't carry on to the proposal here. not just the chaos domu. imagine the tears.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"pretty good idea, really no downsides if they make the bay \"un-ejectable\". no slots are needed really, just make it a brother of the freighter."
"this is a great idea as long as ^^ you cannot eject ships.+1"
"seems a sensible well thought out idea, god knows those are rare enough here so i'll support it+ 1"
"you'd think with force-field bras we could show more with the same level of support. even so, there would still be movement."
"sadly, i would have to demand that only gallente toons get see through bras... being keen on showing skin as opposed to amarr who believe it a sin.caldari would be the only race that would have pimps as they could afford it.minmatar just have plain sex slaves.amarr chicks would just have to cover up or repent!"
"i like where this is going...\"force field bra's\"...nice!won't happen...but one can dream."
"+1....confirming that afk / pos / unprobable boosting is just wrong. give us a chance to fight back or turn the tide of battle by taking out the booster."
"well, again. you cant exploit it this way. to exploit it you will use empty, platinum insured t1 ships. since the insurance is subtracted from the payout you won't be able to reduce your bounty significantly. you will loose lots of money to get rid of the bounty. (if you do it its fine actually, it still hurts the bad guy at the end of the day... )if you don't exploit (normal case), insurance subtraction does not matter at all since your ship fitting is in the calculation. it is so insignificant that it doesn't matter. and as soon you go expensive (those are the interesting scenarious for bounty hunters), platinium payouts decrease even more (faction ships, t2, t3).someone added samples to the discussion. take a look at those."
"thanks for the support so far!"
"scan sites, eliminate 100% of belt rat bots.also force mining bots to reset / rescan all the time.it's a win-win imho.+1"
"+1this really needs a look at. what are we still doing with a game mechanic that should have been changed when capitals was introduced??if some ideas are needed, make a new emp module that fries the circuits of the ship and cancels the self destruct. modu"
"which runs into the problem of - you get aggressed in a ship/pod, away from a gate, the attacker decides to just hold you there in place for an hour or two. self-destruction is a legitimate way of saying \"screw you, i'm not going to play your game\". now, if you want to make it that you can't self destruct if you have an active outbound 15-minute aggression timer, then maybe. but i would put the timer at more like 5-minutes before you can start the self-destruct timer, with the larger ships having timers up to 5-7 minutes long. which would definitively end combat, at most, 10-12 minutes after the victim decides to \"check out\"."
"than make the pod an exception. so yea, if you are in a ship they can hold you until you eject, or shot you. but in pod, you can self destruct as normal. problem solved."
"personally i'd rather not just be held in space until i eject from my ship because my would-be-killer wants a new t3 extending timers to a sensible length, fine. getting rid of them completely is just asking for it to be abused. although i do want a new t3...[center]\"i don't troll, i just give overly blunt responses that annoy people who are wrong but don't want to admit it. it's not my fault that people have sensitive feelings\" -mxzf[/center]"
"if you're self destructing and you're aggressed, produce killmail. if the self destruct mechanism is activated when your ship goes pop (be it through the self destruct timer or the other guy shooting you dead), no insurance payout.fight it out like a man or get pussywhipped like the pussy you are."
"ship marooned without probes due to crashing accident or enemy trickery comes to mind.not sure that kind of situation represents a \"very real effect\" compared to the much more common use of this mechanic in wormspace - i.e. torching one's own hardware to keep one's lossboard clean when one is losing a battle. generation of mails only for sd while under 15min combat timer seems reasonable to me."
"i'm sorry but holding someone in place would amount to harassment. this is against the eula and therefore although irritating whilst occurring, would result in a possible ban.this should be enough to stop people from holding people for ever."
"lol@ pl calling it \"grief.\"self destruct is intended to deny you loot and km. if you're mad, it's working as intended."
"oh, really?"
"goose99, repeating himself over and over since 2010.please, for the love of chribba, try coming up with a coherent argument for or against this proposal. then post it. then apply this strategy to every single other thread you ever post in.[center]\"i don't troll, i just give overly blunt responses that annoy people who are wrong but don't want to admit it. it's not my fault that people have sensitive feelings\" -mxzf[/center]"
"the idea of probing a cloaked ship kind of defeats the purpose of a cloak. i do think there needs to be a counter to the cloaked system setters, but i don't think ccp should break it like that. maybe something to the effect of while active, the cloaked ship won't regenerate cap, and the cloak it self takes 2% of your max cap every 60 seconds. this will give 50 minutes of cloaked time if you cloak with 100% cap. 50 minutes is more then enough time to find a noob in a hulk, and stop the annoyance of people that cloak, warp to a safe, align to nothing, and go to bed. to the whole loosing players thing, there's 500 systems in this game, and 1,000's of ways to play. get the f*** over it!"
"no.read the 5 million threads before this one as to why not."
"i'm going to copy/paste this from the previous thread:here's what'll happen:the cloakers will whine about how nullsec is safe, and how afk cloaking is a counter to that.then wormholers will come in and whine about how it breaks wormholes.then they'll suggest either no local, delayed local or removing cloaked ships from local.then i'll point out how that completely breaks the risk/reward ratio of current nullsec.then some arguing back and forth'll ensue, with lots of namecalling.then, nothing will come of it.there, i just saved you maggots 15 pages of drivel."
"this is where you go wrong.what kind of risk involved is there now? virtually none. that is why we have an alt- and bot infestation well above any past proportions. it's also why we have less actors in 0.0 politics and more useless fronts (whole corporations or alliances devoted to seed spies, hold isk-alts and usurp newer or more casual players for tax) than ever. it's the ease of controlling it thanks to poor mechanics - and with this thread the op suggest we give that passive afk-empire gameplay more tools. i understand it's a paradox that afk-cloakers counteract afk-empires, but that's how the cookie crumbles. the best way to deal with afk-cloakers is to nerf afk-empires, and encourage griefing.when was the last time you took a loss in an anomaly or static, from invading skirmishers? that has never happened, you say?! do you think the reason for that is that you are truly so awesome, or because there is simply such little risk involved?don't presume that 0.0 lack rewards, just because the vast majority of those rewards go toward rmt or stockpiling supers instead of grunt populace."
"ok in regards to the post by profundus fossura,i think that you need to clarify on your positiondo you feel that it is not possible for ccp to create such a system that is in balance with the existing ship balancesor do you have something against the idea in its current format?because basically after reading your post several times i can only come to the idea that you are one of those guys who fears change or opportunity.balance has been my sticking point from the beginning of this post, so any system must have a balance mechanic to it so that the more you make a ship excel in a certain area there are negative elements that crop up in counter to it.things like making a ship really fast would make it more fragile, strengthening targeting systems would increase signature and reduce cap recharge stuff like that.my biggest point is that i would like any system to be on even footing with existing ships. so you can create ships which are compairable to existing ships. by no means do i support any system ment to allow super shipsi think that so long as the contracting shows the base stats of the ship being contracted it should be alright to use the existing contractsbut as far as the scamming thing, i can't imagine that many scammers would be willing to invest billions of isk to create a ship to try and sell for the sole purpose of scamming people.as far as the market implications i would say that leaving it tangled would be ok. because it basically means people would have to figure out how and where to market their ships.you might be able to make a unique ship but then you have to market it and distribute it. this further makes the existing ships possibly more attractive because they are much more readily available.in regards to the market things should be stacked in the favor of the existing established ships.on top of that if ccp see's a ship design that they like they can make minor changes and have one of the existing npc corps either purchase the design from the creator, or even pirate said design into future released ships"
"i agree that the javelin rockets, hams, and torps need their ship velocity penalties removed. with turret based \"long range\" ammo such as scorch and barrage you sacrifice tracking for increased range, which generally this tracking penalty is offset because of the nature of turrets being able to track better the farther away the target is... so not much of a penalty there. given the nature of the \"close range\" missile launchers, they have poor explosion velocity/radius (they fixed rockets...after how many years of people asking?) and don't even benefit from one of the skills to increase one of these. i can load scorch and offset my tracking penalty with my level 5 tracking skill and use range to get better hits, whilst close range missiles don't even have these two options to migitate any penalties."
"confirming that a navy baddon would be epic....+1are you saying that the faction navy doesn't use / have tier 3 ships? come on, this makes sense and you know it.they should introduce navy tier 1 & 2 bc before the tier 3 though... as the balancing issue still needs to be addressed."
"you guys mean like the nightmare and machariel and bhaalgorn and vindicator?those ships already fill those roles.a t2, tier 3 battleship not limited to a single role like the existing ones, otoh..."
"are there enough wh systems? i really could not say. i certianly have seen an awful lot of populated systems in my sphere of experience. i wonder if that means that there needs to be more. if pressed for an answer, i would say that there should be more w-space systems.should moons be mineable for goo? i'm torn. i want the logic to be consistent, but i also want to keep big alliances and corporations out of w-space. if moon goo means i can expect a flood of russians every few days, i'll gladly pass.sleeper sites and other site spawn rates? seems about right. one idea would be to have the occasional site spawn from the adjacent class. for instance, if you live in a c2 wh, you could get a c3 plex every now and then (and visa versa). this would give the occasional big challenge (or slaughter if you get a spawn from a lower class). the rate seems about okay. site isk/rewards be lowered or raised? i'm happy with things the way they are. it seems about right. i proposed that sleeper structures drop things some time ago, and i think this could be a way to milk a little more juice out of a site, but for the most part, i think it is a balance.\"it was stated by ccp long ago that wh's were not meant for long term habitation\". i do not care what they intended. they should get used to us living here.are wh masses and spawn times what they should be? i never thought too much about this until you ask,but i did think that the occasional super wormhole could open up with an immense mass allowance. that would be an occasional wild card that could be fun.how are the pi changes affecting your corp? i totally stopped doing any pi whatsoever. which is sad, because i enjoyed managing it before their changes."
"only twice, and you have to plan it ahead to not end up on the wrong side of wh - so no - its not bad mechanic, its actually beeter than normal gates in many waysi guess, since they plan on making null more self-sufficent, they could make wh too, but they will not probably - as they (ccp) said long ago - wh are not for long time living in them...1. yes, its enough2. needs total overhaul3. same as for pos4. yes and no - i dont want normal moon goo in wh. i would like to see some new type of material from it, that would require player interaction (something in terms of pi) and destructible by small sized gang - material in turn could be used to produce new types of t3's5. would love to get more sites in our system, but that works against main idea of wh. still, i'm all for it.6. if more sites, than should be lowered.7. no8. if they finally decided that wh's are used like the players wanted them and started working on making them more habitable, i'm all in.9 - yes and yes10 i hope not :)11. its okread and support: don't mess with our wh's what is your stance on wh stuff?"
"some solid responses so far and keep em coming. most people seem to be fairly happy but with wanting minor changes.a few changes i would like to see are site spawn rates dependent on your inhabiting numbers, so if your a small corp of a few in a c1 you won't have unlimited sites to farm but if you have a a medium size in a c2 or 3 you will have a constant spawn enough to farm. or am i wrong and should the spawn rates be the same to thus force people to farm and explore statics.someone made the suggestion that you should get random anomalies from other class wh's, a great idea to test people with a bit harder content.perhaps your right moon goo may be going to far and then forcing major blobs into habitation of holes that i think are already over populated with 5-20man corps. i also like the idea that the other salvage becomes useful as at current only blue loot and ribbons matter.i guess i made this post because i do feel there is not enough holes (definitely not enough empty holes to entice more people to search for new homes) and i see a lot of silent habitation from people that only do pi and leave all else to waste. and i wondered why many more people are not interested in living in them and the barriers that do stop them for taking that leap."
"there are definitely enough wormhole systems. many, many wormhole systems lie empty, and the vast majority of settled systems are occupied by only a handful of pilots. there is room to spare currently, and more people should move in !wormspace economics currently work well to support both casual isk-making and hardcore carebear lifestyles for dwellers therein. moons should not be minable for goo - currently to make isk in wormspace one must venture outside the pos and risk getting shot; moongoo mining would eliminate that.pos mechanics are dreadfully in need of an overhaul, especially in the area of roles granularity. not sure if that's what you meant by pos mechanics."
"i like what kwashi put down, and doubling up the need for pos/corp roles/titles rework > granularity (i.e. - finer control).edit to add: yeah, no moon mining - logic be damn'd! :)"
"1. is there enough wh systems? if not what class needs more?are they under or overpopulated?there are plenty....mechanics need a reworked but thats about it.*ref: various mapping programs*2. are pos mechanics enabling to many people to just clean out weak systems and not bother with harder targets?no.... pos mechancis suck ass. people just are lazy and dont give a #### as a result.3. should access and roles be reworked? (doubttfull i will be alone on that one)#### yes.4. should moons be mineable for goo?....(waits for the hate from that)#### no.5. should sleeper sites and other sites spawn rates be raised to foster larger corp/alliance growth.don't think so..plenty of money to be had..just a matter of mechanics.6. should site isk/rewards be lowered or raised?neither.7. do wh pvp mechanics need an overhaul? (many things come to mind here, need to pop those carebears that jump back to hs)wut? seriously? it's 0.0...what the hell mechanics are you talking about? wh's? they are fine..works as intended.8.it was stated by ccp long ago that wh's were not meant for long term habitation, since they lost that bet should they now look at making them more viable for larger numbers to encourage larger scale wh system warfare and not just the russians taking out weak systems for fun.wrong.... ccp made it difficult for longer term living....they didn't say no one wouldn't do it. its much like living in the wilderness. some things just cant be had or gathered without extra work.9. are wh masses and spawn times what they should be?yes.10. do you think i am pissing in the wind here to think ccp cares about wh dwellers and our corps/alliances?they care...but people keep comnig up with stupid ideas.edit: 11. how are the pi changes affecting your corp? are you too small that it is taking weeks just to blow up interbus?as far as i know my alliance isn't interested in whs...based on what i hear and observe...the changes are good if not better. annoying to get started...but better in the long run.should they just remove interbus in wh's all together? this i can get....whs is unknown space....to imply they where there to begin with is kinda stupid....honestly whs is fine.....the biggest change needed is pos mechanics and roles...period.everything else..waste of time.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"i'm part of a small corp living in a c2 wormhole. we only have a handful of active player and it creates a few problem when it comes to rolling wormholes and destroying structures.1. is there enough wh systems? if not what class needs more?are they under or overpopulated?yes, there's plenty of wormholes.2. are pos mechanics enabling to many people to just clean out weak systems and not bother with harder targets?we don't bother with destroying or attacking towers. they're too tough and take too long to destroy for a corp of our size even when they're offline.3. should access and roles be reworked? (doubttfull i will be alone on that one)handling access is annoying and a change would be appreciated.4. should moons be mineable for goo?....(waits for the hate from that)no. mineable moon would destroy the small corporation life we have in our wormhole.5. should sleeper sites and other sites spawn rates be raised to foster larger corp/alliance growth.yes, right now, now sites seem to spawn at a snail pace and we don't have much to do. the static c2 is often depleted or occupied. i'm worried that as the wormhole population increase, there will less and less sites available to do. we could roll the static c2, but with a small corp, it takes time and there's the risk of getting stuck on the other side for several days.6. should site isk/rewards be lowered or raised?the rewards are okay. magneometric have pretty lame loot in c1-2. like other people said, it would be nice to have more use for wormhole salvage. most often, there's a lack of site to do and i end up going to known space to run exploration sites or do missions.7. do wh pvp mechanics need an overhaul? (many things come to mind here, need to pop those carebears that jump back to hs)i don't have any problem with the way they are right now. if it's a high sec wormhole, i just need to use some creativity to catch some preys.8.it was stated by ccp long ago that wh's were not meant for long term habitation, since they lost that bet should they now look at making them more viable for larger numbers to encourage larger scale wh system warfare and not just the russians taking out weak systems for fun.i like the small scale pvp present in wormhole.9. are wh masses and spawn times what they should be?timers and mass limits are fine.10. do you think i am pissing in the wind here to think ccp cares about wh dwellers and our corps/alliances?i think ccp will listen. there was so mention of a developer that did some wormhole and pointed out some of the problems with bookmarks.edit: 11. how are the pi changes affecting your corp? are you too small that it is taking weeks just to blow up interbus? should they just remove interbus in wh's all together?it takes hours for our small corporation to destroy the interbus, but now we have our poco up and everything is well again."
"just ran some cosmos agents a few weeks ago and it was awful...i have a notebook page full of notes and scribbles of who i've seen and finished and whose end item goes to the next agent ect.i can only imagine what a pain it would be for the new players going through the same thing.+1"
"i would like to propose a few ideas for new types of wormhole. for those that could benefit from it, here is a quick explanation of the terms i'm using. max stable time: the maximum amount of time a wormhole will stay open max stable mass: the maximum amount of mass a wormhole can transit before collapsing mass regeneration: the amount of mass a wormhole regenerates per cycle (24 hours) maximum jump mass: the maximum amount of mass that can transit a wormhole in one go proposal 1: narrow and deep max stable time: 12 hours max stable mass: unlimited mass regeneration: 0 maximum jump mass: 15,000,000 kgthe narrow and deep wormhole would be too small for battleships. battlecruisers, cruisers, destroyers, shuttles, industrials, frigates, etc. the mass allowance will let the lighter of each race's transport ships through, but not the heavier versions (impel, bustard, occator or mastadon). the limiting factor here is time, not mass. proposal 2: fat and shallow max stable time: 24 hours max stable mass: 800,000,000 kg mass regeneration: 0 maximum jump mass: unlimitedthe fat and shallow wormhole allows gigantic ships to move about, but will collapse after relatively small amount of mass goes through it. with this hole, a ship of literally any mass can travel through to the other side. a capital class ship likely collapsing the wormhole as it goes. any capital class ship will collapse this hole on the first jump.there are no doubt other variants that we could imagine. i'll leave at these two to start off with. if there is interest, we could come up with more."
"no.you are obviously trying to introduce a class of wormholes that would allow supercapitals into wormhole space would make it far too easy to make anybody's home system into an impenetrable fortress."
"well, think about that. how do you imagine that would work exactly?i think it would be rare for that to happen, but, i see your point. what about a limit at 1.2 billion kg? with that limit, only ships that could feasibly be built in the wormhole already would be let in or out. does that address the concern?"
"i think i just tossed my cookies reading this idea.tldr - #### no.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"a 1.2 billion limit would remove the ability for supercaps but it would also counter the entire idea for that wormhole. this workaround makes it sound like you're trying to get capitals into your c1-4 without having to build them inside. as for rarity even at a slow rate it wouldn't be difficult for a larger c5/6 corp to slowly fill their systems with supercaps whilst any potential invaders will be forced to line their capitals up for the slaughter.the only thing i can suggest is to scrap the idea, you're trying to fix something that isn't broken."
"i wonder what it is about wh space that makes people come up with the most terrible ideas imaginable?"
"supercap wormhole shenanigans aside, i also worry about that other one.elimination of the total mass stat on that \"narrow and deep\" hole would suck most of the fun out of a wormhole. one of the best things about wormspace is if one does not like the level of content one is getting from one's neighboring systems, one can quickly rectify that with a battleship or three and roll some new possibilities. having control over system connectivity is the bread and butter of wormspace that most distinguishes it from regular nullsec (yes, even more than the lack of local imo)."
"i assure you, this proposal is not being submitted for my personal benefit. as far as holes big enough for capitals to fit in, i would just point out that c140's, c248's, c391's, d792's and like 13 other wormholes have a billion kg or above max jump mass. by my count there are 14 wormhole types that have a greater max jump mass than what i propose. do you object to these? if not, why?is there a class you take on how to talk but contribute nothing, or is it just the way you live your life?it would be a wild card, no doubt. i can't say that i really relish the idea of one of these things opening up to my hole, to be honest. not being able to stop the flow of cruisers into your system could really turn out to be a total mess, but i thought it was a new variation on existing wormholes. but besides occasionally removing some control from wh settlers, where does it break down?"
"why exactly is such a change needed? i am all for variety but i see no reason to do this other than for variety. i don't see any reason why not to allow supercaps into wh space...they will only be used for ratting ultimately anyway...perhaps a little defense but how often does that happen?if you let supercaps in then make the escalations caused by super caps rediculously hard. 24 battleships warp in when the subcap arrives...awesome..."
"oh, this is totally for variety. there is no real problem i'm trying to fix, i was just throwing the idea out there to see what the feedback was."
"they could just make them untargetable, or undamageable. there were a number of missions i used to run in hi-sec where some structures could be destroyed while others simply took no damage from anything. it is do-able."
"are you going to tell me why you want scouts to kill themselves? checking every pos in a region is not fun by anyone's standards."
"if you actually live in the area, this won't be an issue."
"making pos's and holding sov more of an onerous chore - another amazing revitalizer to nullsecalso, ban npc forum alts from csm forums"
"define 'actually live' for me please?i live in 0.0. i don't make a point of flying to every pos in every system every day. why would anyone do that?"
"if your in the area/systems that has such structures, you and your alliance/corp will be aware of non-friendly activities. by you actually being there, you will know if an sbu is dropped because you will physically see the timer. if your several regions away and only holding some space no where near you, then no, you will not see the timer because you don't live there. people who operate/are around a pos will know if something is being attacked because they will physically be in the same system and know bad guys are up to something.it is not terrible at all if in fact you actually reside in the area of the space. your thinking from the perspective of someone that can't possible run all over the place checking things to make sure everything is good. i can understand that. either get more people to actually reside in those places that are too far/too much work for just you or shed some of that extra fat.again, if you actually live in/around a system your worried about, you won't have an issue because you will know if a pos is being attacked or your space is contested. do you really think entities should be holding onto space they don't live in? own a pos they only visit once a month to empty a silo that is five regions away?"
"confirming that all towers are set up for moon miningcripes how can you be so bad \"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" - abrazzar"
"how a tower is setup/purpose is completely irrelevant. just like your posts."
"i don't like the idea of intended anything in eve. in the case of the dreadnought, why have any slots at all, why not just say that it comes pre-fitted with the weapons and modules and rigs that they intend you to use on it? they don't do that because they know it would be a giant middle finger to those of us who like to tweak and customize and play in the sandbox. yet, they make the ship so unusable in any other capacity that they might as well have had them standardized. i've said it before, and i never mean it to sound as harsh as it comes off, but i don't care what their intent was. i have no interest in fitting into ccp's little box. in my estimation, they do best to just let the pieces fall where they may and let emergence take over. appeal to tradition doesn't hold water for me. you're right, though. if i want a combat ship, i should bypass the dreadnought and go for the carrier like everyone else. my proposal was to make combat on the capital class level less funneled by adding in more options. is a pve dreadnought any more offensive than a pve carrier? if yes, why? the siege module? actually, i can imagine that being broken in a pve situation come to think of it."
"destroyers were not introduced as salvage ships, yet they fulfill that role excellently. would you agree if rules were put in place to change that?the game designers have an intent when they create a module or a ship, but once the player base gets a hold of it i think it is fair game to be used however we see fit. if the thing is overpowered, then fine, change it, but doing so just because people aren't doing what you want is micromanagement."
"hadn't thought of that.well the tracking boost could take effect while only in siege mode. anyone who goes into siege while ratting just deserves to get jumped by a random roam. i can't count how many ratting carriers we have caught because they align slower than our scout can scan down and warp to the sanctum in the system. imagine if you caught some random dread halfway through a siege cycle in a haven with 2:30 left before they could warp off.i honestly think poco based sov is a good idea"
"i've been thinking of a way to try and tempt people into fielding dreads in a fight, and i really like the idea of them having more guns.more guns = more dps = better chance at killing something before it dies.i also don't mind a few more hp, scan res and the other things you've listed, but really, the primary thing i think would pick up their use is if they actually had 8 weapon points in their high slots, so they become a huge bs, or maybe 7 and the siege module, but they really need something to make them stand out and be desirable, because right now, even with the siege mod buff, they're just not desirable at all."
"the concern i hear about pve ratting really seems to be a non-issue to me for the reason you just stated. a dread is a big, slow target for pvpers. yes; exactly what i was thinking."
"i think 8 slots is a hard-coded limitation- it's not only in fitting but part of the whole ui itself.so, what can we have? tier one dread, +1 weapon (missile or turret), +1 highslot for each one, can fit siege. no drones. it's a cannon.tier 2 dread. the capital battleship. juggernaught. 8 highslots, cannot siege.. limited drone bay (5 sentries) caldari - 5% torp flight time and 5% explosion velocity bonus per level8/6/30/8 (turrets/bays)gallente - 5% hybrid tracking and 5% damage bonus per level8/4/58/0 (turrets/bays)minmatar - 5% to falloff and 5% tracking per level (hey look all turret no missile)8/5/48/0 (turrets/bays)amarr - 5% to range and 5% reduced capicitor use of turrets per level8/3/68/0 (turrets/bays)combine this with capital ewar (able to affect even supers) and buffed scan res and i believe these will be viable and used with carrier logistic support."
"such a horrible idea, you obviously know nothing about capitals. you've suggested multiple completely rediculous ideas, learn about things before you try and propose changes."
"i can't tell if you're trolling, or just stupid."
"much like your so called expertise on whs....good motives....but your reasoning for dreadnaughts are fruaght with inmaturity and utter horror.leave this to the experts please.i'm in favor of improving dreadnaughts...but your lack of forthought in many areas leaves me very unsetteled.the pve comment alone made me facepalm so hard i broke my glasses.*runs to nex store to get new pair of shades*================ stop the evemail spam!"
"was thinking the same about you."
"+1 for you good sir.i am however in favor of adding a second dread per xtover's recommendations. that would be more sensible for actual pvp combat. granted the old dread will probably no longer get any use as the creating a more expensive version didnt wo"
"was thinking the same about your toons face.heed not the trolls of cap haters. for they are space poor hobos that deserve to die in the cold. i say expand the capital hulls. give us t2 dreads that swallow supers whole and t1 cap guns or t1 hulls that chew through sub cap blobs.balance between supers and sub caps will not be obtained by nerfing the bigger ships. we must instead nerf the smaller ones while expanding the larger ones."
"i wouldnt go so far to say nerfing sub caps is necessary. i think instead caps just need to be adjusted (calling for both nerfs and buffs on various points). sub caps seem to have everything balanced nicely.as the old adage goes \"if it aint broke dont fix it\""
"you know, i just figured out something obvious that i should have seen all along. instead of trying to take the dread and make a bunch of changes to it, why not just add new extra large weapons? for the launchers, this would be gigantic heavy missile arrays that fire streams of missiles. the damage could be the same as 2 or 3 heavy missile launchers and there could even be a variant for assault missiles, or maybe even rockets.for guns, there could be point defense artillery of a few varieties. batteries of large or medium guns.this would essentially accomplish the same goal as adding more slots, but it would be a lot easier to get implemented."
"supercaps should be useless vs subcaps."
"said this many times:add the same tracking and explosion velocity penalty dreads receive while in siege mode. just add the following to the long list of bonuses titans get:tracking speed bonus -50 %explosion velocity bonus -60 %do that and see how things go for a month or two."
"totally ok with this on the condition that sub caps are useless against supercaps.fair is fair right, my titan can't hit you, but you are no more of a problem to my titan than a dust mote.this argument is cyclical and stupid, you want your sub caps able to destroy supers yet not be hurt by them, where as the super pilots are totally ok with being able to be killed by you, as long as they can kill you too.they even sacrafice their whole tank to do so, a tanked titan can't hit anything at all, sometimes they even miss supercarriers their tracking is so bad.but the whiney crew wants it all one way, they want to be able to kill a super, and never face any actual danger from it themselves, they want everybody to play the game their way, and field massive support fleets to do anything in the game at all. this is called a one sided argument.if you want to kill my titan, i don't mind you trying, but every asset you put on the field against it should be able to be killed by it, as that is fair and balanced.its also hilariously funny that aaa sat on the undock of 46dp for 2 weeks with tracking titans using them to great effect against ra and their vassals, and yet the second the strategy is employed against them, they have threads going up to cry about it."
"the problem is that it leads to numbers escalation, and it doesn't compare as the hp jump is exponentially more than from a lower ship class to another.for example, it's hard for bs guns to take out an inty, yet an inty alone can't break the tank of a bs. however, 10 ceptors can easily take out a bs.how many to take out 1 tracking titan? how much hp? oh you have it tackled? it can two shot the hic. lastly, grath, if you take a moment to see i even used aaa as an example of this problem. let's try to keep politics out of this."
"it occurs to me that a minmaxed tracking titan fleet would be very vulnerable to a properly tanked super fleet. i believe that you can however refit your ship off of carriers if things get risky. i understand however there is a limited number of hostiles who can be around to prevent you reship but i understand the number increases depending on the number of friendly carriers. to the point where a properly supported super fleet can dynamically refit in combat no matter how many hostiles are realistically around. perhaps if this was tweaked, flying supers would be more risky- as you would risk being caught with your pants down in a blap fit. i may be wrong or ignorant however. however if they could not refit while aggressed or something similar then exposing them untanked would be more risky. knowing a enemy fleet is misfit to fight you is going to only increase the supercap deterrent of the enemy. older more experience alliances are naturally going to have more of these super weapons. which kind of sucks for me. however every little helps.the flipside is how tracking mechanics work with sig radius which can potentially be reworked. obviously that would be a massive rebalance and would be a major change to mechanics but could be interesting if effort was put into it.obviously with how titans bump each other when going through a cyno is both a blessing and a curse, in that one can be bumped away from their fleet quite easily at random but it also always means that they are sufficiently spread out they can blap things.we tend to be very cautious to welp things in eve as it is though and the repeated nerfs aren't exactly going to cause more titans to be lost because the people who fly them are lead by people who tend to be good at eve and know exactly their limits when using their titans. most of that time that means not using them however as the risk is too high and the rewards are relatively low compared to the relative losses."
"how does one 'properly tank' against clouds of holy hand-grenades, aka. ddd spam? you'd need to outblob the titan blob significantly to have any hope of pulling that one off.ccp has lost its way when it comes to super-capitals, partly due to the other misguided decision of making everything null an ehp grind .. they managed to rail-road themselves into making supers massive dps boats instead of the fleet support ships they were at the time of launch.quoting self from test server forum:that will serve until ccp finds their mojo/marbles and start innovating again. they need to cook up a null system that does not simulate quarry work with players spending hours chipping away at great big rocks .. after that both supers can be made into proper terrors of the sky again as any opness will be balanced by the areas in which they will be of use."
"fully tanked titans have died to less than 40 bs.its the willingness to engage them that is lacking. a tracking fit titan has less hp than most supercarriers, if another group were to actually commit their supers to a cloud of tracking titans, they'd all be dead, but people are so incredibly risk averse they'd rather see the offending ship nerfed than put their own assets put on the line to help curb the issue.if you have a problem with tracking fit titans in your area, and you start dropping fully tanked super groups on them, you won't have that problem for long, but therein lies the problem, its on you to fix it, whereas most of you would rather see the game changed so you didn't have to risk your own assets.the idea that one type of ship should be able to hurt space ships, but another type shouldn't, is just laughably absurd.if pl's tracking titans, or ra's tracking titans, or raidens trackign titans, or the 60+ cfc tracking titans are bothering you, you can stop them at any time you want, because weather you believe it or not, morale is a huge factor in eve, and when you start killing off titans, their pilots who are their friends stop logging in for fear of their assets, or they refit to tank fits.again, i'm all for sub caps being immune to supercaps in warfare, but as a trade, supercaps should be totally immune to anything sub caps can do in warfare, including bubbles, guns, bombs, drones, what have you, the only thing that should be able to fight titans under the utopian ideals presented in this thread are:1) dreads2) carriers3) supercarriers4) titansif you want your maelstroms, and your abbadons safe from the titans, then i want your maelstrom to be like a pebble on the road to my 18 wheeler.maybe you should start asking ccp for more weapons to kill titans with instead of asking for another nerf. more things blowing up is better than less."
"actually i think the problem has more to do with how incredibly overpowering supers and titans are compared to other cap ships.basically every cta i have seen where we know we are going up against titans someone asks \"hey should we bring our dreads or carriers to shoot at the titans?\" to which the answer is usually, \"no because they have a gun that can one shot your regular capitol ships. even if we outnumber them 5 to 1 they can still wipe out 20% of our alliance's cap assets in 2 mouse clicks per titan pilot. and this is in the first 10 seconds before the fight really gets started. and then they have so many hit points that we'll probably only take out one of them before they chew through our fleet.\"so then your side decides not to bring in their caps and you have to go in subcaps only and get wiped by a swam of carriers supers and titans.honestly i think supers and titans should just be moderately beefier and more expensive versions of their regular capitol scale counterparts. and i know that's kind of unfair to the people who have already paid bazillions of isk to get in their supers and titans.i honestly think poco based sov is a good idea"
"and herein lies the problem.fear of losing prevents them from bringing an asset that would actually amount to a dead titan, and at the same time they tell their own members lies to hide their cowardice.each titan can only dd once every 10 minutes, and turrent guns aren't any more or less damaging really than sieged dread guns are. so they wouldn't lose 20% of their fleet, unless they jumped in 30 dreads against 30 titans, the outcome would actually be very bad for the titan itself.the base level problem is that the decision makers for most alliances are literally cowards, and the idea of losing internet space ships bothers them.get over that, and you'll start to see titans dying to alliances besides mine."
"my 2 isk... supers should be logistical beasts.a titan should have the same impact on the battlefield that fighting on a station does. pretty much the exact same impact. give them station guns, and the doomsday, and let people dock to them/clone to them/have personal hangars in them.super carriers should go back to being motherships, with clone bays and a huge sma so that they can deploy a full fleet, replacing titan bridges for deployment of fleets. give them alot more hp than they had before, bigger fighter bays, and a reasonable drone bay(not endless clouds of sentries and ogres), make fbs only able to target structures and supers so they retain their anti-struture role in sov warfare, but reduce their overall footprint in an ongoing battle by reducing their ability to endlessly function(before they were nerfed)."
"my alliance alone has over 100 titans in it, how would you sort this out, we just suddenly ended up with 100 mobile stations?"
"everybody who advocated the principle of rock, paper, scissors, is overlooking 1 important element.in terms of the current sub caps online advantage over supers & caps, the game is actually rock - paper only. there is no middle ground between caps and supers vs sub caps.capitals need to be boosted, and expanded in terms of hulls and roles, to give more value to the mid sized ships between subs and supers. 1) capitals should be usefull against both supers and sub caps alike + structures. 2) supers should be useful against supers and caps and structures. useless against sub caps3) sub caps should be useful against sub-caps, caps and structures. useless against supersnerfing supers into wtf defense only paper tank mobiles with no tracking or dps (vs sub caps) is not the solution.the problem with sub caps online at present, regarding hulls is as follows:1) sub caps currently have 18 odd t1 hulls, with t2 and t3 variants... per faction. not counting faction hulls2) caps only has 2 t1 hulls per faction, with no t2/t3 or faction variants3) supers only have 2 t1 hulls with no t2/t3 or variants, with 1 super faction variant in existence.so your looking at a situation where sub caps as of this post have:72 t1 sub-cap hulls46 t2 sub cap hulls4 t3 sub cap hulls+ faction variant t1 hulls for sub cap ships across the boardcapital hulls have:8 t1 hulls0 t2 hulls0 t3 hulls0 faction vairantssuper caps have:8 t1 hulls0 t2 hulls0 t3 hulls1 sc faction hullso solve this easily by clearly defining the roles in terms of ship size category as indicated earlier and expand on the capital hulls. the more deadlier caps are against supers and sub caps, and the more useless sub caps become vs supers (without supers being able to kill sub caps), the better for all of us."
"and this is totally acceptable, only the sub cap guys don't want this, they want to kill the supers with absolute immunity from them.i hope ccp read this, because this is exactly how it should ideally flow."
"indeed.sub cap hobos demand the ability to spam/blob supers with really cheap small ships and expect to gank them without hassle or risk because they are space poor and space many.then they demand that supers cannot save themselves with logoffskies (which, in the bigger picture, should be fine, but then sub caps, like say, cyno alts who loggofski, should suffer the same fate).then they cry when supers and cap pilots do the blobbing thing because they are space rich and demand an end be put to that (which is not fine imo).and then ccp listens to them when mittens and his pets throw a big enough tantrum.sad."
"grath can correct me if i'm wrong, but the majority of titan/superkills kills due to pandemic legion in the last year has not been to straight up super fights, but catching them while moving, ratting or doing other dumb things. you need to understand that when you are fighting anything, unless completely outnumbered that you are going to have casualties. unfortunately the stakes are so high for supers it is always going to be really hard to know what you can handle and what will essentially destroy your alliance. the very presence of supers logging in will send most alliances running. my alliance has been on the short end of the stick in the last few weeks, being blocked by the raiden. titan blob in their time zone. from a enemy with many times our numbers of titans. (grath probably has accurate numbers :psyduck:), which isn't really surprising. this is why eve has diplomacy and a unironic tendency to gang up on giant empires. (the fall of the nc for example). however it would also be fair to say that just over a year ago, my alliance was bumbling around in lowsec, with a membership who were literally little more then rifters. today we are essentially the lords of fountain which has been very good to us. we still have obligations to our allies, and need them so much but it hasn't prevented us having space. in fact most sov in eve is owned by alliances like mine, and even if we don't suckle on tech like the super powers it hasn't exactly stopped us. a titan can withstand massive quantities of dds, it's barely a scratch for them. it is a big problem for normal capitals however. but you should be fielding your own supers if you are trying to fight a field of supers. if you lose a bunch of dreads and carriers but kill a single titan, you are still going to be ahead. what i would like to see would be a lot more granularity to capitals. currently you have dps in dreads, logi in carriers and dps in supercaps and titans. which if you compare to subcaps, is pathetic. eve at it's most basic mechanics simply encourages blobbing and large decisive battles. it essentially comes down to who has the correctly tanked fleet comp, with the correctly set up bonuses and the correct numbers. as well as enough logistics to keep them alive and enough support to keep them tackled and your own capitals clear. the nc lost one of these battles, losing 7 titans and a couple of supercaps to manage to kill 2 titans and a couple of supers. it'd be fair to say that super fits don't vary much outside of some very simply fitting decisions and the confidence of the alliance fielding them. i would personally love to see things like capital ewar, capital tackle and etc. of course there aren't enough large fights for this to be a big issue in that while the mechanics for all of them are the same, they are insanely rare. fielding a titan is straight up too much risk unless you can be confident that noone will mess with you."
"even an \"untanked\" tracking titan has more than enough ehp to tank 40 bs long enough to refit to a \"traditional\" tanking fit. i never called for a nerf. i would rather see an effective counter. i posted this thread to bring the topic up for discussion. perhaps giving an infinipoint to supercarriers might be a start. maybe a blood carrier with a bonus to neuts. there are other options than just swinging a nerfbat. even in the extremely unlikely scenario of a pair of unsupported tracking titans, how many hics would one have to burn through before those 40 bs could take one out? 10, 15? meanwhile those 40 bs are being 2 shotted. the titans with a skilled pilot, rigs, and implants has a good enough tank to be able to hold out long enough for either reinforcements or a refit. there's a reason for this \"unwillingness\" in that not every alliance has any sort of significant supercap fleet to counter this. if you segregated capital/noncapital engagements it would create two different classes of warfare and destroy a good part of the game. i think it's a terrible idea. a titan should have the ability to scratch a subcapital. the amount of damage that it scratches for is up for debate. i love the thought of capital escalation. on a personal level nothing irritates me more when it's denied- but out of my hands most of the time. but the downside is that there is an inevitable snowball effect unless the capital ship classes become more diverse."
"i wouldn't overgeneralize this too much.\"...only the sub cap guys don't want this...\"that's a logical fallacy, and i personally believe that many would be against this. there are some issues about it though. dreads don't have enough ehp to stand up to supercarriers.taking subcaps out of the equation, a fleet of 5 titans and 5 supercarriers can easily hold against 20 dreads with 10 support. one might think, hey that's fine it's the difference between being a super capital and a regular capital. well at this point you lose option #1 that you agree to.remove rr capibility from supercarriers, add in infinipoint. diversify capital fittings, allow capital ewar to affect supers. the t2 siege and triage are a great start. just as you desire to see a supercapital engagement, there are thousands of capital pilots looking to dust off thier dreads, to fit their carriers for something other than hauling rigged ships.edit:what i am trying to say is that when you have 3 classes of ships:subcapitalcapitalsupercapitalwhat is the accepted force multiplier?"
"so funny you should mention this.i was moving my titan, and i got caught, literally in vol in curse, but a dictor. now at range i can hit a dictor no big deal when tracking fit, but if they know what they're doing, i have no hope at all.i had to sit there while this frickin pair of dictors held me tackled, and wait while another guy burned the 14 jumps to save me, the whole time these 2 guys were screaming in local about the titan they had tackled.if the pilot actually knows how to fly his dictor, and i don't catch him out at range, i literally have no hope of killing him with the removal of our drone bays.the same goes generally for battleships. you can't just sit there like a deer in the headlights blasting away at a titan, you'll get killed, you have to manage things like transversional and range properly on the titan.will you lose some, sure, but the whole idea of combat in eve without losses is absurd, and thats what people want. they want a clean kill on a titan where nobody dies, because they don't like their kb efficiency trashed, or they don't think losses are worth it.we lost about 20 billion in ships in a fight the other day, we achieved our objectives, but it was bloody as hell, and it was amazingly fun. losses happen, alliances need to accept this and plan around taking losses."
"no, not really, i only lose it if you refuse to face the loss of some of your subcaps, but your goal in the dreads shouldn't ever be a clean kill, because the dreads are insurable, the supers aren't.but your example is bad, its suicide, why would you expect to engage 10 supers with 30 lesser ships, would you engage 10 cruisers with 30 frigates?i doubt it, because it would be suicide.now, if you had i had 5 titans and 5 supers, and i had 30 dreads and 10 support, yes, i would go for that. my goal, is to simply kill a super, my dreads, are all insured, so i'm going to bridge in or jump in next to what i think i'm most likely to kill, bubble it, siege green, and ride it till the wheels fall off, and yes, on jump in i'm going to lose 5 dreads. i'll probably lose a 6th dread in about 1 minute, a 7th a minute after that to turrent titans, assuming i haven't bumped them all out of range on jump in, but in that one minute, i'm going to put enough hurt on a super to kill it, and then start moving to another, by the end, the supers would need to leave the field, but they'd be short one, maybe 2 supers, and the next time their fc calls a form up, with morale lower, they're probably not going to get as many members.what you want is a bloodless victory, you won't ever get that, nor should you, a fight should leave scars.edit: looking at the numbers, 20 dreads, on jump in, losing 5 to the titans, and after 1 minute the first to the supers, you'd still actually easily kill a nyx, so i might actually try that jihad move to kill one."
"i missed that fight, and i'm still kicking myself for it.i already said this. a dictor pilot can orbit and hold a titan as long as he has bubbles. throw in a second titan and it completely changes.you can mantain transversal with a close orbit and easily beat the tracking of a titan, however when you have two in a pair, you will not only lose transversal (simply put) twice in relation to the other titan's guns but will have 0 angular velocity at those points too. you will get away with it maybe once or twice until those guns hit just right. **** kb efficiency. many i know obsess over it but this is a game. i fly dictors a lot. the sabre is a blast to fly- the most fun i think i can have in a ship. and i die quite a bit... but when i burn to a kiting fleet and catch them, going down in a blaze of glory as they die trapped in my bubble i have more fun than any lackey mashing f1. but that being said... losses are fine, as long as the outcome wasn't an exercise in futility."
"for a clean triple post, i guess supers/titans are only a problem if losses are unacceptable, and your ability to fight them is limited to how aggressive you're willing to be about killing/hunting them during ops.if you want to kill them, you absolutely can, but you will absolutely get a bloody nose while knocking them down, and to me thats how things should be.pl's current fondest wish is a huge supercap brawl, as we've demonstrated over and over again by shamis constantly jumping us into meat grinders in our supers. we save all our tech money for the eventual fight we know is coming where we'll suffer some pretty severe losses.we want this fight, like, the losses and all, and eventually we'll get it (likely at the end of a russian gun barrel since they literally have no fear), but we've planned this fight with the idea that we'll suffer catastrophic losses during the fight, this is how you should always plan things, plan for the worst, work for the best."
"well let me tell you about the gypsy dictors that held 30 pl titans trapped for 30 minutes forcing us to constantly bring our tengu fleet in for another thrashing to try and clear tackle.a good dictor pilot (hics are dumb) is literally the most terrifying thing to a tracking titan."
"i'm at work so i can't (and **** math anyway) do the figuring on this, but would 20 dreads even have enough dps to not only kill a supercarrier, but be able to overcome the tank of 4 crars on the primary target? (15 if you take out the dd ones, then at least 2 dreads per minute due to titan guns and fbs.)"
"that's a problem between leadership and the grunts.many itch to use thier caps/supers but are told not to, and after a while they get tired of pos spinning and leave the alliances.... to end up in pl. it's a sad catch-22. i just sold my super instead. i got tired of looking at it in a force field."
"yea, pretty easy, a sieged moros can currently do about 11kdps, so, you would decimate a nyx with that much dps, cap reps be damned."
"i agree with this sentiment. except for the removal of sc rr. that is yet more fail as it would result in a role nerf. it would be like removing guns from battleships. i would have no reservations of having a t2 super carrier geared towards dps or tank, without rr. but the t1 sc's should stay as they are.but thank you for starting to see the other side of this issue.now if we just take it a little further. as they are now, t1 capitals are pretty useless against supers. this is why i would like to see ccp introduce t2 dreads and t2 carriers geared up towards providing enough ehp and dps to stand up against supers on their own. i even think capital ewar should be introduced as the only means of holding down supers, while sub cap ewar could hold down caps.introduce new weapon modules for t1 dreads and new fighter drones for t1 carriers that would make them sub cap killers, or at least more effective vs sub-cap ships than they are now.in so doing, we could start seeing sub-cap/cap-super ratios along the lines of 5/3/1 instead of the current 20000/5/20 situation. srsly, show me an image of a rl carrier escort group that has 20 battleships, 15 battle-cruisers, 10 cruisers, 5 destroyers and a few frigates guarding a single carrier. at most, carriers are escorted by 1-4 sub capital ships.too much rr on carriers? spam falcons.too much dps on dreads in siege? damp em."
"i don't understand this fear of losing ships. especially capitals. they are t1 ships...insure them. hell i just barely got into dreads...haven't even flown mine yet but i can't wait to take it out and sooner or later lose it. i will keep it insured even if it takes me 2 years to lose it...why? because with that insurance i can pretty much turn around and buy another. i lost my first carrier a month ago in a wh engagement...it was ******* awesome! it was also uninsured...did i cry? hell no...i am in wh space...ill make that money for another in no time. point is...people shouldn't be afraid to lose ships. this is why i respect pandemic legion for what they are. they go full boar, **** you in the face with their fleets and aren't afraid to risk losing ships to win the fight. if everybody fought like this eve would be a better place."
"introducing a capital energy neut, web, damp, painter, disruptor (infinipoint) would change the capital game quite a bit. being able to td and damp a tracking titan would encourage more supers and other caps on the field.think of a blood carrier instead- requires amarr and minmatar carrier to iii (not t2, but takes a lot of skilling) and give it a web+neut bonus. i would fly one no matter the cost. it might even make the levi worth flying again"
"indeedand it would drive up the prices of minerals. more capital/super cap losses (under the right circumstances mind you), will result in a higher demand for more minerals to replace them."
"why do people assume it's a fear of losing ships?it has nothing to do with losing ships, although that was an aspect grath was talking about but mostly unrelated to the topic- i take that back, as it's an alliance's desire not to risk shiny ships. there's a difference between not wanting to lose your fleet bs, and losing your super. i can understand the fear of losing a super if someone is dirt poor, then again the adage \"don't fly what you can't afford to lose\" has been lost somewhere.i'm rambling, but my point is that this topic isn't about \"omg tracking titans cause too many losses and we don't want to drop them with supers.\" tracking titans is just the surface of a lack of fleshing out when it comes to capitals and maybe some needed buffs/new modules."
"this is actually a pretty boss idea, and i'd like to highlight it, faction caps that had ewar bonuses that only effected supercaps.so a gurista caps that could jamdark blood caps that got webserpentis that got damp bonusesangels that got tp bonusessansha's that got td bonuses, and all of those would work on supers."
"the point i'm trying to make is that non tracking fit titans are much less of a threat to sub caps, and if people are willing to engage titans, they won't be tracking fit, they'll be tank fit, for fear of dying, so if you give people more tools to use against supers, you don't need to nerf things, you need to add other things/buff things so that people want to engage titans, then the tracking problem works itself out."
"grath i am curious to hear your opinion on suggestions for spool up timers on cyno's and mass limitations?"
"i completely agree."
"mass limitations i'm not a fan of, but spool up timers i'm a 100% behind , i think they would add a dynamic to the game thats missing from cap ship combat.its far to easy to move as it is right now, the fact that a pl fleet can cross all of eve in under 9 minutes is pretty sick, and it also makes jumping into and out of combat ridiculously easy, spool up timers would make commitment much more of a done deal when engaging in caps and supers, and it would make running a much harder prospect."
"cyno spooling is fail imo. its the exact same mechanic as limiting the amount of sub caps that can jump on a gate. and there are many a ghetto baiting corp with gangs who would rage quit if we even entertained that idea...infact, i say allow supers to jump without cynos. introduce a new skill like \"jumpdrive pinpointing\" and add a new super cap only module for low or mid slots that would allow fitted supers to jump without cynos.but i'm probably amongst the 5% of big ship pilots amogst the 95% of small ship eve players who would love to see that.mass limitations should stay where they were introduced, with whs."
"trying to apply the psychology of fleet warfare to super capitals is good and all, but it still doesn't change the fact that titans are a flawed ship that where added into the game because ccp though it would be \"kewl\".like other people have said there are different ways of going about it. the most up front way of dealing with them is just to nerf their damage ability. not the most elegant way of going about it, but it would get the job done like it or not.adding in capital ewar mods or giving the eaf the ability to get around the supercaps ewar immunity overall is one of the more fascinating ideas and is something that should be looked into.overall though i do believe even if you could use ewar against supercaps an up front nerf would still be needed against the titan, either some kind of tracking, locking, or ehp nerf."
"holy mother of god you just made half of pl get wood. this would be so awesome, but would compound the problem so much, you would need to introduce this with jump spooling or it would be so over powered that your worst nightmares can't possibly come close to what the reality would be.i do like the idea with spooling though, it would be pretty sweet actually, but how you figured where you land in system would be pretty odd i think.dude their hp literally just got nerfed, by 20%, thats pretty damn heavy. the constant nerfing is getting old, expand the game instead of contracting it for once."
"grath, if you ever come down to the d.c. area i'm buying you a drink.updating the initial post/title to reflect what's been brought up so far, bear with me a sec."
"i live in baltimore, we have a pl meet in the general area once a year."
"one of you guys brought it up...lol"
"if non-pl are welcome, i hope to come."
"yea we had a black legion guy there last year, we'll just call you spy all night while we get plastered."
"so far ideas that have come across (did i miss any?):1) capital ewar modules that work against capitals and supercapitals (possibly not against subcapitals?)- nos, neut, td, damp, web, scram (equiv to focused)2) faction capitals with specific ewar bonuses:- guristas jam- blood neut (and/or web)- serpentis (damp)- angel (tp)- give the revanant a td bonus3) cyno spool timer or mass limits.4) removing cynos and allowing unfocused jumps (what drawback?)5) either adding a tier 2 dread with the ability to track out of siege, or boosting a current dread's tracking6) possible boost to dread ehp?all of these seem to encourage capital use, at least in my eyes. i really would like to see fleets of dreads and carriers returning and throwing themselves at supers. even if you lost 10 dreads or carriers to a single super, it is still an even battle."
"it pains me to say this, but what needs to be reviewed is the tracking formula in general. sig radius should play a far larger role in it, like it does in the missile formula.that not only balances tracking titans (think about it, you never see rigor leviathans, do you?), but lots of other situations involving smaller ships.what happens in lowsec, stays in lowsec, lowering the barrier to entry to lowsec pvp:"
"theres another thread about boosting the combat effectiveness of dreads, i suggest in that one that we add more turrents to dreads, to up their dps considerably (more than doubling the current output).i think that would go a long way to helping dreads back onto the field of battle.my suggestion was either 8 and a siege mod (*making them have the most high slots in eve) or 7 weapon points and a siege.let me show you my 7 torp launching phoenix, or my 7 blaster moros.actually, you might be shocked at what a rigor fit levi is capable of, we went over this when deciding what to do with our levis, who now carry both torp and cruise launchers, cruise to deal with support ships, torps to deal actual damage to structures/caps/supers.i mean the cdfe rigs aren't really that needed since you have the strongest tank of the titans already. edit: also rigor fit levis can fit a full tank, they have no need to drop tank for damage, and while their damage isn't quite as strong against sub caps, the power of the boosted cruise against a webbed/painted target is staggering."
"i'd like to see thread, as bumping the number of weapons on a dread would drastically improve its desirability, 3 launchers out of siege just isn't enough.did the range of citadel torps get bumped? i remember switching to cruise back in apoc and never looked back because torps couldn't reach large towers."
"no clue, but they can definitely hit towers now pretty easy, in fact having daddy doo's levi on the field makes doing pos shoots so much easier.dread thread:"
"you are right, they are surprisingly effective (on paper at least). but i'd say they are far more balanced than gun titans. they have no way to lower \"transversal\", so they can never apply more than 30-50% of their paper dps.what happens in lowsec, stays in lowsec, lowering the barrier to entry to lowsec pvp:"
"reading now, there is a good argument against pve dreads.then again from my perspective that just means jucier targets in anoms."
"exactly carriers already pve and you dont see people bitching about that. so instead now pilots have a choice with the pve caps v0v.i am also a fan of the boosting the dread or coming out with a t2 variant that would be able to do far more damage to supers out of siege instead of relying on siege. the problem still remains that unless you specifically tank it a capital can not survive a titan dd which is what discourages a lot of pilots from fly caps against titans. i am one of the few with the mindset that is willing to go and sacrifice 20 dreads or so to go up against a titan fleet. i would be interested to get over on sisi to figure out how many dreads it would take to kill a tracking titan vs a tank titan and how quickly the titan can kill a dread both in and how of siege (remote rep carriers when out of siege). just hope that ccp can take a look at this...and i am with grath where if you could jump without cyno that would be absolutely dirty and most cap pilots would love it. but we would then be back around to cyno spool times and what not. i feel cyno spool up times are valid as it would require a support fleet to be on the field before supers jump in (keep the cyno ship alive) as it stands right now i do not think anyone is fast enough to kill a cyno ship before 3 to 4 supers jump through at which point unless you have a massive fleet on the other side they wouldn't have jumped unless they are crazy. i like the ideas though so far (and yes i have super pilots)~~~~edit~~~~@op: i am interested to hear what your ideas are for a mobile cyno jammer however? (module, ship, ect ect??)"
"even with dd, and even with 10 titans, 40 dreads still = 1 titan.so if you can have 30 gunboat dreads and they all die (40 before initial dd) it was an even fight.strange but that's isk war vov"
"fully support, however untargetted, with limited range (20km or so).also, need to make sure that it's not carried on every grunt's utility highslot."
"so you would still allow a cyno to warp 100km off you and cyno in the enemy fleet??? (just trying to understand what your intentions are for the module)and the titan math makes sense to me. but that still assuming 40 dreads can punch through a titans armor without all being blown up (also this is assuming there are no remote reps)again i would like to try it on sisi as you can crunch all the numbers you want it still could have a change on the battlefield"
"triaged/sieged capitals indeed cannot survive a titan dd without some real bizarre fitting mojo. however, a pantheon archon can achieve the necessary ehp without any fitting changes (just heat the correct specific hardener); with slaves, you may even be able to tank a dd on armor alone!my question: why are alliances still so seemingly reliant on archaic capital doctrine when fielding full-scale cap fleets? are pantheon techniques really considered that exotic by the nullsec world? is there some giant flashing red sign that says \"only train 1 race's carrier?\" is it that everyone and their dog wants a nyx and a station hangar full of thanatoses? you'd expect to be hearing stories of large-scale pantheon archon fleets on a routine basis, considering their scalable rr/captransfer ability would make them ideal (as far as carriers go) for keeping supers on the field and would save sc high slots for things like smartbombs and neuts, too."
"triaged/sieged capitals indeed cannot survive a titan dd without some real bizarre fitting mojo. however, a pantheon archon can achieve the necessary ehp without any fitting changes (just heat the correct specific hardener); with slaves, you may even be able to tank a dd on armor alone!my question: why are alliances still so seemingly reliant on archaic capital doctrine when fielding full-scale cap fleets? are pantheon techniques really considered that exotic by the nullsec world? is there some giant flashing red sign that says \"only train 1 race's carrier?\" is it that everyone and their dog wants a nyx and a station hangar full of thanatoses? you'd expect to be hearing stories of large-scale pantheon archon fleets on a routine basis, considering their scalable rr/captransfer ability would make them ideal (as far as carriers go) for keeping supers on the field and would save sc high slots for things like smartbombs and neuts, too.[/quote]hell i have even run pantheon fleets with thannys but the main one is an archon. and sadly its not the pantheon fit is considered or exotic. no the problem is that no one wants to field their capitals. they rather use them to rat in all day and thats that. if i could get 30 archon pilots who knew what they were doing (that is the trick) and had all the proper skills instead of just getting in it to rat (another feat) then yea i wouldnt mind going head to head with some of the supers. the problem is that carriers do not do enough damage to be considered a combat platform. so unless you outnumber the supers with your carrier fleet (which lets be honest would not happen often) you are not going to have enough dps to out perform the capital reps on the other side."
"i have trained both caldari and amarr for dreads and carriers...obviously not maxed out...lots of work to do still. point being is to be prepared for either the need for shield or armor. but hey...you can't force it down a persons throat."
"because if they're 100km out they can also be off grid. makes no difference. however it does prevent any random hotdrop ganks, it can prevent planned escalation (throwing a wrench into any plan leads to fun), and can maybe protect your ass one day.maybe give it a 99% reduction for black ops ships."
"this is false in the case of sieged dreads. even a lightly tanked dread can easily survive a single dd."
"i would rather see it applied to grid or a larger range then 20km. you would not cyno tracking titans right on top of the enemy fleet so you would still be at the mercy of the as they could cyno at their optimal and still cause problems. granted that is just my opinion and either way would still be a cool concept. at only 20km though i dont see it working that well"
"i'm no more than a neo-liberal super cap hoe. i am to please.with regards to mobile cyno jamming.......i proposed a t2 dread a while ago, a spin on star war's interdiction class star destroyers.a capital interdictor would have a party piece hi-slot module that would create a \"drag bubble\" for jump drives 1-2 ly across from the system the ship is located in (if the module is activated). all ships jumping over or within range of this gravity well would get pulled into the interdictor's system and spawn within 14km or so from the ship, as if jumping through a star gate.another side effect would be a visible bubble 1 or 2 au across, that would prevent cyno's from being activated.this ship would not prevent normal warping at all, leaving pointing down to sub cap interdictors. but it would completely kill jump drive or hot dropping capability.god do i wish for a world where the surprise capital hotdrop sex gangs ends up jumping into a prison sex gang bang they were not expecting or jumping to... at all."
"+1made billions of risk free isk in incursions and it was ridiculous. each system should eventually become exhausted and run out of sites. it only makes sense. this should drive the mom to either be dealt with or it withdraws at dt when all the sites are"
"hi guys i've just taken over our corp as ceo but don't have ceo's access or control of anything is there a kooldown before your can do anything? or is it a bug?"
"why make 4 different racial versions of basically the same ship?just make it an ore ship.+1"
"because it is designed as a tier 2 freighter.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"there are multiple reason you would not have a single ore ship: rp reason: of the non-empire factions the ore is the least likely to be using one of these for hauling entire ships around - they already have a ship for that. this task would likely fall to the interbus. interbus maintains careful neutrality and would not be caught dead ferrying anything that could be considered militaristic (ie: warships). this is what makes imperial shipment, cbd corporation, transstellar shipping, and freedom extension stay in business. practical rp reason: an ore variant of the ship would have the highest amount of hp in shields. amarr and gallente would make their own versions that would be more suited for being supported by oneires. guardians, thanates, or archons. practical reason: many pilots have already trained one racial industrial to v for the use of blockade runners, deep space transports, or freighters. this ship is designed to be useful not only from the perspective of industrial pilots but also from the point of combat pilots that are changing base."
"that's one ship i would definitively like to see."
"thanks domu, as usual, your helpful insight and input is always welcome.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"as someone who just recently tried to move a lot of standings grinding ships to a new corporations agent, i heartily endorse this product."
"ecm. wcs. superspeeds. falcon. dramiel. will a nerf to offgrid boosters be the next killer of small gang pvp?"
"i could say lots of stuff about how restrictive learning implants are, but since most of you have already thoroughly and effectively explained that, i'll just say this:+1"
"1.0"
"100.0"
"supported, but i seem to think that ccp has this thing about... well... i don't want to say \"wasting players time\" but, more so towards \"extending play time to allow as few things as possible to happen in a certain period of time\".it'd be awesome to have a template manager, similar (but enhanced) to the current fittings section.- have your layout stored locally only - doesn't need to be server stored- allow import/export for either external application use, or, just backup purposeswith the two toons i have doing pi, most of the planets are made exactly the same as i just buy the p0 items, and have the planets grind the mats for a couple of days each go.but, since this whole poco thing, it'd probably just be cheaper now to go and just buy what i want and give up on pi. (honestly, i haven't extracted anything from a planet since pocos were introduced)"
"i can see where profundus is coming from, and he has a valid point. even if balanced, you're not going to be able to look at, say, a nightwraith on dscan and have any idea of what the heck it is you're facing. player intelligence-gathering tools would need to be enhanced somewhat in advance of an implentation of this idea, so people can actually have ways of figuring out just what that scary-looking nightwraith is going to do. also puts a lot more burden on fcs, with enough wildcards floating around to strongly dilute the value of intelligence in general. it's not an unworkable idea, by any means, but it would fundamentally alter the nature of the metagame; after enough time, every ship you face will essentially be custom-built to a specific niche, and you won't see much, if any, or the interesting sort of unusual and surprising ship fitting/usage thing that makes up so much of eve lore. that's a pretty big tradeoff; a big chunk of the metagame will be lost forever. the versatility and appear of a vast array of customizable player-designed ships is a major plus... but may or may not be worth the cost."
"+1 speed penalties on missiles is too gimping. sig or cap reduction i can understand, but turning some of the most sluggish ships in the game in to even bigger slow boats is a little much."
"bumpbe careful what you think, for your thoughts become your words. be careful what you say, for your words become your actions. be careful what you do, for your actions become your character. and character is everything. - author unknown"
"there are enough faction battleships. we need more tech ii battleships to fill niches. basically battleship versions of most tech ii cruisers. more marauders would be nice too: khanid torp abbadonishikone hybrid rokhroden drone hyperioncore complexions arty maelstrom"
"you know, i actually disagree with you here. to start off with, i'm not exactly sure how you measure the inhabiting numbers to be used as a variable in calculating spawn rates. do you calculate alts? if so, could people with multiple accounts inflate the inhabitant size and get more sites for their small corp?add into this that (in my opinion) wormholes aren't for big corps. they're for gangs and squads and small groups. once you get to a population size where the plexes get run too fast and the isk split is pretty meager, it is time to consider pulling up stakes and moving into a higher class wormhole. sure, it's not easy, but if you have the firepower and the numbers, it is the next logical step.i think it's easier to keep the spawn rate based off of the wormhole class, and let the rest sort itself out. if the pond gets too small, it's because you're a big fish."
"i say allow the original poster to have the option to allow \"supported\" \"neutral\" and/or \"not supported\", and only have the option for a vote for the thread, not each post. basically, yeah... a poll."
"overall +0.8 for this proposal.just my thoughts (i only skimmed) if ccp were to give another itemid (as mentioned) for the bpc then allow for merging bpc runs together so long they have the same me/pe values would pretty much solve the problem. this would save having several t2 bpcs kicking around, since most of them never have a range outside of -4/-4 to +4/+4.the only trick for ccp would be to have a sql transaction happen that'd look for a currently defined bpc, create a new itemid with the old bpc settings, then delete the old bpc. i know there are millions of bpcs out there, and doing something like this would be seriously io intensive. the other thing that could be done is instead of doing bulk transactions like this would be to not make any more bpcs the existing way, just create the items the new way. it might cause some ui grief as to why two seemingly similar bpcs won't merge, but, that'd be just a small thing until all the old bpcs are consumed."
"limit all ter3 bc to use short range turrets only , at this point they are undefeatable at sniping at 150k and moving at 2500ms no cruiser can ever get near them in one piece.also is becoming the only ship to use in fleets and we all left the bs docked in station.the ter3 bc is suppose to be a bs killer, dog fighter bc with good tracing and speed and signature radius for defense."
"\"your doing it wrong kid.\"*quote from some random movie or other*================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"probes are hard \"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" - abrazzar"
"to be fair, probes don't do jack if the target is moving 2+k/s, best case scenario puts you at 20km range which is pretty much useless.they are bc's, they currently sport bs lock range .. adjust their lock range to bc levels and some harsher sacrifices will have to be made for them to function at the extreme ranges allowed by their guns."
"this is my favorite gatecamping ship:that screams fitting sacrifices, does it not? \"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" - abrazzar"
"they have no tank. can't you just snipe them right back?"
"i have been doing the killing with them tre3<U+FFFD>s, by the time the bs<U+FFFD>s lock a target we already kill 2 of the bs. i only like to express my concern that very soon you only see ter3 bc on fleets and station camping<U+FFFD>s and gates and no need for warp disruptors also ."
"and thus, tornados will be ac fitted and \"short range.\" winmatar wins!"
"are pulses with scorch considered short range too? heh \"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" - abrazzar"
"epic troll is epic or terrible idea is terrible.and while we're at it, let's just make sleeper sites respawn instantly in the same system and allow sov."
"it temporarily disables one of the core attractions of wormspace.i'm also not in favor of a new special wormhole that turns on local chat for 24 hours, or a new special wormhole that turns sleepers into regular k-space rats for 24 hours. this new special wormhole that generates a stargate for 24 hours would be in the same category.it's not a new feature, it's a removal of an existing feature."
"certianty? i can hardly make any proposals about wormholes without a cluster of comments about how wormholes are supposed to be unpredictable and mysterious. in a lot of ways i agree with the notion that wormholes are the lawless frontier where the unexpected is the norm, although i live in one so i have a vested interest in them not being total chaos.i understand the impulse to keep a handle on ideas like this so that the \"mysterious\" doesn't make w-space unlivable. i think you and i share that motivation. but keep in mind that wormhole settlers aren't farmers. we're pioneers. neither am i. which is why i'm not suggesting either of these ideas."
"not a bad idea. and the proposed line of thinking saves ammunition on shooting things that don't drop ****.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"i'll support this as a low priority idea as written, since from both an rp and player perspective it is useful, if not ideal from a developer point of view."
"imagine taking 4x 425mm prototype gauss guns, welding them together along with independent internal tracking computers and housing that in an extra large turret casing with high speed tracking servos. the powergrid and cpu demands for this module would be on par with other extra large modules.as you'd expect, i used the 425mm prototype gauss gun as a benchmark. for brevity, i'll use 425pgg instead of writing it all out. i'll explain my thinking:the capacity (ammo) is huge. with 10 m3, it can hold 100 large hybrid rounds (they are 0.1 m3 each). the size of this ammo bay is the same as other extra large turrets; it just uses smaller rounds.the volume is identical to the volume of the other extra large hybrid turrets.the mass is identical to the volume of the other extra large hybrid turrets. mass for some of these modules don't make any sense when you really look at them, so this is just a throwaway number.the reload time is 10 seconds. this is considerably longer than any of the other extra large turrets (they reload in 5 seconds). i figured that it is appropriate for the number of rounds it holds. at 10 seconds, it takes as long to reload this as it would to reload a scan probe launcher.the activation cost is 50 gj per cycle. each cycle represents 1 of the 4 guns in the battery discharging. while it shoots the equivalent of a 425pgg round, it uses almost 3 times as much capacitor as a single 425pgg does. this is because the module maintains a sustained ignition charge, rather than the spikes that 425pgg's use. the activation cost works out to be slightly more than the other extra large guns per second.the structure hitpoints are identical to the structure hitpoints of the other extra large hybrid turrets.the accuracy falloff is identical to the 425pgg.the tracking speed is 0.005 rads/sec slower than a 425pgg. i justify this by considering most of the considerable bulk of this module is comprised of actuators and alignment drives. the combined volume of 4x 425pggs is 80 m3, which leaves 3920 m3 of additional targeting computers, motors and fire control. the slightly lower tracking speed is a modest disadvantage over 4 individual 425pggs.the rate of fire is 3 seconds. i got this value by looking at the rate of fire of a single 425pgg, dividing it by 4 (2.375 seconds) and then rounding up. this battery fires one of the 4x 425pggs every 3 seconds, cycling back through to the first in 12 seconds. this rate of fire is actually 20% slower than 4 single 425pggs.the damage modifier is identical to the damage modifier of a 425pgg.the optimal range is identical to the optimal range of a 425pgg.the signature resolution is identical to the signature resolution of 425pgg's.considering the high slot restrictions that i've been proposing workarounds for in this thread, modules of this type would solve all of the problems without necessitating elaborate changes. these modules would only be fittable onto dreadnoughts, and don't even begin to compare with the destructive capabilities of their extra large siege weapons. they would trade raw damage for tracking speed, and would allow dreadnoughts the ability to engage cruiser and battleship sized craft."
"i agree. sub caps are balanced nicely.... vs other sub caps. vs caps and supers they are op in a group of 5 or less. never mind a blob.right now, our rock paper scissor equation is:sub caps > caps < supers < sub capswhat we need is:t1 sub caps <= t1 caps ft1 sub caps (battleships) = t1 capst2 sub caps (battleships) >= t1 capssub caps < t2 capst1 caps <= t1 supersft1 caps = t1 superst2 caps > t1 supersenough t1 supers in a blob >= t2 capssub cap + super engagements need to be eradicated or made so useless and futile in influencing the outcome of engagements, that people will be willing to field more caps and supers in teh face of multiple hundred man strong sub cap blobs. caps need to become the new sub caps in terms of super support. faction caps need to become a super match while t2 caps need to become super killers."
"remove tracking penalty in siege so that titans no longer speed tank them.everything else is fine as is."
"a moros had before drone nerf 1500 dps with 5 ogre2.over 1000 dps with sentry drones. that's why ccp nerfed. i know because i have dread 5 and i did missions with a navy apoc + a dread (moros assist with sentry drones) in low sec.6 blocade mission with these ships was completed within 48 minutes. that was over 150m/hour isk.maybe do you talking about second dread drone nerf, when they lost their all drones."
"eve combat on the fun-scale (read: small-scale) has evolved into a tracking competition, with just about all participants able to operate effectively in the <25km bracket which was the pulse laser's only redeeming feature.now is the perfect time to introduce the third pulses which have been missing for as long as i can remember, and bring laser selection up to par with hybrids and projectiles.add gatling variants to medium and large weapon categories."
"me. i've found a lot of the unbroken salvage from exploration sites."
"i stand corrected then, just ran the calculations for a fairly average rev fit:2.3mil against explosive to 2.85mil against em.on the other hand, it's not the dreads that are the major issue (they're just dps, albeit quite a bit of it). losing carriers is a bigger issue due to the loss of the rr and cap transfer they supply to the rest of the fleet, and your typical triage archon is far squishier ehp-wise than the rev above, despite having quite a bit more active tank to work with. this is where pantheon carriers need to step in and fill the gap (and willing pilots who don't get all butthurt over carrier lossmails, too, although it seems that those are hard to come by, although pantheon carriers do seem to blow up less often than their triage counterparts, i wonder why?)."
"i like. people in the past have claimed that courier contracts are the solution to shipping rigged ships via freighter. that argument is flawed as you cannot issue a contract to yourself."
"disallowing ejection is a good move, but make sure there's a way for the ships to be deposited at a pos.what price point would you see for this ship? between orca and freighter? on par with orca?"
"to be honest, i see it as just over the cost of a freighter. it's intended (i believe) at the moment to be a tier 2 freighter (same ratio as the dominix vs the megathron etc) and would be priced as such."
"and yes, it would be able to change out the contents of its hold at a pos.domu, you are correct in your line of thinking, in reference to it being a tier 2 freighter. so yes, it should be just above the price of the existing freighters.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"over the past few days, i've been getting inspiration for a proposal for sovereignty 2.0 from all the ideas i've put into this one.might start penning it down."
"i would implement name changes like this: name changes cost 10,000,000 isk (or some appropriate fee). name changes can only be done once every 12 months (like an attributes remap). history of name changes remains in player info (like corporation history). a player's name history can be searched by other players for 10,000,000 isk via the current in-game search agents. comments/benefits:this is a simple solution and it provides a nice balance. a player who changes his name has a level of privacy, but if someone wants to do a thorough search then the full history will be revealed. players can't escape their past. it's all there if somebody does a search.name changes would act as a nice little isk sink too.you can change your name on your ebay account (where real life scams occur) but not your character name in eve? i'm sure it's not a high priority now, but i can't see a valid reason not to allow name changes."
"let me see, the number of goons or friends of goons answering, they are obviously told there stupid mindless hoard that they needed to post.i disagree about removing implants, it allow options."
"look how dumb and mad you are!!!!thanks for branch btw m8 \"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" - abrazzar"
"ban npc forum alts from csm forumso/'\o"
"sported, could be useful for multiple areas within the game once its implemented, it could be easily expanded on as needed."
"+1 definately a good idea"
"1.0"
"last i checked, this was already in the game. i spent a while collecting trade goods like this in a kestrel one time."
"nope.that's funny. so there's no such thing as awoxers, never anyone getting ganked because they didn't pay attention for a few minutes or seconds, etc. i can undock and go afk for hours upon hours and expect to come back to a ship instead of a pod in a station?right.the last time i took a loss while ratting was when i was in delve. incidentally, that was also one of the last times i ratted, because it's much more profitable/less stressful to do a vast majority of things in hisec rather than in nullsec.who's presuming?"
"i just think that effect on the ship rather than the missile are unnecessary t2 gun ammo got these taken away as they were too gimping, i think its time unguided missiles got the same"
"fw lp shop doesn't encourage lowsec involvement, it encourages flying of sbs and the art of risk aversion."
"balance existing hulls first, kthxbye.to elaborate: there is no room in the line-ups for a navy bc as they would get +50%ehp, slots, damage, drones etc. they would effectively be in between the tier1 and 2 bs in power, only difference being weapons range with all other characteristics much better. one could add a bc support craft of some sort, but would be kind of boring and probably overlap with t2 cruisers something fierce.navy tier3 bs has room, but what is the point? all it would accomplish is introduce a high-end ship for the isk rich to make up for their flaccid epeens .. it wouldn't add anything of real value other than \"another ship\" no matter how you style it.could see them introduced as mini-dreads which are asked for elsewhere, give them a miniaturized siege module (1/3rd all numbers or so) and then make the same module available for fitting on t2 bs sometime later .. private sector using military tech after the fact."
"with capital guns stupidity as the t3 battlecruisers with large guns ??? :ddd"
"bump"
"i would just like to point out, that 99% of everybody here would like to see the bo boosted in terms of pvp.from a making isk & logistical perspective, these ships work wonderfully as they are. sneaking into enemy lines with transports and recon gangs, scanning down sites, jewing lewt and jump out with boat loads of the stuff.yes i would like to see these ships get some love, but when will we stop demanding that love only effect those aspects of eve that allow you to kill and destroy?we need some more non killing game play focused ships."
"they are usefull, not need changes."
"you are alone with that point of view.a 700ish mil battleship that is useful for almost nothing and can bridge like 3 systems at best."
"i've made billions of isk with that useless ship grinding sigs in soviet mordor with some alts in recons and transies.i've even hotdropped with those ships and on a regular occasion, bridge transport fleets for minor hauling ops through low sec and 0.0.so no, i share his view.what you want is a 700 mil titan wannabe wtfownmobile that only works in pvp."
"suggestion is to use the contract system to define the parameters of a combat, which then becomes legal in hisec. out of corp 1vs1 duels don't really happen because of the opportunity for cheating/scamming. scamming isn't necessarily bad so long as it doesn't limit the game by becoming too pervasive. arena areas or simulators have been suggested in the past. i believe that using the contract system is preferable as it uses the existing game environment, and because the fight would be public others can observe, enriching the game experience of everyone.under the contract system a 4th type of contract would be added to the existing list, \"duel\". contract structure is most similar to existing courier contracts.on the first page the public/private options would say if you want the fight to be open to all comers or is a challenge to a specific pilot.on the second page (which is similar to courier) you define:- the system the fight will take place in- the ship class to be used, eg frigate/frigate, af/af, cruiser/cruiser, etc.- nominate whether pilots are permitted to have implants, or if they must be free of skill hardwiring implantson the third page (again similar to courier) you define:- reward, i.e. how much you pay if your opponent wins- collateral (probably a better term here), i.e. how much you receive if your opponent wins- expiration, i.e. how long the contract is open for before it expires- days to complete, i.e. how long the two pilots have to engage without concord intervention while in the nominated system.- description, i.e. any commentary or non binding additional details, such as defining eve time and proposed location within system such as at a certain planet or station.on the fourth page you confirm the details are correct.other issues:- fight complete when a ship is destroyed- collateral only lost if fight takes place to prevent scams- duel is lost if a pilot uses boosters/logistics/fleet bonuses/illegal implants - code must check this before contract is completed and reward payed out- contract doesn't grant mutual war status or equivalent to prevent scams (concord still intervenes if ship classes don't match or if outside the nominated system)- there should be an easy way for pilots to see another pilot's duel contract record, which could lead to league tables- no consequences to either pilot if fight doesn't take place to prevent scams and in recognition of rl- no pod killing- system encourages pvp fits - warp scramblers effectively necessary to prevent a pilot who is loosing fleeing to either leave system or change to different ship of the same classwhile the contract concept is designed to limit the potential for scams/cheating, it doesn't prevent pilots doing research into what ships and modules an opponent might use, which might even involve preemptive ship scanning /flying dummy fits until ready to fightcould be good for the game as a whole - mailing lists of duel devotees could be created, pilots could gain reputation as capable duelists, provides a spectator sport if contract details published, potentially gives the news team something to report.i'm not a programmer so don't know how difficult this would be to implement & interface with the other aspects of standings & defining when combat is legal. however the code already has a mechanism for noting when you have kill rights on someone, and if kill rights are ever turned into tradeable bounty contracts as has been suggested, this duel contract concept might be incorporated at the same time.best,aleena"
"so, you want to add restrictions to combat in a sandbox game? not supported at all.a better solution would be for someone to set up a database of people known to break 1v1s and have people check against that before fighting them. that would be in keeping with the sandbox nature of the game and it wouldn't require any effort on ccp's part (meaning they can keep working on features that could actually be used).also, such a system would be massively complicated and there would still be holes in the system that people would exploit to get an advantage (at which point the parties that were cheated would be railing against ccp because the system didn't protect them)."
"if you want a duel, drop a can. we don't need ccp spending time dealing with thousands of whine petitions when their honourable 1v1 rifter duel goes wrong."
"contracts add \"restrictions\" to sandbox?how about we trade by the honor system. you give me all your stuff first, then i'll hand you the isk. no? well, we obviously can't have restrictions.hint: \"restriction\" does not apply to something that's optional. feel free to give someone your stuff."
"i actiually like the idea. its the closest i could agree to implement pvp arena in everead and support: don't mess with our wh's what is your stance on wh stuff?"
"cosmos missions/ sites i think is some of the best pve content in the game, it has been known to be buggy in the past and has some serious issues such as only being able to complete content once and being locked out of the content if you get things wrnng and fail missions, in my opinion this content was better than the epic arcs, more communal and more involved.i fully support expanding on this content, create a journal create more missions and allow it to be repeated every year or so."
"calculating to see whether a shot can be taken is rather easy. - do, and remember, the calculation of distances between you and all ships. - -"
"from what i understand, the problem with renting the slots out is that you have to be part of an alliance. if you're in a corp and not in an alliance, you're being fubarred on the efficiencies.however, our pos is usually maxed for cpu anyways, so not that huge of an ordeal for us."
"thumbs up from me - there is not a lot of choice atm with rigged ship transportation and this would fill the gap nicely."
"yes...yes it will.once offgrid fleet boosters are nerfed all pvp will be completely pointless and eve will die."
"don't see the problem. this nerf would hurt our miners too."
"best low sec proposition i've heard"
"i support this proposal. +1"
"something about this idea feels fishy, but i can't reason my way to it. must be fear of change lol.+1"
"aggressive nutmeg wrote:i would implement name changes like this: name changes cost 10,000,000 isk (or some appropriate fee). name changes can only be done once every 12 months (like an attributes remap). history of name changes remains in player info (like corporation history). a player's name history can be searched by other players for 10,000,000 isk via the current in-game search agents. players applying to a corporation would be asked to give the corporation 10 mil isk for the background check. that wouldn't be good for the game.the rest is reasonable. some extra isk sinks, as small as they may be, are good."
"they've actually reduced the differential between npcs in different plexes lately. caldari npc do not jam in many plexes, and in reality they are a nuisance to the properly sized ships in a given plex. there are also numerous ways to avoid them altogether. 1) don't fight inside plex, 2) don't go near button to \"activate\" them. so, ccp is listening and making alterations that are clear to anybody wishing to actually run plexes.the proposal for telling militias where the plexes are spawning is a decent one, and it will help when two like-minded gangs are itching for a fight. good stuff. [it can easily be gamed, which is fine. example: you have a minimum number of guys enter a plex and the rest stay out. response fleet arrives to find opponent has 3x the number the intel map says they do. example 2: plexing fleet \"spams intel\" by opening large number of plexes in far off area, and then bails when response fleet arrives.]however, if you are fighting for your militia and are more interested in occupancy than fights, your side will blob a plex and discourage even fights when you can. you want to win occupancy, not get good fights. so, there you have it in a nutshell. nothing ccp implements can encourage one side to suicide into another side and lose all of its ships. everybody who engages in plexing warfare has this figured out and it's not a big deal. fight when you can, avoid fight when you can't."
"i'm glad your warming to the proposal.i often go in plexes and do not go near the button because the minmatar npcs will start spamming missiles at me. it is one of the best ways i know to get a decent fight in this game. but when i do this, i can't say i am running plexes or in anyway helping my militia in the occupancy war, since i am not really running the plex. yes there will be situations where people will open plexes and then camp the acceleration gate or even the gate into the system. but those ships that are sitting outside the plex camping could potentially be running plexes different themselves. so while they are playing it safe they are not helping their militia as much as they could if they split up and *all* started running timers. the militia that has the courage to split up and run many timers at once will be rewarded with more plexes captured. that will be the main reason why blobs will be split up. ccp will need to tweak with the number of plexes that spawn. there can't be too many such that both sides can all plex and never have to fight over the same plex. but there can't be too few that the side with larger numbers can easilly camp them. i would err on the side of having too many at first. i think allot of people - like myself would just go looking for plexes that the enemy started in order to fight for those. if i saw a wt opened a minor plex in a t1 frigate within 7 jumps i would likely be there before they could finish the plex. of course all minors will now be fought over with nnothing but destroyers but that is another issue. i really think if they did this people who are looking for pvp would find their killboard blowing up with kills and losses in great fights. make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"great idea, eve really needs to become more lively.+1"
"the npc haulers do not travel station to station, they undock and slow boat off grid."
"why not, as long as it'sa) limited to a \"little things\" makeover, not a large project - eve is primarily player-driven, the npcs should never be a major focus.b) kept out of nullsec. we don't need any more lag from irrelevant things happening around fleet fights."
"+1be careful what you think, for your thoughts become your words. be careful what you say, for your words become your actions. be careful what you do, for your actions become your character. and character is everything. - author unknown"
"good idea. make the sites with the common ores (veld through omber and pyro) able to be scanned to 100% with 1 probe and astrometrics 1 at 16 au. that should take care of the new player argument."
"while i like the idea in principle this would absolutely murder the activity of ratting, especially when grinding sec (which is bad enough as is)."
"i have a friend who has great sec rating and he almost never kills belt rats. there are other ways to raise sec standing."
"just out of interest, how? i've always done it by the old one bs each system null roams. a more boring approach would be awesome though also, good point on this killing ratting. i would say just have this for the high value ores, but then it wouldn't really fix botting. although it might make it less profitable.[center]\"i don't troll, i just give overly blunt responses that annoy people who are wrong but don't want to admit it. it's not my fault that people have sensitive feelings\" -mxzf[/center]"
"the only other effective method i am aware of is tagging multiple lvl 4 missions through a few systems. however, this isn't too viable without either having decent sec to begin with or a lot of blues in teh area.however i would be wiling to lose rats if i could purchase my way to good sec."
"i had this idea when i was part of the csm. afaik, things were pretty balanced on like vs dislike. i wrote a whole proposal for this concept as part of my redesign of the pos system, available here.to fix the scanning problem, i was thinking that barges (only) should be able to use the onboard scanner to find grav sites, and extend all sites in 0.8 or lower to grav only. in 1.0 and 0.9 systems (where schools are located and such) keep the sites static and visible without scanning, but maybe accessed by an acceleration gate that only allows frigates."
"1. is there enough wh systems? if not what class needs more?are they under or overpopulated?i would endorse an increase of w-systems.2. are pos mechanics enabling to many people to just clean out weak systems and not bother with harder targets?don't really think so.3. should access and roles be reworked? (doubttfull i will be alone on that one)corp access yes. how you get into the w-space no.4. should moons be mineable for goo?....(waits for the hate from that)yes but for stuff completely different from 0.0 that way both keep their unique properties. this could possibly mean new materials for ships.5. should sleeper sites and other sites spawn rates be raised to foster larger corp/alliance growth.maybe only in c5 and c66. should site isk/rewards be lowered or raised? upped a little but not much.7. do wh pvp mechanics need an overhaul? (many things come to mind here, need to pop those carebears that jump back to hs) only thing i would like to see added is a comms relay for pos's. this item would allow people to be seen in local but would eat a good piece of resources.8.it was stated by ccp long ago that wh's were not meant for long term habitation, since they lost that bet should they now look at making them more viable for larger numbers to encourage larger scale wh system warfare and not just the russians taking out weak systems for fun. yes9. are wh masses and spawn times what they should be? masses need adjusting i think. they are ok for c1 and c2 but i would like to see c3 allow freighters through but not dreadnoughts and above so maybe just a restrition that only indy command and freighters capital class ships can pass through 10. do you think i am pissing in the wind here to think ccp cares about wh dwellers and our corps/alliances?yes but if we don't try they won't even look at w-space for an overhaul."
"also: i wonder how many of those folks just sit there in their home wh all day and never get out and shoot sleepers, gas, ... in connected w-space systems. a dual-static c2 can house a very good sized corporation (100+, easy) without getting stuffy wrt the iskies if you're good at farming your static."
"1. i see a lot of empty systems, so yes.2. i don't see a problem, but i'm not sure i understand the question.3. yes, but not too drastically. i'd rather see this done in increments to make sure they get it right, one papercut at a time. ccp hasn't shown a great track record for making sweeping all-in-one changes.4. no. moongoo is for nullsec. t3 salvage is for w-space.5. as i understand it, people have reported an observable drop in spawns if a wormhole is too regularly farmed. if that truly is systematic and not subjective, then that needs to be removed. there shouldn't be a penalty for high levels of activity. other than that, i wouldn't change much except maybe to slightly increase the overall number of sites so that there are one or two more per system on average.6. wormhole rewards are almost entirely market driven. leave them alone.7. hell no, don't touch wh pvp.8. if anything, make a few new classes of wormholes that serve as long-term connections between two w-space systems. maybe remove their mass limits and have them open for a fixed 48 hours, allowing significant traffic between systems and enabling some serious warfare to go down before the hole closes."
"i for one partly agrees with the op on this one, but only if those options remain optionsin that way, the op and the likes could anchor their mail, ip and maybe even mac if they're more concerned about account security than mobilty and flexibility and the rest could just don't give a damn about those options except for the extra work of implementing those options, what downsides are there?"
"yes because necro'ing thread is smart!not================ stop the evemail spam!"
"you can't mean that it's been inactive for to long to be responded tobut if you're not, then what are you implying?"
"if you had bothered to read before you postyou'd notice no ones touched this thread in a monththat tends to bring one to a rather obvious conclusion================ stop the evemail spam!"
"didn't doublecheck until u said that, just saw it rather high up and the date 15my apologies, feeling clumsy missing something like that"
"heyat least you noticedalbeit lateryour better off than most at this point================ stop the evemail spam!"
"panther speed bonus would be epic if it could actually go fast, it needs to be like 700ms faster"
"if i wanted a wtfpwnmobile i could get one for much less than 700mil thats for sure.what else can i get that costs 700 mil?a carrier hull, almost 4x tier 3 bs hulls, a fully fitted t3 cruiser, 21 hurricanes, 20 drakes...what i and a vast majority of people want is a ship that is worth what it costs.i want a ship that can bridge a pvp force a valuable distance, somewhat defend itself (eg not like the sin which is just a bus driver), can be self sufficient enough to covertly deploy a gang of 10-20 bombers/recons deep into hostile territory all without needing a fuel truck in support.how i think that it can be achieved is though what most people have been preaching:bigger fuel bay, longer jump/bridge range, better resists, cov ops cloak.this is not about one ship to rule them all (may as well continue with the lotr theme), but a ship that is worth using/loosing rather than the least flown ship in the game.and the answer for this has nothing to do with an invisible local list so lets steer clear of that other topic."
"not need another i win button for cloak user persons.be a man and fight as a man. not need range buffs for blackops. that's fine already."
"clovert cloak is only a iwin button if the ship gets nullified. decloaking a battleship with covert cloak in a bubble is realy easy. to avoid it you need a alt and cyno l5 trained (60days skill minimum (cyno l5 + recon/covop)). it is not iwin, besides that a good fitted loki can covop + nulli fied with 55k efhp & 479 racial dps..... it is not iwin"
"*facepalm*"
"hopefully i can pique the interest of all of the long-haul space truckers out there to get this proposal supported so maybe one day it could be found in game.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"i support this"
"oh no! the miners! think of the miners!"
"i agree with this ...i would however leave 'mining' bonus's off the table.orca's and rorqs cost waaaay too much with minimal defenses to force them to be sitting in an asteroid belt in 0.0 space.otherwise +1"
"absolutely support this. low-sec pirates have to claw and scrape for hours to get anything even resembling a decent fight, and as far as i'm concerned, good fights are the only reason to play eve. more people in low-sec, especially more people in low-sec looking for fights, can only be a good thing. +1"
"agree. learning implants is the main reason why i don't want to leave high-sec."
"no, your risk aversion is the main reason you don't leave highsec. btw, nice monocle."
"your risk aversion is the main reason you post with an alt laffeaux \"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" - abrazzar"
"maybe the best idea i'v read so far here."
"this wouldn't fix the problem with afk botting seeing as the programs can use the on board scanner. the better answer would be to add an extra high slot that can only be fitted with a scan probe launcher and make the site scanable to 100% with 1 probe and astrometrics 1 at 8-16 au. anyone then could find them if there was an active player manning the controls."
"the only losers to this change are botters and lazy players. i don't like either of them so +1"
"maybe, but there are someone that ends up hearing us and thinking about it!i will definitly fly one of those! new pos system new sov system"
"i've been playing eve since 2007 and when i first joined i found solo extremely satisfying. i also enjoy small gang warfare with friends but tend to avoid the big fights as i don't find these enjoyable. i like flying where it's a bit harder and skill/experienced based on situations rather than following fc orders. this been said i will be specifically talking about nullsec nano solo as this is all i know.that been said i believe the quality of solo pvp has declined over the past 3 or 4 years. yes this is a mmo and designed as a multiplayer game. but that doesn't always mean gang vs gang. that can mean solo vs solo, solo vs gang, solo vs oh my god run!. to me that means many people playing the same game having fun and interacting as they do so. whether that interaction is corp chat or been shot at.my opinion on the main changes that have declined solo pvp are as follows:#1 the great nano nerffor those of you that weren't around when this happened. basically all of the ships base speed stats were reduced. this obviously effected the quicker ship than the slower ones. now don't get me wrong. i do believe this was needed as 8kms vagabonds were just ridiculous. but here's the thing. they we're ridiculously fun, fast, annoying and stupid. they caused drama. less organised fleets with no webs or ships to deal with them could succumb to a single skilled solo pilot. solo pilots could make a name for themselves. yes the nerf was needed but i think it went a little too far to the extent that overloaded battlecruisers can achieve the same standard speeds.#2 introduction of anomaliesanomalies brought wealth and quality to owning sovereignty in null sec. this part is all well and good. however with this they also brought a big decline to nullsec solo pvp. most solo roams start by choosing a destination and seeing what you can find on the way there. before anomalies people would be ratting in belts to make isk. even in their shiney ships. this opened up a whole lot of opportunities to catch people quickly if you knew the systems you were visiting or got lucky. it also allowed you to use these ships as catalysts to great fights. however now with anomalies most people are at these. yes you can scan them down within 4 seconds. but then you need to locate which one they are in by ship spinning the directional scanner and working out where they are. if they haven't already started warp out in the 4 seconds it takes to scan. they most definitely have before you've had a chance to locate it with the directional scanner. yes probes can be used but this is beside the point of the belt ratting.#3 warp scrambler changethe warp scrambler change disabled the target ships microwarpdrive. now i really like this change myself. it means frigates can tackle much more effectively and you have a better chance of catching nano ships. however i think to myself \"why couldn't this have been introduced before the nano nerf?\". maybe this would have brought the tackle needed to catch the insanely fast ships but also leave the skill and quality of solo pvp intact. also i believe with the mod now been able to disable a targeted ships mwd it should also use more capacitor to do so.in conclusioni propose the following changes to some extent. increased incentives to belt rat. maybe increase the officer/faction spawn rate? increased speed for cruiser and below hulls. allowing races other than minmatar better speed capability. increased cap usage of the warp scrambler. new improved tackle should cost more capacitor. if you maths types out there want to put some figures together please do so. thanks for you time."
"wanted to point out that i know plenty of pilot who belt rat in shiny ships.best odds of getting that officer spawn in belts, and hence great riches ;)"
"that's fair tallian. but do you also know people who do anomalies? point been they'd have been in the belts too."
"i do anoms mostly, better guaranteed cash. i also spent a short time in stain before anoms, and i know what you mean. much as i like having targets for small gang roams(not a soloist myself) i also like making isk without dying to every hostile that comes through, and belt ratting didn't support as many people, so i'm torn on a personal level.objectively tho, your right. there aren't enough targets for small gangs, all we do is force people to dock up and wait for us to leave, mildly disrupting their isk making unless you wanna go afk."
"i remember getting a wardec from digitalcommunist when my account was a week old and me and a handful of punishers missing lots of core skills going up against his nano'd up pre-nerf taranis.not supported."
"and i remember losing 3 ships in a row to someone else in a nanoranis. they fixed that, now its a little more player skill based, and eve is known for teaching the hard way."
"no it's notif it were the case, keylogger would'nt existno it's not he did'nt say it was ccp's fault"
"what he meant was that it is your responsibility to secure your own networks and computers, not that of ccp if your system is compromised, ccp are not under any obligation to help you with thatthe fact that they try to do their best, without threatening the eve market or opening themselves up to keylogger based scams from rmters, is really really nice and doesn't deserve a giant whine thread along the lines of \"as far as i can tell, the only reason is that ccp does not want to do the work of fixing these problems\"anyway, quit necro'ing this horrible horrible thread[center]\"i don't troll, i just give overly blunt responses that annoy people who are wrong but don't want to admit it it's not my fault that people have sensitive feelings\" -mxzf[/center]"
"the one thing that a authenticator would do is provide a major obstacle against botters and rmt sellersat the moment you can create a 100% untraceable account in evei know of no other game where this is possiblebefore people say how1 create a false email account using many of the free email services available2 sign up with a vm hosting company (in order to hide your true ip address)3 run a simple script which configures your machine to use a free proxy service 4 create eve account using false email account and run eve via vm hosting company5 use plex to activate account6 untraceable accounthaving read the december csm meeting minutes all i can surmise is that ccp screegs loves rmt"
"except that the rmters/botters would simply decline to use authentication or, if you're trying to force everyone to use authentication, anyone who cares at all about their personal privacy will simply refuse to use it and many will likely stop playing the gameccp is not and should not be responsible for leaks from the user side if someone was capturing passwords when they were being sent or had hacked the authentication servers, that would be ccp's fault but ccp is no more responsible for someone getting keylogged than they would be if you wrote down your login information and handed it to someone as you were walking down the street it's the user's fault for having poor security (regardless of if they were aware of it)"
"thisand its already been saidto deathrepeatedly================ stop the evemail spam!"
"the op's issue was already resolved with the very first reply on this threadmy post being the second reply was in agreement with that saying it againstop buying isk from third party sites problem solved/thread"
"so just to clarify you never play any mmo that requires you to enter your personal information, including steam, x-box live, etcalso i presume you never use internet shopping as well as they usually require your personal information as well"
"so just to clarify you never actually use your brain or think about things before you speak when it comes to common sense on matters of personal responcibility? your answer to everything is to blame the companygot it================ stop the evemail spam!"
"~sign up for 14 day trial.~nice game.~got a cdkey from steam.~load it to my account.~meet all prerequisites.~what?"
"wrong forum..file petition. (click the help button in-game)or go to the new citizens section on the forums...not sure if that will help either.================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"cd key from steam?"
"relog into the game."
"faction navy frigs are commonly known as \"police frigs\", so it saddens me that the ships have no method of turning on a siren or strobe light of some sort to fulfill their law enforcement roles. all faction frigs should be redesigned to have a light such as the one on the comet, and furthermore should have a included module that simply starts making the light flash 2-3 colors rapidly. this way, i can role play out my police officer fantasies."
"only if the comet gets it's old skin back, even as a nex thing.give me back my space police car ;_;"
"here you go. problem solved. /thread"
"when we use that line on super cap hulls.... we get nerd rage from space poor hobos"
"cant make everyone happy i suppose, but if you can make a majority happy, the whingers can keep on whinging!i just want some sort of black ops change to be on ccp's list of things to do and i will be happy."
"812 days and counting........2 years 2 month and 21 days.... or 116 weeks 19.488 hours...1.169.280 minuts...70.156.800 seconds and counting...and herecsm playerbase crowdsourcing july 2011 list:results without eve university (ivy league) votes results results for eve university (ivy league) results for alliances that hold sovereignty results for alliances that do not hold sovereignty results for players who do not belong to an alliance results for alliances that do not hold sovereignty (excluding eve university)"
"nicely thought out and a good idea. i fully support this."
"this sounds like a pretty cool idea to me."
"i like this one. supported."
"let's get some more support. spread the word, and maybe we can get the csm and devs to take a look at it.we want new shiny ships!i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"sounds like a usefull ship to me, though i would make it a regular freighter, without any slots. aka, a freighter that has a big ship carrying bay. wether or not to allow ejecting them in space is a bad idea or not, i'll not comment on.either way, make it 2 of them.. a regular one and a jump capable tech 2 one.also, imho, 3 battleships isn't all that much. make it 4 or 5 with proper skilling. ( ie freighter 5 )"
"+1 i would like to see more done with pipi was an amazing idea making it so newer players can get into a industry nich not taken up by 0.0 alliances that control every single moon. i would like to see some big additions added on to pi to make it do more t"
"+1 like for the thread topic of adding more realistic movements to avatars."
"and +1 for force-field bras."
"first of all, two step - i hope i can count on your support for this motion.now on to the topic:right now wh's are unique in their design and with that they are very different in their nature than k-space.there are hard limits on what one can move trough a certain type of wh.this limits both: ship size and ships amount that can at one time move into given wh in short time. this allows us to keep wh in range of small-pvp scale engagements. which is great for wh gameplayif anyone bottered to watch rnk famous clarion call 3 on youtube - you can siege wh with small forces. once you overcome initial resistance with good planning and resources you can start amassing troups inside (once you controll wh's in system its piece of cake)wh are like fortresses of middle age europe - you need to actually take time and preparations to siege them. but once you breach outer walls you can move more people in, as the gate is broken, and walls crumbled.as history of w-space showed - no wh is inpenetrable.what some members of csm are sugesting is terrible - to implement some form of wh stabilizers? this will remove the hard limit that make this space unique. this will remove the hard work required to siege well-defended wh's. this will actually hurt more the small corps that dont have huge forces, but just enough to fight on equall footing against forces that can move trough their wh limits.what w-space needs or could benefit from is totally different than what is proposed: - wh need pos revamp - wh needs individual storing place in hangars and more security of those - wh needs more variety in terms of pve (the same problems incursion have - to predictable) - wh needs more dangers from sleepers (sleepres atacking on safespots, rewarping to mining sites, atacking pos, etc) - wh may need more variety in wh's - like ocassional smaller or lager wh (within current system capital limit - so no capitals in c1-4) - wh may (i stress that - may) need some form of upgrades (this one is very, very delicate subject) - wh may (i stress that - may) need some form of moon-mining (no moon goo, some totally different material that can be linked to some new features or maybe just the source of ice) - again a very delicate subject - wh may need higher triers of wh (c7,8???) with even more difficult to counter bonuses/penalties and even harder sleepres - wh may need more variance in terms of anomalies bonuses (pulsar, blackhole, etc...) - wh may need more wh systems addedwhat wh dont need is: - any form of moving supercaps inside - any form of moving much larger forces trough a single wh - any form of moving capital ships inside lower wh's (c1-4) - any form of prolonging wh life to allow connection to your home wh for entire siege time (jump in, fight over space, reinfore, reinforce time, finish taking donw poses, get loot get back home)read and support: don't mess with our wh's what is your stance on wh stuff?"
"agreed, +1"
"1.0"
"+1 just say no to easy cap and blob mechanics."
"agreed, i may not hang out in w-space often but it's current basic mechanics must remain untouched, they are perfect as is. i don't think anyone can reasonably argue against more site anom/sig variety or adding more systems."
"i agree, though i do think that longer lasting wormholes would be nice to improve quality of wh life, especially for small scale activities. with wh's lasting two days instead of one, it would save you rescanning if yesterday's wormhole system chain still has targets or resources to harvest. unless of course you or someone else exhausted the mass.i'm hardly a wh veteran but don't see how longer wormhole durations would benefit an invasion force. the limiting factor is mass, not duration."
"all depends on what kind of forces are needed to kill enemy.while attacking heavy bunkered capital forces require large ships, so yes, mass if a deciding factor. but when atacking c4 for example, you can move 40 tengus/bc tier 3/command ships/hac's - clean up in two days and get back, while all this time having a way out if **** hits the fan. or get home, do some pve while waiting for reinforcment timer to end than move there again and than get back home - thats still less than needed for wh to enter criticall mass if i remember corectlyread and support: don't mess with our wh's what is your stance on wh stuff?"
"still failing to see how that would be an advantage to invasion forces. a convenience yes, a real advantage? no.going back home and relinquish control of your entry wormhole? your enemy will close it in a few minutes. if you want to come back, you'll need to have a character in the invasion system to find you a new entry (or cycle holes hoping to get lucky).there is always a way out and back home. if you can't go back where you came from, you scan a new hole down. finding an exit from the invasion system should be trivial. if you're really carrying lots of loot, you'll need to consume multiple holes anyway."
"i'm not gona argue about it. you are right.having wh open for longer than 24 hours is not as bad as my first assumption - but the question is, should it be player driven way of expending lifetime of connection or just random wh having longer than usual lifespanedit: weird, part of my post got truncated, so here is the rest:i prefer the second approach, that is part of what i proposed in more variety of opening wh'sread and support: don't mess with our wh's what is your stance on wh stuff?"
"wh's as they currently are, is the closest any part of eve comes to perfect.any \"wh stabilizer\" would be disastrous beyond words."
"as an aside, how many people have to nay/yay something before someone at ccp considers it?"
"spent four hours in a frig looking for a fight last night. and not in a backwater region either... i simply cannot imagine any game which could be marketed on the basis of \"do really boring stuff for four hours and you might get 52 seconds of fun.\" and that's not including logistics grind. if it weren't for my love of space ships, i'd not play this horrible, horrible game.supported... though i think eve needs much, much more to promote combat."
"this.+1"
"ccp has altered plex spawning and has also erred on the side of too many plexes. a minor, medium, and l3 major are available 30 minutes after one closes. it's easy to kill off the spawns in these plexes as well."
"i agree that the changes ccp made are welcome. but they are not enough. they brought the number of dedicated plexers from what 30 to 100? thats still pretty sad for an mmo with about 300k accounts. as far as the npcs i can only speak for amarr fighting the minmatar rats. it can be easy to kill the spawns if you start the plex and keep killing them. but even then if fly a passive tanked pvp fit, you likely have to warp out ot repair your tank if a enemy comes. if the plex was started earlier by somone else then you will definitely not have an easy time clearing it and fighting a wt. you will need to warp off. plexing is still primarilly a pve activity. by that i mean i will do 5 plexes before anyone even bothers to come in for a fight. then if my tank is already demolished which it usually is by the npcs i need to warp out anyway.make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"your risk aversion is the main reason you're in a 5000 strong nbsi alliance."
"i'm just going to assume that you're some scrublord highsec incursion runner and lawl \"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" - abrazzar"
"perhaps they are used by people who've had goon gank squads sent after them for daring to disagree with the high and mighty goons on the forums.but you are the one who is quite wrong. your logic is fail. 1+1 =2 regardless of whether i \"stand behind it\" on my main or quote it with an alt. that statement is correct no matter how many people call the person making it dumb. this applies to more complex arguments as well, such as the one at hand."
"you've foiled my plan!!!!!!!rolling a forum alt essentially makes you able to shitpost all over the eve forums (short of caod if it's npc) and if you start to gain a reputation as a terrible poster, you simply biomass and roll a new forum alt. if you roll a forum alt, it is either for this reason, or because you're dumb enough to believe that somebody will wardec you or send ~goon einsatzgruppen~ after you. it's tinfoil bullshit and you know it. \"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" - abrazzar"
"i count 2 \"*****\" and 1 \"dumb\" in the above. at this rate you are well on your way to cementing your reputation as a terrible poster. you will do better by acknowledging a good argument, and offering a better counter argument, instead of cursing and insulting other posters.you could try to offer a counterargument to mine by explaining exactly why a correct statement becomes invalid depending on who makes it. but you cannot do this. because you are wrong. and you know it."
"tell me more about how an npc corp alt's worthless opinion is \"correct\" or otherwise \"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" - abrazzar"
"i mean, really, by your alliance tag i can tell that you are a) primarily based out of nullsec, b) understand the logistics involved in living in nullsec and c) have to deal with jump clones. if you were posting with an npc corp alt, those observations would not be immediately obvious and i'd assume you're just part of the crowd of aspies who truly and honestly believe that nullsec is a land of honey with zero risk, where people mine abc (lol) in cynojammed systems with 300km of bubbles on every inbound gate. \"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" - abrazzar"
"didn't read every single post in here, but :op doesn't suggest the removal of all implants. only the attribute enhancers, so that you would still have a death penalty when you lose other implants.and i agree. attributes add no fun to the game and only make people worry about them. as far as i am concerned, attributes can be entirely remove (including said implants and remaps).give every skill the same sp/hour rate.edit : oh, and set jc timers to 1 hour or 2. this is also an unneeded annoyance."
"your observations about me are correct. i live and fight in null. this is a fact.the observation that the removal of learning implants would eliminate most of the cost of dying for low sp null secers who fly without hardwiring is also correct. all that remains is the cost to upgrade the clone. this is also a fact.adding slot 1-5 hardwiring implants to the game would not contribute to the cost of dying for pilots who aren't going to use them. look up mathematical proof of 0+0=0. this is also a fact.it doesn't matter who makes the above statements. they are not opinions and so whether i or some nameless faceless forum alt makes them they are still correct statements. the matter of opinion here is whether or not removal of learning implants is good for the game. i agree it's good for low sp t1-fit pvpers who fly without hardwiring. it's not inherently bad for pilots who use a lot of hardwiring. i'm not convinced it is good for the game, because it does remove most of the of risk/reward for losing/keeping a pod. i have yet to hear a good argument that this will result in many more players for eve or significantly more pvp. the way time dilation is working in its current implementation i can predict a lot less fleet pvp in null, but that's another issue.will eve really have a lot more pvp if learning implants are removed? i doubt it. if you map a training plan correctly you make 2610 sp/hour with 2 +4 implants (vs 2700 sp/hour-only 3.33% faster with 2 +5s). most t2 fit battlecruisers cost more than 2 +4s, and a t2 fit bc really is a baseline for what is needed for competent nullsec pvp. so if a 40 million isk implant loss scares people from pvping in null, it should. they obviously can't afford it.pvping cheaply in lowsec and highsec and learning how to save your pod with the warpoff trick as you hit structure eliminates 90% of pod losses. people who cannot manage simple stuff like that are not going to succeed in epic fleet pvp just because the cost of losing implants has been removed. they will just welp and die and lose as much or more isk pvp'ing that way. mastery of game mechanics is what makes eve cheap. if i can grind 200 mill isk/hour i'm not going to sweat a 100 mill clone loss. i will make that during a quick downtime between ops or roams. someone who has trouble making 20 mill/hour is going to be hurt more by implant loss and they should."
"i like it."
"i agree 100% that the rings around the planets should actually be asteroid belts! right now they are \"just rings\", but literally, that's what those rings are supposed to be. sometimes they're gas, and sometimes they're rock. we should definitely be able to mine these.i would also like to see mining get a bit more interesting. right now it's such a grind. asteroid belts should be fricken scary! rocks should be close together, difficult to navigate, maybe a little foggy. crap should be moving all around you. i like the idea of changing the composition of rocks depending on ease of access. by all rights, you should have to scout for the good rocks. asteroid belts should be massive, especially if they're encircling a planet. in turn, the yields would have to be worth the extra work somehow, like you said."
"read the guy's post above yours.no decent miner will even bother scouting or scanning roids, they will mine them all regardless. that's why they are there after all.it would be nice to see a dynamic belts as opposed to the static ones we have now but again, in hi sec, it's not going to make a great deal of difference. it will still be a grind no matter what you do."
"any fix to the current mining system needs to address bot miners. this is a cosmetic thing more than anything and possibly a pvper's way to get easier hulk kills."
"late reply sorry. subtracting an insurance reward from a bounty payout only works if it's the hunted man's own alt doing the killing. if it's a legitimate bounty hunter it's effectively an exploit where the hunted man denies payout to the hunter for minimal investment.reducing the ship explosion payout to 25% means that full plat insurance cannot benefit a self-killer, and in any case the payout to a legitimate hunter is unaffected by insurance or lack thereof."
"nice and short the idea is that if a source of ecm has a very low chance of jamming (say, less than 1 in 10), it should have a 0 chance instead.the logic for this is pretty simple: it makes sense that specialised ecm eafs/recons would be able to jam incredibly effectively.currently, a cruiser with decent sensor strength (say a sacrilege), with an eccm module overheated, and eccm implants, has a decent chance to get jammed by a flight of light/medium ecm drones in the time it takes to kill the drones or another cruiser (if the opponent is, say, recalling and redeploying the drones).basically, 1/10-1/15 seems to make sense, as: t1 frigates should be jammable by small ecm drones.t1 and t2 frigates with eccm or eccm implants should not.eafs should not. etc. this seems to work up to larger ship sizes, too, all the way up to: a recon with 3 overheated eccms and eccm implants should be falcon immune!as it stands, the counter does not work.edit: one more thing i wanted to add, i think this is probably the most significant change to improve solo pvp at the moment. in anything bigger than a frigate fight, there's a good chance the opponent will just ecm drone you if you start to win.having just one more pilot-- to hold tackle, means that this cannot happen. this is really quite unfair to soloists."
"i have a better idea, why don't ccp just give you free kms?ecm working as intended, no changes needed."
"he's not asking for a bugfix, he's asking for a change of intention."
"i actually think ecm should just break lock, not stop you from taking any other action for 20 seconds. the relock time should be all the penalty that ecm grants.why even bother with any other forms of ewar? ecm > all other ewar as it stands atm."
"the intention of ecm is to jam you. the intention of guns is to shoot you. you don't change others' intentions, htfu"
"read the csm minutes that were posted.ccp is looking at a dedicated ship that will be able to find cloaky ships. now won't that be fun?"
"yes, and that has unleashed a flurry of \"remove local\" posts."
"this one ccp will not hear... there is already a zone called wh-space for this... although all thoses that complains about afk cloakers will have to find an other thing to complain about! = ) new pos system new sov system"
"(edit: if you don't know what i'm taliking about, read sumit minutes - theyre is a possibility they will add limited sp respecialisation mechanism in eve)\"the csm reiterated its desire for ccp to implement a partial skill respec, especially in the aftermath of major changes to ship classes such as the removal of drones from supercarriers.\"sp respec. i mean, really? sp respec in my eve?i think someone got hit in the head with something heavy.when titans lost ability to shoot dd trough portal and later lost aoe effect - no one refunded them their energy weapons vwhen sb lost cruise bonus no one gave us cruise specialisation back as spwhen there was nano nerf, no one gave us back skills from navigation and minmatar hac 5when you nerfed pi, no one gave us back pi skiilswhen you nerfed carriers (removed large cargo-hold) no one refunded us capital skillsso why the hell, when sc nerf hits we suddenly hear about giving back skills for drones, or more, even sp respec mechanism?eve is all about action and consequences of said actions. as oposed to games like wow, where there is limit of what i can learn, there is no situation when i hit imaginery wall and can not train furtherin eve when i no longer need some skills (want to check something new) i just start training them. i remap and +5 needed skills and start trainig for new stuff.this will actually hit new players very hard - imagine that we have 100m sp bitter-vet and 5m sp no-longer-noob fresh player. imagine now that ccp introduced new type of ships - something in range of new player that don't require tons of skills to fly.what new payer can do? well, he have no skills to abandon just like that, so he have to train for it. what about bitter-vet? well, he just drop his titan 5 and gets all needed skill to lvl 5 in minutes.this in turn will cause even larger gap between veterans and new players. right now when something new is introduced (pi for example) all payers are on equal footing - everyone have to train to use new stuff. ofc veterans have more isk = can use +5, possible have remaps for such occasion stored, so they can get there slightly faster - but they still have to train to it.so all in all - dont respec, or we will loose all respect :)(by we i mean i, and everyone thinking alike)read and support: don't mess with our wh's what is your stance on wh stuff?"
"i agree. no respec in my eve"
"no respec, ever."
"i want mining gone from my character sheet otherwise i agree, being able to respec from one fotm to the next would be bad."
"*wipes off spittle from shouting*hate to break it to you...but its already there in the game...they've used it twice now.but i support either way.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"+1, i would use it even if i got nothing in return :d"
"there is a difference between allowing players to choose what they dont like - remove it - and aply somewhere elseandreinbursting players for skills that where completely removed from game.read and support: don't mess with our wh's what is your stance on wh stuff?"
"preemptive whine leading to premature butthurt, lulz-1"
"hi goose99, good we have professional troll in here, this thread was definetly to much one-sided until now :)read and support: don't mess with our wh's what is your stance on wh stuff?"
"posting in a \"bitter vet afraid of change!\" thread"
"you've got some serious issues man.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"yea"
"no to any sp respec what so ever.whoever dreamed this up should be taken out back and shot.survivors should be shot again."
"depends on what the \"limited\" part of the sp respec means. -1 because i think some respec is needed if not just to get rid of useless starter skills. not to mention it won't hurt anything at all and this entire thread is one huge overreaction to nothing at all."
"and once again you miss the point.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"i can see why the op posted this though.ccp will always change things, and it would be pretty unfair to allow a respec for carriers when they haven't done this for say, sb's or other ships that they have nerfed over the years.it's not game breaking, granted, but it does seem pretty unfair."
"exactly, and tomorrow they will implement nerf for x, and day after for y, and what? fotm without consequence?read and support: don't mess with our wh's what is your stance on wh stuff?"
"respec is for pussies and for games such as wow. the only respec that i find even remotely acceptable is if skills are completely removed from the game; otherwise, hell no.[edit: surprised that pussies didn't censor...]"
"do we know more than this:?\"the csm reiterated its desire for ccp to implement a partial skill respec, especially in the aftermath of major changes to ship classes such as the removal of drones from supercarriers.\"that could mean lots of things. if it's just sc and drone skills that get respec-able, then i agree that ccp should not give a get-out-of-jail-free-card to such a small number of players, especially in light of other people skilling up for stuff that later got changed.if it means that we can respec say 1-10m skillpoints yearly, well, that's something i think is pretty cool. i have some more or less wasted skillpoints i wouldn't mind putting elsewhere.edit. op why didn't you give us that quote i have posted? bad op. bad. go to your box."
"my take on the sc losing drones and whining about sp's - oh you poor little baby....get the #### over yourself.drone skills are very useful across many sub-captial classes of ships.just because you lost the ability to use them on a specific ship class doesn't mean you hqave to go ape-#### crazy like some damned baby.the answer is and should remain no.the only times i'll accept an sp is for \"reimbursement\" due to skill deletion or server crash that disupts play time for like say a week or something.period.ps: if what im seeing is the truth...sounds like this proposal is a drama panic attack based on what csm is pushing...not what ccp is saying. that is a major difference i would think.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"yes, you read right, the council of serious internet spaceships has outlived it's usefulness. the only things left on their agendas are those that benefit the csm leaders super alliances most.they cannot claim to represent the majority of the playerbase and on their agenda is only about their personal benefit and for this crap they let themselves be carried to iceland a few times a year, adding even more cost to ccp.it is time to end the 'experiment' and disband the csm."
"only if you are permanently banned.otherwise not supporting.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"ban npc forum alts from csm forums"
"not this again."
"supported +1"
"plus one."
"no as the csm create oceans of tears and that alone is enough for me"
"obviously the op doesn't read the csm minutes of the meetings in iceland.if you did, you would realise very quickly that the csm is not doing out of their self interest but for the interests of all eve players.as i said before on one of these threads, ccp would never allow the csm dictate how they ran their business. it just would never happen and you are living on another planet if you think otherwise.not supported."
"i suggest reading the csm minutes, all there looks pretty reasonable to me. in fact it's utterly uncontroversial.edit: exception is the idea of some sort of wh stabilizer. but it was merely something discussed, i didn't get the impression it had wide support."
"the csm doesn't ask me what i want or what is in my interests. they run out to ccp land with a short list of items that are populist in nature, or what serves their own alliance / power block agendas by nature of having the sheer support of thousands of sheep that fear for their membership and pretend that their interests are my interests.and when i bother telling the csm what my interests are, they tell me to get lost, that game designers do wonders or wont care about my interests or suggestions. most importantly, all they ever do is waste my time with bullpoop politics.ccp is starting to take an active interest in the player base's wants and desires, as evident by the wis team actively engaging with players regarding the future of wis. they talk to us, which, as i understand it, is what the csm was designed to facilitate in the first place. communication between players and the powers that be. now that the powers that be have woken up and started paying attention, this csm thing can go die in a fire.+1"
"that basically describes how a democracy works.\"why is it every election nobody asks me personally what i want. but instead delivers stuff the vast majority of people want?\"also have you read the latest csm minutes, it's pretty awesome stuff.i honestly think poco based sov is a good idea"
"nobody asked me what you wantted either...and i sure as hell don't want it.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"the mittani suicide ganked my hulk i am very angry disband the csm please, ccp \"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" - abrazzar"
"nobody wants your wis crap \"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" - abrazzar"
"i'm going to keep it short and sweet. this is about incursions in highsec by the way.the good side of incursions is that it's an organized group activity where you can make new friends. highsec was sorely lacking this type of opportunity. a mmo should always promote group activities like incursions over solo play by tying it to better rewards.the problem is not the 100 mil per hour, it's the fact that you can get 100 mil per hour for hours, every day, for as long as you can stomach it.a proper nerf would include one of the following:1) reducing the rate at which incursions appear in highsec and limiting their duration. there should not always be a highsec incursion available, but when they are up, let the pilots flock to them for the isk and lp. limiting their duration means that at a certain point only the mothership site would remain to be completed.2) letting incursion rewards decrease on an individual basis the more missions are completed. \"you've done 50 missions in the last three days? you only get half rewards\" or something like that.3) a variation of the above, allow full rewards only for a fixed number of sites per day.tl;dr: incursions should remain good isk per hour to preserve their attractiveness, but only for limited amounts of time to prevent them from overshadowing other isk making activities completely."
"waaa mummy people in hsec are making is and i dont like it waaaa muuuummmmmy a video of the op isnt the wittle baby cutebut seriously if you want to nerf 100m in hsec we must also nerf the 100m+ in nullsec as its pretty much completely risk free money with your blue space and intel channels."
"\"captain, the butt hurt meter is off the charts on this one. what shall we do? ignore it, scotty.\"on a more serious note, i've done incursions for a while as well and honestly most people expect a nerf from what i gathered during casual discussions."
"nerf high sec incursion rewards"
"why does everyone want hi sec nerfed?it always seems to be a form of jealousy when i read these threads. if they are making good isk from doing incursions their way then good luck to them. if you want the same, go join them in hi sec for some risk free isk.null is just as bad to be honest. you can run plexes all day, every day without ever seeing a hostile. where's the risk there?"
"nerf moon goo"
"this then remove local in nullsec no local = no free intel = less reliable intel channels = more risk for your 100m+/h rewards"
"because you can make more isk with out any risk in a highsec incursion than you could running sanctums out in null which is far more dangerous.i say no isk without risk!i honestly think poco based sov is a good idea"
"buff nullsec, nerf highsec into the ground \"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" - abrazzar"
"i, null bear, stay in the deep end of blue sov null ass, where isk flows free and you don't see hostiles for weeks on end.in highsec, every grey lurking around the corner can gank you."
"you fail to mention all the greys and there multiple ways of griefing a fleet and multiple was of ganging a fleet. anyone ever here of a 10 man blackbird fleet wiping out a 10 man 50 billion isk fleet? there are plenty of risks running incursions in high sec. while in 0.0 someone enters local you dock. someone leave local you go back to making 150 million plus isk an hour.just because someone besides you is making isk doesn't mean it op and unfair. get over yourselves. ccp will not nerf high sec incursions."
"ahahaha where did you hear this 150m isk/hr nonsense, that's hilariously difficult to break, especially with only one accountyou also assume that every blue is friendly, because you're a slackjaw who has never heard of awoxers \"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" - abrazzar"
"you aparently don't know what 0.0 life is like...allow me to calrify for your noob brain.when someone etners local in 0.0..we don't just dock up or safe up...we get our ships..and rightly kick said visitors sorry @$$ right back out with the approrpaite answer...at a minmum track him with various intelligence channels...or call in for back up...and its qutie fun to watch.as far as the 150 mil isk...heh...there are easier ways to make that money in 0.0...and incursions are not the only source (in-fact its too bothersome it seems...i dont hear about incursions very often in 0.0).the problem here smarty pants is people are milking the system that shouldn't be allowing them to do so so easily...and while i'm torn on the subject of nerfing...i think both parties are right...and wrong.incursions where designed to force peolpe to do them in large groups in order to gain the best rewards...but too many and that starts to flatline if not crash.yet they can be greifed and infilitrated easily.a investigation should be looked into to be sure...but not nearly as dramatic or bad as both parties to be sure.also bear in mind that incursions in 0.0 are dangerousyou get the safety of not worrying about bubbles and such.in 0.0... anything goes.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"i'm one who thinks wormholes are one of the most balanced systems in eve, and i'd like them to stay that way. quickly regarding your questions:is there enough wh systems? if not what class needs more?are they under or overpopulated?a marginal increase to the number of wormhole systems sometime in the more distant future wouldn't hurt. not now though.are pos mechanics enabling to many people to just clean out weak systems and not bother with harder targets?pos mechanics are pos mechanics; despite recent changes, they still need more work. i favour modular pos myself; though not specifically as it is described here on the forums. i am not in favour of ccp following the never-ending thread to the letter, or modeling the structure after the designs therein.should access and roles be reworked? (doubttfull i will be alone on that one)corp access and roles are also seperate from wh mechanics, though they affect gameplay in them. the whole corp structure could use some reworking with more or less \"granularity\" in certain areas.should moons be mineable for goo?....(waits for the hate from that)goo is a pretty loosely defined term here, and applies to pretty much any drop that results in a manufacturable material. yes, i think that moons in whs should produce some sort of material for manufacturing. it doesn't have to be the same as nullsec, and probably shouldn't be. i'd favour goo for producing additional tech 3 products in a limited fashion. specifically, it should produce only a marginal quantity of goo that makes up only a portion of new t3 production requirements, and serves only to fill something missing from the t3 equation.should sleeper sites and other sites spawn rates be raised to foster larger corp/alliance growth.i think spawn rates are fine. there is no drastic observable decline in sleeper site spawns in my opinion. what people are seeing is a manifestation of the randomization algorithm used to make sleeper sites spawn in an apparently random fashion, would be my best guess, and i have experienced it. it could perhaps use a little tweaking, as it can be severely detrimental to wh activities for weeks at a time; though cycling statics can help to reduce the effect on the corp/alliance as a whole.there is also some degree of speculation that suggests sites that spawn in other wormholes count as spawned and, without despawning there, cannot appear elsewhere. evidence would suggest that this is also to some degree true, and impacts this equation.should site isk/rewards be lowered or raised? upped a little but not much.they're fine as they are. as previously mentioned, increases and decreases in tech 3 production requirements; will affect and change the value of the salvage retrieved from these sites.do wh pvp mechanics need an overhaul? (many things come to mind here, need to pop those carebears that jump back to hs)pvp mechanics in whs are fine. no need to change them at all. once you've learned the basics of wh navigation and understand wh mechanics; the rest is just pvp, with whatever considerations are required for the type and class of wh.it was stated by ccp long ago that wh's were not meant for long term habitation, since they lost that bet should they now look at making them more viable for larger numbers to encourage larger scale wh system warfare and not just the russians taking out weak systems for fun.i don't think there was any bet involved; more that it was unexpected that many players would go for long-term habitation in them. they designed c5 and c6 whs right from the start of course, and allowed pos to function in whs; so it stands to reason they believed, and possibly hoped, there might be some players daring enough to try the venture.c5 and c6 are already viable for larger numbers. c6 in particular, though there are limitations to that. i don't think you should be able to have and support 1000 man alliances and corps in one wh if that's what you mean. ~100 is fine.are wh masses and spawn times what they should be? working as intended i think. i've never had a problem with them really, beyond initial assessment of logistical problems. once you get past that part, the rest is pretty easy, and those issues actually make whs more secure in many ways. given the nature of wh space, that is important; as increases to those masses and spawn timers would make it far easier for very large fleets to invade whs. this can be done-with a little work-as it is. provided the fleet has no problem with being stuck in there with you; they can move in a very large force in short order.do you think i am pissing in the wind here to think ccp cares about wh dwellers and our corps/alliances? i think all game content is relevent to the bottom line for ccp, provided it has a subscriber based focused on it. whs do, and thus they are important. they don't however need a lot of, (if any), work.how are the pi changes affecting your corp? are you too small that it is taking weeks just to blow up interbus? should they just remove interbus in wh's all together?i'm sure my old corp is doing just fine with the pi changes. they're an industrious lot, who don't mind a bit of grind where it's necessary. i can't speak for the changes myself, as i've never seen them.nothing is ever as short as you intend it to be; at least, not for me.zubzubzubzubzubzubzubzub"
"as an avided eve online player i would like to bring somthing to your attention that has me very troubled. the us congress is currently considering passing two bills into law that would effectively censor the internet in the us, makeing it possible to block sites via there domain names without trial or even telling the owners of the website that they're being blocked or as to why. this is supposedly to combat piracy, witch i'd potentially be in favor of if the methodology actually worked, but pirates can easily get around such measures. you may be asking your self how dose the pertain to me. well just a few \"infringing\" links would be enough to block a site full of legal material, and sites become liable for user-posted content. so say someone post's a \"infringing\" link onto your fourm this would be more then enough to block all of the offending site to the us. we can't let this happen we need to stop this bill at all costs but we can't do it alone we need your help.please i beg of you to help spread the word and stop this bill form passing. not in the us? petition the state department, the us state department constantly speaks out against internet censorship in other countries. pressure them to speak out against america<U+FFFD>s new domestic censorship system. ( to petition the state department use this link"
"fewer americans online would improve the lag situation when they all login to uk servers. i would support sopa just for that alone seriously though, censorship of any kind or description should be fought at all costs.come on my american cousins, lobby your politicians to defeat these laws."
"you can thank your local pirate stealing for this gem. reap what you sow."
"why is this in ah and not oope?"
"eve blackout for a month."
"new class ship or mod that has sqaud,wing or fleet wide tanking so this ship would receive some of the damage instead of the other squad members which are being shot. something like %70- %80."
"it's called getting someone to take bait as primary.those would be ewar....logistics...command ships...or hic/dic's.not supporting.ps: please stop treating this game like its wow.================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"logistics help alot when ur alpha'd"
"ban npc forum alts from csm forums"
"supported, +1making escort viable."
"no, don't agree with this at all.there currently exists the logistics ships and by going down this route, you are making another class of ship defunct.it would also be pretty annoying to call primary and it never dying as there one of these ships on the field.will also be the final nail in the coffin for sniping fleets. with this idea it will be a slugfest and the bigger fleet wins. not really what ccp had in mind i don't think.all very well for hi sec but i don't think you have considered this fully for low and null sec players."
"well then fix the alpha damage problem...don't introduce another ship to fit a role that already exists with about 5 other ships."
"your responses are completely bizarre you do realize of course, that most people have no control over their systems security don't you? downloading or installing a retail internet security program, finding independent anti-malware and installing that, and configuring your router to prevent incoming requests all do absolutely squat to prevent someone getting in that wants to get inyou may have some exceptional knowledge that makes you think it's childs play; but that really just puts you in the realm of those who do it how else could you know, unless you were a it security professional; which i have to assume you arethe rest of us only really have one last resort: limiting our internet activities so as not to attract attention, or getting a better firewall the best defense is being invisible; and the only way to achieve that, is not to go anywherei'm not sure how at fault or not at fault the op is; but i don't think it's your place to judge him for not having enough security on his system when you have people out there hacking banks, government institutions, and military installations; how can you honestly expect a home user to be safemaybe you just think you're safe, and the reality is you have two or three pieces of spyware and 4 keyloggers on your system all they have to do is bypass the network and security programs to get in and stay hidden; and i know from experience, that is quite possible uninstall f secure, install panda oh look: spywarezubzubzubzubzubzubzubzub"
"erm not too sure where you are going with this to be honestmy issue is to do with with stopping people from botting and rmtthe fact you are able to create untraceable accounts means that you have zero ways of stopping people /organisationsyou can't ban accounts, you can't ban email addresses, you cant, ban via ip address therefore you can not stop themhow does this have anything to do with personal responsibility?as for having your account being hacked, yes you can take measures to stop this from happening, however since nobody is perfect and eve is a big target due to the fact that out of all the mmo's it is the easiest to make rl money from, it can also ask as a deterrent i suggest you apply our comment to yourself in the future in order to stop yourself from looking like a fool"
"some people may not have the \"expertise\" to run windows update regularly and not download the exe movie player for that cheerleader orgies website they love so much, but that doesn't make it ccps responsibility to clear up the mess when they inevitably do get their system compromisedas for people hacking banks, government institutions etc sure, that happens sometimes but usually it's due to one of the network's users being a complete idiot, and clicking that harmless looking spam video link that for some reason ended up in his spam folderthe truth is, given the security of modern operating systems, it is very unlikely you'll fall victim to a zero-day vulnerability going about performing regular internet activities by very unlikely i mean i've never seen it happen, ever almost every vulnerability is due to the user doing something stupidanyway, i digress, whether you get infected or how at fault you are for that infection it is not ccps responsibility to reimburse you anything you lost the fact that they try and do as much as they can without negatively impacting eve's market or opening themselves up to scams from unscrupulous people faking account hacks is just plain nice of themso quit whining, and let this thread die[center]\"i don't troll, i just give overly blunt responses that annoy people who are wrong but don't want to admit it it's not my fault that people have sensitive feelings\" -mxzf[/center]"
"\"our\" comment?whose the fool again?you say things you obviously do not understand saying \"can't\" do this and \"can't\" do thatpleasestop blabbering like some expert and go away before you embarrass yourself in front of the security gurusccp has a very nice system in place for dealing with people who mess around your just not pleased because you think every tom **** and harry are botters and rmt'ers and demand immediate resultsgrow upget over yourselfand take responsibility for your own actions and how you implement security on your systemits called common sense\"assuming\" your \"stuff\" is unassailable as far as your computer is concerned is just flat stupidif someone wants your @$$ on a silver platterits gonna happenregardlessbut taking obvious measuresmakes it very difficult for someone to attack you blaming ccp for your short comingswon't work because it comes down to you and what you do with your computerccp will take responsibility when and if they have a massive breech such as a db compromisethey will not take blame if your a fool and happen to visit porn on a regular basisand by the way smarty pants nothing on the internet is untraceablewon't get into a discussion but that's known to everyoneall you need a federal warrantand life gets rather interestingthe problem however is when it leaves the countryand honestlymost of these little attacks originate from our own country here as far as eve onlinebecause people are just that stupid when it comes to personal securityi deal with this problem every day at my job and i have to tell you the things people put for passwords and answers to secret questionsits a wonder we don't have more people losing their accounts because of this================ stop the evemail spam!"
"blizzard pulled a rabbit out of the hat with their one time password keychains and iphone apps why not ccp ?(i have one for my starcraft 2 account, i'd certainly throw another on for this game!)"
"i wrote a long piece but forum ate my post.so in a nut shell.. lots of rage and tears but no content oh by the way.. learn to use google and then tell me ccp have got rmt under control"
"so what your saying is your too good to actually make a decent post and counter argument.got it.================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"anti-virus and firewall usually do very well at spotting dodgy content in downloads. i would suggest using them. the free ones can be found on google."
"counter argument... wasn't aware you actually made any argument.. i saw only tears and rage"
"your mistake indeed.================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"yoiu know that eve is sold on steam, right?read and support: don't mess with our wh's what is your stance on wh stuff?"
"woop woop space police"
"well it is a proposal. a suggestion. so if it were adopted i'm sure the devs would balance it out.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"supported"
"i'm happy to see all the support this is getting. hopefully we can get this thread some more attention.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"agreed. as a wormhole inhabitant i would not like these changes."
"csm are really proposing wh stabilizers? urgh how stupid, have they actually been in w-space? proposal to remove clueless csm from proposing changes to aspects of gameplay they know nothing about"
"supporting this, no wh stabilizers, wormholes are actually fun as they are now for smaller gangs"
"i think it was mittens trying to monopolize c6 farming by kicking out all w-space corps and static linking those c6's to his evil nullsec empire ;)"
"supported."
"wormhole stabilizers? i have never heard of such a moronic idea. this goes against the very meaning of what wormhole space needs to be, and it goes against ccp's idea of making wormholes more difficult to inhabit.nullsec csm members probably never lived in a wormhole or been in one for very long. remember these guys are in it for themselves.nullsec csm members wanted high-end ores to be removed from wormholes a few months ago."
"yeah, nullbears don't do whs well, if at all. ;)"
"3298.0"
"its quiet simple. ccp either wants players with money $$$, to buy more accounts. done they get a pvp account and a t3 boosting account. now the ones without the $$$, get screwed cause they cant compete in a 1v1. or have to have 25% more numbers to fight and the booster fleet runs and complains they 'blobed em' mean while the ones without the $$$ thus rage quit. sooooo the solution is make the boosts, on grid only. the only people who 'dont support it' are ones with boosters who very style of pvp is the booster alt. totaly fine they are defending their style of game play. but mine is better, so deal."
"what if ganglink boosts appeared on the killmail?"
"the way the watchlist works makes me think that there already is some sort of check whether stuff is on grid with you or not. the watchlist is also more data-intensive than simply seeing if something is there or not.watchlist only shows hp of stuff that is on-grid with you, right?"
"you are correct. i am sure this would be a simple fix...it is a matter of whether or not this is intentional and working correctly or if ccp just doesn't want to make the change."
"bump for an excellent idea."
"freaking bump!"
"this seems like a very viable option, i agree 100%damn fine planing on your part!"
"i want to see a dev's opinion on this. because i honestly don't see why this shouldn't be implemented."
"btw this is not my idea. it has been the idea since people realized what a pve farce fw plexing can be.here is the post that clearly established fw plexing can be efficiently done soley pve style:\"as predicted, it took less than a week to achieve the maximum faction warfare rank (divine commodore), for the amarr empire in this case.....111 faction warfare complexes were captured in the process, ....i did not kill anyone in the process, although i have fired on some people to scare them off. your new divine commodore is a moral objectionist.\" ankhesentapemkah 6/18/2008and here is tommy reslins response 6/19/2008:\"second off.. allow an \"agent\" in the area controlled by (faction name here) inform everyone that \"solar system such and such is under attack.\" this way people will come to fight them. so everytime you attempt to capture something the enemies will know where you are. this will bring in some more fights.\"this still hasn't been done so doing plexes against no one but npcs is still the best way to go. 3.5 years later this proposal of tommy reslin still needs to be implemented. make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"i thought i had already liked this so here is my like.for the record i am still in favour of a more graphical interface but the principal is there."
"i find the above quote to be of the most interesting read on this threadnought.......although i support learning boosters, they would have to be seeded ofc"
"this is so far from a threadnaught \"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" - abrazzar"
"i was reading the csm minutes, and i found an interesting paragraph at page 20:i'm glad that there was a discussion regarding learning implants at the summit. i doubt that it will lead to their outright removal, not that i'd lose any sleep over it - they are an established part of the game. it's good to see attention focused on the topic regardless. \"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" - abrazzar"
"where's that dislike button...to be honest, i understand learning skills being removed. they took a fair amount of time to train and did discourage new players. the implants however do not have that same effect on new players. your argument is for experienced, older players. these players know that going into a wormhole, or nullsec, is a risk. its the risk vs reward deal that eve stands for. by removing implants you're just removing part of that risk without removing part of that reward.your proposal is stupid. present a balanced argument instead of demanding the game be made the way you want it."
"part of what reward? \"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" - abrazzar"
"oh come on don't pretend to be that thick-headed. the reward is implants which allow a higher rate of skill training. the risk is losing them in a pod death. don't make me go back to the 1+1=2 and 0+0=0 stuff...."
"and i presented a balanced argument so i don't know what he's on about vov \"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" - abrazzar"
"changed stance to supported.+1================ stop the evemail spam!"
"supported."
"yes, that is a good idea."
"more risk and more reward, sounds good to me"
"what if half of what you mined what unusable rock, it would make it worth your time to scan rocks to see which are worth mining and which aren't. the outside of a belt would have more polluted rocks (100 units of veldspar, 100 units of slag rock), but the rocks in the middle that are hard to get to would be more pure and more valuable to mine (180 units of veldspar, 20 units of slag rock)highsec would have more debris in it while lowsec would have nicer, purer belts, and nulsec would have the purest belts.bots not being able to navigate the belt without getting caught would have to stay on the outside of a belt mining the lowest valued ores making them much less profitable. it doesn't remove bots but it makes them half as effective, giving real players the advantage over them. i did mention that to keep the inner belts hard to get to there is alot more junk *un-mineable* in them so a hulks mining lasers cant reach them with out bumping into rocks making it hard to get in and out. edit: so macros can't strip mine a whole belt and get the good stuff, without getting lots of slag, and still bumping into rocks holding them up."
"there should be an afk button in fleet window as well as an afk notification in fleet.what am i trying to say?when you are in fleet you should be able to hit an afk button and you should then be marked gray in fleet instead of purple (or some other color), also in addition to that, every pilot that hasn't moved or done any activity in like 5 minutes should automatically go to afk like he pressed the afk button. it could be implemented like a broadcasts are. also player going afk without pressing a button should get a message he is going to be set in afk mode.feedback?"
"why? what is the point?"
"yay more butthurt about afk cloakers. grow a pair."
"ban npc forum alts from csm forumsexhibit a"
"who said anything about cloaked ships?this proposal is to make fcs job easier, so you can see if somebody is not here instead of waiting for x up in fleet and then counting them to see who is ready. with this you more or less know what you have as an fc and who is ready to move now without any delay to fleet"
"would be handy for fcs and pilots, not having to ask folks to x up in fleet chat 20 times over."
"beautiful. thats the only way i can think to describe this. why isn't this already so?"
"yeah !! \"nerf stealth nerf rogues !!!11\" oh, wait.. different game, same whining......"
"rogues are always op no matter which game it is.people dislike being stabbed in the back with no way to blob in return.nerf rogues now!!11!!11!!!"
"as we all know, active tanking doesn<U+FFFD>t work in a large-scale pvp setting. there is no effective method of making it so a single ship is able to tank a large gang of enemy ships without making its tanking ability extremely overpowered but on the other side of the coin a number of ships have active tanking bonuses where they are only able to fully maximize their potential when in a active tanking fit. the problem with armor repair bonuses is that the resistance bonus on similar ships is nearly or as effective in the same active tanking role. so what do we do? do we boost these active tanking bonuses, while increasing the chance of making them overpowered, in order to be more effective in that specific role than the resistance bonuses but still leave the ships still relatively unseen in larger fleets? or do we just scrap the active tanking bonuses in preference of the resists and start seeing higher occurrences of new ships participating in gang warfare and potentially new fleet compositions while at the same time still have the same participation of ships in pve and small-scale pvp? i<U+FFFD>m pretty sure everyone can agree that the latter is the better alternative. let us then increase the scale further to take a look at capitals, specifically triage carriers and dreadnaughts. both ships<U+FFFD> siege modules give bonus to local repair amount, prevent remote repair or energy transfer, and lock them in place for a five-minute cycle. on the small-scale, they currently work moderately well as they are able to tank towers and small gangs until capacitor neutralization starts to occur. however, on the large-scale both of these ships fail catastrophically. dreads can only be fielded in the initial engagement of a tower and only stay on the field for a minimal amount of cycles without risking massive losses. as soon as an enemy fleet shows up that is greater numbers than your subcap fleet can handle your dreads become next to useless in turning the tide of battle and are going to die if they get tackled or left in siege. similarly, numerous killmails from the recent wn/cfc conflict demonstrate that triage carriers are unable to function in large-scale fleet engagements, as high alpha will simple melt the carriers between rep cycles. so again what do we do? the first step to fixing these two capitals is to again move away from the active repair bonus on the siege/triage module in favor of a resistance bonus. leave to duration bonus alone, but switch the amount bonus to a comparable resistance increase that doesn<U+FFFD>t stack similar to a damage control. but what does this mean? by adding resistances you are essentially increasing the amount of time a given amount of opponents need to burn through your tank. you will no longer see a carrier or dread repping back their entire shield or armor in a single cycle, but you are much less likely to see these same ships getting volleyed between reps. an additional bonus of this change is that you are still getting a bonus from the triage module and the fuel used even before you turn on your repair mods and when you are no longer able to use them (i.e. capped out). a second step if the first proves insufficient in proving a place from these ships in large fleet engagements, especially with the massive numbers of supers currently being fielded, is to potentially allow remote repair on sieged dreads (i<U+FFFD>m not entirely sure if this would be the best idea for carriers). these are committed assets and will live or die based on the success or failure of the fleet, which is more than can be said for supercapitals. in their current form, even though you may have a massive fleet of capitals, these ships still come down to each man against the entire enemy fleet. all you can do is sit helplessly and hope that your fleet can kill more enemies than they can kill of yours. the current system is a step away from the idea of group helping each individual become more than what they could be separately. by making this change it shifts the dynamics of capital engagements from who has more to who has better tactics and provides a method in which smaller entities could potentially engage larger capital fleets and with superior tactics have the potential of winning.tl;dr change active repair bonuses on ships and siege modules to resistance bonuses and potentially allow rr on sieged dreads in order to provide a larger selection of viable ships for gang warfare."
"disagree. the active tanking bonus should remain but should also effect remote repair receivedrun the numbers. it works perfectly. resist bonus ships end up with better buffers but active bonus ships get slightly better defense efficiency under remote repair. same should apply to both armor and shield."
"its an interesting concept but by changing this would not put a lot of ship with nothing but the same bonuses and there by eliminate the diversity? a good example of what you are talking about is the mega/hype/abad comparison with all level 5 skillsa properly fit active mega can tank about 150 more dps then a hype and because of bonuses has better tracking then the hype with only a slight drop in over all damage dealt (made up for ofc by the tracking bonuses) you can compensate for the dps put out by the mega by replacing the faction antimatter with void and still have better tracking then the hype.an abad can active tank about 100 less dps then a hype can however gains the tremendous advantage of being able to also buffer tank with extreme success.so why ever use a hyperion? that problem does need to be addressed other ships have similar problems in their respective counter parts tend vastly outclass them.on this same line of discussion maybe some one could shed some light to me on why some ships get stupid bonuses that make no sense for the race ie gallente getting a falloff bonus or a minmatar getting an optimal? should it not be considered that bonuses like these are 99% of the time worthless to the ship and there by making it unused in favor a ship that has bonuses that can all be used for its maximum effect?"
"i ran the numbers for several different ships and it works out to at most an increase in 100 hps per guardian difference in rr when including the repair received bonus. this still leaves the situation where the ship is lacking a bonus in any situation where it is not actively receiving reps from logi. the benefit of the resists is that it is constant, it decreases the chance that an enemy fleet is going to alpha/dps through you before reps can be applied. because, lets face it, dying before you can react or influence the outcome isn't fun.in regards to thryson's comments, you can have the same bonuses but still require vastly different tactics in how the ships are flown and used. as an example, you wouldn't fly a nighthawk into point blank range with the enemy, but even without the resist bonus thats exactly where you'd find the sleipnir because the weapons system influences how the ship needs to be flow.i'm not sure what fitting you're using for that comparison (guessing single rep fitting) but this change would have zero impact on actual active tanking. in regards to choosing the mega vs the hype, it would be similar to the geddon vs abaddon currently in one would have better dps while the other would have better tank."
"defensive bonuses only really matter when you're taking damage. yes. less buffer means you can be alpha'd easier. but the difference in buffer isn't all that great (need to check when i get home from work as i have done a lot of research on this)remote repair received bonus would allow you to tank more long term whereas resist bonus would allow you to tank more short term (alpha)that seems to be a fair trade off."
"resist bonuses also make rr more effective. let me show you why.let say an enemy ship is shooting your ship with 100 damage and your rr reps 100.with armor resist bonus of 25%, your enemy's damage will be 75, leaving you with 25 extra hp when the rr is given you now have 125 instead of 100. with rr recieved bonus of 37.5 you will have 137.5. let me show you1000 damage. no bonus: 1000/100= 10resist bonus: 750/100 = 7.5rr bonus: 1000/137.5 = 7.32000 damageno bonus: 2000/100 = 20resist bonus: 1500/100= 15rr bonus: 2000/137.5 = 14.510000 damageno bonus: 10000/100 = 100resist bonus: 7500/100 = 75rr bonus: 10000/137.5 = 73as you see the rr bonus is slightly better if it had a 37.5% bonus to rr received. about 10% better than resist, however resist also offers over 30% better buffer at the cost of slightly less local rep and rr received. however we don't know if ccp plans to put bonus to rr received as a bonus in the game.let us focus on bonus to local armor repair vs resist bonusarmor resist bonus >>>local armor repair bonus.resist bonuses offer you:better buffer ehpbetter rr receivedbetter local reparmor repair only offers you:better local replocal reps mean crap in large scale fights.armor repair bonus is greatly inferior to armor resist bonus. oh and buffer does matter since armor repairers repair at the end of the cycle.active shield tanking works since shield boosters are much stronger than armor repairers and it starts at the beginning of the cycle."
"stopped right there. no single ship should be able to tank a large gang of enemy ships for any reason. also...armor tanking works very well...this is why everybody uses it."
"to your first statement i am using a dual rep tank on the mega and hype using dual large armor reps t2 everything in tank slots. the differance between the mega and hype is so vast as the mega can also get a decent buff tank and has the traccking advantage as i stated.to your second i think that you misunderstood what i was getting at with the bonuses. a slep fit with auto cannons and using dps ammo still has no need for an optimal bonuses as it would benfit greatly from a fall off bouns intead. if i am not mistaken the die most gets a fall off bonus but it would again benfit much more from an optimal making it slightly more useful or less terrible as the case may be i know a lot of ships have the oddball bonuses that bring almost nothing to the table in terms of use.sry for poor writing on my phone and i hate texting."
"not supported, i like the active tanking bonus on the gallente ships and do not feel removing this diversity improves the game. is some balancing of active tank verses buffer required, yes but this is not down to the active tank bonus.i would be interested in a dual rep mega fit that can out tank a hype? even a t2 dual rep a hype can tank 1100dps and has a extra mid for a tracking comp or webber. can you post this please."
"not sure if you can't read or just trolling.i think i see what you're trying to get at thryson in that even with the rep bonus the hyperion is only barely better at that role than the mega, a ship that lacks a defensive bonus, due to its slot layout. the hype really does need to be looked at aside from its bonus as it is pretty underwhelming, but that is a topic for another thread. to address your example, i'd say that weapon systems determine how ships need to be flown. how i envision these ships flying in a balanced system is that the mega have higher dps but weaker tank than the hype, but both faster and more maneuverable than their amarr counterparts.in regards to the optimal and falloff bonus, i'm pretty sure they give close range ships like the diemost falloff bonuses as it increases the ship's damage projection, but without giving it a larger area in which it can deal maximum damage as a means of limiting blasters which are statistically the highest dps guns."
"the 100m sp bitter-vet will most likely already have the prerequisites at 5, maybe 4, so if he wants to fly it shortly after release, he will no matter what. if he respecs, he might get a 1-month headstart for flying a ship that is going to be in the game for years.....and besides, ccp could just limit new stuff so that it cannot be respecced into.how do you feel about remaps?also there is no minmatar hac skill"
"no respec, awful f'in idea. leave that stuff to wow."
"op hides in dark corner and cries :)read and support: don't mess with our wh's what is your stance on wh stuff?"
"a wise man once said,wow holds your hand from level 1 to 80 and even if your not smart enough to do anything once there they still give you a cookie, eve not only takes your cookie but laughs at you for bringing one.there is no end game to eve and there should be no remap."
"true, but did you remember when they introduced: - pi - gas mining - noctisthose are just an example of new stuff that are available to new player almost from the beggining.i will not argue that many hi-level new stuff will always have vets in better position to use them - truei use remaps, because they are there. i have mixed filling about using them. i agree that the moment they've removed ability to choose skills as you make new char it was inevitable.as for hac skills - touche :)read and support: don't mess with our wh's what is your stance on wh stuff?"
"+1 no respecs unless skills are being completely removed from game. especially not because fotm changed, ffs."
"if it were there, i'd use it and be glad to get all those industrial skills off my sheet. i'd already be in a proteus if i could respec a few skills. if it never comes about, i'm fine with that too.the key word here is limited. a limited respec to allow people to respec 1-2 million sp to correct noob mistakes or occupation changes wouldn't be a bad thing. being able to respec from a miner to a carrier pilot in a day...that would be game-breaking. edit: i wasn't around before there were attribute remaps, but i've got to say it's stupid to not have those. a new player shouldn't be punished for choosing an attribute set on day 1 that turns out to not fit at all with the play style they developed over six months of play. my view on skill respecs is the same: i trained a lot of industrial and science skills before i realized those weren't what i wanted to do long-term. the opportunity to recover wasted sp would be welcome."
"my point being that i am not going to freak out about the \"possible\" consequences of something we know nothing about yet. they said they had an idea for a limited sp respec. that's it...other than that we know nothing! no need to freak out about it. we don't even know what they have in mind for the word \"limited\". what if they implement it in such a way that in order to refund the sp you have to \"unlearn\" it by spending the same amount of time unlearning as you did learning it? maybe even set it so that during that time you would not be able to learn other skills while unlearning another.how could you argue to that? spend the time to refund sp and use that sp to put it into something you could have spend the time learning if you hadn't been unlearning?if you say that wouldn't work for any reason...you are an idiot."
"i now agree that respec'ing into new game-changers is bad. so, my updated position is that new stuff should be off-limits for 2-3 months (or maybe based upon how long it would take to train normally). iterations (such as giving infinipoints to supercarriers) could be included in this limit.there should also be a limit to how many sp (maybe 5m per year, 500k per month or similar) that can be respec'ed, as i wrote earlier (just to get my full position down).i can respec that (h<U+FFFD>h<U+FFFD>)."
"i see what you did there :)read and support: don't mess with our wh's what is your stance on wh stuff?"
"eve is a game in a competitive market. as the market is constantly changing, so eve should be constantly developing. that's the facts of business. if tinkering with sp appeals to the market then tinkering there will be. if there are other mmo's who do or are doing something similar then it's natural that eve will do the same."
"there are, and there are tones (wow comes to mind, and any other clone). but what drove people toward eve was that in here, there is not.read and support: don't mess with our wh's what is your stance on wh stuff?"
"and then i'll respec my player into azeroth then eat a bullet because i'm playing wow. thats why alot of people play eve, it doesnt follow the market, its dark and brutal and mistakes count for something here. if you make a mistake and blowup you lose your ship forever, you cant wait 15min and get it back. our choices count for something, good or bad and we have to live with them. that is what makes eve so great. tough s**t that you skill trained like a noob for 2 months, maybe you should have found a corp to teach you what to skill train earlier.no respec for nurfs. respec only for skills removed from the game. you dont like it go play with your barbie dolls."
"in light of the recent freakout reactions to ccp's post about the sp respec idea, i propose the following.a new option in training called \"unlearn\". instead of \"learning\" a skill you can choose to \"unlearn\" one instead. doing so prevents you from learning anything else during that time on all characters. the refund of sp would be a 1 to 1 ratio and could later be assigned to whatever skill you want.this woud purely give you the option to remove skills you have no desire of using while expending the exact same amount of time as training any other skill would.edit: change to the proposal for \"unlearning\" to take half the time of learning so that some time is wasted vs just learning another skill but still leaves the option to unlearn a skill you don't want and refund 100% of the sp."
"we can divide hacs into 4 categories: armor sniper (zealot, artillery muninn, rail deimos, long range sentry ishtar) (zealot is fine, muninn is mostly fine, deimos just needs medium rails buffed, ishtar as a sniper suffers from the caveats of sentry drones.) armor brawler (sacrilege, autocannon muninn, blaster deimos, heavy drone ishtar) (sacrilege is underwhelming wrt the drake, ac muninn isn't of much use except in extreme niche scenarios, blaster deimos can be good thanks to the hybrid buff, and the brawltar could be a much handier ship in ahac gangs than it is now i reckon.) skirmisher (vagabond) (no changes needed) shield sniper (cerb, eagle) (these need much more extensive fixing, which probably should be the subject of a whole another thread.) i'll start with the muninn, in both its sniping and brawling configurations, as the fix is the same here: trade one of the muninn's utility highs for a low slot. this would allow it to fit a damage control, a plate, 2 hardeners, and 2 gyros subject to cpu/pg constraints, while still leaving a utility high available for countering tacklers with a neut and its drone bay intact, things that it both brings to the table as a sniper flying alongside zealots. (right now, you either drop the suitcase or a gyrostab due to the ship's shortage of lows and very asymmetric t2 minmatar armor resists.) it would also make it more viable as a sigtanking ac brawler cruiser.the deimos used to be terrible, but has been helped significantly by the hybrid buff. it still isn't that great as a sniper, but that's a function of continued dps issues with medium rails (they have poor dps with respect to laser snipers and poor alpha compared to artilleries, leaving them with no niche except for extreme range cruiser sniping, which the deimos doesn't mess with.) unless an across-the-board medium rail buff is planned, the deimos will retain the status quo.the ishtar is a solid pve boat, but could use a bit of help as an anti-tackle platform or brawler in pvp simply by fixing its notoriously tight fittings. +5% each pg and cpu would be a good start, no? other than that, the problems it sees in hac gangs are the problems sentry drones face in pvp, aka you keep losing the buggers when you get chased off.the sacrilege probably could use the most help of the four, especially with the upcoming drake changes. upping the damage bonus to 7.5%/level and making it apply to both hmls and hams would make it much more useful (allowing it to be competitive with ham drakes in brawling applications while still being able to hit out to a decent range with heavy missiles). the assault optimization subsystem for the legion might (would?) receive a similar buff (that is, if an 11-effective-launcher ham legion is acceptable, which it might very well be, it'd put it on par with the tengu for ham dps)."
"i support some tweaks to the hacs especially on fittings, ishtar cpu os very tight when fitting drone upgrades and trying to fill the highs."
"cerb and eagle need help, the rest are simply overshadowed by the overpowered bcs."
"thread #986144091784987127460 on disbanding the csm."
"you are always good for a laugh my man."
"none of the \"disband the csm\" threads really list anything that csm 6 has done wrong, they just whine about the fact that less than half of the csm members are part of large nullsec alliances (hint, the majority are not) \"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" - abrazzar"
"of course they don't dude. that would require :effort: and totally negate their baseless whine posts.no-one asked for my opinion on what was discussed in iceland between ccp and the csm but as a rational human being, i can read and see that the changes proposed benefit all eve players.here's a tip, instead of crying about no-one listening to your thoughts on game play mechanics, how about post them here so we can all see what you want to change?"
"what is this ****? grow a pair."
"as it stands right now: radars and ded rated non-drone complexes, and to a lesser extent ladars (most k-space explorers skip 'em because gas harvesting is considered a pita by them, but it's no big deal for w-space types popping out into k-space) are profitable. mags, gravs, and rogue drone or non-ded-rated complexes are pretty much worthless, though, but for different reasons: magnetometric sites drop junk salvage most of the time. (even some of the t2 salvage parts they drop aren't worth that much isk.) if one wanted to increase t2 salvage inflows, this would be the place to do it at, although an overall rig rebalance would do more to help the situation. gravimetric sites are worthless because the money's either in bulk low-ends or in small quantities of high-ends (abcm). ores between those two extremes aren't very good. perhaps heavily defended grav sites containing small amounts of high-ish ends such as bistot and crokite might be a good idea? (arkonor and mercoxit could be added for low/0.0 versions, along with more stuff to fight through of course.) rogue drone complexes don't drop anything useful. drone loot nerfed itself into the ground a long time ago, and the overseer-type loot you get from them is not worth much either. fixing this would require either a) a serious rework of 'augmented' and 'integrated' drones, b) the introduction of module drops into rogue drone combat complexes (such as faction drone-related modules), or c) just removing the complexes altogether. i frankly have no idea why non-related complexes exist, they usually involve rogue drones it seems and are complete rubbish anyway, except maybe for a faction spawn? on a related note, why is k-space gas 10m3/unit? it isn't worth nearly as much as c540..."
"the presence of high-ends (or even mid-ends, if you're truly fanatical about balance) in hisec is a bad idea.you might think \"but it will be more profitable for me right now\" and that might be right. but then consider that there are thousands of other players who play the same way you do. if high ends become available in hisec, they will be exploited mercilessly and the value of those ores will drop.the low value of gravimetric sites is due to the number of people flooding the market with zero-effort ores. they mine while watching tv, doing housework, or even playing other games. the way to \"fix\" the severely depressed minerals market is not to add more minerals to hisec: that will only make the problem worse. to get more value from the ore you mine, the ore you mine must be worth mining, which means that there's less of it to mine. ideally it would also require more effort than simply warping to a belt and starting the lasers, returning attention to the game once in a blue moon to move stuff from the hulk to the orca.as for mag sites, there has been some discussion about \"salvage alchemy\" where by some process, players can convert vast quantities of t1 salvage to t2 salvage. if such a thing happens, i can see the opportunity to introduce more t1 salvage into the game. until there is some mechanism in place to consume vast quantities of t1 salvage, adding more salvage through exploration would be a bad idea.other opportunities would include switching rogue drones from dropping \"drone poo\" to dropping & salvaging special components which are used to produce drone-related implants, rigs and modules. i prefer this idea to straight out bounties.i agree with your comments about gas though :)lower volume would lead to easier extraction which would lead to cheaper booster production. there aren't enough drug pushers in hisec. we need more."
"why don't you just make it that once the mom site has spawned no more other sites spawn. that way the incursion can't be left open for days to be farmed."
"i strongly support this!it is not fair to the rest of the eve community for incursion runners to be able to farm them and refuse to pop the mothership leaving the constellation rendered disabled for weeks possibly. to those who argue it is somehow not a fair stance to take that they should not be farmable. how does it fit into the lore that the incentive for players should be to never allow the incursions to be defeated? in some cases people are actually taking action to prevent the defeat of the mothership. this is obviously not the way the feature was intended to be used. if not a hard limit i would support any sort of strong incentive to kill the mothership. i mean after all isn't that the whole point of fighting an incursion?"
"nerf tech moons"
"no i have never heard of t1 cruisers killing at a 1 to 1 ratio 5 billion isk ships. is this some sort of wierd incursion thing? or were you wardecked and just really bad at pvp? honestly in any scenario i can think of, if you lose 50 billion isk in ships to an equal sized gang of t1 cruisers you deserve to explode.you are doing it wrong. also this is kind of an issue with the horrible nap fest that null is evolving towards.as opposed to nullsec (or even lowsec) where every neut that wanders into your space actually is trying to kill you. yeah tech moons are kind of bullshit because it's only the power block leaders who see any benefit from them. all the front line grunts just have to fight over them.i honestly think poco based sov is a good idea"
"already happened, just not for sopa"
"already wrote both congress and the senate"
"filled out and shared on facebook.summary of eves last four expansions:"
"weapon ambit extension rigs are bastard stepchildren: their 15% or 20% bonus to falloff has been worthless ever since the te buff (and probably for longer, too). (it might even be the smallest falloff bonus in eve.) doubling this bonus would put it right on par with what locus coordinators do for optimal with respect to scripted tracking computers or tracking enhancers (t1 locus rig = scripted t2 tc/te, t2 locus rig = awesome, almost too awesome)."
"alternatively drop the calibration to 50 so that it can be used where calibration is tighter.in fact i would question why the calibrations for all weapon rigs are the same across weapon types when some rigs are much more useful to certain weapon systems."
"to hell with you bears, i was against removing learning skills and i am sure as hell against my implants being taken away. i spent almost 2 months as a noob training learning skills so that i would one day have an advantage over someone that was impatient and i worked to buy my learning implants for the same damn reason. i was filled with glee when the put implants on the killmails so that i could really see how much that hurt the other guy.bottom line if your not willing to work to get your implants or your not willing to take a risk by putting them in your head then you need to get stuffed because you don't deserve to own what i worked for and you did not kill me to take.if they are going to change anything it needs to be jc timers and not by simply cutting them down, you need to buy a skill and spend some damn time to train it. this is eve and you don't rate to have free ****, you work for it you kill for it and you die for it that is what makes eve different and if you don't like it go play wow.respectfully submitted"
"ban npc corp forum alts from csm forums"
"actually this is my main just closed our corp yesterday, tuvm"
"what risk is there to a player with implants that stays in high sec and avoids pvp? the problem with learning implants is that those that engage in pvp or other activities that put their pods at risk are inclined not to put high end learning implants in their active clone because of the risk of losing them, resulting in slower learning time than someone who takes no risks at all. in short learning implants promote risk aversion, especially for non veterans with loads of things that they want trained yesterday.learning skills were even worse, as many players wouldn't play eve at all with a character until they had completed them and it was a very big disincentive to new players to even bother trying eve. was very glad to see them go."
"proof they are being removed or please kindly stfu.ps: and just like your dec-shield exploit thread that was an insult to intelligence...not supporting.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"you again with another dumb thread, thryson? no carebears to gank in hi sec today?again, another thread that only addresses the issue from one side, i.e. yours.it's ok for you, thryson, you will never leave hi sec so you can't be podded (unless it's one of your lame ass wardec's on miners that won't stand a chance against your t3's so your implants are still safe, eh?). some of us actually go looking for fairer fights in null and low where the chances of loosing implants goes up rather dramatically rather than grief noobs in hi sec.most sane pilots in low/null don't use implants as you will see if you look at the kb's.so, why should we suffer because you're lame and won't leave hi sec?it was only a proposal on these boards anyway but again you get all bent out of shape over someone trying to benefit all players, not just themselves.not supported."
"i started to say i was agianst this...until i got my ass podded escorting a freighter fleet in (coughcoughfacoughcough) space and was summarily podded.accidentally forgot i was wearing +4'sso yeah...i'm dis-inclined to acquiesce to the \"don't remove learning implants from the game\" camp.as we now live in branch....bit hard to get replacements out here.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"sucks dude. i heard about the jf convoy that was *ahem* ambushed on someone's jb's.if the learning implants were done away with, these things wouldn't happen and people would be more inclined to pew pew instead sit out a good fight (or ambush) because they don't want to risk the 1bil+ in their heads.*e*that's not to say we should remove implants altogether. keep the pirate implants and what have you, just remove the learning part. has no real use now that learning skills are gone."
"my cheap clone is a +5 attribute set. i'd like to keep implants as well. there is nothing wrong with paying isk to gain a skill training speed advantage. if you have your way and get them removed, next you'll want damage hardwirings to be deleted so that guys like me don't get a dps advantage over you. after that, you'll want faction mods deleted because i can afford to pvp with them and you can't. and then finally after i've left the game because of these changes, you'll leave too because some other guy newbier than you proposed that anything above a t1 cruiser should be deleted because people flying better stuff keeps him from pvping.i also agree that the removal of learning skills probably wasn't the best move even though i personally gained from that change."
"it is not about getting bent out of shape over a trivial issue it is about what it opens the door too that you think that you deserve somthing you don't have to work for or risk to own. because you don't like it the real trolls on the fourms are people that sit here and ask to get free stuff all day."
"that wasn't a jf convoy mate....that was a freighter convoy...no jump drives. and op - hey...smartass....proof or stfu.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"what you are also asking for is all the benifits of high sec in null if you do that you,might as well make missions make as much as null complexes a nd allow corps to fight for control of high sec oh and maybe there should be no local like in wormholes while we are at it everyone should recieve a free replacement ship of the same class they lose in combat and we all need 500 million free exp. ect ect ect yeah this seems like a good idea."
"yet again you whine and cry without proof.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"what do you need as proof drake? that was an exaggerated statment to emphize how insane it is to ask for stuff you don't have to work for or own."
"your proposal indicates they are getting removed....where is the ####ing proof?================ stop the evemail spam!"
"let me restate my postion as you are correct and i mis titled, this is a counter-proposal. as there is no dislike button or actual way of stating how much and why people don't support somthing(other than reading pages and pages of posts and adding them manually) i saw this as a valid way to counter the other proposal to remove learning implants. i changed the title accordingly."
"it's called \"i don't like this..not supporting\"how hard is that?================ stop the evemail spam!"
"you right there is not a lot of risk it does happen from time to time i lost a large ammount of implants recently because of a bad descision i made. but what you asking for is more benfits of high sec in null, all 3pvp zones have advantages and disadvantages to take away one and award it to the others is asking too much and that is what i dont agree with."
"there is no way of know how many people do not like it other than adding it up manually on a post that has upwards of 2000 responses that can be tedious"
"what business of it is yours to know who or what?that is for ccp/csm to deal with...not you.you state your opinion..and move on.argue if you feel its ncessary...make a new proposal..but dont double/tripple thraed a idea out of stupidity.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"i would like to open this up to everyone opinion,first off i believe that every corp should keep their right to join/leave an alliance at will (free war dec for thryson \o/)dec shield is a really interesting idea, even if can prove disruptive i don't have anything against it directly, what i do have a problem with is if you target a corp for what ever reason you have lets say they have a pos you want to take down, then they should not be allowed to endlessly jump in and out of any alliance to avoid the conflict it is so obviously cheating the way the system works that it should not even need to be brought up in discussion yet i find myself here after getting rejected petitions to see what the rest of you think."
"hey thryson.sucks having the orca exploit changed on you dude. no more t3's ejected when fighting, eh? you have a bit of a cheek whining about exploits dude.also your post is a bit contradictory.you say first that you believe that corps should keep the right to join/leave alliances at will then go on to whine that they shouldn't be allowed to do this when you want to kill a pos?personally i am ok with the dec shield idea. why should some carebears that you've griefed give you free kills on their pos's?this sounds more like a whine thread that you are being denied kills in hi sec.move to low/null sec and you don't even need a wardec to remove a pos. simples."
"well i would like to behave like and an adult here as we are not in game and you seem to be taking you loss pretty hard even months later.now the orca \"exploit\" was never an exploit however the majority of people felt like it was and was changed accordingly i never complained after it was changed because it could be used in an unfair way, like dodging a fight completely.also if you would read in context what i wrote you would understand you should be able to join and leave alliances but to do it over and over is where i have the problem. what it comes down to is if you have a pos set up be prepared to defend it not hide behind a game mechanic that needs attention.fighting is not just for low and null high sec is as free game as anywhere else just with a slightly different set of rules. concord dose not exist to protect it is there to punish."
"still a contradiction.if you believe that corps should be allowed to leave/join alliances at will, why have a restriction on how many times they can do it?again, you are just butthurt that you can't grief a carebear corp and rack up some easy kills.one more point, if ccp have already answered your petitions and knocked you back, why are you wasting our time with this?ccp aren't going to do anything so seems lame that you come here whining when you already have the answer."
"this is bullcrap. only pussies go after high sec corps recruiting noobs for easy kills, grow a pair."
"i'm with the peanut gallery.... this smells bull#### all over it...soundly rejecting.you cannot and will not make changes to war decs without balancing the books.both the agressor and the agressed must gain equal benefits/drawbacks...not only one party.ccp has clearly stated it....\"dec sheild\" is not an exploit. *not to say i approve...but i'm not about to rock the boat on this subject either*don't like it?i'm sorry...i'm fresh out of tissues.i hear there's this game called hello kitty online...ps: smiling menace...i'm starting to really enjoy your posts.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"lol thanks dude"
"simple. introduce a cooldown timer that increases the time it takes for a person joins a corporation within the span of a month. then do away with npc corps and make people individually deccable. after 3-4 corp hops the time it'll take for the guy to rejoin another corp and invalidate the war will be longer then the reinforcenment timer."
"see that is an actual soultion nicolo it is not about what you believe about high sec war decs, what it comes down to is that it is n aspect of the game that many people enjoy it."
"firstly. i am dec shield. i run dec shield. dec shield should be considered an exploit. what we do is wrong, and i don't agree with ccp's decision to let it be legal. the ability for highsec towers to be made invulnerable through the exploit/loophole that we abuse is completely unfair and imbalanced.and yes i am completely serious."
"this is literally genius. become the thing you hate to highlight how terribly, terribly wrong it is. ccp take note. *golfclap*"
"second *golf clap*"
"so you don't much care for having more people to shoot, but want it declared an exploit again because you don't get to grind static ehp with limited returns except against absolute beginners who don't know that bpo's never have to leave a station?suggestion: hire yourself out to the next offensive null entity that invades a region with lots of infrastucture .. that way you get all the ehp grind you could ever want and a bit of spending money on top."
"nothing wrong with dec shield, except that i've heard that some people are able to maintain them at a fraction the cost they should be. if you want to spend your own money on wardecs to raise the cost of wardecs against you, that's fine. if you game the system so that you aren't spending the required money to maintain your own wardecs, then you're exploiting the game and doing something that obviously is against the intent of the game design.scraping, however, should be considered an exploit. when a corp is able to raise the cost of a wardec against themselves and immediately invalidate that wardec by joining and leaving an alliance, it gives them the ability to not only completely evade wars, but to also cost any would-be enemies a substantial amount of isk.i've posted my solution many times: make the wardec follow the intended party. don't pass it off on an alliance. problem solved."
"this discussion invariably breaks into the same lines of argument. quoting myself from similar threads:"
"here is an easy soultion maybe not the best but ill take a shot.you drop an alliance that is at war the dec stays with you for the same time left on the alliance dec, this allows individual corps to come to terms with the aggressor on a small scale."
"i prefer my idea of \"sticky\" wardecs: allow corps to be directly targeted, even inside an alliance. if they drop or are kicked from the alliance, the alliance gets the 24 hour cooldown period.this way if my corp wardecs a rival corp, they can't scrape it off onto an alliance. and if the goal is to destroy certain pos towers in high sec, the corp owning them can be targeted and would be unable to evade the wardec by dropping."
"to build on what mara said, yea you cannot make a bear fight, but that is their choice and i don't believe that needs any attention i find plenty of pvp in high sec and when there r no wars we roam low and wormholes. nothing reply needs to be changed in that respect but to have a game mechanic that allows someone to completely avoid any fighting ever is wrong. war stinulats the economy in eve with out losses there is no demand and all types of pvp drive this large scale wars in null are good for mass orders low and high sec skirmishes drive a demand for specialized ships bot often used in large fleets eve gqnks drive the demand for replacement faction gear and mining ships."
"how would war dec fees work?"
"just as they do now (or at least, any changes would be independent of my idea): if you dec a member of an alliance--or the entire alliance--then you pay alliance-level fees."
"hi ccp, the system for standing is great when you use the nbsi in 0.0, but it's about a crazy job when you play in nrds.can you add to eve gate, the possibility to import or export the some standing file (exemple xml).that will be great because now, if you would like to go in providence with the nrds is a crazy job to set all standing."
"dumbest idea i've seen in a while. just dumb. you should be ashamed."
"so this ship just gets killed first then?"
"i'm drafting a full stat layout now. should be able to provide more information by sunday."
"i really like this idea. the orca bay doesn't cut it and your very limited when packaging rigged ship in courier contracts for freighters. +1i would also like to see a tech 2 version with a jump drive. like jump freighters you can limit the space a little bit for the needed fuel bay. maybe make the t1 version fit 4 rigged tier 3 bs's and the tech 2 version 3. i could care less if they are allowed to enter high sec or not. if you want to make it a new cap i don't think there would be any objection to adding this. it's not a combat ship, can't fit any mods, can't deploy ships in space, no maintenance hangar and it's another cap target for people to hunt"
"good points all around. i still think it's going the long way around to get to where you want to go, but i see your thinking. what if the ship had an array of bonuses for each level in racial industrial? like a bonus to shields for each level of one race, and a a bonus to armor for another, align time for another... etc... does that just invite abuse? it would make people who have cross trained a lot more powerful potentially, but really when you consider the nature of the ship it doesn't seem so bad. no high slots and only a couple low and medium slots doesn't sound like this could be turned into a war machine - it's a tug. i've never really understood why there are so few ships that don't fall neatly into a faction's category. i'd prefer to see a big pile of ships that aren't built to fit the stereotypes of a given race.i still support your idea. this just seems more like an ore ship from my rp point of view."
"agree with op. +1"
"agree with you on everything but the last bit, which i have supported elsewhere. i can see a use for limited mass stabilization of wormholes using player anchored gates/structures. these would require fuel of course, and function like a pos in that fashion, and also be capable of being destroyed. no reinforcement timer.zubzubzubzubzubzubzubzub"
"i have to disagree with the poster above me (with all due respect sir!).remember, two-step isn't the only csm with a familiarity with wh's:meissa anunthiel's blog - ahhhh, just to stir the pot a bit, and maybe get wh'ers stirred up and involved in the process. from the blog the interesting bit to whers here:i have my own opinion of these statements, however, for the moment i prefer to think it through, rather than post before i have considered everything, which is a bit of change for me... lastly, i don't know if i'm remembering this correctly, but there was some speculation that the mechanic/module whatever that sansha was using to form incursion wormholes was something that was going to/might be put into play generally in eve. can't remember where i read that, so it might just have been uninformed rambling."
"yeah, i'm with you on most of this stuff.keep wh's for the small corps.+1"
"yeah, i've read the blog. i know she has some experience, since she is from rnk, and some rnk corps tag along when guilotine therapy roams wormholes. but she is still null-sec representative and not wh representative.however, until she will show us her (well, his) magnificent great idea i'm going to assume the end result will cause larger blobs in wh's - and wh's are all about small scale pvp. i, of course, can imagine that there is a solution that will be acceptable for both sides.apart from main subject i dont agree with rest of what she wrote regarding wh's (so in other words: no for podding, yes for sleepers atacking players/poses/etc in space)read and support: don't mess with our wh's what is your stance on wh stuff?"
"about t3 and command ship % bonuses being swapped, i disagree.a t3 does have a better bonus, but it can only mount and use one link at a time, while a command ship can use three links at a time. in order to get a t3 to use more link you have to sacrifice any essence of tank to do so, especially for shield ships as command processors are mid slots. t3 must use defensive subsystems sacrifices its own tank for better boosts, creating a greater loss of tank.a command ship are able to mount 3 links without sacrificing anything and they are given tanking bonuses - damnation with its 5% resist and 10% armor hp bonuses. vulture with 5% resist and 10% shield hp bonuses. t3's don't have such.a commandship is able to fit more link than a t3 ever will - therefore t3's and cs are balanced with each other. t3 can give stronger but less type of bonuses. a cs give weaker but more types of bonuses. a command ship is able to tank and fight on the field with its fleet as well, therefore it has an advantage over t3's.cs need to be looked at, see the claymore and eos with their pathetic active lol tank bonuses."
"i am ambivalent about the suggestion of limiting gang link effects to on-grid only.one the one hand i appreciate the \"all ships contributing to a battle should be vulnerable\" argument but on the other hand i don't necessarily agree that ships need to be ongrid to contribute, eg carrier's fighters.also, capital ships with gang link capability also need to be in the discussion. although rarely used beyond the rorqual since they have less bonuses than fleet command or t3.perhaps the whole gang link mechanic could do with an overhaul? eg retain off-grid, give capitals bonusesfinally, a simpler fix would be to just remove the command processor module. hey presto no 6-link ships, no t3 alts. fleet command ships get back their eminence in gang bonuses. it wouldn't stop possed-up fleet command alts, of course, but it's a move towards balance."
"am i allowed to bump again?"
"i fought in and on plexes yesterday. this happened:kill 1loss 1loss 2kill 2if you'll notice, that's 3 separate systems that plexing was occurring in. i realize that you color your 'plexing is a pve activity' with the word primarily. i think that since the recent update with more plexes spawning, it's shifted a fair bit toward the pvp side."
"garr thanks for posting. that looks like a pretty good run, and exactly what i would like out of eve. when i say i think we should be able to get about 4-7 fights per 2 hours some people say that is crazy. but i think you might agree that with some tweaking it could be possible. at least its worth striving for. let me try to clarify what i am getting at with this proposal. i think *using* plexes is the best way in eve to get small scale pvp fights. so i am always a big proponent of people giving fw a try and using the plex mechanics to get fights. however if you want to actually plex *in order to gain the most occupancy* under the current mechanics you are better off doing it pve style.the goal of this proposal is to make it so the best way to gain the most occupancy would require lots of small scale pvp. that is why the notification system is key. i went out the other night and did some plexing. now i use plexes in order to get fights not really to get occupancy. let me explain how each is different:using plexes for for fights:1)go to a system with lots of wartargets and open a plex. 2) move away from the button and rats so they don't cut into your tank and force you to warp out if someone comes3) dont actually capture the plex. even if you are not getting a fight then leave the beacon up and try a different system. that way that plex is open for you to come back to later.plexxing in order to actually change occupancy:1) go to an empty system - again getting pvp may result in me having to leave the plex or having to reship this just slows plexing down. 2) run the plex in a pve ship so that you can run the largest variety of plexes. if i fit a frigate/destroyer for pve i can run many more types of plexes than if i fit anything for pvp.now know plexing doesn't have consequences and people have pretty much abandoned plexing other than to get a fight. but when i first started people still held on to the idea that occupancy was the goal.(btw i think occupancy should be the goal of fw) so what i did was i fit pve ships and did plexing. here is the type of ships we would use:"
"\"they discourage people from playing eve. you're still paying your subscription, sure, but you're not playing the game. you don't want to jump to your empty/combat clone and lose a day of \"optimal\" training so you can have some fun, and then have to jump back to your training clone the next day.\"you can have fun even in your learning implants clone. what you're saying here is that you don't want to risk them. you're asking for convenience here, not balance. the risk vs reward balance already exists.\"this affects nullsec (especially wormhole) players doubly so - losing your ship in a bubble is a surefire way to get podded. people in empire still have a better chance of warping their pods out of harm's way, and thus have no qualms about running missions or otherwise ~flying in space~ with their implants, unless of course they are at war. that, however, is not our playstyle.\"your playstyle. as i stated, you're complaining that the game doesn't work the way you want it to.\"they are seeded exclusively through lp stores rather than being made in-game entirely.\"so are faction ships and modules but you see people flying with those in nullsec.\"characters that need pirate faction implants for any reason (supercapital pilots with slave/nomad sets, freighter/jf pilots with nomads, etc.) are essentially stuck with +3s. but this isn't about pirate implants.\"you get to choose what bonuses you want out of your implants. more armor hp, lower sig radius, more agility, or faster learning speed. you have choices here, and you're complaining that you can't have more than one."
"you sure love learning implants lawl \"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" - abrazzar"
"sure i do. they let me learn faster, and i believe that a bonus like that should stay the way it is. a choice between learning, ship boosts, or simply not risking implants out on the field."
"no. the game rewards risk averse play a lot already, and it's absolutely not needed. it's just a barrier for engaging in risky yet fun activities. when i had a couple spare hours when my character was younger, i used to go look for a fight in a 8m fit rifter. i met random guys doing so, we blew each other up, and it was fun.but i won't do that now with +5s. there are tons of skills i'd need trained for yesterday, and i won't give up one day of learning bonuses for a 30 min roam. so you have one less solo pvper in space (and i'm sure i'm not the only one).and with veterans it only gets worse. you may have more money available, but you can only have so much clones (i.e. so much implants sets). and you may need so much different sets...- carrier clone (slave set)- nano clone (snake set)- incursion clone (high sec, learning & hardwire implants)- racial pvp logi (low grade racial sensor strength) - \"low cost\" combat clone (+3s or +4s of intel/mem or per/wil depending on you training)... list goes on.and the medical alone can cost more than your ship hull.all this puts off people from engaging in risky activities, which is bad for the game and the other players. the most people in space to meet / fight, the better.remove the learning implants. lower / remove the medical clone price."
"bravo and well said. the removal of learning implants will vitalize pvp and that's why i support it. arguments about risk aversion are purely idealistic and have little practical merit. everybody has different thresholds of isk they're willing to risk, lowering the minimum cost of a pod loss is only going to bring more people out into areas where their pod is at risk. if you can't feel the thrill without an expensive clone, nobody is forcing you to fly a cheap clone. simple as that. if you're afraid that low-income plebs will suddenly have an advantage over your rich ass, well, you can spend all the isk used for implants on hardwirings, pirate implants, faction loot, etc to give yourself the advantage.and if you're a highsec bear that's afraid of losing the privilege of flying with his hard-earned 5's that he'll most likely never lose, you can go jump into a lake for all i care."
"i am sure that quite a lot of people here disagree with the proposal just because a goon posted it- so they think there simply has to be some secret, evil agenda behind it. funny, how far this hatred can go. i'd like to apologize for the poor quality of the post above and sincerely hope you didn't waste your time reading it. yes, i do feel bad about it."
"i'm sure quite a lot of people here will ignore all the downsides that have been clearly pointed out to this proposal, and think people who don't like the proposal must just have something against the goons.make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"obvious goonswarm testicle troll is obvious.obvious mittani link is obvious.nobody cares what you think."
"now what a kind person you are...maybe i wouldn't care about my opinion, too, if i were you. but i do care about the proposal, because i think it is a very good idea and would help me- a desperate carebear that got stuck in highsec forever- a great deal to have more fun in eve.the main argument people are posting here is: evil 0.0 alliances would profit from it (true. everybody would profit), so i am against it. they would rather see that nobody gets such a nice benefit, since the mere idea that their hated archenemies would get the same benefit is just unbearable for them. i am in no way affiliated with the goons, i know nothing about 0.0 politics and i do not care, to be honest.i would personally profit if learning implants were removed, that's why i support the idea- and i do not mind if other people profit as well, i wouldn't even mind if they profited slightly more than me.i would be free to get some casual pvp in lowsec whenever i want, that's all that matters to me.have a nice day. i'd like to apologize for the poor quality of the post above and sincerely hope you didn't waste your time reading it. yes, i do feel bad about it."
"could you please sum up these downsides ?because so far, i have read mostly the risk vs reward argument.i.e. you play without implants (no risk, no reward) or you play with (risk and reward).but you do not mention the third option :you don't play, so you still get the reward and have no risk. how can that be good for the game ?if a mechanic makes some people prefer not playing, it is a bad mechanic.i'm not against implants. but since the learning ones are so good, they are needed by everyone.just like the learning skills. what did you use to say to a new player in his very first days ? \"train your learning skills, and train cybernetics 1, by the way, here are +3s\"want an example ? easy, page 1 :or a ts3 discussion from a random renter corp deep in 0.0 :- player a : \"hey ! there's a 6-men roam coming our way. let's swarm them with a 10-men t1 frigs !\"- player b : \"nah, my jc is still on cooldown and my medical costs 10 times the frigate\"- player a : \"hmm... so we can go with 10 bcs ? do we have logistics pilots ?\"- player c : \"sorry, i have only 1 bc left here, and my wallet is down to 40m, so i'll just stay docked\"really, how can this be good for the game ?"
"seriously if you can't have your skills training at less than the absolute optimal for a 24 hour time period of jump cloning you are a bit too obsessive compulsive to be doing pvp anyway. you need to loosen your grip if you want to have fun pvping in eve and based on your attitude toward skill training you are way too uptight. things don't always go exactly as you would like. among others you forgot the argument that there are trillions of isk in learning implants going into the eve economy. erasing that from the economy will all but kill every lp store in eve. sorry there is no reason to kill a large part of the game in order to cater to the crowd that is ridiculously uptight about learning. also if you would like to pvp there are low sec options that do not have bubbles so you can usually warp your pod out. but nice strawman.make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"did you know some people prefer not to pvp because they may lose a ship?so lets use your logic:pvp may cause people to lose a shipsome people prefer not to pvp because they may lose a shiptherefore pvp is a bad mechanicnice lets just make it impossible for players to attack eachother.your reasoning is bad.downsides:1) it will kill the already floundering lp stores2) how exactly is ccp going to reimburse people who paid a tone of isk for learning implants that are now worthless?3) it will be a huge isk sink that is lost4) it will be a large area of the market and economy will just all of a sudden stricken. why? well because people want bubbles to hold pods and others don't want to train a bit slower for 24 hours. sorry thats not really all that great.again just make it so bubbles don't hold pods and your \"problem,\" to the extent there is one, is solved. make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"pretty sure that if they remove learning implants they will likely give us stat boosts to cover the missing +5 to each skill."
"yeah but what about the people who paid isk for the set. are they going to be treated the same as those who didn't? this proposal seems to do that.when they removed learning skills they gave the sp back, so people who invested time in the learning skills were reimbursed and those who didn't weren't. giving everyone the benefit of something only some paid for is not really more fair than simply taking the benefit away entirely. it just makes the dumb happy. might as well give everyone a hundred million skill points. yay!make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"so uh, who are you? \"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" - abrazzar"
"no it's not. my point is that people have enough incentive to avoid risks already, and the learning implants are an unnecessary burden. they prevent certain people to participate in some parts of the game, which is bad.hell, it doesn't even changes anything to the outcome of a fight, since they are not combat-related. what does it change that your target has or hasn't attribute enhancers ?so the lp store is floundering ? really ? you have data behind that ? if so, how can this represent a large area of the market ? and why would economy stricken ?the isk sink will not change : people will still use their lp, which will sink the same amount of isk.regarding the reimbursement, i don't care. they didn't want to reimburse skillbooks because it would inject lots of fresh isk in the game, which would have caused inflation. if they give lp/isk for the implants, i suppose you can buy another item in the lp store, so the operation is neutral for the inflation. but i'm sure this can be sorted out. i'm not an economy specialist, and this is not the topic here. which brings me to...none of the points you bring are actually related to the implants themselves ! if they are issues, they can be solved in a completely independant way.i have yet to read a real reason against such a change, other than \"i worked hard for something, now i want everyone to suffer the same way i did\""
"this seems like a great way to use existing features, but i think only pilots not flagged as pirates or with active gcc could issue a mayday, and no pirates could see the resulting beacon. as for the beacon, it would disappeared when the ship issuing the mayday is blown up.furthermore, a message could appear in local up to a few systems around indicating a mayday call. people could disable mayday calls from their chat, and for those that do not the chat line would just say \"concord reports: mayday in system\"for the sake of the story, concord would simply not relay pilots flagged as pirates (-5 or less) due to their known current status, for those that want a story-based explanation.last but not least, each pilot would only have one mayday call per day, to avoid spamming those."
"distress signals that may or may not be traps are a wonderful scifi staple. remove the sec status requirement, anybody can warp to them, have their own overview category so you can mitigate spam and it could certainly be fun.heck, have npc distress signals like the beacons we've got now but dynamic. some legitimate transports under attack by rats, some traps, fun for all."
"+1bounty hunting fix is long overdue, and should have been done before learning to walk in stations."
"+1, although i'll probably be on the wrong end of this more often then not."
"you see it to extreme. nobody is able to deny payout, it is a insignificant reduction - it would be an exploit if it would remove more isk from the bounty on the bad guy's head than the payout which was given to the hunter, this is not the case.secondly, uninsurable ship modules are in the ship formula included.thirdly, its only one part of the bill, the second part is the pod everyone is aiming for anyway.additionally this is only an optional implementation detail which can be solved in multiple ways, this was only an example for a possible implementation. a much simpler tuning option would be to reduce the safety multiplier for the payout as you already mentioned (e.g to 50%), or interpolate between both - substract 50% of the insurance but use a 70% multiplier."
"why should one not be allowed to sit afk cloaked?? that space is not yours, everyone should be allowed to sit in any part of the space as long as he is cloaked."
"so is there an actual argument for keeping the active tanking bonus aside from \"i like them\" and theoretically decreased diversity? i'll repeat again, even with the same bonuses, you wouldn't fly the nighthawk in the same way you fly a sleipnir just in the same way blasters require different techniques for success than pulse lasers. obviously you wouldn't close to zero with lasers when facing blasters. so while you are decreasing diversity within the bonuses, you are creating more diversity in the fleets that people are going to use as more ships become effective for large-scale pvp.as a side-note, this defensive bonus could be switched to a percentage of shield/armor capacity if you wanted to maintain the diversity within bonuses. but really that type of bonus goes more with amarr/caldari than gallente/minmatar."
"your math confuses me as i'm not sure what your understanding of the resist bonus is.do you understand that the bonus doesn't just add 25% to each armour resist but 25% of the remainder of that particular resist. this means that your damage received isn't reduced by 25% but an average of 16.8%. this also means that your overall ehp doesn't increase by 25% but actually by just under 14% (abbadon used to get figures. other ships may be slightly different). example abaddon:level 5 pilot - no amarr bs skill and unfitted:em 50% th 35%kin 25%exp 20%ehp - 37810level 5 pilot unfitted:em 62% - increase of 25% of 50 (effective +12%)th 51.3% - increase of 25% of 65 (effective +16.3%)kin 43.8% - increase of 25% of 75 (effective +18.8%)exp 40% - increase of 25% of 80 (effective +20%)ehp - 43057 an increase of 13.9%now that we have that out of the way the resist bonus vs the rep bonus if it was to also apply to remote repair received:a lvl5 guardian pilot repairs 384 armour every 5s with each lg rr module.if the repair amount received was bonused, the guardian would be repairing 528 armour every 5s.lets assume the guardian is fitted with 4 lg rr modules.4x384= 1536 armour every 5s unbonused4x528= 2112 armour every 5s bonusedthat extra 600 armour per cycle is really going to help but lets consider fitted ships and the difference between the two. i am going to use the abaddon vs the hyperion as they're both armour and the abaddon is considered 733t and the other the hype-5h1te because of the ****** bonus.level 5 pilots and buffer tanked fits no fleet bonuses, gang links or implants:abaddon: 165979hyperion: 133908the hyperion has 19% less ehp than the abaddon or the abaddon has 24% more than the hyperion, however you want to look at it.defence efficiency with one guardian using all 4 lg reppers but no drones:abaddon:1216hyperion:1268 (inc. 37.5% rep bonus proposed)the hyperion ends up with approx a 4.2% better tank. now this may not sound like very much but on a very large scale, lets say a fleet using 10 guardians. the hyperion can tank over 600 dps more than the abaddon.again, i don't believe this to be enough and i do think that the armour rep bonus should be increased to 9%/bs level as this would scale far better when used like this.so i would propose increasing the armour rep bonus to 9% per skill level and to include remote repair received."
"spugg your comparison is flawed. aside from the fact that your comparing the abaddon against the hyperion (you're really saying you're going to fit all tank in the lows for hype? lol), leaving out the link bonuses is a huge boost in your argument's favor due to how the resist link applies and stacks with the resistance bonus.probably the best comparison you can do for this argument is the absolution vs the astarte. when fully fitted out with the astarte using 1 dmg mod and navy antimatter and the absolution using 2 dmg mods and conflag the ships become almost identical aside from the resistance bonus. gun damage and range is 684 vs 682 and range is 11.7 to 12.5. tank-wise they both have a resistance hole that should be filled as well. they both use an acr and trimark in the rigs. they're as close as you're likely to find for this comparison. i'll post the fits if it proves beneficial to the argument.so let's get down to the numbers. i'll show the numbers without and then including t2 damnation ganglinks and fleet bonuses (you can expect these in any large-scale fleet engagement so why are you leaving them out?)w/o links and bonusesehpabsolution- 105,997astarte- 83,903 (20.8% difference and 21.2% with just fleet bonuses)rep multiplierabsolution- 6.112astarte- 4.816 x 1.375=6.622hps per guardian with 4 rrabsolution- 2086astarte- 2260 (7.7% difference)now let's compare with the links and bonusesehpabsolution- 145,010astarte- 110,905 (23.5% difference)rep multiplierabsolution- 8.24astarte- 6.034 x 1.375=8.29675hps per guardian with 4 rrabsolution- 4157astarte- 4186 (0.7% difference)so my conclusion? in minor engagements where there are no logi or command ships you fail to receive any bonus so you are at minimum 20.8% ehp behind you counterpart. in small-scale engagements where you wouldn't find command ships but find logistics you get a alright bonus. you aren't likely to get chewed through in seconds so ehp becomes less of an issue here and 7.7% per logi is pretty decent. however, in large-scale fleet engagements your idea of using the bonus for remote repair fails to hold up. not only do you have 23.5% less ehp (so the chances of logi being able to lock you up and begin applying reps before you pop are lower) but your rep bonus only gives a 0.7% increase in applied reps versus the resist bonus as well."
"i'll +1 on the idea that full or partial respecs shouldn't be allowed; i've got no use for them anyway, so it really doesn't matter to me. a very limited respec might not be terrible, but it should come at a cost: wipe 1.2 million sp, and get 600k back to spend as you wish. this will limit respecs being influenced by attribute mechanics, and make people think twice before doing it.zubzubzubzubzubzubzubzub"
"so i'm going to agree, and disagree, and also show you the parts you missed, but first, lets go over your examples: titans could still doomsday after this change, so there wouldn't have been a need to give them these sp back.your example would have been better if they'd removed the dd.if you maxed out missile training, all of the supporting skills went directly into the new weapons type, and you could always just get out of the ship and put those cruise missile skills to use in another ship.navigation skills work across all ships, what you're neglecting to see is that they did in fact pull all of the implant sets from everybody on the cluster, they weren't going to be as useful, so they gave you the option of plugging them back in or not.you could still do pi after the change.the carrier was still a carrier, why would they give you skill points back for it? if you'd have trained carrier 5, and they removed carriers, and didn't refund your sp, this would be a valid point.you see, some of the sc pilots have been in sc's for years, they can't leave the ship, and they trained all those drone skills on purpose, they were stuck in the ship, there was nothing it could do but launch drones, so they maxed out their drones.a closer comparison would be like, if they suddenly redid all the amarr ships with no guns on them, no more lasers, just missiles. they would in fact give players those skill points back, as its a fairly radical change that has drastic consequences that disrupt years of training.its not the nerfing of single weapons system that you can take or leave, its the complete re-imagination of a platform, where 10+ million sp (minimum, some more like 15) are now absolutely worthless, and the pilot isn't able to just reship and use them in something elseall that saidthat part goes on to talk about the alternative, which is dockable 0.0 stations for supers, which relieves some of the burden from the supercarrier pilot, it then gives him the option of using those skills that he's spent years training in a different platform, like the case with the stealthbomber nerf you mentioned.one way or another, the super pilots who've spent years in training just got pretty boned with that removal, it wouldn't be a blanket respec, it would likely be targeted at any pilot currently in a supercarrier."
"we know what they meant. here's an explanation for you from seleene's blog (member of csm6):\"the world as we know it came about through an anomaly (anomou)\" (the gospel of philip, 1-5)"
"um creative but did you think about what you said before you said it, if you have to spend time unlearning skills at the same rate you learned them why waste your time just leave the skill maybe far in the future you can use it and just train the skill want to begin with."
"duh...nothing gets past you does it?people want a way to refund sp and others don't...this would satisfy both.besides...i am sure it could be made so that unlearning takes half the time of learning or something if it is really that much of a problem. point is...if you want the ability to revert the clock and correct an error you made in judgment by training a skill then there should be some kind of punishment or downside to doing it. it really shouldn't be any kind of pay isk, get sp back system.perhaps if a skill takes 30 mins to train then it can take 15 minutes to untrain and refund 100% of the sp back...but you still lose time for the untrain when you could have been training something else. frankly i don't regret a single skill i have trained and wouldn't likely use this for anything other than removing the starter skills i do not care for from my skills list."
"i think this is worse than purchased respecs."
"only because you want your sp refund with no downside to it. isk is easy to get...time is not."
"no respecs unless a skill is removed by ccp, period. not for isk, not for time, not for plex, not for any reason. if you want sp's in a new skill, train it then.\"the world as we know it came about through an anomaly (anomou)\" (the gospel of philip, 1-5)"
"what is this tripe?no one would use this..or even support this..because as i said..no one would use this.who the hell wants to stop training skills to unlearn skills?stop making posts to \"just post bad ideas\"...they call that trolling.your just wasting time and being utterly ridiculous.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"irrational...it's called coming up with an alternate idea instead of just mindlessly shooting down other peoples ideas. you might try it sometime. i would use it...so there is somebody that would use it. especially if the untrain time was half the train time so i wasn't completely wasting time.if anybody is trolling...it is you."
"it's called thinking before you post....especially about what people would do and how they would react.assuming its ok because you would use it is nothing more than utter selfishness and stupidity on your part.i dare you to ask everyone around you if they would stop training and give up that time to unlearn a skill.how much you wana bet they would either laugh in your face or just flat say no?================ stop the evemail spam!"
"i dare you to use your brain...if you do you might realize that neither you or me have any idea how people would react to it and if they would use it or not."
"translation - you realize your wrong and refuse to admit it let alone to bother with the effort of doing your homework.no one in their right mind would untrain when they could use that time to train a skill.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"good god you are being narrowminded today...stop and think for a minute.if you can untrain a skill you don't want and it takes you half the time to untrain as it does to train, that means you are getting the sp back at twice the speed it would take for you to train another skill. it still takes time and you lose the skill but you can then use that sp towards the skill you would have otherwise been training.it's called a ******* compromise. you now have an sp refund option but it does not completely destroy the current system of training = time.i don't know how i can explain this any simpler...very easy math here...maybe you have caldari carrier 5 and you want amarr carrier 5 instead. you can untrain caldari carrier 5 and be refunded all the sp, lose the skill and put all that sp into amarr carrier 5 but it would still cost you half of the training time. lose the old skill, gain the new skill, half the training time via untraining old skill."
"in that case.#### no================ stop the evemail spam!"
"well...i can't force you to like the idea. so...thanks for the input."
"eve is a game of consequences.stop trying to avoid them."
"only if it take the same amount of time to un-train the skill and you only get back half of the sp. then there also should be an sp cap in place, say 5 million per year. the cap is the amount you un-train, not what you get back. you then have to pay 1000 x the sp in isk to use it.destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"no...absolutely not....all this will cause is an getting skills at a fraction of the time it would normally take to train them.think about it.sp's benig remibursed even at half would be a 1:1 ratio towards a skill you want them to be dumped in.an sp is still an sp....a few thousand sp's goes a long way towards a skill you want...this is bad all over. even if you get half back.if it takes half the time to untrain the skill accordnig to mr. \"i know better than you do\" over there then your gonna get an even bigger percetage increase on the time it takes to train the skill you want.the only way this will fly in the name of balance is the time it takes to untarin the skill remvoes the sp from the char...and who the #### would want that when they have skills they rather would be training.this idea is just stupid beyond all reason...its easily exploitable...the only reason its not balantaly obvious is because its a pain in the @$$ to even do it in the first place.sp reimbursement is a sliperly hill we do not want....its only used in server outages and removal of skills.anything beyondt hat...is not good. that is a majority opinion. guarenteed.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"mate, i'm not being serious. i can't see him going for it tbh, just wondered how much he wants it. destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"consider me fooled. nice play. ================ stop the evemail spam!"
"lol...dense! \"i\" don't want it at all. i don't frankly give two ***** about refunding sp. but it is something a lot of people request for all the time. and no...i doubt that would be the majority opinion since again...you and i have no idea how other people are going to react. you might as well face it...sp refund is something ccp is thinking about and the csm did not completely shoot it down. it may very well end up happening...and when it does you will all ***** and whine about it and how it was implemented. which is why you should be trying to come up with something that will work for everybody with minimal impact to the game as it is before it is too late."
"no need to get upset, it's only a game. destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"lol...im not upset. it's a proposal for the people. the hardcore will hate it...the vets will hate it. hell...i hate it...but the new peeps will probably like it."
"then why the #### are you asking for it in the first place?are you just that hypocritical? maybe you should start being apart of the solution and stop making the problem worse.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"because...i may not like it but it may be what is best for the game in the long run. a feature like this may retain players that might otherwise quit given the option to do so. it may help draw in more players as well. i try to look at the whole of the issue in what is best for the game, players and ccp and not just what i like or don't like. i have supported many ideas that would be harmful to my current gameplay style and what i like to do because i believe it would benefit others more.i don't need my sp refunded...i haven't made any choices i can't live with or don't think i will need or use down the line. hell even my starter skills will eventually be used despite being useless to me right now. however...i think an sp refund option will benefit the game on a whole. why do we care if vets do this? they have a shitload of sp as it is...nothing will change there. why do we care if the noobs do this? they have so little sp compared to most that it likely wont make a dent in the overall scheme of things. i almost don't care either way frankly. if given the option to untrain and move sp i would welcome the challenge. new players that don't know what they want to do yet can finally do what they want by correcting mistakes while again not completely destroying the time = experience paradigm that eve has set up."
"this would apply for each room with a warp gate in scanned sites. when rats engage or get engaged in a room accessible from a warp gate, the warp gate throttles down the number of ships that can use it every minute to a number equal to the number of non rats ships currently in the room until all the rats in the room are dead.the goal here is to limit the capability to simply bring superior numbers into a site, while the original site explorers take all the aggro, without removing the possibility that the same number of ships with the right firepower could still be a menace to the explorers. so if a 2 person gang is busy on a site, then only 2 new ships can enter that room in one minute time, then 4 others one minute later as the room now has 4 ships in it and so on."
"posting in a stealth \"ninja salvage/i shot the ninja and got sploaded\" whine thread"
"i do not support this. i run lowsec/nullsec ded sites and it would be a shame if i couldn't kill the people already running them because i wasn't able to get inside"
"i think in terms of the balance, the points system would help with that one. if players spend say 60% of the ships points into speed, they are gonna have a super fast ship, but it's gonna lack in every other aspect - tank, weaponry, tracking, signature, etc...so that would mean that, yes, a super fast fleet would dominate for a while, but they all the other alliances would put 60% of their points into tracking, and squashing the super fast fleets.the balance would be achieved by the populous. if person a invents something, person b will invent the counter-measure. that would give the edge to people who invent that new ship type first, which it should. but only as long as it takes the others to invent the deterrent."
"i think it's safe to say that the decision from the gms to allow wardec evasions is just wrong. someone on ccps end needs to slap the gm who made that terrible decision.anyways, here's a few tweaks that might fix the problem:1) wardecs carry on with all the members of that corp, regardless if they stay or evade. if george was in generic corp alpha when it was wardec'ed, he would still be affected if he quit or joined another corp. his new corp won't be affected by the wardec, just him as an individual because he was in gca when the wardec was initiated.2) the cost of wardecs should be cumilative for each wardec'ing corp to prevent permadecs. a week would have to pass before the cumilative cost resets back to original cost.summary of eves last four expansions:"
"sounds pretty fair to me...but isk is easily made...the multipler should be x5 if not x10 (extreme yes but my point needs to be made)+1 for reasonable balance to be reached.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"wait, so you're saying that if someone is in a corp and they get wardecced, then they can't drop corp to avoid the war? i strongly oppose this. there are a lot of corps out there who wardec noob corps, and can continue those wardecs ad infinitum. i'm imagining \"griefer's inc.\" deccing \"we'll help you learn to play\", and then hunting all of their members down mercilessly even after they leave the corp. no, this rule doesn't fix anything; i can only imagine it increasing suffering in the world. i stand opposed."
"stop and consider what you just said.you join a corp to do what? be in a corp and do \"stuff\".but to be in that corp you must take the risk that goes with it.if you don't wan't war-decs...you have no business being in that corp.those who ditch to evade war-decs are considered cowards in most circles....and honestly if you wantted to do stuff without interfence then have the decency to get an alt and leave it in npc mode.there is nothing unfair about this rule change....and i dare say it may solve more problems than not.it's one thing to park it in a station or not log in.it's an another to ditch your corp and run off to evade a war dec.opposed or not.... if you don't like it..then don't join the corp.problem solved.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"1. is there enough wh systems? if not what class needs more?are they under or overpopulated?although a lot of the mid-class whs are uninhabited, i believe there should be an increase in c6's. i say this because there are less than 120 of them currently in game and static manipulation (with the right ships) takes the whole random feeling out of the equation. we can cycle holes in less than 30 secs after scanning it down, meaning that we can hit the same systems after about 3hrs of chain collapsing.2. are pos mechanics enabling to many people to just clean out weak systems and not bother with harder targets?no, but pos mechanics as a whole need love.3. should access and roles be reworked? (doubttfull i will be alone on that one)yes4. should moons be mineable for goo?....(waits for the hate from that)im with the crowd, not for the same material as nullsec. 5. should sleeper sites and other sites spawn rates be raised to foster larger corp/alliance growth.yes. it is one thing to farm your static, but mass limitation inhibits cap esc in them, and low home system spawn rates after depletion penalyze active dwellers.6. should site isk/rewards be lowered or raised?raised. right now the hardest sights done with full capital escalation by a high dps group nets more than high-sec incursions, but not by enough in comparison when you consider the ship loss risk from pvp, difficulty of the sites, and investments needed to reach those levels.7. do wh pvp mechanics need an overhaul? (many things come to mind here, need to pop those carebears that jump back to hs)no.8.it was stated by ccp long ago that wh's were not meant for long term habitation, since they lost that bet should they now look at making them more viable for larger numbers to encourage larger scale wh system warfare and not just the russians taking out weak systems for fun.yes9. are wh masses and spawn times what they should be?yes10. do you think i am pissing in the wind here to think ccp cares about wh dwellers and our corps/alliances?well, if you read the csm minutes meeting after meeting we currently only have two step vouching for us. often the nullsec babies whine when something about wspace gets mentioned. a previous post had it right though, we currently only represent a small portion of the subscriber base and i dont see ccp focusing on changing that anytime soon.edit: 11. how are the pi changes affecting your corp? are you too small that it is taking weeks just to blow up interbus? should they just remove interbus in wh's all together?ours are \"assploded\". i am not in favor of making life easier in wspace (outside of pos mechanics)."
"with the removal of a aoe doomsday and torpedoes no longer being aoe, there needs to be more aoe in the game. i propose capital smartbombs that operate at 15 km range and do 600 damage and requires capital energy pulse weapons skillbooks that requires energy pulse weapons v. when mounted on dreads in siege mode, the range of smartbombs will double and gain 200% damage bonus for t1 siege and 240% for t2 siege. dreads will have a bigger use in nullsec, since currently its role of structure bashing has been relegated to other ships."
"where the hell did you get that idea?dreads are only meant for shooting other caps and structures....what makes it not effective anymore?================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"only if it's short range, and possibly reduced at range.. wild number here: 10km you get max dps, then scaling down from there. has a torpedoe like penalty, in the it loses dps significantly as sig radius goes down too. zubzubzubzubzubzubzubzub"
"i agree there needs to be more aoe...i do not agree with the rest of the post. i still like the idea of bringing back mines and minefields. yes they would need to be revamped from what they originally were but it would still be cool."
"mine idea was:"
"you're expecting to kill a 21m t2 interceptor in punishers with a week old account? that's the problem right there. not the ship.you just said it yourself. you died. you were taught the hard way. but now the nerf came in it's made it easier for you so it's fine?however that been said my main point is regarding cruiser hull speeds and not frigates."
"how dare newbies try to fight a frigate.**** your idea."
"i think that giving a boost to security status for attacking pirate players should be implemented. the deeper they are in the negative, the bigger the boost. it'll promote some more pvp instances and keep pirates on their toes. hell, they'll have to worry about others wanting to improve their sec status at their expense. to boot, those pilots that are engaging pirate players are doing a community service, so within the realm of the game, a concord boost in security status makes sense...-ariano t'kulo"
"what do you suggest to limit people from killing their -10 noskill alt?"
"yeah...this would make it so much easier for pirates to maintain sec status. i would have to say no to this one...but what i am not opposed to changing is the -1 sec a pirat has to have before you can kill him without concord intervention. lets make it simple. at -0.01 you are a pirate and can be killed by anybody."
"so whose the pirate again? the guy who engages at the gate or the guy who defends himself from being attacked?the guy who loots your wreck or you looting his wreck?you people and your messed up senses of what a pirate is in this game make me laugh.================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"for the 8 years ive been around, dt have always been from 1200-0100 danish time and in the latest years 1200-1230.lets do abit of math:365 days in a year of 1 hour each day = 365 hours365 days in a year of 30mins each day = 182,5 hoursgive or take, eu players have lost around 2372,5 hours of gameplay comparred to majority of us players who is sleeping when dt.thats alot of isk."
"i understand your frustration - but most people work in 'daylight' hours and that means that you want 100% of your employees at the ready if there is a problem.in the end i look at it as 'just a game' and an hour away from eve lets me do something else i probably should be doing."
"this is not a proposal.how should mechanics be changed?and you might want to keep the following in mind:people play at different times in their respective day. some play in the morning, some in the afternoon and some during the night."
"meh. its not about changing the mech. but changing the time of day dt kicks in. make it us noon instead of eu noon - just for some years.ty"
"an another whine about dt? this is gets old after about the 100th time.the answer is no...and will always be no.be happy they decreased it to 30 mins...sheesh...go get a snack...make some coffee...get a drink...take a shower.its not gonna kill you to be offline for a measly 30 minutes...get over it.you'd #### if it was 15 mins even then.================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"a mechanic has been abused where a warring corp would have its members out of its corp and when a war target is found, the corp would accept their applications and seconds after, the members would go and kill the war target and leave right after. this causes them to appear as neutral to the war targets until a session timer is initiated, and causes the victim to be unaware and unable to retaliate before being attacked. this has been classified as an exploit, but many are able to get away with just warnings and continue doing it.since ccp no longer has the manpower to moderate this, a simple solution would be to make a session timer for corp joining and leaving, ranging from 2 hour to 24 hours during war. this will put an end to the exploiting and give the other party a chance to retaliate against the aggressors."
"well, anything you have i am more than willing to take into account (and add in the form of an edit to the original posting with the stats, etc) and of course, credit given where credit is due. thanks for the help bro.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"come on everyone. tell your friends. if you like this idea help gain it some support! i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"ore wouldn't make something like this because, let's be honest, they don't need to. their \"security\" is currently provided by the serpentis and when things are going well for them they contract out to mordu's legion. all of their ships can easily be hauled around in a rorqual or orca.if we wanted to ascribe these ships to any neutral npc it would likely be interbus, which would only work if we said it was a stolen interbus design, as they themselves would never release it to any single empire."
"monolith proposalmonolith is done. took me longer than expected. might want to take a break before doing the other 3."
"holy **** dude. you've outdone yourself, big time. this is absolutely ****ing epic.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"before i rant, i support most of op.the continuing persistence of the csm to meddle with mechanics that they do not already have much or any regard for continues to astound me. i realize that there may be some experience for some, but they show their ignorance of how wormholes are meant to be played. that way is the way inhabitants have been living for years now. personally, i've lived in wormholes for over a year. in regards to the proposal of a mechanic (stabilization, destab., etcetc) to make wormholes \"less invulnerable for the residents\" is insulting. that immediately shows true or willful ignorace, perhaps even arrogance, in my eyes. no system is invulnerable, no inhabitant is safe. not even aharm. they persist because they fight for it. to live in wspace, you must survive and for a corp to thrive takes more than nullsec players seem to realize. it's not a carebear haven and it's not a minigame. it is the endgame for many and to trod heavily into \"our\" territory in such a manner is irresponsible of a csm representative.i'll end the rant there, i know plenty of similar words have been and will be exchanged. now what i think should happen for real progress.talk to wormhole dwellers. simple as that. go straight to the horse's mouth and you will find that things can be better for all involved. if interweb spcshps iz srs bsnz, which as the csm it would be so for reps, then do it right the first time.wormhole mechanics as they stand now are solid. ideas like sleepers attacking poses, at least in higher class whs imo, is a good direction and can fit into the existing lore. i'd rather not see a wormhole control mechanic appear, but if it somehow does it better at least fit the lore, again imo. there's many things that can be done for all sec space and those that live there should be consulted in each case. as i live in wspace, this got to me. no super blobs, no assurances, no mercy.take it or leave it."
"i would like to point out though that it was meissa who raised and suggested the wormhole stabiliser at the most recent csm meeting.this is from her own blog she sent to evenews 24meissa's blog i used to have faith in what she was saying until this :( i'm definitely going to be voting for two step to represent us wh folk in the next csm to make sure no idea as bad as this ever sees the light!"
"there's completely no reason why t3 ship should be able to even activate more than one link. even less than you can do that off-grid. i know i can fly loki with 3 active links on the grid with fleet just fine just for example. and just having 1 link activated is enough for most of time. i call this offgrid boosting bullshit."
"i numbered your responses/questions so its easier to track my answers/ responses1) yep2) really3) no ccp hasn't realeased but they said they were looking into it in a thread about the lp store tanking4) by being a large part of the market. 5) i didn't say the economy is would be stricken6) not really if the store is broken people will no longer get lp and sink their isk in it.7) ok you don't care if items that you bought just suddenly disappear from the game without any reimbursment. others disagree you shouldn't ignore them.make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"hmm..interesting question......a few hours ago, i would have replied \"a seriously pissed off carebear who cannot stand those tedious highsec mining ops any longer and is close to going postal on his own corp (if you read this: you have been warned, from now on, it is your own fault, you could and should have stopped me).\"but now, since asuka and cearain have so eloquently proven that i have to be one of your alts........i am confused and not really sure anymore................who am i ?......i'd like to apologize for the poor quality of the post above and sincerely hope you didn't waste your time reading it. yes, i do feel bad about it."
"double post because i am dumbi'd like to apologize for the poor quality of the post above and sincerely hope you didn't waste your time reading it. yes, i do feel bad about it."
"i think it needs some workshopping, but essentially, it does fix several issues. mining is boring as hell, and bots suck up game resources giving them the advantage over the honest folks. if macro mining is no longer as profitable, it takes the advantage away. make people work for the ore, but make the ore worth it. i think this is a great start to an epic idea."
"i liked the idea of having different qualities of asteroids at first but, i don't like the idea of spreading them out any more than they already or putting the better ones in dangerous places or mining slag rock. none of this does anything to make mining more fun, it just add to the frustration of the chore. it's not going to stop the bot mining either. they'll just mine out everything and eject whatever they don't want. real players will do the same thing so, having lots of jet cans floating around mining barges isn't going to help distinguish them."
"wont work, will be abused by people having high sec alt or something.ie: pirate setup trap, hisec alt broadcast mayday, pilot arrive to help, pilot get jumped by pirates....so, good intention, not gonna work"
"this has been proposed a number of times over the years and as my experience grew realized there are a few other game mechanics that fulfill a similar role..a lot of the points against have been addressed earlier..standing fleets for corps enable guys to broadcast or shout for help and you just warp to your corpie or alliance bud..etc etc.. however a possible variation would be to skill it a comms skill or something similar which give the ability to broadcast /receive a distress and have the higher the skill the further you can broadcast and the higher the skill the more accurate your warp in would be..and maybe only make the broadcast available to corpies or alliance members..and have it a module based transmit/receive item which takes up a slot..it then becomes a choice has to how much u spend and what you lose to fly with it etc etc.. a high enuff skill perhaps could allow pirates to intercept other corp/alliances maydays..it could open up a whole new skill set with new modules ..communications..broadcast skills-comms jamming-etc..make it harder for fleets to warp to 0 if the fleet pilots don't have the skills to receive broadcastsa top of the head thought can be refined or shot down.."
"bump"
"the self destruct timer is long for a reason. if you cannot kill a target within 2 minutes, then you lose your chance at a km. additionally, kms are not an important part of eve, they are important for sites like bc who help people with nothing better to do feel good about destroying internet spaceship pixels. kms are working as intended - if you can't get them in 2 minutes, then you don't deserve that kill. a small concession that might be reasonable, however - if you choose to activate the self destruct timer, then all your modules finish their cycle and power down, with the exception of guns. you can die guns blazing, having no boosters should help you die faster which will appease some of the butt-hurt from 12 year olds that don't have their km that's been posted in this thread, and we don't need to **** with the timer."
"i don't mean this in a bad way, but glancing at your kb you are obviously a fan of flying smaller ships. in which case sd timers really don't effect you at all.unless you are in a position where you are actively planning on killing capitals, have some experience in killing capitals, or are actively losing capitals i don't think you can objectively make statements along the lines of \"if you can't get them in 2 minutes\" based on personal experience.as for kms not being an important part of eve, consider this. i don't know you, and yet i now know you fly minmatar, can use t2 large guns but your engineering skills are possibly not up to scratch, you've tried pvp before but mostly you run missions and the odd pvp trip you have made has ended badly. this kind of knowledge is pretty damn invaluable when someone applies to join your corp or alliance, or conversely when choosing an alliance to join.[center]\"i don't troll, i just give overly blunt responses that annoy people who are wrong but don't want to admit it. it's not my fault that people have sensitive feelings\" -mxzf[/center]"
"now i readily admit i have never ever attempted to kill a capital ship. simi makes a few good points but like many arguments respectfully submitted, seems to discount any perspective that does not serve his specific interest. knowing i could be wrong i'd venture a guess that many many more players have killed or been killed in non-capital ships then capital ships. thus to make an argument that would apply a new standard to all for the benefit of a minority seems incorrect and honestly somewhat overly self centered. as far as the ability to determine a player's skills from killmails, when you make that case you also make the opposite case. you have no idea how many times i might have self destructed or what kind of ships i fly or anything about how up to scratch my engineering skills may or may not be, and i might tactically very well want and need to keep you an others in the dark about those specific facts as long as possible.many have made good cases in this thread and i think the reasonable conclusion is if ccp chooses to adjust this at all a one size fits all solution will be a poor choice.i think a player should maintain the right to self destruct and deny his opponent a killmail, cargo, and modules if his ship could otherwise reasonably be killed within the self destruct time period. player choices, player skills, and player tactics should not be undermined by the never ending lust for guaranteed killmails. power to the players!"
"if you read through the thread you'd notice (most) people want to extend sd timers for capitals only. in fact i've actively argued against getting rid of sd timers altogether, and even suggested shortening them for pods and inconsequential smaller ships.well i do know what kind of ships you fly, i can see them on your killboard. given the age of your character and complete lack of anything non-minmatar it is very unlikely you've cross trained yet, and if so you've done it very little. i also have a very good idea of how up to scratch your engineering skills are from how you fit your maelstroms etc.the point is you may very well tactically want to keep others in the dark, but should you be able to? i mean to be fair, they just blew up your ship. anything you self destruct is very likely to contain \"zomg top sekrit informations\" in it's fitting. especially if it just died to a small, low dps gang.it should also be noted that this isn't purely about kms. super caps usually have some pretty shiny loot on them, but at the moment there's no real incentive to go after them because you need a gang that can not only survive, but also kill it in two minutes flat. and if you didn't know already, supers have 30-40 million ehp. to put that in perspective your maelstrom has ~60k ehp.the same issue also applies to ratting carriers, albeit on a smaller scale.[center]\"i don't troll, i just give overly blunt responses that annoy people who are wrong but don't want to admit it. it's not my fault that people have sensitive feelings\" -mxzf[/center]"
"i don't fly minmatar ......... and the rest of your assumptions are equally accurate. i do fly, like the majority of players in eve, ships you find inconsequential ..... until we have you scrambled in your big important ship that can't track fast enough to blast us. enough of trying to rig the rules so the \"important ships and pilots\" can have more and more and more. this thread has had good exchanges and a reasonable consensus could be achieved if people did not find the game play of other players ..... inconsequential. eve is for all the players. power to the players!"
"so, you aren't an alt of tidurius? then why are you replying to an assesment of his character claiming that it is inaccurate when applied to yourself? of course it's inaccurate, you're a completely different player. not to mention your being a four month old forum alt. those ships are inconsequential in terms of them self destructing. because they don't survive 10 seconds, let alone 2 minutes. shortening the self destruct timer for them is a buff, if you intend to go that route.similarly lengthening the sd timer of bigger ship is a buff for those in \"inconsequential\" ships who wish to kill large ones. next time try training reading comprehension to level 5 before replying to a post.[center]\"i don't troll, i just give overly blunt responses that annoy people who are wrong but don't want to admit it. it's not my fault that people have sensitive feelings\" -mxzf[/center]"
"#1 i was responding to your response which featured my posted comments. if you mistakenly thought or assumed i was alt of someone else simply highlights why players should not put so much faith in kill board posts.#2 on capital ships you have a reasonable position, two minutes might indeed be too short ...... or the game might be designed with the intent that a smaller sized gang can not defeat every target they can sink their teeth into. perhaps instead of changing the self destruct rules you should organize larger gangs capable of killing whatever your target is in under two minutes. if that is impossible, and surely it is not with a big enough blob, then and only then do you have a legitimate argument. in my humble inconsequential opinion.#3 you could not accurately say anything about my character because you did not blow him up, and if i choose to employ the tactic of self destruction you still would not have blown him up. what makes you think you have the right to know facts you haven't earned by executing a tactical kill? i don't mean this in a bad way but it sounds like you feel entitled to unearned benefits because that information has value to you.#4 the fact that you can not tell anything about what this character flies and where my skills are prove my point that players have the right to tactically avoid making those facts easily accessible for every other pilot and self destruct can enable that tactic.#5 eve is supposed to be about risk and reward ..... in these forum posts i read a lot about how to guarantee rewards and very little about balancing it with more risk. right now an attacking gang gets to pick the target, gets to pick the place, gets to pick the time of any attack they engage in, how much more advantage do you require we rig the rules to give you?#6 i have certainly learned to defer to the greater skill and experience level of many players posting in these forum threads, having repeatedly inserted my foot into my mouth due to insufficient knowledge of how many aspects of the game unknown to me are played, that being said i find less and less merit to an argument that sounds more and more like crying about the ones that can get away, just because you don't like them to be able to employ a legitimate tactic. please if you think it worth while post something consequentially material that will convince me of the merit of your argument that would make taking away a tactical tool from other players to enable your felling of entitlement to the benefit you perceive it grants you, while doing nothing to enhance the risk versus reward foundational basis of eve gameplay. sometimes i am a little slow but a solid logic based argument can persuade me, thus far while you make several good smaller points your main point is inadequate to justify taking a tactic away from some to give unearned benefit to others. power to the players!"
"because you are a forum alt.how? i assumed you were an alt of his because of this line \"you have no idea (..) about how up to scratch my engineering skills may or may not be\". was my fault for reading it to fast, but it's not really an issue in game but still, looking at your kb and employment history still shows you're an alt. just because you have no combat history doesn't mean that that doesn't show it anything. no combat history on older toons usually means alt.i don't think the sd system was \"designed\" with capitals in mind at all, since it merely wasn't changed when they were introduced.as for your \"if that is impossible\" argument, do you realise how many people it takes to kill a super capital in <2 minutes? work it out, then get back to me. don't forget to allow for the fact that sometimes you're fighting entire fleets of supercaps.the defender also gets to be in his home system, with friends, scouts, an outpost/pos, hell he even has local. if he's in a belt in his carrier with neutrals in system he deserves to die.pretending eve is lopsided toward the aggressors is just plain wrong. it is literally impossible to force a fight in eve unless the person you are attacking has done something very, very wrong. (or knowingly done something dangerous, eg flying around null sec and getting caught in a bubble spiked with cans. even then, with safes/warping to celestrials it's possible to avoid it most of the time.) meh, get back to me when you've worked out how long it would take to kill an aeon overloading it's modules with 20 dreadnaughts two prometheus fit carriers and a heavy interdictor.this also extends to fleet fights, if lord zim is around here before i believe he's mentioned before that entire fleets have been known to sd, before they are even attacked, just because they've seen the enemies super cap pilots log on. thus no fight was had, their losses were hidden, and it was an extremely boring and dissatisfying night for all involved.etc.[center]\"i don't troll, i just give overly blunt responses that annoy people who are wrong but don't want to admit it. it's not my fault that people have sensitive feelings\" -mxzf[/center]"
"#1 thank you for the specific responses.#2 just because you say i am a forum alt in bold underlined letters does not make it so.#3 boring and dissatisfying? where in the eve eula does it state you are guaranteed that individual player choices will make you less bored and more satisfied? your feeling of entitlement is showing, or at least i think that is what it is, i can not read your mind or fairly make a conclusive statement about your mindset from these few posts, thus i can only say what it \"sounds like\" from my perspective.#4 mass self destruction on a scale you are talking about happens how often? often enough to rig the rules to make it impossible becomes a priority?#5 the seeming need to enhance attacks in a game that is balanced already in an extremely lopsided manner in favor of the attacker while hiding behind insubstantial quotes of \"playing eve wrong\" or \"reckless behavior\" is the only way you end up dead is really unworthy of these forums, in my opinion.player choices are preferable to me then setting the rules to rigidly enforce gameplay that benefits a few and effects many. power to the players!"
"+1 on kms+1 on not dropping lootsneutral on insurance payouts (i lean towards no payout, but i can see good arguments on each side, and pressing the issue would raise more hell than it's worth)+1 on looking at the timer. the downside of lengthening it is "
"i'm not an expert of incursions, but one of the main gripes people seem to have with them is that the incursion runners purposely avoid shooting the mothership so that they can continue to run the regular incursion sites. this, of course, detracts from the real reason that incursions exist, which is to kill the mothership. seeing how the first couple of incursions actually accomplished this, and seeing how doing enough regular sites spawn the big bad mom lead me to believe that ccp intended people to do the regular sites, and then kill the mothership, thereby ending the incursion and having everyone reap the rewards of doing so. instead, people run the regular sites (vanguard ones, it seems like most of the time) as it generates more income for them.this system seems broken, where farming the regular sites is more profitable then actually defeating the incursion. here's what i propose:make a 'gas cloud' similar to the one in the recon 3/3 mission appear in all incursion sites in the constellation 5 minutes or so after the mothership appears (no cloud in the mothership spawn though, of course). this cloud will deal 2000 (or however much is needed to break the tank of your average incursion running machariel or nightmare) omni damage to all ships in the vicinity of the incursion, making staying there not that viable. this creates incentive to kill the mothership, thereby running incursions to their original intent and keeping the farming at bay.also see this post by spank:"
"i am not sure if this has been brought up before, but i think that someone salvaging my wrecks should give me (and my corporation) kill rights on them just as if they were stealing from a jetcan. often the salvage is worth much more than what the wreck contains. i do not see how it is not considered theft since it's essentially taking money out of my pocket. this could actually make ninja salvaging more interesting as well.thanks for reading!"
"i completely agree. it's a simple request. i don't run missions much, but it really does make sense that it would be treated as theft."
"bad news for you i am afraid, op. ccp has already ruled on this one and their view is the salvage isn't yours until it's in your cargohold. ninja salvaging is working as intended.no support from me for this proposal."
"no.biomass queue is over give me your stuff first.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"salvaging is classed as a mini profession within eve and it was designed this way from the start. if you want the salvage, you need to compete for it the same as everyone else.no it makes no sense at all, because the salvage is not yours or his so no theft is involved.destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"ccp has already made their point very clear on this one. it will likely never change."
"so hypothetically you go to the store and buy a candy bar, you eat the candy bar, and throw away the wrapper.if someone takes the wrapper they're stealing from you?"
"yes, it's been brought up about a zillion times. and no, it's not a good idea.\"the world as we know it came about through an anomaly (anomou)\" (the gospel of philip, 1-5)"
"per ccp mitnal:per gm faolchu : per senior gm ytterbium : per ccp prism x : per ccp incognito : (these quotes are kept handy for your convenience at ironfleet.com.)summary of eves last four expansions:"
"neutral on this.most ninja-salvagers would love this change. it would make people more likely to shoot them, as is their goal.\"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" -abrazzar \"the risk of having your day ruined by other people is the cornerstone with which eve was built\" -ccp solomon"
"okay..... first off the hyperion fit i used did have a damage mod and both ships applied approx 1k dps at close range. i compared the two battleships because it's the best \"apples to apples\" comparison out there. i can't compare a hyperion and a rokh because shield and armour tanking is very different but i will later to see what happens.next.... i am a little confused about your \"rep multiplier\" figures. could you explain where you got these figures. i my self am using a defence efficiency formulae (eft with projected effects) which i believe gives a very accurate prediction.okay... lets look at gang links from a t3 with all armour links, level 5 pilot and a mindlink implant:abaddon: 237491 ehphyperion: 186430 ehp (21% less)with fully boosted gang links a guardian now reps at 384/lg repper every 3.25 seconds.so......384 x 4 = 1536 hp / 3.25s+37.5% = 2112 hp / 3.25s (576 hp / 3.25s more or 1lg solace + 1med 'love' repper per guardian)plug this into eft projected effects:1 guardian with 4 lg reps boosted by the legion with all three t2 ganglinks and a mindlink:abaddon: 2530 def effhyperion: 2609 def eff (3.1% more)this 3.1% is good but doesn't really compensate for the 21% less ehp the abaddon has. so i refer to the last line of my previous post (which is bolded):so using the proposed 9%:-384 x 4 = 1536 hp / 3.25s+45% = 2227.2 hp / 3.25s (691.2 hp / 3.25s or 1lg t1 rep + 1lg arup rep >approx<)so....1 guardian with 4 lg reps boosted by the legion with all three t2 ganglinks and a mindlink:abaddon: 2530 def effhyperion: 2748 def eff >approx<(8.6% more)that 8.6% better tank per guardian is now competitive when considering ehp during ship selection wouldn't you think?"
"alright, i ran your numbers for the abaddon vs hype and got the same numbers. i personally wouldn't fit my abaddon or hype like that but we'll go with it for comparison's sake. the rep multiplier is the number you use to multiply the amount repped before dividing by the cycle time in order to calculate defense efficiency aka hps. +70 hps difference isn't what i'd call good. +218 hps per guardian is a bit better, but the enemy only has to bring one or two more dps ships to negate that advantage. also there is is the issue of alpha. the bonus doesn't help if reps don't land. third, look at how your bonus scales on other ships as well, such as in the case of my example of absolution versus astarte it's only a 5.8% increase. fourth, have you looked at how that increase will effect active tanking? 7.5% addition tank can mean a lot in 1v3. fifth, your proposed bonus still leaves these ships inferior in any situation where they're aren't active tanking or have a large number of logistics."
"who asked you what would be best for us as far as this game is concerned? what makes you think this feature is best as it is?considering you hypocriitcially push it and claim its the best option when you yourself condem it in saying your not interested nor care for it.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"what do you think a \"proposal\" is? if you owned a business and had to make a decision would you choose what is best for the company or what is best for you? why is it that your approval or disapproval is the final say? what makes you so important?questions go both ways bud."
"no changing skills that you already have, period. unless you lose the sp because you lost your tech 3 cruiser, for example, skills are skills. btw - \"unlearning\" is called forgetting, you dumbass. no purchasing skillpoints, no purchasing remaps, no purchasing sp \"re-allocations\" or any of that other bullshit. **** that, it would ruin eve as we know it. actions have consequences - get used to it."
"this.and my point is obvious.your aragoance and ignorance of the matter is the point...i could no more stop your incesist whining and posting over your hypocritical stance than anyone else can...nor can you stop me.your adding gas to a fire that can be best ignored...becasue you feel obligated by some sick sense of duty to make a proposal that you yourself admit to not beleiving or supporting.that is the worst kind of thing you can do to this game....i'm saying...if you have nothing constructive to add that you yourself can get behind..then kindly please walk away.i will not let people prance around thinking they can just push there ideas when they fail to pass various tests of mettle and mechanics.like the fine gent before me said...this is stupid beyond reason.people are ignoring this topic because its literally just that bad.i'm done here as far as that is concerned...your a lost cause.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"you win the internet."
"noalso you have this \" eve is about the sandbox! \" in your sig, and you propose such change... omg"
"what he says.no respec, ever."
"no skill is useless in eve (except defender missiles! i want my sp back!!!! ) so i have no idea why anyone would choose to waste time forgetting skills they've already learned.just because you don't use it today does not mean you will not use it in future.also, as other's have pointed out, your actions in eve have consequences so i would rather not upset the game balance by removing this. i have never heard any other mmo allowing you to change your skills once learned.no support from me for this."
"i totally like this idea and i would use it all the time.sp are what i'm paying for with my subscription. it's not a gameplay or balancing issue so, it's totally unnecessary to make unlearning sp take additional time and money.we can only train one character at a time so, all three characters per account share the same sp pool and we should be able to distribute our unlearned sp to any of them.eve ought to be about *natural* consequences, not imaginary consequences."
"sandbox is about no restrictions...you want to restrict people from respeccing sp if they choose too...in other words...your post makes no sense."
"whoops...double post..."
"i do not support this.there's absolutely no valid reason for this except to curb ninja salvagers and as ccp has stated numerous times, there's nothing wrong with ninja salvagers.summary of eves last four expansions:"
"someone violenced your boat while you weren't paying attention, right?tsk tsk...~"
"acceleration gates are old technology. they don't care that some newbie wasn't paying attention and got ganked."
"make it faster, so we don't have to spend so much time doing it. mining is safe and essential to the eve economy but, it is an unpleasant chore for players who would rather be helping their buddies win wars. the simplest way to reduce mining time is to reduce the cycle duration and capacitor consumption of all mining lasers.the eve market will automatically adjust itself to this change. when the supply of something goes up, the price goes down. when the supply of something goes down, the prices goes up. the supply of minerals drives the eve economy the same way energy drives the real-world economy.1. increasing the production of minerals will reduce the price of minerals.2. reducing the price of minerals will increases the production of ships and equipment.3. increase the supply of ships and equipment will reduce the prices of ships and equipment.to allow manufacturing to keep up with the increased supply of minerals, manufacturing time for all bp should be reduced as well.another couple of source of minerals comes from reprocessing and scrap metal processing, which are useful but undermines the mining industry and reverse the natural flow of energy from mining to manufacturing to the eve market. at the same time, the increased sales of ships will increase the demand for rigs. so, to arbitrate the situation, i propose that reprocessing and scrap metal processing be changed to yield salvage materials rather than minerals."
"no. no. no. no. no. no.90% reduction in cycle time means an 900% increase in supply. this would cause insanity in eve's economy.if cycle times were to change (which i oppose) i think anything over 5% is drastically huge.this may be surprising to some of you combat people but there are a select few of us that like mining. if you don't want to mine go shoot things so we have more customers. i think mining should be changed in some ways but this is definitely not a good approach.regarding sisi: as this has a huge impact on the economy there is no way to test it on the economy-free sisi."
"absolutely not.most of the mining is done by bots anyways. you want to increase bot efficiency by 90%? hell no.of all the terrible suggestions on how to improve mining, this is one of the worst.summary of eves last four expansions:"
"don't forget though, there are the select few of us that mine legitimately. we aren't all out to ruin the game."
"i wish i could say that this was an original idea, but i can't. i actually thought about this after reading mabrick's blog here:"
"i like this idea as a whole. i think that one thing that hurts the eve economy as a whole is that manufacturers have no control over who buys their items, unless they sell exclusively through contracts. perhaps when setting a sell order, you can select three different prices for that order - one for negative standings, one for neutral, and one for positive standings. then, for example, a goon who is red to the trader sees the \"goon\" price when he looks at the market window. a friendly, however, would see a price that is, say, 50% lower than the \"goon\" price. i think that this has a lot of potential, but would take a lot of market re-working.+1 for the concept, just needs all the kinks ironed out."
"i like..but on the whole i think it could seriuosly cause complications with the system already in place.but being able to restrict the marketpalce to say..your corp...or the alliance...would be a major boon.+1 major support regardless.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"this has some amazing possibilities but i suspect would be a nightmare to implement. however, that's ccp's problem.+1"
"no support.cowards need to be able to run from a wardec.helps us identify who is and is not reliable."
"so you believe all pvp in high sec should be consensual?summary of eves last four expansions:"
"how is this even releveant to war dec mechanics let alone pvp?================ stop the evemail spam!"
"a small corporation is no match for a big one. a noob is no match for an old pro. there is no sport in shooting fish in a barrel.the player who evaluates a conflict, foresees defeat and avoids it is wise, not a coward.if you want to have a sustained conflict, wardec a corp larger an older than yours is. not doing so proves my point.the entity you are declaring war on is the corporation, not the individuals. if a player leaves, or is kicked from a corporation, they should be free from their old corp's wars."
"while we're at it, lets just eliminate all pvp in high sec. that's what you really want, isn't it?summary of eves last four expansions:"
"i said no such thing.i just prefer to let cowards run, hide and live with their cowardice.i have no epeen requirement to hunt down these types."
"i tried to put this in the ship balance thread, but it was locked. the four \"speed\" t1 frigates are not often used.advice for how to get new players into pvp (as i spent weeks trying to research this recently) tends to be either \"give them a frigate with a tackle and have them hero tackle for a fleet\" or \"send them to lowsec to try to be a pirate, by tackling ships and speedtanking them\".the current \"gold standard\" of a tackle ship is propulsion mod (afterburner/mwd), web, and scrambler. three mid slots.all the \"fast\" t1 frigates have two mid slots; as a result, prospective tacklers have to be shipped up to combat frigates like the rifter which may need more skill and aren't as fast. this especially affects amarr, as the only frigate they can fit a full tackle on is a misuse of their not particularly tackler-suitable ewar crucifier.please add a third mid slot and the power/cpu needed for a new, low skill player to cheaply fit it to the executioner/atron/condor/slasher. this will make these ships more useful as a cheap pvp general purpose tackle/speed ship for new players to be able to get into pvp right away.i haven't see this proposed, even though the complaint comes up a lot, probably because most of the people who are active in the debate have by and large outgrown the lower end t1 frigates, and have the ability to buy and fit t2 interceptors which are out of the reach of a new player."
"i think that mindset is a waste of what could be a perfectly good ship.i'm afraid you're right though, drake. i think that ccp has set up dreadnoughts to be 1.5 billion isk battering rams, and i shake my head at their shortsightedness. the potential exists for dreadnoughts to be more versatile and useful, but i fear that the inertia is hard to overcome. ccp seems opposed to re-purposing dreads to be used in the other 99% of their game.i'm for anything that makes dreads less pigeonholed."
"scaps have ewar immunity so how about instead of aoe which ccp doesn't seem to like and just give dreads immunity to drones? that will make them the ultimate carrier killers.they will still die easily to sub cap fleets but might now actually have a chance against the super carriers."
"you've...never actually flown a dread, have you?and dear lord i can think of a million some-odd reasons why any form of capital aoe should never be considered ever again."
"go ahead and share some of those reasons."
"hello,here's the deal: currently, people can use neutral, non-aggroed ships like carriers / orcas / rorquals to scoop their aggro'ed/gcc ship, and dock back up or jump.this is a way of evading the consequences of engaging, with absolutely no drawback, which seems pretty broken to me. i propose this: if a stores his ship in b's ship maintenance array, all aggro timers from a should be immediately transfered to b. every npc / gcc aggro timer should be transferred to b's ship.for 0.0, this rule would not work, anyway this scooping technique is mostly used to avoid empire timers from what i have seen. we should therefore add another rule: a ship can be scooped only when his aggression timer wears out.it might have been proposed but a first search have gave nothing, sorry if the subject has already been discussed."
"there's a difference between newbies and idiots. yes you can try fight it but don't cry when you don't win. learn from it."
"its a really cool idea for sure. +1"
"thanks so much for all of the support on this idea. let's keep it rolling and hope it gets some notice.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"the stats for the pelican, bedouin and pillar are still a work in progress. when they get done, i'm sure domu will post them up.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"i support this idea, +1"
"honestly can't wait to see the blog about how badly worm holes need jump gates (i.e.: stabilizers) to be *better*..."
"i agree with pretty much everything the op stated.i'd like some sort of nullsec claiming system, but entirely seperate from nullsec mechanics.as for wh stabilisation. i have to admit i can see a use for it, though not in the way intended. i see it as more of a way to link up groups that are spread across several wh's, acting more like a logistical jumpbridge between them. if it has to be placed in a deadspace location away from pos's then all the better as it would give something else for roaming gangs to camp. thats just what i think it should be like though, and i'll admit there's potential gamebreaking issues involved so i'm not clinging to it as \"teh best thing ev4r!\". the only people that think it's needed forlarge scale invasions are those that know fuckall about wh invasion mechanics and logistics."
"only one post asuri :) maybe not a blog, but still :)borg, thanks for support, but i dont like jb idea at all.read and support: don't mess with our wh's what is your stance on wh stuff?"
"basically, meissa's clan couldn't rest nova from our control so, they want a game that would let them do it while we all sleep using one connection only. most corrupt politicians at least try to conceal their motives. 2/10 for lack of subtlety meissa."
"high five :)read and support: don't mess with our wh's what is your stance on wh stuff?"
"that is my reason for pushing this, we have quite a lot of link platforms but none other than t3's are ever used due to the current mechanics .. just try telling an fc that you have a link on your cane/archon/et al. .. he'll throw you in the stockade and throw away the key just added this idea to ccps module brainstorming request in test forum, might be an outright alternative to changing mechanics in the first place if a decent/competitive hull can be found to carry them."
"make them fit in gang link slots ;)"
"who stuck you in hi-sec? you did. without the implants, you would just find another reason to avoid pvp. if you *really* wanted to pvp, you would get a clone with +2's or +3's and go with that (if the learning implants are that important). in other words, it sounds like your just avoiding something. maybe you aren't, but that is what it sounds like... your free to do so now, but apparently, training > fun for you. hell - i've spent weeks in a vanilla +2 clone when i was learning about 0.0. it is possible.and fun... again, not supported. choices/consequences are a good thing. fewer choices/fewer consequences is a bad thing (imho)."
"i keep scrubbing, but your eyes.... their gaze is like a filth that will never come off.@op. supported. because, like it or not, learning implants stop people from having certain types of fun. i've got the finances to support going on suicide frig roams in 2 +4s and whatever fitting implants i've got, but i know plenty of people who don't. and i think that's part of the reason bc gangs are so popular. they give you that slow paced fight that keeps your pod alive.\"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" -abrazzar \"the risk of having your day ruined by other people is the cornerstone with which eve was built\" -ccp solomon"
"i'm not sure your corpies would appreciate you describing them as such.\"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" -abrazzar \"the risk of having your day ruined by other people is the cornerstone with which eve was built\" -ccp solomon"
"i'm going to *not* support this idea, just because there are so many gawddamn'd threads about this krap anyway. jesus, go shoot the bloody mother ship if it bothers you that much, quit whining to ccp to fix with mechanics that which players can do (and bricksquad, et al have proven it can be done)..no."
"first off, incursions aren't created necessarily to destroy the mothership. that's like saying that the whole point of flying in null sec is so you can use a stealth bombers bomb launcher (extremely narrow scope if you catch my drift).secondly, after the mom pops its another day or two before another incursion spawns... so either ccp would need to decrease how quickly the mom spawns or they need to increase how often incursions spawn.generally my proposed fix to the whole \"wa wa high sec is making sooooo much money\" is: make vgs harder so that their payout is nerfed (honestly this would be a welcomed change as an incursion runner) as well as maybe tweeking the payout to be more on par or a little over a lvl 4 and make the mom spawn in the mobilizing phase, so as to allow for at the 48 to 72 hrs of access to this content before anyone can end it. this is really a compromise between both parties... and i feel its not an unreasonable compromise."
"no, they wouldn't. incursions are not a guaranteed thing. it takes days for a new lowsec one to spawn after it's killed, so why can't you highsec guys wait a few days too?"
"actually thats the exact purpose of them, to kill the mothership."
"\"yes, please shoot me so i can show you what a neuting curse does to your active tank\" \"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" - abrazzar"
"there are actually start-up industrialists who have realized that salvaging is actually more profitable than mining in high sec and will use \"ninja salvaging\" to sell the salvage to buy minerals."
"i somehow doubt that's a high percentage of ninja salvagers, since their industrial activities would quickly start snowballing isk.\"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" -abrazzar \"the risk of having your day ruined by other people is the cornerstone with which eve was built\" -ccp solomon"
"oh it's not a high percentage at all. just saying they do exist."
"so do crazy people with veldspar tattoos on their forearms. balance is generally based on majority use.that said, neither people who salvage for profit nor people who loot for pew would be particularly harmed by this, since only silly silly missionbears shoot looters.\"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" -abrazzar \"the risk of having your day ruined by other people is the cornerstone with which eve was built\" -ccp solomon"
"proposal: require pvp or victory points before you can cash in lp.purpose: reduce the number of alts that do nothing but farm fw missions. comments:yes some issues regarding killing alts in the other miltia have been brought up. however, there were several options discussed in other threads that ccp could use to significantly mitigate that potential abuse. i'm not intending to get into specifics of the mechanics here in the original post because there are allot of different ways ccp could implent this. in subsequent posts people can talk about problems that would need to be addressed. they should also feel free to offer specific ideas they think should be included. i just want to put this up for vote because i think most people who have thought about it think this would work in one form or another. edit: if this was already brought up in assembly hall please give it a bump or link so we can work off that thread.make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"logistics ships are even now overpowered as they are. there's no need to boost them further. if you shoot people they should just explode. as i see it we're currently having priest overcrowding \"problem\".i can agree with giving remote reps on dreads and hics though.also just don't try to active tank in pvp it's not even good idea in pve either. just why do stupid **** if you know it doesn't work. it's like asking more range for blasters cos they cannot shoot to 100k, at least yet. hopefully not ever.basically people won't be happy about active repairs until they can be immortal."
"there was one other thing i would like to mention. by removing these active repair bonuses from hulls in exchange for equal-opportunity bonus such as resists, you're likely to drastically diminish demands for active tanking improvements. you'll notice how there are very few complaints about how the abaddon or rokh active tanks. it is because, while these ships can active tank quite decently, they have an equally viable buffer tank for fleet combat. conversely, the hyperion and brutix hulls seem to get the short end of the stick. their bonus makes it so that they are only good at active tanking, but their tanking is only marginally better than ships that have other bonuses, and if they attempt to buffer tank they are drastically behind similar ships in their class. so if they can only do one thing, reason says that they should be able to do it really well and so people complain because that isn't the case. make it so these ships can be competitively flown in most situations and people will care less about how active tanking stacks up against buffer tanking."
"jon. the active tank bonus isn't going to change to resistance bonus as it removes a fair portion of the solo and small scale stuff that goes on. active tanking is actually exceptionally viable when boosting with armour links for small gang work.as you have highlighted the main issue is the fact that the resist bonus essentially \"carries\" between spider tanking, buffer tanking and active tanking. simply homogenising the defensive bonus to be a resist bonus will actually remove diversity and we will be left with people flying different shapes that all do the same thing.allowing the active tank bonus to carry to remote repair received balances this issue out. look at the numbers, the tanking figures become very similar. the only difference is buffer. which means buffing the bonus to 9% actually makes sense. we lose nothing but gain everything else and the argument that the other side just needs to \"bring moar dudes\" to break the better tank is utterly moot.i stick by at the very minimum giving active tanking ships the remote repair received bonus and if the balance all looks good buffing the bonus to 9%."
"i demand back all my drake skillpointsi want to spend them on titan"
"i once thought mining would be exciting like exploring vast space with barely armed mining vessal and then i would sometimes hit jackpot and find expensive asteroids and mine them fast like in couple hours before other guy comes or bad pirate. all tihs expensive stuff would of course go into my large cargohold.but then i logged in 2nd day and i realize mining is meant for botters not for actual gameplayers."
"must be a bought/rmt'd char...there ain't no way in hell he'd spout that garbage.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"you want to increase thousands upon thousands of bots mining efficiency by 90% so that a \"select few\" can profit a little more?fail.summary of eves last four expansions:"
"not unless you assume that everyone will spend the same amount of time mining.i wouldn't."
"yes, i do! because the supply would saturate the market with minerals, reducing the price to near zero- not a bad thing for manufacturing. lower prices for minerals and cheaper ships and equipment means less mining and more combat."
"do you mine currently? amines tend to mine for a set period of time. they log on, have their mining fleet running, and watch a movie, or spend time doing housework (or office work in some cases). they are not mining to meet a goal, they are mining to do something \"productive\" while they are not able to pay full attention to the game.your assumption is easily falsified. miners will spend the same time mining, because they mine to fill time."
"not quite. if you wanted to make mining faster, you would increase the yield of ore tenfold, then reduce the quantity of ore spawned tenfold. thus miners would mine ten times as much tritanium per hour as before, the belts would run out faster, and mining would no longer be afk friendly."
"i never said nobody mines to fill time. i only contesting the previous assumption that everyone does."
"mining lasers have two attributes that effect the mining rate, cycle duration and yield. i considered increasing the yield before i made the tropic thinking it would have the same effect. but then i realized it wouldn't because a full cycle would more than fill up a ship's entire cargo hold causing large quantities of ore to be wasted for lack of room. i chose to increase cycle duration instead to minimize waste. i see no need to reduce the capacity of asteroids though."
"yup...bought char or troll.he's now saying he wants to increase cycle duration...hilarious.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"[quote=jade mitchi considered increasing the yield before i made the tropic thinking it would have the same effect. but then i realized it wouldn't because a full cycle would more than fill up a ship's entire cargo hold causing large quantities of ore to be wasted for lack of room. i chose to increase cycle duration instead to minimize waste. i see no need to reduce the capacity of asteroids though.[/quote]increase the mineral yield of the ore, reduce the quantity of ore seeded. thus you can mine faster in terms of isk/hr, but the fields will be depleted quickly. the mining ships will still be able to proceed semi-afk, and people insisting on mining while at the keyboard can continue to be bored out of their brains. everyone wins!"
"i must say, his grasp on the english language is impressive for an isk farmer. summary of eves last four expansions:"
"what the i don't even... grow a pair."
"mining is repetitive and boring (this also has a lot to do with why its so heavily botted)the way to fix mining is to change it so it isn't repetitive and boring, not by crashing the mineral market even more than it is now whilst retaining the repetition and boredom."
"1.0"
"the \"web\" is a \"nice-to-have-but-not-totally-necessary\" category of mod.on some ships with 3 mids (especially capacitor hungry ships), i forfeit the web in favor of a cap booster and use a scram (rather than a disruptor) to effectively \"shut down\" my targets.not convinced this is needed."
"the web in the gold standard tackle is only there in case your target is faster than you. like interceptors, the point of the tackle speed frig is to be fast enough that you don't need the web.though i wouldn't use a scram on an eggshell of a ship like the speed frigs, as they're there to tackle and gtfo once heavy tackle catches up, and being in scram range invites being scrammed (doom).\"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" -abrazzar \"the risk of having your day ruined by other people is the cornerstone with which eve was built\" -ccp solomon"
"the speeder frigs are all pretty terrible in any form of combat, and its mostly a tiering issue rather than just a lack of midslots. they (along with the rest of the t1 frigate range) need a pretty major redesign to actually focus them on the role they're intended to perform."
"my proposal-nerf income to be on par with lvl 4s using an on par fleet with no competition for 50mins (but registering in as an hour) as your gage. the reason for only having the 50min increment is to compensate for competition and fleet comp not being ideal. ideally this would mean that someone in any ship would have a choice to run lvl4s or run incursions and make about the same amount of isk either way, hopefully incursions will make a little bit more to help encourage moving the systems and looking for fleets.make vgs harder... particularly making tama's do enough dps that they have to be cleared in otas. also adding sites to all of the types would be fun. make the mom appear in the mobilizing phase, and make the mobilizing phase (if it doesnt already) start 72hrs after the incursion goes live. (or more). basically my ideal here is, incursions should be a healthy alternative, and only slightly more profitable, to lvl4s for hisec. frankly even if their payout was on par with lvl4s you would still see plenty of people flying them because of the human interaction."
"i'd say that would work pretty well. turn incursions into commercial fishing. a high stakes race to earn until enough fish are caught that they season's over.maybe go with once sansha's influence gets to 0% no other sites spawn (not 100% sure on the mom spawn mechanics) but the mothership does. (the influence probably shouldn't regen much once it's there, doing a mom site at high sansha influence would be impossible were it allowed to regen a lot)no nerf to the income per site, or added difficulty to achieve that income. just makes it into a race.\"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" -abrazzar \"the risk of having your day ruined by other people is the cornerstone with which eve was built\" -ccp solomon"
"you assume that fighting is a chore which people in 0.0 'have' to do and don't enjoy at all.having said that, yes, nerf tech moons, they're dumb, nerf them as well as highsec incursions."
"make incursions dissapear at the next dt after the sansha supercap spawns.it's not a nerf, but it stops people from being able to farm them endlessly for days on end.or, ccp could just undo the nerf to incursion damage output."
"make all the sites spawn just once or twice and then once the sc turns up everythign else stops, easy.oh and i love all the comments about 150 mill/hour in nullsec and safetey and oh wait, none of you have a clue what your talking about do you... and what alliance leaders keep all the tech and pay their mortgages? im not saying it was never done, but sure as hell it isnt done in our coalition, have you seen the things that the grunt on the frontline gets? srf'd bss, free capitals and skillbooks and more. you guys spouting about how we all just drone up and the leaders get all teh isk are basically a bunch of morons."
"there are... 3-4 alliances who own tech atm. all have extensive ship replacement programs. the leader of at least one of these tech holding alliances has been vocal in his insistence that the tech bottleneck be fixed (give you a hint, he's on the csm and his role rhymes with 'fairman').besides. we grunts enjoy fighting. that's kind of why we live in null.\"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" -abrazzar \"the risk of having your day ruined by other people is the cornerstone with which eve was built\" -ccp solomon"
"1. is there enough wh systems? if not what class needs more?are they under or overpopulated?yes, for now. as for populations levels, hard to say.2. are pos mechanics enabling to many people to just clean out weak systems and not bother with harder targets?probably, but that's not a problem. player wh colonies need some serious love though.3. should access and roles be reworked? (doubttfull i will be alone on that one)yes4. should moons be mineable for goo?....(waits for the hate from that)not for the same goo as in nullsec, (except for perhaps the most common junk like silicates/hydrocarbons/etc, seriously that stuff's everywhere).5. should sleeper sites and other sites spawn rates be raised to foster larger corp/alliance growth.i believe so, but not by much, i'd prefer it to be done via an infrastructure upgrade. make people work towards it.6. should site isk/rewards be lowered or raised?keep the loot the same, as much as i want more isk/hr making the payout too good would cause a stampede into wh's, while some people will love the extra pvp i prefer to hit a quiet wh on occasion. rather than change the site loot it would be better to raise the value of the non ribbon sleeper salvage, more t3 (t3 bs's woo!) or for those who have huge stockpiles maybe make a few deployable structures out of it.7. do wh pvp mechanics need an overhaul? (many things come to mind here, need to pop those carebears that jump back to hs)not really, a group escaping into hs is never nice but that's just a small and very specific part of wh pvp8.it was stated by ccp long ago that wh's were not meant for long term habitation, since they lost that bet should they now look at making them more viable for larger numbers to encourage larger scale wh system warfare and not just the russians taking out weak systems for fun.yesyes, though not necessarily to encurage larger scale wars, though that will happen, and infact is happening even without any changes.9. are wh masses and spawn times what they should be?mostly, i think the total mass on c1's needs to be lowered.10. do you think i am pissing in the wind here to think ccp cares about wh dwellers and our corps/alliances?i've long held the belief that ccp doesn't like wh dwellers because we ruined their new game feature by settling down and mastering it.11. how are the pi changes affecting your corp? are you too small that it is taking weeks just to blow up interbus? should they just remove interbus in wh's all together? we have one interbus co left, we shoot them when we get bored"
"i dont live in wholes. that having been said, i think:1) yes2) i believe so. pos mechanics should be overhauled and outposts should be anchorable in whs.3) it could use some love, but not too much since the foundations work fine as is.4) yes, but via pi. death to pos based moon mining. give us moon interaction!5) yes.6) i think its fine as is.7) not sure, going with a no here.8) absolutely.9) yes. if ccp allow you to build supers in a wh, that would go a long way to making good fights. supers should not be able to use wormholes to move betwen kspace and ukspace.10) maybe.11) they aren't. but if pi could allow you to mine ice from ice planets, then wh habitation would be more sustainable and would all but eliminate the need to go back to hisec for stuff."
"domu is delayed due to stomach flu."
"no bueno. get well soon.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"i agree with the rant-y part, particularly how insulting it is to insinuate w-space dwellers are \"invulnerable\". that's a load of crap, and it seems to me that what people actually mean by \"w-space is invulnerable\" is \"i cant roll in my big nullsec supercap fleet and wreck them\". mechanics that allow you to actually control wormholes, manage their mass, etc completely defeat the point of them in my opinion, and would shift wormhole space into being little more than a nullsec extension."
"wow, someone that realy knows how gameplay in a wormhole works!!! +1 new pos system new sov system"
"couldn't agree more with this thread if i tried.+1 and no, i don't live in highsec. as if that would make your opinion any less wrong."
"agree with most of what you're saying, but not a couple.what need is there for this other than another income source? you can already make stupid amounts of isk in wh space. until new game features are added like tech 3 were, there is no need for another resource to be added. sorry but the moons should remain unused aside from pos.upgrades? no. you want sov and upgrades you can go to k-space 0.0.more wormholes? no. there are plenty out there. if people are sad because they came to the party late and they can't find a free one they want, they know how they can get it. the problem is people are lazy and ::effort::i'm all for grav sites that are ice belts (but random as to the ice - thus who knows if it'll fuel your pos). this would introduce full self sufficiency as well as ice trading in wormholes, great additions to wormholes imo.as for harder, yeah incursions and wh sites need to be harder. triggers should be random. i really don't see how that's difficult. every wave could simply have a random ship be chosen as the trigger for the next wave."
"it should be the new destroyer hull's role.since theyve expanded all other classes of ships except destroyers."
"the idea of bounties like contracts gets a vote from me. e.g. i want to put 500million bounty on someone, it becomes like a contract which i can assign to an individual or corporation (likely a person or group well equiped and experienced enough to pull it off). they manage to pod kill said individual, they get the payout. certainly beats a broad-spectrum bounty that anyone can claim. definately considering that getting killed is pretty much guarenteed in the long run. this way, you'd have the satisfaction of knowing that your bounty has lead to the direct destruction and death of the person in question. i've got a whole list of people i'd have put a bounty on, if the system wasn't broken like it is currently. would also allow the bounty system to finally become an acceptable profession, with corps and individuals that demonstrate a continued ability in completing the bounties asigned to them getting more contracts from people looking for payback. and no, i don't live in highsec. as if that would make your opinion any less wrong."
"i suspect i'm on quite a few of those lists. if this proposal were to be accepted i'd be motivated to fix my sec pretty quickly"
"what if instead of mining both veldspar and the slag at the same time, what if you mine veldspar until it runs out then you just mine slag. that way you need to watch what you are doing a bit more, but also you keep navigation hazards unless you are willing to spend alot of time mining worthless rock. keep the amounts in a rock the same then add on that much extra slag, so to completely mine out a field it will take a very long time, making it smarter to plan ahead."
"i wouldnt mind seeing denser rocks like ice rocks for the reason that with multiple hulks on the field normal rocks pop way to fast. i wouldnt mind having an extra bit of effort to have to scan the rocks to find the best rocks (as long as i could somehow target paint them for the hulk fleet) as well as all for the idea of making them harder to navigate. however when i go mining i find a centralized spot or 2 that i work my way out from and mine everything. i am not so sure of the idea of still having rocks there after all the useful ore is gone. if someone could pitch it to me a different way i may be onboard.finally i do not want it more difficult to warp out of. if i am multiboxing 7 accounts and a red enter system i squad warp them all out. there is no way i want to be dealing with having to individually position each hulk to be able to warp out. i understand the whole risk vs reward **** and all that but there is a line to be drawn."
"this is an extremely good idea. the only problem is someone will design a bot that reads when your veld turns to slag so it stops and moves to the next rock."
"i like this idea.the random nature of the ores, the fact that you have to work more for them. this makes it feel that there is purpose to mining.i would very much prefer the asteroids to actually move around, sometimes even going beyond the range of the strip miners in random directions so that the miners have to keep moving. on top of that, you are unable to align or keep at range with the rocks. this way, you have to manually position yourself every now and then to keep mining lest your rock moves out of range.to make things more interesting, some special rocks should be added that don't generally have any ore but are there to actually deal some damage. if a rock hits your port side because you failed to move out of the way, then you suffer damage. the amount of the damage as well as the type of damage dealt onto your mining ship would be determined by the size and composition of the rock itself.what do you guys think?"
"don't limit sec status and yes i am down for the grief"
"i need help im at the beltno actually i like this idea.fake mayday calls <3but it has to be public broadcast"
"as discussed in this forum thread, weapons need better sound effects.the latest csm minutes told about some exciting changes in shipdesign, but didn't mention anything in the sound department. with the very beautiful new v3 graphics, the poor sound effects on weapons hurt even more.when you read about your weapons (425mm autocanons for instance), they are very impressive, and seem quite brutal. when you fire them, you get the same effect as when a very tall and muscular man starts to speak with a boy's voice. it's ridiculous.most people i have spoken with play eve without sound. this is hard evidence that improvements in this department are needed.thus, i propose that the csm brings this up the next time they meet with ccp."
"pretty sure they already changed the sound effects a while back...most of them anyway. sound is about at the bottom of the list for most everybody who plays eve. personally i would like to see some better sounds all around as well but i would say have ccp finish the v3's and ship redesigns before moving on to sound updates."
"most turret sounds are unimpressive and don't sound appropriate. the sound quality is a far cry from the beauty of the ships and nebulas."
"eve does have soundeffects?"
"tldra carrier should be able to tank a ship thats inappropriate. i.e. a rifter ? ... however if a ship can break another ships tank then the conclusion should be inevitable.i believe a killmail would be just even after a self destruct. the mechanic is mis-used and you are clearly not a pvp'er hence it doesn't bother you. either that or your main is a pilot who flies in large gangs and likes to orbit an 'anchor' whilst finding primaries to activate modules on. please consider the other end of the scale, us who wish to take on larger fleets with smaller gangs. pvp is what this game is about and although you might not like it, pvp involves shooting and destroying space ships. its dis-heartening after spending say 10minutes taking a cap into low armour only for it to then disappear. i agree that loot should be destroyed upon self destruct.i don't think insurance should pay out upon self destruct.i do think if aggressed by something and self destructing a loss mail should be created.+1"
"and yet... you are an alt. lol.yes, it happens a lot. there are also plenty of fights that don't happen because whilst you could fight, and almost definitely win, you couldn't do it in under two minutes. caps also sometimes get sd'd in a pos because it got reinforced and **** caged.and i don't know about you but, whilst me may not be \"entitled\" to a fun game, in most games boredom and dissatisfaction are traits that developers try to avoid.i started out in this game as a pvp toon, now i almost solely pve except for helping out with fleet ops. i have never lost a single pve ship, ever. seriously, look at all three of my toons and go through the combat history. and i can assure you i have made a very considerable amount of isk, all without ever losing a ship.so what was that about the game being lopsided in favor of the attacker? quite simply, it isn't. if you're careful, you can lower the probability of being caught to the point where it will very likely never happen. and even if it does, by that point you should have made many times what your ship was worth.rigidly enforce gameplay that favors many? the only people who don't benefit from this is cap/super/titan pilots, and as a capital/super pilot myself i can assure you some of us want it changed anyway.power to the players!!!!111!one!!!! etc.[center]\"i don't troll, i just give overly blunt responses that annoy people who are wrong but don't want to admit it. it's not my fault that people have sensitive feelings\" -mxzf[/center]"
"that scale may not be the most common of occurrences, but the more common occurence is like what we saw on saturday, where a few ncdot pilots in drakes (drakes) who escaped a gatecamp, safed up, selfdestructed and smugged in local about how his kill/death ratio was intact. instead of forming a proper gang to smash the gatecampers.doesn't change the fact that a dread fleet has done it, simply because they fear their kill/death ratio won't be elite enough."
"after noodling on it for a while, i mostly agree.- sd should result in a km. doesn't matter whether that pilot is randomly chosen from all who were in on the attack or pick whoever did the most damage, but someone should get a km. since killboards already get \"gamed\", nothing much will change.the biggest reason not to give out a km would be \"they'll see my fit! omg!\" - but since they could just ship-scan you, i don't believe that argument is convincing enough not to give out a km.- no loot should drop if the sd timer completes before ship destruction. this allows the pilot of the ship to decide to \"burn it all\" rather then let the aggressors have it. a last gesture of \"screw you\" to the aggressors (who still get a shiny km, but no loot other then salvage).- they may as well still result in insurance payouts. unless you change things so that blue-v-blue kills don't give insurance, denying insurance for sd usage will be spitting in the wind (folks will instead just get their corp mates to help blow stuff up). - timers should be shortened down to 60 seconds for anything below battlecruiser size, and increased a bit for battleship and above. i would say 3 minutes for a battleship, 5 minutes for a capital and 8 minutes for a super-cap / titan.- capacitor regen should stop once the sd cycle has started. which may be unfair to gallente/amarr pilots who wish to keep firing their weapons. so perhaps all high-slot modules should also deactivate."
"might as well just give it to the one with the most damage. consistency is a good thing.the whole argument about \"it'd deny intel\" is complete bunk. nobody has suicided to avoid leaking top sekrit fit info, because there are no robot jesus fits, the worst that happens is that people point and laugh a bit at the price or general awfulness of said fit.not a problem, if the sd timer has run its course.i see absolutely no reason to pay out if you selfdestruct. in fact, this would be pretty paramount in any changes i'd implement regarding selfdestruction, simply because i want to remove as many incentives to avoiding or pussying out of fighting as hard as you can when you're cornered, as possible."
"so ... why can't you just farm the lowsec ones too? sounds like a \"waah, i'm shooting myself in the foot\" situation.to the op, no, there shouldn't be a mechanic forcing people out of the sites. besides, there are two possible outcomes from that, either people figure out how to beat the system or there will be a whole lot of complaints about ships suddenly going pop because insane dps suddenly showed up mid-site. a far better solution (if ccp did feel the need to stop people from running sites after the mom shows up) would be to simply despawn the sites instead.however, as the first response said, stop whining about it. either go out there and kill the mom as soon as it shows up or shut up and deal with it, don't ask ccp to do stuff because you're too lazy to go do it yourself."
"actually, i think you're right in that regard that just despawning the sites when the mom shows up could work too. (i wasn't thinking and didn't know that could be done while people would still be in the sites ><) having lots of shiny ships pop like that would lead to backlash more than anything.i'm just finding it strange that people would rather just run the sites instead of completing them, which is what i thought due to all the rp buildup would be the point, although i guess that's my opinion. i probably wouldn't have made this thread if it wasn't for the whole \"incursion bears suck!\" \"no, you suck!\" \"tears\" etc. thing, while i think it's silly back and forth griping, it's getting people to participate in something which i suppose would be good, and bringing to light issues with incursions. one thing that people are bringing up is that vanguards need a nerf when it comes to payout, which i would support."
"its so easy folks.. once the mothership spawns, all other sites despawn. done."
"this could work if measures are taken to mitigate abuse by farmers while still keeping it easy for true active pilots (as you cited).sourem itharen > congratulations lady kadesh, you have been selected by trial of fire and blood, under the watchful eyes of god, to represent lord khanid as his champion in the imperial succession trials -yc117"
"wah wah wah, its a sandbox, take risks or shut up."
"agreed, no more f1 for invulnerability"
"obvious troll, nice try.2/10 for having it pointed out and still going.mmos come and go, but eve remains. -garresh-"
"good point!if you ever played world of warcraft, you know that there are some builds (for warlock for example) that can see invisible and disable the poor stealth rougues... although rougues can still back stab all other builds and are still considered op as they should...this means that it is not the rougue that need a nerf but the other classes that need a buff on fighting them to balance the game...so as it will be at eve... cloakers will still be invunerable in most of the ocasions, but in some other ocasions there will be risk!so, cloak carebears, grow a pair! and take the risk or shut up!!! new pos system new sov system"
"+1 to the op. if not for the support of a good idea that even ccp is finally realizing then for enraging the forumtards."
"all this anti-cloak nonsense.......a ship that is afk cloaked is no danger at all to anyone in system. it cant attack, cant put out combat probes, nothing. even the ship itself is essentially not meant for fighting so it cant even do dangerous damage.here i have an idea for all the people afraid of a ship that cant kill you in anywaygo about your business!if you're truly so afraid of said cloaker putting a hot drop on you, then roll with some peeps to cover your back while you go about your business. cloaker warps in, tries to pop cyno, he dies from your backup, problem solved. the whole point of nullsec is pvp, yet i get a distinct lack of courage from anyone who complains about afk cloakers.in game mechanics already have a counter to cloak, there is no need to nerf cloak or to make an anti-cloak ship, this is most definitely not supported"
"the real problem is large fleet fights have been reduced to:1. entire fleet aligning to celestial.2. entire fleet locking up one target.3. entire fleet pressing f1.4. entire fleet locking up another target...you get the idea. if large fleet fights were actually broken up into dozens of smaller fights, you would see active tank bonuses shine again. until then; enjoy your predictable fleet dog fight of hundreds of ships primary one person at a time and they race to see who can finish the overview list first.boring."
"how about a little love for the bastardized gallente drone boats? the 75mb/s bandwidth is terrible. you either don't maximize dps and field a matching set of 5 mediums or 3 heavies or field a scattered assortment of all types, which is ugly to see and use. you're drones don't stay together you have to stay right on top of them to tend to them as the heavies are too slow and the lights are extremely flimsy. the best alternative would be to drop the bandwidth down to 50mb/s and increase the bonus to 15% damage. the damage would remain the same as before but you're drones become much more organized and easier to manage. your overall drone ehp would decrease but you would have addition room for different types or another set. it also puts the training time in line with the rest of the cruiser and battlecruiser hulls as drone boats were the only ones of these ships aside from the new tier3s that need to train a battleship weapon system (heavy drones and/or sentrys) in order to maximize dps."
"jon. you have some weird ideas. remember a lot of balance in the game comes from a lot of the factors you have just stated. you have to remember that there is a lot more to this game than dps and ehp.the speed and tracking of the drones must be considered and simply buffing 5 medium drones dps to that of 2heavies 2meds and a light is very short sightednot supported"
"as much as i agree...grow a brain and say something creative as opposed to the usual \"grow a pair\" that you say in each-and-every-freaking-post.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"wouldn't you agree though that shorter repetitions are more fun than longer ones?"
"i have no objection with you badgering the witless."
"silly idea, people wont mine less, they will mine just as much and absolutely flood the market."
"its not as though average joe miner is going to stop spending so many hours mining if you give him more minerals. he'll continue to mine just as long as he always did, he'll just have more ore at the end of it. and since everyone else would be doing the same and the value of the ore would be dropping, he has to mine for just as long simply to keep up.now, if you want to talk about new ways of mining, ways that reward more player input and attention compared to the current 'warp in, target rock, fall asleep at keyboard' method, and combine that with a solution to the two problems of drone region alloys and loot melting, then we're getting somewhere."
"here's a blatant forum alt idea for you:add flash to the ingame browser, and other bits and pieces to bring it to the same level as real broswers. even goons would mine if they could play crappy flash mini games at the same time."
"an increase in mining yield is not the \"fix\" for mining. it's been said a million times, and proven wrong a million and one."
"and i have no problem bashing your troll idea into ribbons either.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"this would make me mine less. i don't want to waste all my time mining.if other players want to keep mining, fine with me. and if that drives mineral prices down, great! i will transition over to manufacturing and take advantage of it.but so will other industrialists, so the prices of ships and equipment will eventually go down. does anyone with a normal brain have a problem with everything being cheaper?then i will finally be able to afford to transition over to pve and pvp without trading plex or selling game items on ebay. of course i will still have to mine on occasion, so i can make something or just make some money. but when i loose my ship and all my mods/rigs/implants, it wont take me weeks or months to replace them....think about it."
"1: your doing it wrong.2: no one said you had to \"waste your time\" mining.3: your full of crap.4: repeat above list again until its clearly in your mind.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"navy ships are supposed to be somewhere between t1 and t2, so bcs are going to be around 70-90k ehp and 600-800 dps thats assuming they go with a straight up dps role, which i hope they don't do. i'd be alright with more ships, but they need to balance what they have already before they add more to their plate. be nice to see a gallente ship in the top 10 ships used ."
"you know price discrimination only works if consumers can't sell to one another.....-1 for not taking basic economics"
"nice idea, but may make it a little complex, but it does make sense. like drake said the best idea so far is to be able to sell to public, alliance, corp or standings, that would be a nice thing..."
"conditional pricing seems too complicated on the face of it.embargos and exclusive markets on the other hand i can endorse."
"well, that is a good point. a neutral alt could purchase the local goods at the standard price, getting around the red mark, or..even better, a blue could purchase them at the blue price and sell it over to the red at the reduced cost.. plus a fee..what dastardly friend would do such a thing? really? in a game like eve?still, i think as many posters noted, it is certainly something to discuss. if there is a better option lf9000, please feel free to elaborate."
"it would be nice to have some sort of control over your market orders. +1"
"the point is \"clearance\" to purchase said items requires extra effort/status.in 0.0 allainces...this is a major benefit to staving off the ####heads who love to frak the market over.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"yes. that's exactly what i'm saying."
"no to 1. when you war dec a corporation, you are wardeccing a corporation, not an individual person"
"if thats the case...you have no business being in a corporation.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"this is eve online, you can be in whatever you want.now, what you can do is this. leave it up to the players (like everything else in eve).if you leave your corp during a wardec, this should be noted in your employement history for all to see. then it will be up to the ceo's of those corps to decide during the interview process, if they want to bring you on.that way if you see a case where someone has been in a 10 corps but has only left one corp during a war vs someone who has been in 10 corps and has fled 8 during wardecs, you kinda know what this person will do if your corp goes to war."
"yes...this is eve online...and you cannot run from eve itself.people seem to think they can play a dark and dangerous game by removnig the risk entirely and getting off scott free.if that's the case...do not join a corp...hell don't even undock.there will always been extreme oposistion to both camps...i seek balance between the to.corp members who drop to run from war dec should not get a get out of jail free ticket.if you wish to run...log off...and stay off.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"i would add the caveat that you can not join an agressing wardec corp. if corp a decs corp b, no-one can join corp a until the wardec is over, or unless corp b makes the wardec mutual... this will limit the work-around: corp a decs corp b for week 1. corp c decs corp b for week 2. all gangsta's in corp a swtich to corp c. corp a decs corp b for week 3... all gangsta's in corp c swith back to a.... ad infinitum. i would also add the caveat, that continuations of the wardec do not follow runaway players. meaning if corp a decs corp b, and john doe coward leaves corp b. john doe cower is still a target...after week 1, corp a continues dec on corp b, john doe cowerd is no longer a target..."
"works for me.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"war itself is broken really.why should newbie corps or alliances be allowed to be war dec'able in the first place? shouldn't there be a grace period of some sort like a month or so where they could not war dec or be war dec'd just to get their **** together?and i think that you should not be allowed to drop corp if you are under a war dec, period. the cost of a war dec should go up each time you renew or let the war dec drop and have not waited at least 7 days to renew."
"not supported at allif this was implemented, it would be a license to grief. noob corps would get wardecced, they'd leave and still be killed, leading to less people playing this game, cause noobs would leave for greener pastures"
"so, we've all read the posts about letting scs dock in stations for years now and we know ccp isn't doing anything about it. i propose ccp creates a password system for unboarding and boarding ships in space. example would be if you want to leave your sc in a pos csma or in space, when you leave the ship, you have to fill in a password. only someone with the password can board the ship and fly it. its like car keys for your ships \o/"
"wait... keys prevent someone stealing your car???"
"i would spend isk and time on a sc if i knew it would be safe in a pos.it's either this or make pwds on all ship arrays personal instead of allowing all corp access if anchored for personal use. this way corp/ally members could use pos for safety but not touch ships in ship array's without your personal pwd if array was anchored for personal use."
"victory! from the patch notes:in case you're wondering, the 'gunslinger' large projectile turret lx-001 gives a 1% bonus to damage.thanks everyone for supporting this."
"this would be a \"low-hanging fruit\" type of fix (very little time required) to bring those ships from \"terrible\" to merely \"it's no rifter, but useful for some things\". if you have that third slot you could put whatever in it, it isn't wired to only fit a web. it'd be some extra versatility. an extra low slot as well would likely help even more; as noted they probably need a good looking over. all the t1 frigates could use a good review honestly, but if something easy that ccp can slip in quickly brings them up from \"laughable\" to \"situational\" it's worth looking in to. mid slot items don't use hard points, or extra art, or anything."
"one, on the present hulls, you don't have the slot to fit that booster.two, if you think this is \"not needed\" - how often do you fly a t1 speed frigate? if your corp told everyone to ship down to t1 frigates and cruisers for some reason, would you chose to fly a t1 speed frigate? if you were told \"we need some cheap t1 tackle ships\", would you advise t1 speed frigates?i don't think that a new pilot who dreams of someday flying interceptors for the glorious amarr empire should start their career by being told \"first, before you can do anything useful, take this book and train minmatar frigate iii...\", in the most goofy manifestation of the issue."
"please let us change the ammunition/script in active modules. let me explain with an example: a pilot has fitted a tracking computer to his midslot. he has placed an optimal range script into the module and has activated it. he decides he would prefer a tracking bonus, instead. without deactiating it, he right clicks the module and selects the tracking speed script. the module completes its current cycle with the optimal range script effect functioning as normal. at the end of the cycle, the module automatically changes scripts and resumes with the new effect.in effect, this lets us \"queue\" the change ammunition action until such time that it can be carried out successfully. particularly in laggy situations, deactivating the module for an ammunition change can leave us without the benefit for almost a full cycle. this will make \"instant\" ammo switching actually function as advertised.even better, this kind of functionality will combine three server requests (deactivate module, switch ammunition, reactivate module) into one request, which should reduce server load.if you can make it function for turrets and missiles, it'll be even better -- imagine firing scorch at your target, selecting conflag, and then have your turret resume firing with that crystal at the next cycle. if i'm switching ammunition, it's obviously because i want to shoot another ammo, not because i want to stop shooting."
"i hear titan ratting sanctums makes 500mil/h nerf sanctums"
"i've got a simple fix for incursions, i have decided to push...change the mom so that no longer does an hq site spawn, but she starts hotdropping people who are running the other sites. that fixes the risk/reward ratio, without crazy schemes like making incursion areas nullsec, or a complete overhaul of the system. whether she goes for a random site with people in it, the site with the most people, least people, it will still set the risk at a high bar(especially since incursions are tuned to pay out based on number of people in the fleet)."
"the only really good idea, i've read in this thread, was to stop sitespawning after the influence reached 0%...that would force the ppl who flys incoursios to stop from time to time, so the influence can go up a few percent.the reward should be better then lvl4s, basedo n the efford to set up a working fleet.you need logis, a webber and dps. you have to organize your fleet, and someone have to fc that all (spreadfire is deadly)for lvl4 missions, you just have to skill a t2 fitted drake or a domiyou never was in a incursion site, right?you can crash a fleet by bumping the logis befor they can warp, or scramble them, if you're in a lower highsecsystem.the sanshas will melt your fleet (yes, ships for 50 billion) with in 20 seconds"
"the problem with incursions is mainly that the majority of the reward is just straight cash into your wallet. change the payouts to be almost entirely lp based."
"i know the old system of names was slightly confusing...but i want them backhow could drakes live without their beloved scourge missiles, and how will phoenixs/nags do without their god thor... even tho trauma is quite nice it's not conveying the differences if were just all throwing the same ammo around.making things better is one thing.... but eve isnt supposed to be idiot proof... were supposed to get rid of the idiots... or at least let them get ganked in their expensive ships...please bring back the proper names so we can not have boring missiles like other ammos...i will always feel bad throwing mjolnir into anything other than a bomber...besides... shouldnt kinetic have been mjolnir since it's the name for thor's hammer...nova just sounds bad too..."
"so the whole basis of your proposal is because you don't like the names.got it.not supportnig.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"you expected some other argument for the reversal of the change of a name?these names became iconic with their uses and ships with those of us who are older players... no real reason to change them in the first place"
"i agree. there wasn't much of a reason to change the names in the first place. however...the change is done. might as well just move on with it instead of reverting them back and wasting even more time just to do that. in the future though...i would say ccp should evaluate whether such a minor change is really needed."
"zim your point is well taken it did happen, even if it does not happen as often as some seem to want to portray. i want to ask of you and the more experienced players if you think that changing the status quo might have the unintended consequence of encouraging the \"self destruct to keep my elite ratio crowd\" to not set out in fleets at all? i don't think removing people's nervous escape routes is going to make them grow a pair. i think, and was encouraged by reading the minutes of the last csm, that ccp will implement better training for new players so we don't lose the first six months we play this game avoiding where this game is played with most freedom. trying to stay alive in null where real live people might whack me if i get sloppy or distracted is for me a lot more fun then blowing up rats in missions. it seems like some consensus can be reached, insurance payouts for self destruction seem foolish, unless they go to the aggressing pilot. perhaps if the aggressing pilot got the payout in lieu of the killmail they would get something besides frustration. i do support the idea of a pilot retaining the choice to destroy his ship and all it's contents if the attacker can not destroy him within a reasonable self destruct time frame for the class ship flown."
"if they stop x'ing up because they could get a lossmail, then they're certainly not going to get killmails, which definitely won't improve their kill/death ratio.i honestly don't think we can help people who are that risk averse.i don't see where this comes into the picture, this sounds more like new players.i see no point in letting insurance payouts go to the aggressor. i see no problem with letting mods go poof on a ship where self-destruct allowed to go off. not initiated, but go off."
"thanks for the response zim!"
"+1killing a cap with a smallish gang (especially a sub-bs gang) before the sd goes off is practically impossible, even if their tank is clearly broken. i know it's always been like this but if ccp is looking into it i'll add my input. losing literally hal"
"since many null sec players consider all other area's of space and play styles which do not involve null sec pointless and seem to have this burning desire force people into null sec, why not just make all space null space.that way you have no need for concord, you can pvp freely where and when ever you want without having to bother with war dec's or concord, hell might as well get rid of gate guns as well.after all since high and low sec space and all of those who play it are scrubs and care bears and play no part in null at all, why bother having them in game.i mean if every high sec player quit eve tomorrow, who would care?"
"1 / 10 *thumbs down*edit: inappropriate part removed, ccp phantom================ stop the evemail spam!"
"not supported, there should still be rookie systems under concord protectionotherwise i would agree"
"yeah, new players can use the rookie systems to get the basic stuff (warping, undocking, activating modules) down, then join the null alliance of their choosing, change their medical clone accordingly (which could be potentially anywhere in new eden) and get right into it. or they could go it alone and once they figure out how just jump through the nearest stargate into 0.0 and see how well that goes.edit: recruit hungry wormhole corps could anchor wormhole stabilizers to the rookie systems so they can start funneling new guys straight to w-space."
"oddly enough, as a carebare i am not sure i would be against this kind of change.there is another game i play that has similiar mechanics to eve but all space is essentially low-sec. with so many targets the 'fun' of shooting up random ones kinda decreases and players focus on only attacking things that give them economic gain. then again the game also has upper limits on the amount of stuff you can do per day so shooting out of bordom is less viable...."
"i can't say i would be opposed to this idea either. frankly though it is not something that would be very well received by many. unfortunately it will likely never happen.also...last time i remember hearing anything about it, the number of high sec players greatly outnumbered those of null sec. it would seem unwise to cater to the few and screw the many. i could be wrong on that though."
"turn 0.0 into hi-sec!"
"what's interesting is that every time we run a newbie drive we do precisely that, and get hundreds of new players into eve as a result."
"1/10.now here is a gem of a solution! this is the real answer... instead of ever having to fight for anything we should just have all alliances rotate in and out of 0.0 space every month to give everyone a fair chance to have all the ships in the game."
"i would support this if also after some reasonable amount of time (30-60 mins?) they where automatically marked as abandoned (both wreck and loot)."
"you won't get any support for this. you won't get any counter-arguments or reasoning, either. they'll just call you a carebear and tell you to harden up. they will do this whilst directly endorsing eve's single lowest risk/reward ratio activity. they will do this with a straight face.my opinion is that either ninja salvagers should be flagged, or can looters shouldn't be flagged. it's the inconsistency that bugs me more than anything else. if i had my way i might actually rework looting entirely to move everything onto the wreck. but now i'm just daydreaming."
"what's the risk in running l4s in a non-pimped battleship, and how does ninja salvaging pay more than that?ninja salvaging is low risk, low reward. l4s are low risk, high reward. risk reward ratio is risk divided by reward.how is low/low a smaller ratio then low/high?\"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" -abrazzar \"the risk of having your day ruined by other people is the cornerstone with which eve was built\" -ccp solomon"
"it's more like abysmal/medium vs low/high.also, you can't run level 4s after 24 hours of training time."
"the risk is the same for the salvager and the mission runner (in his non-pimped bs). (this is an invitation for you to show me what risks a mission runner faces that a salvager does not)training time is not what you were arguing, so let's clear the risk/reward ratio thing before we go gallivanting onto other arguments.\"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" -abrazzar \"the risk of having your day ruined by other people is the cornerstone with which eve was built\" -ccp solomon"
"oh look, it's this thread.again."
"we should bump this thread daily...it is so important that it deserves it."
"yep... i just about had a seizure when i saw that.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"requesting lock so this stops getting bumped..."
"agreed.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"the counter-argument was posted three days before you said this. ffs the thread was half a page long, you couldn't be bothered to read it?i really wouldn't care if it were a criminal act. shoot me when i salvage your stuff, that way i don't have to loot it too."
"in truth that is exactly what the ninja salvagers want...the license to shoot-to-kill upon agression.yet they foolishly keep posting this crap....that or its ninja salvager whose trying to pass off as a whiney carebear.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"bumping thread as it has moved down to number 2 on the first page. absolutely unacceptable! important threads must stay at the top!"
"in case everyone missed it, the thread ended on the first page."
"agreed+1"
"can you tell when a pilot is afk or not?a pvp t3 can cloak and is more dangerous then any pve bs...a recon ship can light a cyno while they have your ship tackled... you will be dead in seconds... with no time to ask for backup... ( if there is no cyno jammer they can drop even carriers on you )a stealth bomber can easily blown up almost all kinds of industrial ships with a single attack...a covert ops ship can put out combat probes from a safe-spot before someone can warp at it, and change position cloaked again... now, being able to reach every single person on the system... to tackle/cyno it...so, going out of a pos with a hulk to mine, or with an nightmare or a thanatos to kill some rats is not a prove of courage, but a prove that you don't know how things are in eve... giving an easy kill like this is more then a reason to get kicked from most of the serious corps/alliances!depending on what is your business you will have to wait the afk cloaker to lave/logoff and it can take some days, ruining your fun.... for example, moving billions of isk like outposts parts, bpos, systems upgrades, wh salvage, technetium, officer modules... none of these shoud be done with a unfriendly ship in the local...there must be a way to put some resistance... new pos system new sov system"
"it doesn't really matter if a pilot is afk or not, if you're afraid to lose a ship, then i'm sorry to say, eve is not the game for you.as for asking for backup, you wouldn't need backup if you're smart, cause your backup is already with you, flying around with you, ratting with you, running the plex with you etc. if you're ratting by yourself, and there's an afk cloaker in your space, you can simply go a few jumps away where said cloaker is not in your space and do your business. you can stick to ratting in your nullsec corp/alliance sov space so fast backup is at hand, and the worse thing is you lose a ship, big whoop. i've lost plenty and cost people plenty, thats whats fun about eve, what gets the blood pumping, the fact that loses are reallosing ships is a part of eve, deal with it. peoples fears of losing ships should not be a reason for ccp to change a big part of the game, when said portion of the game is working as intended. cloaking is there in order for the things you hate to happen. it's part of war, it's part of pvp in nullsec, and has been for a long time, ninja fleets, cloakers in your system to spy and to keep you on your toes. ccp intended for these things to happen.so what if a cloaked ship has combat probes out? you open up your directional scanner, see that there are probes out, get as many ppl in your corp in system, bait out the drop, drop your own on top, have a nice big battle, or you can run away a distance and continue. you dont scare off would be predators by whining that cloaking mechanics have to change, you scare off predators by showing them your willing to fight and protect your space.you want to move expensive **** in nullsec? dont do it by yourself. you're in a corp, in an mmo with im assuming atleast a few other ppl in your corp. make a fleet, spread the loot around to maximize potential of atleast some of it surviving, get your corp members in pvp ships to fly escort, and move the stuff out. that lone transport ship might be a tantalizing target, but that transport ship with a few bs, some tacklers and some hacs flying escort suddenly becomes a less vulnerable target, one that just might make said cloaked up hot dropper be like hmmm, let's wait for easier prey, problem solved, no need to nerf a gameplay mechanic working as it was intended to work. the only reason ccp is thinking about changing cloak mechanics is because a few too many people who are unwilling to protect their assets in a game that is built around non-consensual pvp are afraid of a little risk, it's pathetic, and goes against the spirit of eve, what made eve so much better then games like wow to people like me, who've been playing since revelations and before.you want to put up resistance, you show that your willing to take them on, dont whine to mommy ccp to change the rules for your benifit. it's simple as that. if you're not willing to protect your space in null, then you shouldn't be out in nullsec to begin with. for god's sakes, nowadays with all the high sec indy.mission running alts most people have, it's not gonna take you very long to recover your losses anyways, short of cap ships, and if your corp/alliance is well setup, even that is not too difficult to replace. afk cloakers have been in this game for years, but it's only now, with all the ridiculous amount of botting in nullsec and nullsec bears, that i've seen all this pissing and moaning about oh cloaks have to be bludgeoned by the nerfbat. every time i come back to this game after a hiatus, it's like it's been emasculated. grow a spine. it's easier then you think."
"how about we put some form of screen that will tell you who is in that solar system and call it \"local\". that way you know if there is a cloaker and you can either move to the next system or just watch a bit more careful?"
"genius!"
"remove local in null sec ... problem solved.ships designed to cloak (recons, coverts, blockade runners) should stay cloaked, cloaks should be impossible to fit on anything else._______________________________________________"
"i think i've heard of such a place. i think it's called something like worms."
"that's all im gonna tell these anti-cloak cowards from now on.just go back to high sec, nullsec is obviously to much for your delicate disposition to handle."
"how does this remove solo / small-scale pvp? the difference in active tanking is minimal. really i'd say this would improve solo / small-scale pvp for these hulls as people are able to competitively buffer fit if they choose to do so allowing for more potential uses. yeah that would be extremely lame to have different hulls all doing the same thing. but wait! that wouldn't be the case at all with this change. the different weapon systems ensure that each race of ships has to behave in a different manner in order to succeed in pvp. if you go amarr vs gallente at 0. gallente is most likely going to win. however, if you start at 30km apart, the situation flips and amarr is probably going to win. the problem is that this comparison only really works when both ships have roughly the same hit points. as it currently stands, amarr will probably win in both cases for the discussed ships, which shouldn't happen."
"jon. bottom line is that active tank bonused ships are supposed to be better at active tanking and worse at buffer tanking than resistance bonused ships.<U+FFFD>the main and only issue is that the resist bonus also heavily effects remote rep tanking.<U+FFFD>if the active tank bonus also effected remote repair received this wouldn't be an issue as both defensive bonuses would have similar remote repair tanks.<U+FFFD>the only issue left is the difference in buffer which can be balanced out by buffing the repair bonus. also, buffer tanking ships like the brutix, myrmidon and hyperion are also viable options. you can get some very decent buffer tanks out of these ships and have the option to shield tank them too.<U+FFFD>anyway. if you think active tanking does not work in pvp i suggest you go and watch the \"kill will\" videos. also jon. you need to start posting in the features and ideas forum before posting in the assembly hall."
"while i am not sure about this particular suggestion, i admit i would like to see more done with drone boats. for instance, for lasers/missiles/rails are is an upgrade path through maurders, but things pretty much stop at the dominix when it comes to drones. i know there are carriers, but you can not exactly take those into hi sec... hrm.. maybe even a pocket carrer?a drone-centric mining ship would also be nice.... stuff like that.i think the existing ones though are fine, i would just like to see some new ones added ^_^"
"eh, i'm ok with this. +1"
"spugg lol. i know there are a number of issues that need to be considered aside from dps and ehp, but as we know drone boats are extremely under used in situations outside of pve (the same goes with ships with the active repair bonuses) and that is something i'd like to see changed. there should be a reason people want to fly the eos, myrmidon, and vexor hulls and its not like medium drones are incredibly fast or do all that much damage anyways. i agree that the tracking and speed issues should be taken account when testing. but numerous changes need to be made to improve the balance in this game. no one race of ships should dominate the pvp field like they currently do. i feel this could give gallente a niche in which they can surpass minmatar ships in.i'd also like to give newer players a reason to want to train gallente ships and their weapon systems aside from improving their ability to use angel ships . if you look at training times to get a maximized myrmidon versus a drake or hurricane, the time is close to double, which shouldn't be the case."
"definitely up for some boost to us poor drone operators.this proposal could maybe use some testing. not sure if this would help.my observation is that drones are on the short range side, and we have slow drone boats. (same problem as blasters, doubly nerfing gallente.) some additional control range might be helpful."
"i have never had an issue with any drone boat in either pve or pvp. they are very good at doing them both. the only ship i don't like is the eos. but that is simply a cost vs effectiveness issue which needs some balance. the myrmidon at a push could drop a couple of turrets and have an extra 25 bandwidth and drone bay cause it lacks some utility highs that can be really useful. but it's still an exceptionally versatile ship and 1v1 beats the all powerful drake. a mate of mine used to fly around in his active tanked dominix and regularly take on and win solo vs gangs. i've seen him take on a mega, dominix, two drakes and a raven and win. simple t2 fit and no gang links or boosters. there is next to nothing wrong with drone boats other than we would like more drone upgrade modules!also jon. please first post in the features and ideas forum with your ideas before posting in the assembly hall. the assembly hall is becoming very cluttered with random proposals that seem to have had little thought before being posted."
"my skill points represent all the time and money i've poured into eve since day one, many years ago. eve is all about the *natural consequences* of your choices, not about arbitrary limitations. if i make some bad skill choices with a char, the only way to correct it is to recycle the char and make a new one, thereby flushing my time and money down the drain. nothing in your wall of text explains the imbalance or inequity of a skill point redistribution mechanism so, i still see nothing wrong with it. -1"
"well the big problem with the docking alternative is super carrier docking games.. *shivers*"
"or you know, just train something else and go ask your doctor for stronger ocd medicine."
"i do not think there should be a refund.do i get to refund projectile skills to train rails because they are finally usefull on a myrmidon?also any skill refund is just bad, it will always favor the higher sp pilots."
"i honestly would be fine with it if it was on a timer like remaps. that way character sales would be nicer because you could buy a character with the sp respec and move skill points out of like electronic attack ships 5 and put them into something good. but hey i still have not remapped because 15 charisma is the best, but being able to lose some skills and move the sp around would be cool."
"i agree, no re-spec. as mentioned before, if there was a cap on skill limits, then respec yes. but since we have 0 limitation, then there should be 0 respec. you got the benefits of your sp when you could. sorry its changed. in that case, refund all the ships you blew up because of your investment in those drone skills. i dont see anyone jumping at that. +1, no respec. its eve stop whining. this universe is to harsh and cold for your whining over sp points to have any effect. frig 5 x 4, cruiser 5 x 4, bs 5 x 4, hic 5, as 5, cov ops 5, command ship 5... 33 mil space ship command = 2 years training to sit in ships i dont fly."
"~ consequences ~"
"the option to relocate sp points is a horrible horrible horrible idea.. if this happends i will never again play eve.(opinion of an used to be super active player till leaks showed were nothing but money bunnys for ccp wich sorta ruined the game.. also adding wth is my station walking wich was promised? why are botters still not removed? why the gay cave in to our demands in the last few months, its not sincere so stop the crap!)"
"i have been playing eve since 06 and i have made some bad choices of skills over the year. being an older player i think the perks need to flow like wine for us who have been playing for a long time. that is why i think respec is a good thing. i am all in favor for respec but there should be some constraints. 1. respec once a year only. 2. limit of 10 million skill points.that's my opinion"
"feel free to post in my thread and flame to your hearts content as the other two people that have posted have been for 3 pages."
"eve is not like other games with a finite amount of sp or 'tech-tree' options.everyone has the ability to train everything to max... the time frame in which you choose to train something is completely up to you and there should never be any sort of respec option."
"the point is to save you sp, which is what you've paid for with your time and money.just because you might use it in the future doesn't mean you should be stuck with it today.eve has distinguished itself from other mmos with unusual game mechanics.your actions would still have consequences so, i don't understand how it would upset the game balance."
"if unlearning takes the same amount of time as learning, you might as well accept you made a mistake and learn a new skill directly. it takes just as much time as unlearning something and then using that sp to get it. i dont see why anyone would ever use this under any circumstance"
"i thought this thread was dead with all the trolling going on in it...oh well...@hathrul. an amendment to the idea was later made in the thread to cut the unlearning time in half. that way you aren't wasting all of your time and could technically gain time by removing a skill you never use and putting the points into something you want. lets say you have skill a that took you 6 days to learn and skill b which is entirely unlearned but will also take you 6 days. you no longer need or want a so you unlearn it in 3 days and put all the sp into skill b thus learning skill b in 3 days instead of 6 by sacrificing skill a which you already spent 6 days to learn. when all is said and done it took you a total of 9 days to learn skill b but 6 of it may have been 5 years ago."
"i would expect this from someone who bought his toon.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"no."
"how astute of you."
"almost as astute as the repeated (albeit stupidly modified) \"hurrrr skillpoint reallocation\" idea"
"oh blah blah blah blah blah...why don't you guys actually come up with something constructive instead of just attacking me with your stupidity?in fact...i will ask a dev to just go ahead and lock this thread. i can bring this topic up again later when the trolls are fewer if ccp hasn't already enacted a change to this by then."
"hahaahayou are literally clueless"
"hey wake up and smell the quafe...the guy said no...and just no....and your directly attacking him....don't be surprsied if someone reports you for that.you should take your own advice for once.if anyone needs to grow up and stop acting like an imature child...its you.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"feel free to keep trolling this thread. i really don't mind. the more you do the more people will see my idea. thanks in advance! i don't even think i can count on one hand the number of times you have attacked me directly in this thread alone drake. shall i start reporting you?"
"i dont harp on people for saying just \"no\" like you do.and for all of my terseness...i don't act like an immautre child and spray obviously stupid ideas that people can see right through with utter clarity....nor do i ignore them.yes i will call them out...and they get all up in arms...but they are just as guilty as they label me to be.people don't like me because i refuse to back down...i give coutner arguments quite readily....and i will back down/relinquish when reason is given enough. soemthing you fail horribily to attempt to do.all you've said is you don't like this idea...yet you support it....your a hypocritical child who wants his way even if he hates the very thing he wants.what that tells everyone is quite plain and obvious....for you to take offense to that...is quite laughable.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"there isn't any sort of downside to \"training the wrong thing\" in eve.i mean if you play long enough, guess what? you will have to train all skills eventually!the only way i would be in support of an 'unlearn' option would be if it took the exact amount of time it took to untrain the skill as it took to train the skill. that way the pointlessness of your suggestion comes fully into view and people can waste their training time by 'untraining' items that will no doubt be trained later on."
"+1 supported"
"best thing that could happen to make the csm less biased and usefull again was suggested by someone else in a channel i was in last nightsplit the csm into different categories fw, trading, low sec pvp, null pvp, wh, incursions and many more obviously some categoties would have to overlap players put themselves up for the category they want to stand for, people vote ccp would get a more balance feedback from the playerbase in theory"
"have you ever heard about gravimetrics?also, it is not only a chore, some people loves to mine...sorry, you guys are doing it wrong... go find some other way to get isk.... or learn more about mining.... sometimes it can be exciting! especially far away form hi sec!!!although some random spawns of some new rare ore would be awesome!!! new pos system new sov system"
"no, absolutely not.i mine and manufacturer in eve online. i have seen the effects on how mineral prices effect the mining profession for years.this will cause an already-under-appreciated career (mining) to be absolutely useless because the market will be so saturated in minerals that not only will the prices go down, but mining will be almost dead on its tracks. no one will mine because the return investment will not be worth it. at that point, it will be years before the market will recover.oh, and don't expect manufacturing to be so lucrative either. the price of manufacturing will always be tied to the mineral prices. people will eventually want to pay less as the minerals fall.let's take a good look at crucible as an example:when the tier 3 battlecruisers came out, they were selling on the market for about 200-250mil isk per ship. manufacturers of course were just taking advantage of the brief rush to purchase as pod pilots clamored to get to them first. but the prices eventually settled to about 60-80mil per ship as more people realized that the cost to build such a ship is about 50mil when you take into account the mineral prices.if the mineral prices drop by 900%, then so will the price of all other ships that are built with these building block of life. manufacturing will not be worth it later on as the returns will not be enough to make up for the effort put into them. sure, you can buy plenty of the minerals off the market, but you will find yourself selling a 80mil tier 3 battlecruiser for about 20mil.let's not forget the t2 ships. their prices will drop as well, but will only go so low depending on how abundant moon-goo products will be. of course, moon mining will probably be the only best industrial profession available one mining and manufacturing have both crashed to hell. then more people will go to moon mining and crash that as well when moon-goo products begin to saturate the market.what will be left then? pve? missioning will be the only lucrative profession and we all know how much isk in npc bounties will be pumped into the economy should everyone swarm to that profession.tl;dr: eve economy will crash on almost all levels.again. no @ op."
"what would make mining more fun? emotes!that's right... /dance will make your hulk do the \"twist\"!/strip will make your hulk produce holographic strip dancers above your ship! space porn! yay!really...i doubt there is anything that will ever make mining fun."
"that cant be scanned down, has no bubble, but otherwise acts like a pos with obvious exceptions like no guns or ecm, no moon mining. the idea being that you deploy it in a safespot and your gang is meant to stick around ship maintenance or corp hangers; as well as black ops cyno beacons(which have the opposite effect in that if you have sov in the system you get no beacon). however there are lots of vulnerable times for the pos. you jump to that beacon with your black ops. you're going to be sitting by it uncloaked for 15 seconds. if you use the ship maintenance array you are uncloaked. to use corp hanger you're uncloaked. if someone gets a scan off on you. you're just got found out."
"awful idea. black ops mechanics are already perfect for getting into non cyno jammed systems discretely. adding a \"un probable\" pos is pretty silly. black ops ships can already cloak, so you dont need a pos. black ops can bridge haulers, so you dont need a corp hanger. -1"
"so you want a way for people to anchor a pos in utter and complete safety with no way to scan it down and not even tied to a moon? wow...that's a no."
"your not trolling hard enough....go back to school. -9999 / 10================ stop the evemail spam!"
"why are you not banned from the forums yet for awful trolling?seriously..."
"well, npcs can already do it ;pthis is actually something that has always bugged me about eve's mechanics... players and npcs seem to operate by a very different set of rules. personally i think players should be able to set up a pos anywhere, including setting up locked acceleration gates and dead space bubbles defended by sentry towers."
"well...acceleration gates would perhaps make me change my mind. so long as the acceleration gate was of course able to be scanned and led to the pos then fine. but then it defeates the purpose. a hidden and unscannable pos would break wh mechanics as well as nullsec war mechanics if you ask me. as for your reasoning of if the rats can then why can't we? i agree...it is an annoyance but one we must live with in any game. give me a way to make this happen without breaking said mechanics and i would be cool with such an idea.frankly i wish rats would regularly attack pos's. not just in wh space but everywhere. incursion systems should attempt to clear out what pos's are there by destroying them...the lower the sec status the stronger the rats and more likely the pos to be destroyed."
"*nods* i would not be in favor of the 'unscannable' part either. i just want the ability to place stuff anywhere and build mazes of doom out of gates, deadspace, and sentry towers ^_^ being able to lock gates would make things even more interesting since that means an attacker would have to pop your (or a corp member's) ship first to get the key...."
"placing a pos or an acceleration gate that needed to be scanned down because it was not at a moon would be very interesting. use the gate and experience it's hazards, jump to the pos and experience it's defenses, or just camp the acceleration gate and try to ambush a corp member. would be nice to set up a series of gates that led to a bubbled death star trap. sounds like fun. safe spots could be occupied by a pos far away from moons. seems like this idea has more plus then minus. players could actually decide where and how to populate systems as opposed to only doing as ccp currently allows, i prefer player choices. power to the players."
"i think an idea of this nature will require a lot of fleshing out. i can already think of a few issues with this such as taking down a gate and putting it back up somewhere else to avoid someone using a \"key\" when a pilot is killed. i dunno...seems like a lot of work to make sure the system is not abused."
"bamp!"
"the old jump sound is so much better than the updated apocrypha one. it was much more beefed up and actually sounded like the gate was building up energy to blast you through space.also the graphics of the jump gate energy beam looked awesome.regards.. bitter old vetmy eve online pew pew<U+FFFD> my youtube videos"
"this would really apply to anyone day trading or station trading in large hubs such as jita, rens, ect.....what it is about-this would make a skill that highlights your buy/sell order in orange or red or whatever color you choosepositive-makes it so i don't have to search for my buy ordernegative-feeds the laziness-maybe a little imbaother thoughts:i wouldn't really know how to scale the skill up unless the 5th skill highlights the characters that have been changedlets have a forum discussion and reach a consensus and thank you"
"highlighting own orders is good.tying it to a skill is not, this is merely an ui improvement. we don't have skills for things like \"being able to see overload queue on modules\".highlighting through color alone is less than ideal for color blind people."
"tech ii covert ops talos plz. do want."
"i think the only way this could work is if ccp implemented a system similiar to the one electronic banking uses, where you can trace the flow of money and goods through their full chain and thus prevent getting around the 'neutral alt' hole. this is something i could see being intreated into some compeditor to eve, something that strived to mirror real world systems more.. but i can not see ccp putting such an auditing/regulatory framework into this game."
"this is overkill compilicted.if people want to use alts to get around things...so be it...point is this propsoal makes its bloody difficult without extra effort.just keep it simple...standings permissions much like pico's.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"giving this a bump for all the space truckers out there. i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"i disagree with making triggers random. the only \"risk\" it adds is that you just need to bring enough logistics to support two waves worth of dps. also it may combine to make sites un-runnable. if there is a high chance every time you run a site that an additional 4000dps is going to spawn at random a random moment and welp your fleet then its apparent very quickly that the sites are infeasible and not worth running.i always saw the biggest risk for running wh sites as the risk to being caught and ganked by other people. if your sole intention is to raise risk of these sites then simply draw the site out longer be it either by more spawns or more ehp. that way people are held stuck inside anoms for longer periods of time making them more at risk to other players collapsing into them and ganking them in sites.ultimately though everything in eve is calculable. most players in this game seek to max/min everything and will fnd work arounds for what ever pre-programmed environment you can throw at them. the only true way of raising \"risk\" is my making people more vulnerable to other players. (i still don't personally understand why the current mechanics around this need to be tweaked anyway)"
"gang links...single grid...better eve for everybody!"
"+1 awesome idea. i think this would have helped my buddies stay in as they could have tried pvp without the \"fear\" of nullsec or the sec status screwing of current lowsec."
"up"
"down+1 to cluttering up my overview even more."
"they've already said they're going to do this. iirc, it was pulled from incarna because they didn't have it finished in time."
"bumpif em drones will be equal to explosive, than thermal and kinetic drones need boost in damage or speed"
"background:i started playing this in late 2010. we (www.tribegaming.com) had a couple players who were eve vets and a lot of folks who wanted to try eve. we basically had about 30 newbies day 1 character, and 2-3 who were vets with 60+m sp. i was one of these day 1 newbs. now what happened was basically what happens to a lot of groups or new players. out of all the people who played only 3 of the day 1 players still play, myself included. most the players actually quit within 2-3 months. i found the downfall to be most of being newbies and not having very good mentoring. we kept \"thinking\" we needed a bit more before we did stuff. when in reality, we could have done stuff and had more fun i think within the first week had we had more direction and knowledge of pvp and how the game worked.basically, i think we were to scared and most stayed in highsec. but the following is some real responses i got when i asked on the tribe forums recently about why some folks quit. i thought i'd add something to the ideas about getting and keeping new eve players, even if it was a little bit."
"i view it as a culling of the weak... or just the weak willed.the tutorial is always being worked on to provide a more guiding hand for new players but tbh it introduces you to the tools you need to find your way. it doesn't tell you which way but it will give you the tools find your own.unlike all other mmos there is no \"best\" training path or \"best\" ship fit which is something new players often fail to realize. everything is situational and freeform and a lot of casual gamers used to blizzard hand-holding (for example) will not find a home in eve, but that's almost a good thing. the players that are here today started eve with a much worse tutorial and yet years later you still find us plugging away. what that indicates is that this game is not for everyone because everyone's definition of what a game should be is different. let eve be different, if anything it cultivates a culture of people with a given intelligence and fortitude to have fun in an arena where the walls are defined and in some senses certain kinds of behavior is expected."
"in before the flaming \"hardcore\" bittervets.yes...eve is a rough game to get started in. it takes time and patience and it is not for everybody. story is pretty boring if not just plain nonexistent. so yeah...it's pretty much a game you get into to eventually do the pvp unless all you like to do is really grind asteroids or work the market. i have friends and co-workers ask all the time how i can stand playing the game. my answer? i play eve at the same time i am playing just about every other game i play because it requires that little attention. something ccp should work on fixing. short of pvp ops...i will rat, mine, gas harvest...whatever...while at the same time i am playing star wars or whatever other mmo i have at the time on the same computer using my second monitor.edit: i am not sure how quitting a game that doesn't appeal to you makes you \"weak willed\"...but each to their own."
"i'm not sure why this thread is here...this has nothing to do with mechanics/balance/or even proposing a change so to speak.so you got a bunch of noobs that didn't stick around because eve was hard/sucky/no fun.ok...so what?eve online is not for everyone...tough...there are plenty of \"fish in the sea\"i'm sure wow will do them just fine.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"no denying, eve is tough.there are casual corps and alliance out there who strive for nothing more than making isk, will take all the players who are keen to apply and live a passive eve life. sadly, sooner rather than later, the sheer depth of eve will force them to quit those corps because there isn't enough activity or they want more action or players to mingle with. which is all fine and dandy.but where all of these newbies strike a cord is the \"lost\" feeling when trying to figure out the game in your first few months and the griefing. people will run into unwanted/undesired, unfair pvp within hours of playing eve online, get the wrong perception of eve life and quit on the basis that every 2nd player is out to get them and laugh at their wrecks.then again, if you see 0.0 carebears demanding that hisec be nerfed into an iskless zone while at the same time lobbying for more pvp on their terms, it's not surprising why. ccp have successfully modeled and shaped eve to be pvp driven. but the future for eve will be to expand the sandbox beyond absolute pvp. failure to do so will continue a trend of only attracting hardcore griefers and money makers to eve online for years to come.wis, space barbie, in depth, social orientated non-pew pew content will save us from this wonderful 50k player limit we are having an \"easy\" time breaking through."
"the one thing i really wish the tutorial had told me at the end is, \"ok you know how to warp, dock, use the market, and all that. your next and only important goal is to find, and make friends with, another group of players who know how this game works\"i honestly think poco based sov is a good idea"
"\"...and the lack of a cockpit view. it would seriously ramp up my interest if they could build a view from the cockpit with monitors that would give you all the info you normally have from the external view.\"and still they go into wow and lack of first person view somehow is no longer a problem...\"i had no idea how to make money, get recruited to a corp i could trust, and no idea about what skills to train that would be useful long-term\"obviously it had to be in dark ages before internet, search engines, forums and all of this futuristic things we can use now..."
"what exactly do you base this idea on?certainly not precedent"
"why? why would you sabotage your own post like this? the first four paragraphs were good, contained actual content and intelligent comments, and yet you finished off your post actually supporting wis douchebaggery. why?wis is anti eve. it will not magically treble the number of players. it is a huge waste of time. it is not part of eve, it should not ever be expanded on. it's like adding guns and tanks to wow - it is completely alien to the core concept of the game, it will take a vast amount of time and effort to produce, and it does not expand upon existing content in any way. wis would take the focus away from eve itself, and leave us with some hideous abomination.inb4 the replies:captains quarters are not part of eve, they were the result of a malicious virus spread by a bunch of evil people who call themselves \"ccp\". i am still looking for ways to remove the virus from my system while leaving the eve i love untouched, but alas, it seems there is no cure for the cq disease."
"you do realize prior to wis we broke 50k every day, right?i remember thinking that 53k was unusually low at one point prior to the anom nerf."
"the poor newbie retention of eve comes from two [and possibly more] very persistent misconceptions about this game;1) newbies think eve is a space sim.- it isn't. eve's combat is much closer to a strategy game (albeit an unconventional one). a lot of players join eve thinking that they will be zooming around in x-wings, but that simply isn't the case.2) newbies don't treat eve as a social game.- this is positively crucial to keeping a new player in the game. if all they do is run level 1's or mine while waiting to hit a 'level cap' or for someone to come along and tell them how to play then a newbie will get bored and quit. people need to realize that this game is incredibly deep, and that they will need help understanding that depth. joining a corp/alliance like e-uni or rvb is immensely beneficial to newer players."
"i started eve in 2006, when the tutorial was hey, im aura. warp is this button, dock is this buttom, turn your ship with a double click.. be on your way captain. i was pulled into two broken corps, who like me, had no idea how to play eve. after a few weeks, my will was gone to play this game, and then i met my eve mentor. then it opened this game up. when i reached 2 years, i started sitting in the help channel, and convoed new players that had questions. to give them indepth answers and help in the game. didnt pressure them to join a corp, or give me isk, or try to use mechanics to pop them. im a firm believer in every player that i can help stay in eve, is better for all of us. 3 and 1/2 years later, out of the few hundred i helped, i still talk to 70% of them. this is a social game as much as a space strategy game. i believe that as long term veterans, we should take off our role hats in the game, miner, trader, pirate, ceo of a large corporation once in a while, and just be a good ambassador for eve and help out those who need help. once a month i sit in the newbie systems, and offer in local help. most think im trying to chase them down, but some ask, and i help. there is nothing more then giving links to isktheguide, evemaps, and evehq/evemon to help them understand what tools some of us have used for years. the immersion and understanding that eve has a dedicated following, and that no matter what i will help them and guide them, keeps alot of my students around. so my suggestion to all of us with a few years in, is take a few new players under your wings, and help grow the next generation of eve ceos/pirates/traders or 0.0 czars. frig 5 x 4, cruiser 5 x 4, bs 5 x 4, hic 5, as 5, cov ops 5, command ship 5... 33 mil space ship command = 2 years training to sit in ships i dont fly."
"my bad double post frig 5 x 4, cruiser 5 x 4, bs 5 x 4, hic 5, as 5, cov ops 5, command ship 5... 33 mil space ship command = 2 years training to sit in ships i dont fly."
"because i can.what you fis hubbies call doubhebaggery, i call foresight. your smart enough to see intelligence in a post, but the moment that intelligence runs away from your framework of reference, you lose the plot.fis content alone never allowed eve to see the far side of 60k, or even hit 60k for that matter, long enough to actually mean something. that is largely due to her pvp orientated and griefer heavy/favored nature. new players don't care for your killmails, gankfits, gangs, for your sovereignty, for your super caps or techmoons. they hate blobs and for the most part, only care to play long enough to have the novelty of interweb spaceboats wear off over months of mindless mission running, skill grinding and exploration, free from the burden of having to re-grind their isk in the face of losing it to fis lovers who enjoy a good gank.sure eve hit 50k, but we hovered in that range for a few months at best. i even recall the ccp news proclamation announcing that record not too long ago. and even with the precedent fis focus, only more recently prior to incarna, had eve broken that barrier due largely to massive influx of alt accounts. i enjoy calling it the pi effect. in a world where 1 pi account = 1 billion isk + at current market prices (for being offline no less), that's playing for free and making profit with more accounts than most people's evemons can shake a stick at. only fools grind for isk. i expect to be paid not to log in.that increases the demand for plex, the after effects we are suffering under now. and denounce it all you like, thats allot of alt power to steamroll vote extremely controversial and unforgiving lobbyist dictators with their own serlf serving agendas into the csm. what do i base this accusation on you'd ask? my own game style. i am pointing it out to you lesser beings because i am one of those pi spamming overlords with more accounts than he can care to look after. and i know many like me who have risen with the advent of tyrannis.that eve future vision video, wet the lips of the majority of the player base. ambulations has long been sought after and will, in the not so distant future, rise again to be on the tip of everybody's tongue. and once incarna 2.0 comes around and is properly implemented, more overlords will rise and give way to much deserted 0.0 wastelands. once joyous griefers who enjoyed trolling poor noobs on the forums over losing their hulks or orcas, will start crying because nobody undocks anymore. their going to be too busy spinning space barbie to bother spinning a ship. the new techmoons will become planets with cities and, the new towers that churn out commodities and services for the 0.0 populations will manifest as establishment owners either on stations or on the planets below. eve has much more potential than a point and click spaceboat sim. incarna will bring that to fruition. and once it does, this player base will retain all the sad fis vets while attracting the new breed of sci-fi mmo gamers keen on making it in a much, much more complex new eden than pure fis could ever manage by itself. newbies wont quit because they lost a spaceboat, they'l quit because they got gang raped in some alley in a station. some hobo griefer will break into the cq and steal all the stuff they would have to give on their way back to wow. if fis was all that, eve would not only have 350k accounts, but would have 350k active accounts. we would have crippled this massive server long ago. its been a decade since eve's release. how many times was the maximum server player limit increased from the starting 200k limit i read in a pc zone magazine article all those years ago.nah. the future of eve is not pure pvp, nor is it pure fis. it will start with walking on stations, then expand with dust. after dust, pi 2.0 will rock our worlds before incarna 2.0 frees us from the prison cells we call pods. and those of you who do not care for wis, have no fear. you'll have more space all to yourself.nah broskies, heretics and fellow unbelievers. denouncing incarna and the cq as anti-eve is akin to denouncing ship spinning in itself. the cq is here to stay, and i say i want moar! open my fhucking door!"
"tl;dr: asuka solo has beliefs long debunked by all data and patterns displayed about eve consumers"
"the new player experience is crap. several friends and i spent *months* muddling about and figuring things out. we had to learn the game via third-party websites. eve's ****-poor documentation is what drives away a lot of people.i have no problem with a steep learning curve. eve *is* a hard game to master. i'm only beginning, after 18 months of playing, to feel like i have a good understanding of all the game's mechanics. i'm not saying the game should be easier or newbies should have their hands held...i'm just saying that ccp needs to make information available to new players so they don't commit idiotic mistakes out of ignorance.the game should be teaching people the basics of aggression mechanics, for example. or the nature of the gamespace (grids and how they work). there needs to be some semblance of coaching for fittings. the expectation that everyone stumble upon various information sources via google is just absurd."
"agreed...i've learned more in the last year or so than i ever have from the npe.and when i started the \"npe\" was nothing like it was today.i've watched my wife go through that....its **** poor to be honest...and insulting to the nature of the game itself.of course i don't really have any idea how or what to suggest to make it work out....but people do a better job to be honest.help channel is inadequate....and full of spam.all i know is...its going in the oposite direction that it intends.now that said... eve online is not supposed to be for people who blunder in...most gamers these days have the attention span of a golfish... they dont want cut scenes..they dont want to wait and read and sit..they want action \"nao\".eve is for peolpe who are paitent...detailed..and willing to work hard for those rewards.hence why we get all uppity over stupid ideas like sp reimbursements....or disuprtion of the mechancis to make it \"easier\" cause its \"not fiar\" (misspelling intentional).i'd rather not see these gamers show up in the first place....but then the npe does need major improvement.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"bump"
"some people are never satisfied.i honestly think poco based sov is a good idea"
"i want too old names back!if i wanted missiles for my ship i am currently flying, i only needed to type that specific name in the search,now they all have the same name which is not only confusing, but even very cheap!!eve should not be optimized for idiots or noobs who cant remember the missile name he needs,if you fly a ship you learn those munition names after few days of usage. a lot of individuality is lost with the new terrible naming, i used to fly a bomber a lot in the past so mjolnirs were torpedoes for the amarr bomber, i associate only them to this name and i'm very attached to that old name - now they all are mjolnirs, even if the name doesnt fit at all.the same goes for fhe naming for other items like ab/mwd!!!ccp, give us old names back ffs! dont dumb eve down for idiots!"
"not only missles but all of them that were changed in the 1.1 patch."
"meh...after looking them over it frankly doesn't bother me either way. new missile names although simplified across all sizes works fine. old system worked fine too."
"it's just the flipside of this op.sandbox gaming isn't about doing things one way and one way only. the way i go about suggestions, is that if i can live with the flipside of any op while having the ops way of life in eve, then its an acceptable idea for all. options need to be available and open for that little thing called choice.clearly, this one has issues as you can either remain in a starting systems or jump straight into 0.0 blob sov warfare with russian botters or goonswarm jihaddists.do i want to share anything in eve? of course not. i believe only those who can afford certain things should be entitled to have them (be it via means of sheer isk, wealth of numbers, brute force or organization). and the space poor can die a miserable death in gutters and alleyways while begging for scraps. but reducing eve to pure violence in order to acquire items or a way of life is killing the sandbox.i don't have to fight for it all tooth and nail if i can't be asked to do so. it's not like you club the person in a car show room next to you to death on the showroom floor if he's looking at your future car... you both order the same model and go crash it at highspeed. or find other showrooms.your problem (and the most of our pvp orientated broskies with active subs) is you want a feudal age where everybody is forced to live by the sword just to make ens meat. then you cry about not having enough people to blow up when those people go play other games after a few weeks.if you want more 0.0, add more. if you want less local, move to wormholes. you have that choice. stop forcing others to cut out their eve way of life to accommodate you.btw, down with communism and the redistribution of wealth."
"but where will i farm incursions?!yeah screw em. basically the only highsec systems we really need are jita, amarr, rens, dodixie and maybe a few other trade hubs for me to sell my swag and buy other people's stuff.most minerals come from drone loot apparently. and maybe if there weren't a ton of people bot mining in highsec eating belts 23/7 mining might be a worthwhile profession. then there is t2 production which is all moon goo, which is lowsec and nullsec anyway.on the other hand lowsec is good times, a lot of cool people live in lowsec. it's a great place for single corps and small alliances to run around in 10 man fleets and still be pretty badass. it's also a great place to go on safari in an expensive clone in the land of no bubbles and very few interceptors. so yeah lowsec gets a pass.but if highsec was just a few market hubs and maybe a few noob starting zones to get them used to flying their ship and get in a corp, and lowsec is still there, then yeah i'd totally support this thread.i honestly think poco based sov is a good idea"
"off topic posts removed. please stay on topic and polite, thank you."
"just one question... if say only 20% of high sec players quit, then who would make up what would be a pretty big hole in missing subs?"
"i don't even...no."
"hey man it's your idea to get rid of highsec (your first good one)also, who cares?"
"who cares where the missing income would come from.. your right, i mean who cares if ccp lost 20% of their revenue, not like that would effect the game in anyway shape or form would it"
"every expansion centering around pvp content that was added to eve, subs went up.every time a highsec pve expansion was added to eve, subs slowly went down and revenue dropped.so your concern about ccp's ledgers isn't very well based, meaning we can go ahead and push your proposal through (i've been talking about it on irc with certain csm delegates)most 'carebears' would adapt quickly either learning to protect themselves, working with others that can protect them, or switch playstyles to take advantage of the new paradigm. no longer would it hurt their bottom line or put them at a competitive disadvantage to take risks or pursue combat as a solution to adversity because everyone would be on a even playing field once highsec was removed. increase in fatalities makes those who succeed's efforts more profitable and worthwhile (even mining veld), no longer having to compete with autopiloting freighters from trade hubs flooding the market everywhere. no gatecamps keeping anyone out because everywhere was nullsec. no barriers to alliance entry because all alliances would be in 0.0. sounds great, kobol."
"it is an interesting idea but an abrupt change would not work. however, it would be cool if powerful null sec alliances could take over empire space. and if faction wars could actually shift security rating and ownership of systems between empires. for example a low sec system shifts ownership to the neighboring empire now the 0.5 system that was next to it becomes a low sec system. or if a sov holding alliance could concur a neighboring low sec system with the same affect slowly encroaching on empire space.it would really make the game world seem alive if the ownership of systems shifted with the results of active wars.however completely eliminating high sec would destroy the game. there are far to many activities that are only done in high sec because they would be to risky in null sec. how many null sec research poses are there? at least 90% are in high sec.how many null sec alliances buy meta 1 modules in jita just to fill a jump freighter and jump them out to null to reprocess for the minerals to build their super caps?there are a cetain amount of manufactuing that takes place in null but aside from caps and super caps 90% is done in high sec. without high sec there would be no jita."
"oh those trolls"
"yes, what would we do without invulnerably decshielded dickstar'd up research poss and flooding of mineral markets thanks to jump freighters."
"on a more serious note...what about turning all of lowsec into nullsec?"
"no lowsec actually has a legitimate function (pvp minus both sov & bubbles) and there needs a place for the sov test lab that is fw.also the sensor booster market would crash"
"perhaps retain the \"no sov and no bubbles' part but remove the concord and sec status part?"
"allow covert cynos to be lit in high-secdone \"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" - abrazzar"
"and yet, here we are on the second, and until it gets locked, no thread ever ends.\"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" -abrazzar \"the risk of having your day ruined by other people is the cornerstone with which eve was built\" -ccp solomon"
"why do you guys keep bumping this thread if you hate the idea so much? =p"
"i have no problem with the idea. more missionbears will get killed. that simple.\"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" -abrazzar \"the risk of having your day ruined by other people is the cornerstone with which eve was built\" -ccp solomon"
"^^^ yay for dead bears."
"was just going over the new neocom features and testing window snapping, pinning, and configurations memory. everything seems to be allright, with two small exceptions.the first is rather insignificant in the grand scheme of things, but i still consider it important.fleet composition opens in a new window every time, and doesn't stay docked with the fleet window when you stack them close and leave fleet, and reopen. not when you log off anyway, and i assume also not when both are just exited and closed.personally, i feel that if i dock the window with the fleet window, the next time i open if from the fleet window, it should still be docked. also, if it were, it would be expected for all the columns to retain their spacings within that window. the rest of the windows seem to be fine in that regard.contextually speaking, they are a little different though.the second is far more important, and could save fleet commanders a great deal of time.allow us to set up a number of presets for fleets and averts to go with them. ideally, that means fleet name in advert and description, wings and their names, squadrons per wings and their names; and which voice channels are set to active, as well as well as standings requirements and various other settings. all the basic stuff that has to be configured every time you form a fleet now.this way, all an fc has to do is open fleet and click the interaction bars, then pick which fleet configuaration he/she wants to use for the occaision. much less hassle than setting each one up every time; especially when many players will most likely be using the same basic setup over and over again.i'd say we should have no less than 3-5 of these available configurations.zubzubzubzubzubzubzubzub"
"also, now that we have windows and everything that pretty much appear to stay where you want them, and a configurable neocom, i suggest we have the option to export and import neocom settings. easy as it might be to set up, it is still time consuming and has to be done for each account.impotantly, if you have to reinstall because an update or patch fails, or for some other reason, it would be nice not to have to reconfigure the neocom and window positions and stacks everytime, much less for every account.zubzubzubzubzubzubzubzub"
"except they aren't significantly better to justify a ****** bonus.this isn't about the \"viability\" of these ships buffer tank or their ability to shield tank. the issue is that these ships are incapable of effectively competing as they are in the current pvp environment. by changing the armor repair bonus to something that improves their capabilities in gang warfare, we can start seeing more diversity in the fleets and tactics of the pilots flying around the systems of new eden. the difference between your idea and mine is that my proposal straight up solves the issue at the cost of some diversity. done, move on to something else. whereas your suggestion, while maintaining some form of diversity, needs extensive testing and tweaking. it works in some situations but not others. the actual \"bonus\" varies from ship to ship. what's an appropriate improvement in repair amount? how many logistics do you balance the numbers on? 8% improvement on 1-2 logistics is much worst than on 10-15. at what timeframe should the repair bonus finally balance with the buffer tank of its counterpart? 1 minute? 5 minutes? how does this improvement impact active tanking? how does alpha impact this? do we look at cases when logistics and active tanking aren't involved? etc, etc. wrong. the main issue is that the armor repair bonus needs to be changed. we may not agree on the best method for making this change but we both understand that something needs to be done to fix it."
"are you a moderator? no? well, let people exercise their rights to post proposals (and this is a proposal) here, rather than a more generalised idea in f&i."
"came expecting a topic about un-nerfing gallente super carriers and boosting their carriers.leaving disappointed."
"the drone boats are pretty balanced as they stand. i'd like to see some more variety, and as said, they could use some further development as far as a direction to go other than carrier if you love your drones, but the current drone boats are very balanced. use your imagination when fitting, and thing about the impact of your drones. do you know how many different flights of drones a domi can carry?every experienced pvper and fc i have ever talked to has expressed a fear of drone boats. you can never know whats coming next, so its impossible to fit against them."
"no to sp respec, live with the consequences of your decisions."
"+1 no respec in eve"
"i'm not supporting drone respec for supercap pilot. it's completely a bullshit idea. and it gives a odd mix message to a lot vet's. i mean if they can get a respec on drones. then as a combat pilot, why can't i get a repsec on the mining skills that i have already?"
"the thing is, bcs don't fill all the brawling spots available for them to fill. the combination of armor and missiles is the classic one (drake can't armor tank, and all the armor tankable bcs are either turret or turret/drone boats). hence, some of the hacs (sacrilege, i'm looking at you) need to step up to the plate. besides, there are issues with the sniping ahacs as well (sentry ishtar, rail deimos, artillery muninn) that could use fixing."
"the proposal is to add new pve group content to eve in the form of deep space sites. (this proposal was initially on the original forums for some time and was received well.)1. sites would spawn 100au or more from the center of the system.2. sites would be very difficult requiring several players to complete.3. sites would not be able to be bookmarked as to prevent the creation of \"deep safe\" bookmarks. (this should not be an issue since a group would be required to complete them anyway.)4. sites should be rare or at least less frequent than normal sites.\"if\" these sites were to be introduced to wh space then the difficulty should scale and escalations should be much, much more difficult. perhaps spawning 8 or more bs's per capital. the risk involved should be great enough that losing a capital or tengu is rather high with a typical fleet.hmmm...deep space ice belts anyone? nevermind..."
"why?also, this belongs in features and ideas."
"why not? and it is perfectly fine here."
"not supporting.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"as the majority of the playerbase couldn't be bothered to take the two minutes required to vote at all this is a true statement"
"i think we should keep the csm, but i think that ccp should implement a direct polling of the player base on a regular basis and then when the csm meets with ccp, the items up for discussion are those that were voted on by the player base in the polling add that to a csm that is voted in based on the player style they play (candidates for hs, wh, lolsec, etc), and i think we'd have a much more useful system\"the world as we know it came about through an anomaly (anomou)\" (the gospel of philip, 1-5)"
"thread still running - proposal still active - go go go!"
"this has been said many many times before but it is now time to do something about thismy proposal is simple.. put a timer on how long a pos can be anchored before it is delcared abandoned. i like 24 hrs after fuel runs out or after it comes out of reinforced. after the 24 hr timer it goes into abandoned mode. in abandoned mode it is free to do with whatever you wish. blow it up, reclaim it, claim it for another corp, or just flat out take it and sell it. pretty simple to say but it is time we do something about these abandoned pos's in eve."
"sounds like a good idea, but i'd only tie it to the pos running out of gas and leave reinforcement timers out of it.i honestly think poco based sov is a good idea"
"sound idea but extend the period for two weeks before \"abandoned\". everyone has those derp moments but giving a two week window should separate the derps from the true \"didn't want it anyway\"."
"two weeks? lol...that's a pretty big \"derp\" if you ask me. i would say 48 hours max. anybody who has ever fueled a pos knows what kind of responsibility it takes. as in...\"not much\". you can fuel them for up to so many days...like 20 something...don't remember for sure. if you cant check it once a week and top it off then you deserve to lose it."
"on behalf of everyone else who has a highsec pos but doesn't have enough need to run it 24/7 and doesn't want to take it down and then make everyone drop corp for a week to put it back up whenever it's needed, i vehemently oppose this. mark them as abandoned for corps that have closed, sure, but not corps that are still active but not using the pos constantly. if there's an active corp that has a pos up but doesn't feel the need to run it 24/7, either wardec them (and then they can either online it and defend it or let it die) or get over it."
"ftfy \"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" - abrazzar"
"1 or 2 week timer on it, then yes.give me the ability to unanchor those stupid pos in wspace that get abandoned/lost with lots of modules.make it like all forms of theft; flagging people to corp that put it up. or make it concord-related, with concord wtfpwning anyone doing it in hisec, sec status hits in losec and nothing in nullsec.send the owners a message saying '[pilot] deanchored your pos in [system]'when i steal those faction towers worth a couple of billion isk, i want them to know."
"i don't understand why any corp in any system should be allowed to \"claim\" a moon by placing an pos at it and leaving it offline with no fuel. sorry...wardec mechanics can remain in effect but there is no reason to give special treatment to someone who is, in essence, lazy and cheap."
"pos's becoming \"abandoned\" is a good idea imho, but the timer should be really long, we've left pos's anchored for over 6 months before not because we couldn't be arsed to take them down but because we knew we'd be going back to them at some point.make it a year. would let people loot all those anchored towers put down by 1guy and his alt corps that don't play anymore but leave most of the towers that are simply not in use atm."
"i don't see why any person should be allowed to steal/destroy a pos that some people worked to put up and paid for just because they're bored. and if you've ever gone through the hassle of getting an entire corp to drop corp for a week to put up a pos, you wouldn't be calling it lazy, you'd realize that it's a pain in the butt. what was suggested would just make it so that a corp that wants to have a pos but doesn't have enough people to make full use of it 24/7 would have to keep an alt there to drop a charter in every now and then to keep it from expiring. this wouldn't just be more pf a pain than anything. if there is truly an issue of a moon being desired but there's a pos there, than that's one thing and there's always a wardec or even asking them nicely to take it down. but if it's a crusade against any pos that's anchored but has no bubble just because it makes some people feel icky inside, then that's just stupid."
"if you don't have it fueled and you aren't using the pos then it is abandoned...that simple. doesn't matter when or how long it took you to put it up. if you are going to put it up...use it. if not...its abandoned. and yes i have put up and taken down many pos's. i know how much work it is...which is why i fuel them."
"but the timer should be way loonger like month or two"
"i started with 24 hrs as a starting point on the timer. i understand that sometimes it takes time to get back online to fuel things. however, a notice is sent telling corps that the fuel is running low. therefore, i will side with human error and judgement and will go with a extended timer to 72 hrs no more. this will help clean up the trash in space and give something for those pirates to do and make some money doing it. in my personal opinion ... if you have a pos then you should take care of it and not leave it abandoned for weeks, months , and years. let someone else have the space you failed to take care of."
"with the current fuel bay and fuel block mechanics, i believe its 30 days, give or take.as for this suggestion, i approve. 48-72 hours is a massive timeframe for a pos to be offline. if failure to pay sov bills 1 second after the deadline for the bill results in a loss of sovereignty, i believe an unfueled tower with a 72 hour timer could easily result in a free pos to whoever were to come across it.claim it. mame it. do what ever you want with it. just dont let it sit there allowing the spot to collect dust."
"30 days? nice. and with only needing one type of fuel now too. i would say it is a good change. i think the people asking for a month or more on the timer for this suggestion are missing the point. i guess this rolls back around to \"make a mistake, feel the consequences\". forget to fuel your pos...come back to an empty space where it used to be. i guess 72 hours would be acceptable considering people do have lives and a 3 day weekend will occur on occasion and someone might forget. still...should never happen with 30 days available in the fuel bay."
"i think 1 week till abandoned is fair game."
"just taking this idea a step further.what if there was a module you had to anchor that \"hacked\" the pos, forcing an offline pos to un-anchor?the hacking module would need to be online for a given amount of time. i am thinking anywhere from 24hrs to 7 days (to be determined)the only way to destroy hacking module would be to online pos and use pos guns, thus proving if it is abandoned.while the hacking module is up aggression should be the same as taking from a can for the whole time the module is up.thoughts?"
"works for me....24 hour of screaming evemails saying your pos is being compromised would work...and i think requrieing guns to online would be a bit much.just simply power on the pos and fuel it back up to full power....or give the owner the ability to shoot it without concordoken or some such. *edit - and while we'er at it...have it delay the hack timer and require the pos to be onlined for 1 to 3 days to force the owner to pay attention or soem such....before the mod falls off or blows up.*better yet....other user is flagged with kill rights for the duratino of said agression action....something to that effect.in exchange for swiping pos...all modules thereof..become the new pos owners lewts.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"actually, i'll agree with you on this one here. what's funny is that there is a ton of w-space ore (and i mean a ton of it) that goes unmined due to ore/mineral-hauling :effort:i agree that just making mags drop moar salvage parts would be a bad move, and wouldn't even fix the underlying problem. what i'd do is make it so that mag cans drop t2 salvage more often and t1 salvage less often.yes! using rogue drone components instead of \"drone poo\" as rogue drone loot would make the stuff meaningful; heck, we could even have some parts that just go into straight-up t2 drone production. it'd make the dronelands more interesting and less of a drag on the mineral market, too.yep. you can extract c28 more easily than any hs gas, and it's probably worth more/unit too! making hs gas 2m3/unit and ls/0.0 gas 5m3/unit would make far more sense than 10m3/unit and ??? (probably > 10m3/unit)."
"issue: ice compression is too slowbackground:a rorqual full of ore compresses in around 5 minutes. meanwhile a rorqual full of ice takes 80 minutes. this creates a very large imbalance in the number of rorquals required to support an ice mining fleet.right now a fully researched ice bpo can compress an ice block in a rorqual in 38 seconds. the rorqual has 4 lines, allowing it to compress an ice block every 9.5 seconds. this lets it compress 379 ice/hr. a perfect mackinaw pulls in 90 ice/hr. this means a rorqual can only support 4.2 ice miners full time without being backlogged. the same rorqual can support around 25 ore miners.a possible rebalance:we've been steadily increasing the mining rates over the past few years, but never the compression rates to compensate. it'd be nice if ice bpos compressed faster, (and/or smaller), or more industrial lines were added to the rorqual (which would then allow for more parallel compression)."
"i would be open to allowing ice to compress quicker compared to the ore. dunno how i feel about the extra assembly lines however. i would prefer to have the ability to compress from the ore hold!"
"just a friendly bump so other players can show their support.since this proposal deals with pve, i don't expect it to get any support from csm 6."
"i support this as well...preferably with option 2. i would, however, like to know why this mission was removed in the first place?"
"good question. like i said, when the aura npe tutorial was implemented, she replaced all 60 agents who offered 'the endless battle' mission. the strange thing about that is there's only 3 career agent systems and 3 spawn systems (where new players enter eve) for each of the 4 main factions. that accounts for 24 of the 60 original old tutorial agent locations. i was informed that the other locations did have an aura agent but they weren't active. maybe they're active now, i don't know. i was also informed that the actual idea was to allow players to repeat the aura npe tutorial if needed. however, players can do that anytime via eve help (f12 - tutorials). still doesn't explain the other 36 agents or the removal of 'the endless battle' missions."
"bumping for exposure.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"bouncing for more exposure. pun intended."
"i'd just like to see modular pos, and maybe a slight increase in number of sites. gravimetric ice sites would be nice, and i do like the dea of them being random, as someone said earlier, that might make for some sort of wh trade :)as much as i loooove pewing people, having something to promote non hostile player interaction within wh space could be interesting. has happened once in my 3 months of wh life when a neighbour invited us to come run c4 sites with them."
"wh mass stabilisers is one of the more pants-on-head idiotic ideas i've heard from this csm--and you can probably guess which component of same proposed that, no?twostep, you are needed!"
"what if there was a module you had to anchor that \"hacked\" the pos, forcing an offline pos to un-anchor?the hacking module would need to be online for a given amount of time i am thinking anywhere from 24hrs to 7 days (to be determined)i think the hacking module should be invulnerable while the pos is offline once the pos is online the hacking module can be freely shot by anyone in the corp that owns the posif the pos goes offline again the hacking module is invulnerable againthe hacking module should only last 7 days regardless of the number of above cyclesthe aggression should be the same as taking from a can for the whole time the module is upit would in theory be possible to war dec the corp that owned the pos in a push to prevent them from refueling the posnew proposal created as it is substantially different to a simple timer"
"more specific details on functionality and specs would be greatdont have the time to spitballbut def supporting this================ stop the evemail spam!"
"with the amount of 'space junk' out there in the form of abandoned pos's this is an awesome idealike itlike it alot"
"three things i would suggest: first off, the timer should be long enough that people who don't play every day (many of us have real lives) can still defend the pos a week sounds more reasonable to me than 24h, with 72h being a bare minimum of what i would see as reasonablesecond, attacking the hacking unit should not flag the defending corp towards the attackers i think this should be a \"get rid of unused/unwanted poses\" not a \"anchor something and make the defenders either come out and diaf or lose their pos\" nothing stops the attackers from wardecing the defenders thoughthird, the thing shouldn't have more ehp than a bc can chew through in an hour or two you shouldn't need to bring 50 friends or capital ships to take one of the things down in a reasonable amount of time providing for those things, i think it's a reasonable compromise between cleaning up dead poses and allowing people who still want to keep their poses to have themoh, and i don't think they should be crazy cheap either, i would say 20-50m minimum to keep them from being spammed all over the place (though the number might be less depending on how much of a pain they are for defenders to get rid of)yes, i know what i proposed would favor the defenders, but it seems to me that if a corp worked to pay for a pos and grind the standings to put it up, they should get a home-field advantage if they're willing to come out and stop someone from taking it down i see this as a \"get rid of unused poses\", not a \"tear down all poses that aren't defended well enough\""
"i don't think it should be longer than 1 week though, having it be 7 days would work well as it ties with the same time a standard war dec isin theory if pos guns were used once the pos is online not really an issuetotally agree yep definitely, no resists, 100,000 shield, armor and hullalthough i suppose if the time is 1 week and it is unsuccessful in that time it might as well blow its self up when the pos comes online?the value will be hard to balance, but that is a good ballparkif they blow up when a pos comes online they might be more careful about what pos's they target?totally agree"
"nice one geoff i like the idea :) once the suggested 7 day timer is up could you give the target pos owner, or anyone, the option* to salvage the now offline hacking module and score some nice salvage or even to counter hack it and take ownership* within a short period of time say 24hr window after the 7day timer is up"
"umm what?i think you have been smoking something else today?"
"you should have at least a weeks fuel loaded into your tower at any given time and i think the op is talking about pos' that have run out of fuel+1"
"since i already supported this suggestion in the other thread this idea came from i will support it here as well under the same conditions as the other proposal 72 hour max wait period after pos goes inactive from lack of fuel before module can be placed and tower taken or looted+1"
"i agree my point is that there should be sufficient time to respond if someone is trying to hack your pos even if you forgot to refuel your pos (sometimes you know you need to refuel but forget or put it off a bit too long, stupid but understandable), you shouldn't come back to the game a day or two later to find your pos just gone anyone who logs onto the game every couple days and doesn't want to lose their pos should be able to defend it if someone tries to hack it, that is the point of all of what i had posted"
"what a bad idea! are you really serious or trolling!?"
"couple points.thread is here, b/c i didn't feel there was another good spot for it really. if the mods feel it is better suited for some other place i would love for them to move it. i don't spend a ton of time on the eve forums, so don't know the in's and out's.this thread was created only because i wanted to actually provide some feedback from rl people i have gamed with a lot on why they quit. after reading the lastest csm minutes it hit me how much trouble the \"normal\" people might have with this. i wanted t leave the feedback where the csm's or someone could maybe start compiling reason, finding the most said, and working with them. i don't mean the casual. i don't mean the wow omg easy mode players. i mean people who play a lot of games, people i consider overall decently intelligent, and good gamers. folks like myself who research, and read and look things up will slowly stumble through the game. the question is though, (and i used to not agree with this), why should they be forced to go outside the game to accomplish and learn stuff. i love eve. it is a social game. when people ask me about how i play eve, i am quick to correct them saying.. \"i play eve the universe, not eve the game. b/c eve the game sucks.\" and i think this is very much true. if you/they try to play eve as a single player game they will obviously fail.do i want eve to be easy? no. do i like the learning curve? yep.do i love the fact ccp refers to \"new players\" as ones with under 6 months played? absolutely.eve is not like dungeon defenders, or wow, or any of those other games where you max out in level in a week or two, then spend the rest of the time grinding. i enjoy the fact i don't have to \"worry\" about leveling. i've done enough that having playing mmo's since '98. but, with all that said. i'd love to see another 20-30k players on every night. more players = more pew pew. and i like pew pew."
"ignore the elitist trolls who think they know everything about everything. you are fine with posting it here. if the mods want it moved they will move it. i bet you would get more exposure with something like this in general discussion though."
"but concretely what should be changed based on complaints newbs made."
"my brother and i started playing eve in '07, we knew no one in game or in fact anyone who had even played eve. we started out doign missions and meeting people in the gallente channel, after a couple of weeks we decided to make our own corp. all we did was missions and socialising for weeks more, made some contacts through the empire channels and got into more involved things.we had no one to help us along the way, no one to tell us th ebest ships or skillplans and we made alot of mistakes. we went to lowsec in frigates and got involved in a little light pvp and lost most of our ships. to say we were having fun is an understatement, we made lots of friends and someone lent me 20 million isk to pay for my first battleship, i thought he must be the richest guy in teh world. it was a slow start indeed lol bt we didnt know any better.then we got invovled in a corp that went to nullsec, disbanded, we ended up in lowsec with some friends, then onto wardeccs, by this time we wondered how we ever had fun doign missions, we lost, we won, we struggled to keep our wallets full enough to pvp with.we created a new corp, sons of 0din at the end of '08. small time pirates in lowsec at first, then joined a decent alliance and got stronger, from there we moved around a little, became more powerful, got a decent reputation as a force to want around.more than 3 years after forming that small group of friends we are now a very strong corp, with great pvpers having amazing fun in nullsec with a great coalition. we have a strong income buying capitals and expansive things for our pilots. sons of 0din is a great corp to be in and an even better one to have the honour of leading in.we did this with no one holding our hands, no one advising us, eve on hard mode from day one. clawing our way to where we are today.greatness comes to those who take it."
"it's just a name, deal with it."
"if its just a name, they could give us the old ones... and no, trauma is not just a name its a pain in the brain!"
"no, thor is the god of thunder, hence em damage."
"i miss my scourge fury's, free the scourge!"
"see? i had completely forgotten what they were called before the change until you said that. now i can't even remember what they are called now...that's how much the name of our missiles matter to me...lol"
"improvise, adapt, dominatechange is made, deal with it."
"haha..everyone who responds to a mayday becomes flashy red to anyone aggressing the mayday pilot ..or something like that.."
"the ccp employees who's salary is paid by those subscribers would care."
"also every player in eve that would no longer be able to play when the servers shut down from lack of funds and ccp goes out of business."
"not only that, but with hi sec gone all those faction/officer rewards in null sec would have no market. in fact the economy in general would probably tank.. not to mention fewer targets and less space for newbies to explore the game so the faucet of new players would start drying up."
"a few systems are all that nullsec residents use in highsec. but if those were removed along with all others, that would break the game. such is the importance of jita, it outweighs all other highsec."
"faction/office mods would go on capital ships, much as they do now. newbies would continue to move right away to null/low just fine, much as they do now. the only change to the economy would be, thanks to the removal of the ability of npc freighter alts to afk autopilot across new eden and the ability to afk mine, a massive boom to the value of low-ore mining and basic manufacturing. stuff newbies do. oldbies used to ratting with their officer-fit faction bs or ice mine under permaprotection of concord on the other hand (invalidating the efforts of newbies by generating resources/isk far more efficiently) might have career problems however. i wouldn't consider those people newbies though. support kobol - remove hisec."
"or nrds would simply become a more viable roe."
"oh my god... i actually agree with this.damn you"
"i wish to discuss a possible course of action to be taken by ccp in order to revitalize and reinvigorate this game we love called eve.for those of you who have not realized it yet, eve is on the verge of a crisis due to its decreasing player base. this is evident both in a study of historical players in the world. (down roughly 15-20% at peak time from this time last year) and you can see that ccp themselves have recognized this by the ever growing time frame of free trial period which went from 14 days a year ago to now 2 months at the time of this posting.now i personally do not want to see this game wither away from under us but it is clear that something needs to be done to reenergize the game.i wish to discuss the concept of manual/tactical ship control and combat as a viable solution.what i mean by this is not just simply allowing players to use things like standard a,s,w,d controls to maneuver their ships. instead i mean things like limited firing arcs for weapons, weapon collision with non-target objects. this means that players would need to maneuver their ships not only to optimal range but also optimal position to bring as many guns as possible to bear on their target. fleets would utilize tactics such as formations to obscure critical ships such as logistics ships from direct attack.frigate pilots would be forced to engage in pitched dog fights with one another and so on up the line as ships would have to jockey and out maneuver one another.there are several pro<U+FFFD>s and one really big con to this ideapro:1) this new aspect of combat would make the battles much more in your face adrenaline pumping experiences and add a massive new depth in terms in in battle tactics and strategies.2) because of this the game becomes more accessible to new players because manual flight control means player skill is just as important as character skill in combat. this gives newer players a fighting chance against older players.con: 1)this is a rather big con associated with this idea on ccp<U+FFFD>s side of the equation, which is that it would be a lot of work for them to do to make it happen.because this aspect of manual control of flight with things like having to worry about hitting intervening objects would fundamentally change the very nature of all combat in the game. this means every ship capable of mounting weapons, and all pirate, mission, and other ai<U+FFFD>s would need to be rebuilt or redesigned to take this change into account and maintain balance.so it would not be something that could be done quickly and would likely require a lot of work after the fact to work out any kinks in the system2) redesigning ships and weapons and such would lead to possible issues with existing players ships especially those who logged off in space before such an update. this could lead to all kinds of complaints about lost module ship etc after such a patch.i know this is a tall order in what we could ask of ccp for improvement and i would like to see everyone get behind this, because really eve can ill afford major hit to the player base like we had with incarna."
"bumping this because nobody has bothered to post in it, even though i can hardly believe that there is a pilot in new eden that would disagree with it.you don't have to give me likes, just +1 it for cripes sakes.zubzubzubzubzubzubzubzub"
"how about giving the sacrilege a buff like it's little sister, the vengeance just got, but with an extra lowslot instead of highslot? in that way you could fit an extra ballistic control system ii, get better dps while still having a good tank. hams can stay as they are and the sacrilege can still be specialized in close range brawling."
"ishtar has highs? i thought those were just dla slots"
"exactly and dlaii uses up 55cpu. combined with the reduction for drone rigs and the fact that all other drone mods are very cpu intensive makes fitting anything else in the highs tricky."
"not sure why they need to be deep space. just to make them harder to find?but multi-player exploration sites sound good. they do not even need to be particularly hard. consider a site about has hard as a l4 mission, but protected by an acceleration gate that only lets t1 frigates through."
"another half-assed idea from vs - this from the guy that tried to sell you \"unlearning\". first off, assmembly hall is for proposals that have already been well thought through and discussed in features and ideas discussion thread. this is not a well thought out idea and has not been evaluated on f&i yet, so it does not belong here. also, we don't need more content atm until some of the current issues are fixed. this is just another boring site to run when what we need is a change to the npc ai to make their sites more interesting as a whole. learn to use the forums and put ideas where they belong."
"the whole idea is that when scanning for sites, there is a metric **** ton of space that is just that...space. all sites are located within a relatively close distance to a planet and are easy as hell to find. i want it to be that random site out in the middle of nowhere that you would only find if you thought to actually scan the areas you wouldn't normally bother scanning."
"my sentiments exactly...but my words would be deemed inappropriate.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"add in a polling option in the next poll to see what the playerbase thinks of the csm then see if this thread has merit"
"has anyone else noticed that almost every single 'ban the csm' poster has almost the exact same avatar? its almost always a skinny chick with dirty brown hair, in almost the same pose and wearing a tshirt(which in eve are all the same)maybe i'm just nuts to think they all look alike, but surely someone else can see it"
"and what about inviduals like mittani who mostly seems to represent goons who happen to do a lot of 00 sov stuff, fleet fights, pos, capitals, industry, ratting, mission running, incursions, pi, etc? you guys do realize that a lot of the big 00 alliance do just about everything you can do in this game i think just about the only thing we goons don't do atm is wormholes and mining"
"lolproove itlink me 1 single pi suggestion by a goon that would make eve bettershow me a single mittani post that would boost capitals"
"the op has a point. it's statistically proven that people with more likes make better posts. just look at lyris nairn. that guy hasn't made a single bad post yet."
"given threads like the give and get likes type threads, i think the whole notion is pretty rediculous. personally never took part in it, and wouldn't.zubzubzubzubzubzubzubzub"
"k but you guys gotta throw some likes at me so i can keep sharing the miraculous story of \"ban npc corps from game and csm forums\""
"currently it's like this:1 guy has +10 to caldari navy100 guys have no standing= +10 corporation standing to caldari navyor1 guy has +10100 guys have no standing1 guy has +0.1= bad standingetc. you get the idea it's totally pizza ********adjust standing effects towards npc's and fix it to work according the real average or something so it makes some sense. or even better corp only gains standing if some corp member actually does something to inrease it."
"please do not write in all caps."
"here's an idea: make a way to zero your standings out towards a corp/faction if you have positive standings. this would solve the \"either grind up standings or pray to somehow hit 0.000000 standings so you no longer count\" issue. and as the previous poster said, don't scream out your message in all caps, it just makes people think you're a raging idiot who should be dismissed and ignored."
"i beg you pardon sir, but could you pleaseignore.com."
"heres an idea...stop posting in caps like a ******. reported for excessive shoutnig and spamming.================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"yes that is the idea i was shooting for with one exception, it needs to be scaled to the existing ships, under the basic concept that all existing ships in eve were designed using said tool. so players would not be able to say build a equivallent tech 2 frigate of a wolf and have it have completely better stats. they might be able to build a ship similar to the wolf that plays to the players strengths but not out do the existing ships."
"the main issue with having an abandon timer seems to be the difficulty of putting up a pos in high sec due to the standings requirement. currently a corp that wants towers kicks everyone with low standings, maybe hires high standings filler members, then puts up as many towers as they can as placeholders against future need. the result is alot of unfueled poses.maybe we need two changes.1) unfueled poses become abandoned after a period of time ( i personally like a week or 2).2) a corp that does not have standings can buy anchoring rights. say a few hundred mil per pos."
"yep i think that would be ok.i think the hacking module should be invulnerable while the pos is offline once the pos is online the hacking module can be freely shot by anyone in the corp that owns the pos.if the pos goes offline again the hacking module is invulnerable again.the hacking module should only last 7 days regardless of the number of above cycles.it would in theory be possible to war dec the corp that owned the pos in a push to prevent them from refueling the pos.i was thinking can aggression as it applies to the corp as opposed to an individual.players in npc corps should not be able to deploy hacking modules?yep"
"lots of good stuff here....kinda feels like a mini sbu to be honest.================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"i think this needs to be kept simple. no to hack module, although it does sound interesting, no to anything over a week, it doesn't take that much time to fuel the pos."
"agreed. the more complicated something like this is, the more work it is for the devs and the less likely it is to be implemented. a hacking module sounds like a cool idea and maybe not all that hard to implement though. i still think anything more than 3 days is far too much. if you can't keep your pos fueled and be responsible about it then you don't deserve to have it there."
"then geoffwice should make his own sepearte proposal because the proposal here is flooded with draw backs that would cause major disruptions for both partiies invovled.i will not support this in its current form.geo's proposal has the best shot overall in my hoenst opinion.================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"done."
"nah dude, let's go the super brutal route and say the very instant your pos runs out of gas it's abandoned.so yeah if you leave a dead pos around a moon for 6 months and nobody notices then all the pieces will still be there, just abandoned and waiting for fuel.i honestly think poco based sov is a good idea"
"what these two said. that hacking thing needs too much refinement to be a viable anti pos mechanic and to be honest, i just don't like the sound of an easy way out. if you want to take down my pos, let it run out of fuel or bring more dps."
"maybe i misunderstood but i think the idea of using the hacking module to unlock the tower to take it down and take whats inside after it is out of fuel sound's ok. a hacking module should not be allowed while shields are up. this would be pretty simple and straightforward if it was just like hacking a can after the shields are down."
"i appreciate the visuals a lot in eve online but i would like to enjoy the effects, speed and sounds more like some of the shots we see in the crucible trailer and the likes.i'm suggesting a couple of shortcut buttons for preset views.one could be like setting a target you're orbiting as parent while following your own ship around, but with the click of one button instead of right-clicking the target. it will then automaticly follow the target that you're shooting at. other presets could be like in the beginning of the trailer, where the camera stands still in space while viewing your ship pass by. this preset could function in a dynamic way and change position depending on where you're flying and so on. a moving camera that focuses on your ship could also be an option and there could be a close range preset with focus on the guns and the direction of shooting - this could be great to really appriciate the new turrets. there could also be a preset that mixes the different options to show something similar to what we see in the trailers.maybe these options aren't the best if you're in an intense fleet fight and have to concentrate, but sometimes you just want to enjoy the visuals. this could also give an entertaining value to ratting, where you just have to hit f1 and get bored. the most important thing is that these view options can be selected by clicking one button and switched away as easily if you need to get an overview of the situation you're in.i think it's a shame that we don't appriciate the visuals in a more dynamic way like in the trailers, because the effects are right there in front of you. we just need the proper user friendly shortcuts for these views :-)"
"markets don't crash due to increased production, they crash due to the lack of production."
"i come across a grav site called \"large omber deposit\" in space where omber is everywhere and think: whats the point? at least make grav sites have ore that does not occur in that same system in the public belts.also the occasional small abcm roid would not be unbalancing and add a little spice and variation.also add high end ice roid grav sites.for mag sites: they already drop skillbooks. increase that, and add many more types to the loot table. make it so no one skillbook type drops more often than players buy it from the npcs. that way the market never crashes.and i like the \"salvage rebuilding\" idea, making a singe intact item by rebuilding it from parts taken from many damaged items.gas sites: rework boosters so players will actually want to use them, even for just casual stuff; doing a mission faster or mining faster. that was supposed to be part of incarna iteration, but has been put on hold.but the real k-space exploration fix that's needed: for the k-space explorer wormholes are the vermin of the sky. years ago the observer probe would tell you what is and is not in a system, but no position information at all. bring something like that back. scanning out wormhole after wormhole is just tedious."
"to all those who are in support of this idea, get more people involved. bump for exposure.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"are we there yet?"
"still trying to get there...it's an uphill battle."
"100% approval for this change, i would love this. lolwe should take the physics from other games and make this game lulzy aka for boobies. =pthere's a lot of companies that steal ideas. loli just wanted to resupport this proposal, if i forgot if i did support it before... i hardly remember if i did post on this... >.<"
"ccp removed the names on corpse'sput names back on corpses, many other people besides myself like to collect peoples corpse's/trade.simple fixput the names back on the corpse when you click show info."
"yes please!"
"+1now there is no proper way to sell famous corpses without being scam as you can not see the name while on contract.ccp, please fix this again!"
"i didn't know this had been done, but it should immediately be undone.yes. please fix."
"all my precious corpses... ruined! : ((((((((((("
"nooooooooooooo!!!!seriously i have famous corpses why ccp why!!!!how i feel about this."
"+1, and when can i hang them on teh walls of my cq?but seriously, its important to some people that they know who those corpses are."
"+1 who on earth thought this could be a good idea"
"holy crap. what were you smoking ccp?"
"theres no point to me corpse collecting if nobody else can see the names but me."
"pwease!!!!!!!!!! <3"
"why was this done?please un-do it."
"they said so many thing, which never happends."
"no. -.-"
"i'm not sure how to explain this but here we go.xl guns should not be able to hit small ships, i mean seriously i know eve is a game but it doesn't even make sense, citadel torps were nerfed which was good, it made sense and now i see constantly gun basedtitans hitting smaller and smaller targets.example:"
"you obviously have no understanding of remote tracking links and various fleet boosting abilities.titans can't shoot sub caps effectively as you claim.....not without assistance that is....someone who even comes close to understanding super cap combat should understand this concept....aparently you do not. please stop posting requests on concepts you do not understand.there are discussions about \"nerfing\" the boosting of such things...but you have to have ships fielded with these mods which takes away the dps/supportability of hte fleet in some areas...so honestly in my opinion its fairly balanced...but then super blobs make it cheap at that rate.ps: if he (the titan) wasn't boosted...then its quite possible the ship was standing still due to webbing or other....in that case..he's a dead pilot (the victim).================ stop the evemail spam!"
"titans do have very strong tracking abilities.-since crucible 1.0 (many weeks ago) they can no longer be remote tracking boosted or remote sensor boosted either.-there are no fleet ganglinks that improve their tracking abilities.-there's \"strong drop booster\" which improves their tracking by 37.5% - which is huge, and probably shouldn't apply to supers-there's a 5% tracking speed implant \"eifyr and co. 'gunslinger' ax-2\" which goes in slot 7as can be seen on that kill, there were no webs used. it's entirely possible the scimatar was just sitting somewhere... but from what i've seen, titans have no problem hitting much. it is only a matter of time before they get nerfed in some form. ccp will not be satisfied until supers cannot defend themselves against subcaps at all."
"as jita bloodtear so expertly posted, mr drake draconis, it turns out, you're the one who is dumb and has no clue about supercapitals. the shoe, other foot."
"lol...i have his posts ignored so i don't see his blathering crap anymore but that is just funny.to the op. i think we had a thread similar to this recently. i allowed one of my corpies to pod me out of a wh recently. i was moving...in my pod with him in a dread. one shot...pop. really didn't expect that. lol"
"i stand corrected..was unaware of these changes.however it does not detract from the ignorance reflected in the op's post.titans aren't much good for a whole lot honestly...i dont see justification for nerfing of their weapons platforms...dreadnaughts are worse off to be honest.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"stop posting."
"that is the most god awefull killboard i have ever seen."
"hahaha. solo drakban is literally hitler and literally bad at killboards. it's terrible but so is losing a thrasher to titan guns. fake edit: apparently you can't say the former leader's name of germany during world war ii in these forums. churchill would be proud."
"aw i'm sorry...did i hurt your widdle feelings?================ stop the evemail spam!"
"the sig radius of that logistic is not as small as you think it is. if you fix the reason you make golem pilots very very angry."
"i agree, titans and super carriers should not be able to fire on sub capital ships.in the same breath, sub capital weapons should have no effect on titans or super carriers.boost caps!"
"you right it's not that small but it's meant to be one the smallest of all the cruisers, honestly i don't see many fleet of dreads shooting cruisers and below mostly because it doesn't make practical sense, which is why i only addressed titans in the post.@drake so you dont see the flaw to titans hitting cruisers and below, i think if you reread my original post you'd notice that i meantioned only that they should not be able to hit things that are cruiser sized and below, not all subcaps.i believe all caps should be viable against battlecruiser and battleship."
"show up the the fights vs raiden. and perhaps you shall see what we are talking about? surprised you haven't already, since its your new space they are hitting :/"
"lol...you thought he played eve? no...he just trolls the forums.i was playing around with dreads in eft last night. i was rather shocked with what they look like they can do now. i could see a minimal tank all tracking spec dread clearing the field of smaller ships."
"what kind of module does the golem gets a bonus to? little hind, it's the same module that gets a bonus from electronic superiority gank links. with maxed skills you get close to 50% sig increase _per_painter_. the logistic in question had the sig radius of a bc and as such was hit as easy then a bc.it is depressing how few pilots know the game mechanics of a game they play for years."
"i show that scimitar as having a signature radius of 60.8m. i'm not sure what battlecruiser you are flying that can do that, but mad props to your l33t devhax ability there, i guess.that's a signature radius that is incredibly hard to hit for any amount of damage with battleship guns without webbing down the ship to near-zero speed. to be able to hit it for huge hits with dread or titan weaponry without doing the same (which was not the case in this instance) also seems pretty random.granted, when you have a blob of 40 titans, it's unpossible to keep transversal up against /all/ of them. eventually you'll fall down pretty far versus one or two, and you will take hits. i think the op posting point here is that the hits should still be scaled based on your targets signature radius vs the size of your guns. perhaps i am mistaken."
"you are. let's have a look at the description of target painters. ohh, look at all those armor tanked titans, i wonder what they have fitted in their med slots.i don't need l33t devhax because i understand the turret formula.webbing doesn't matter. if the radial velocity is close to 0 the speed of the target is not taken into account. you can actually add that value to your overview. very few do. i can only assume they do so because they don't understand that turret formula. and yes, the angular velocity of the titan that is shown on the overview of the logistic is the same then what is shown on side of the titan. all you have to do is to order the overview by angular or transversal velocity and find the idiot who is not paying attention at the top of your overview. turrets, quite in contrast to missiles, will do full damage on targets with a angular velocity close to 0 no matter what turret you use. in that case you don't even have to use target painters."
"don't need to be a genius, just need to kill one:"
"i can't seem to edit my previous post witbout the bbcode parser breaking, so:this is made even more ridiculous based on how the dread and titan weaponry on caldari titans/dreads and 50% of the weaponry on naglfars works: they all hit for incredibly terrible damage 100% of the time, regardless of your ship fit or drugs, regardless of angular or radial or transversal velocity, whenever a target ship is simply \"too small.\" while i believe this is nerfed too heavily, i also feel like this is much more inline with how things should be for all titan/dread weaponry.edit: the point is not that titans can get high enough tracking to hit small, low-sig, moving targets, it's that they should still be able to do that without such overwhelming volley damage - ie, exactly what capital torpedo or cruise volleys do.a hypothetical: max-volley hit on a non-moving 1,000m sig ship gets full damage. a max-volley on a non-moving 50m sig ship gets hit with 5% of that max damage."
"better example"
"no. if you would like a detailed reason why not, please look through any one of the similar threads in this and the f&i forum."
"your first mistake is treating eve like a first person shooter...this is not a game that can be played with aswd controls.this is a 3d space smiulation...not 2d.while your prespective may be 3d...your talking about controls that are overlooking things such as yaw/pitch/rotation and other various things.while it would be cool to have such controls...those controls would only be valid for ships smaller than a cruiser.even then in the rp since..a frigate is not a fighter...its a good sized ship to be sure...secondly...as you poitned out...the complexity in such a design would be daunting...problem is thats a gross understatement.try years of development.dare i say...rewrite of code at that point.ccp wouldn't touch this with a 10 foot pole...i myself would love that concept...but as i approach the threshold of capital life...aint gonna happen...and would be very boring at best.ccp needs to get back to grass roots and start putting some spit and polish into features already in the game...not make new ones.we have plenty of new stuff...lets fix the old stuff first.not supporting.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"this has been proposed before. there are plenty of people that want the option. myself included. it won't happen anytime soon though. likely won't ever happen. has something to do with the way the eve client manages input and whatever. i think ccp could do it but just don't want to. either way...i support the idea and wish it would happen but it just won't happen.as for the gloom and doom of eve failing...doubtful."
"considering the first taskforce obviously didn't do anything, i have serious doubts that a second one will. but...can't hurt..."
"wait wait waityou're telling me there is space in space?"
"yes troll...primarily between your ears."
"\"if someone says something i don't like, they are a troll\"ps, you just replied to a troll with a trollyou're not very bright are you?"
"just saying \"no\" will get your nose broken around this guy.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"really there are some good thoughts here, but i think that this proposal has a few too many moving parts. let me see if i can break it down a bit. i do not like the fact that sites spawn within 4 au of planets. i haven't seen an explanation for that isn't based off of some arbitrary decision that ccp doesn't want too deep safe spots. i would like to see all sites that spawn within a system based off of a range restriction centered on the star. 100 au might be a bit big, but whatever it is it should be bigger than it is now and have nothing to do with planets. your proposal that the sites be harder is a completely different issue from where the plexes spawn. i don't know why sites farther away from planets would be harder to do, or why they'd be harder to scan down. if you just advocated for a few harder sites to be thrown into the randomizer, i'm with you. however, i don't see why these two concepts are inherently linked. i'm against the proposed restriction on bookmarking. i'd rather not have the sites at all than to swallow \"you can't make bookmarks here becasueee... uhh... the... subspace... influx... interference...\" or some other nonsense. if you can go there, you should be able to bookmark it. you say that these sites should be rare, but i think that it would be better if this scheme was the norm, and all sites would spawn all over a system, not just around planets.so, i guess this all boils down to a not supported vote. i would happily be with you if you just proposed that all anomolies spawn based off of the range to the sun, and not the planets. i'd also be happy with the idea that every now and then there should be a much harder or easier site than you'd expect in a given system. but, these ideas linked don't work for me."
"so i appreciate the actual feedback and not a massive troll. thanks for that. for your first point i agree...but the 100 au range was made with the idea of just having a large area to search. i don't want the sites to be harder to scan down as in it takes more probes to get the percentage but harder as in they are much more spread out. the restriction to bookmarks is simply to prevent deepsafes. i personally have no problem with deepsafes and wouldn't mind seeing them return but i know ccp is far from likely to allow that. difficulty would increase based on the range from the sun. i say this because it is a common theme in eve. the further out you are the harder things are. i would be fine with also not doing this but i think it makes logical sense. as for the rarity i think if we understood that the further out they are the harder they are then the ones that are further out should also be more rare. thanks again."
"this is so you don't get ninja looted isn't it?"
"uh...no...i live in wh space...ninja looting is the last of my concerns. i am sure ninja looting would still occur either way.you did give me another idea though. what if concord didn't give protection in those sites past a certain au? i think that would be a little more difficult to pull off considering the way high sec works but it would encourage more pvp in high sec within these far reaching sites."
"i see no added value in something like this. and yes, this would result in the creation of deep space bookmarks. if i found a site like this, i could run it with a fleet and leave behind a disposable alt in a rookie ship to log out in space. come back the next day, log the alt in and make a bookmark in space now that the site has despawned."
"again...i initially stated not to allow them to be bookmarked for this reason. i also don't care if deepsafe bookmarks exist or not."
"the utter stupidity of this thread is justwowyou realize this subforum isfor the csm to gather ideas to bring to ccp?you really think they're going to bring this idea to ccp?good god you are terrible"
"disband the csm!it is terrabad, yo!"
"the leader of an alliance with a large supercapital fleet supports nerfing themhmm \"it's easy to speak for the silent majority they rarely object to what you put into their mouths\" - abrazzar"
"ban npc forum alts from csm forums"
"better: one character per account can post, the one with most spsolve the alt posting problem properly"
"and we all appreciate your failure at reading"
"we get 12 years of english classes but nothing for common sense and comprehension"
"ok"
"would anyone be intrested in protesting at this years fan fest over ccp's reluctance to tackle eve's bot problem? i was planning to go dressed as a robot performing annoying repetive actions, disturbances and sketches to highlight eve's bot infestation. i think it would be ace if a few of us got together to do this for 1 day at least to adavertise the plight of the honest eve player and let ccp feel our pain in bad pr."
"sounds like a thread for gd or the off-topic boards. this is where you post in-game ideas, not oog ones."
"it's game related enought it's about bots which are in game and encouraging ccp to remove them or have every game mag/blog reporting about those pesky robots in fan fest :)it could be hillarious and just the kick up the ass ccp needs to purge bots."
"interesting you should say that. i got shouted down for posting an in game request here not long ago. specifically"
"i think bots need to be a very high priority and need to be dealth with but i don't think protesting like a bunch of idiots at fanfest is the right way to get the point across. if you want to make it clear that we don't want bots then bring it up at the round table multiple times until they get the hint."
"naw protesting would be good it will harm ccp and eve's image in a way it deserves. even if we don't get into fan fest we can do it outside for one day. we'll have a robot msk box on so it won't effect the next days."
"do it!"
"i think public protests these days are about as useful as a hunger strike. not saying don't do it...hell...i am not sure if iceland is a \"free\" country, so i won't use that line but it can't hurt. i just don't think it will work is all. awww heck...it will be funny to watch on youtube. do it!"
"well, it's not an rp board, so that would be the reason why likely."
"yep...and honestly....this sort of thing should be like in the \"events forum\" or whatever its called.this has no bearing on mechancis or balance and honestly most people who protest bots are doing so in ignorance.i don't deny their exsistance...but people \"assume\" that ccp is doing nothing because they think they see a bot.waste of time...don't let me stop you...but this is not the place for it.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"please, lock & hide from the scan the exploration sites (at least in empire space) from the other ratting players, excluding the friendly fleet members, since 1st, who have found the site enters it it is really annoying when your wrecks and elite npc ships is stolen by somebody, who arrives at the site sometimes later and did not fight all waves for the final reward"
"it's all part of the game, deal with itor go somewhere quieter"
"sounds like you lost a race, maybe you should try blitzing yourself next time instead and it would make no sense at all to do it that way, how can you lock the door behind yourself as you go in? lol"
"this is eve nothing is yours unless you fight to keep it there's no \"i found it first\" here it's all about \"you want to take my cookies, i'll kill you\" if you haven't got that yet, you're playing eve wrongcoo - bene gesserit chapterhouse ceo - sanctuary pact alliance"
"you havent got a clue what you are talking about if you are upset that someone is 'stealing' your precious wrecks i suggest you go play x<U+FFFD> or something similar where no other players will disturb youimprovise, adapt, dominate"
"i was once a loser like you, then i put an mwd on my ishtar"
"welcome to eve, working as intended"
"sorrywon't ever happen wrecks are not owned by the player that destroyed the ship ccp has made this very clear and it will not change anytime soon if you don't wan't people stealing your salvage then fit a tractor beam and a salvager to your ratting ship or pay for an alt account so you can have another toon follow you around"
"so you want to eliminate even the miniscule risk of financial loss or unwanted player interactions in missions why bother with eve at all? just find a nice, safe stand alone spaceship game as it sounds more the type of thing your after"
"how dare they compete with you!if you want a game where no other players can impact your gameplay, eve probably isn't where you want to be"
"what everyone else saidyou snooze you lose================ stop the evemail spam!"
"eve online, itll make a man of you yet"
"it's not often that i get to read a post written by a 6-year old.well done, op.now get daddy to show you the capslock key and how it works.coo - bene gesserit chapterhouse<U+FFFD> ceo - sanctuary pact alliance"
"heres an idea...stop posting because you are a horrible troll..."
"ur mean.also dad says i shouldn't care about ppl lioke you."
"learn to quote....and please...get over yourself...i was serious...this is not a troll...people like him should not be allowed to post.================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"just as a observation. when i read the title i thought this would be a suggestion for a small frigate sized vessel which logistic projection for agility for faster warp for freighters and similiar slow ships.if i can be bold and suggest a name change to \"ferry class\". like the large ocean going ships that get used to move automobiles.still, given you a like - excellent idea."
"actually, the name has been changed as far as class, and that is to \"envoy class\"i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"the envoy-class, if realized, would revolutionize the logistical side of warfare in new eden. so let's get some more support for this thing.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"+1 for the space tug!"
"i support this ofc, because why not! making them bounce (on naked body) is trivial and wouldnt take more than one hour for professional animator. all he needs to do is to add two new bones, then weight paint the breast area to be affected by these bones. then modify walking and idle animations. to all people saying its hard and not worth the effort, lol."
"agreed. csm/ccp: please do not try to fix what isn't broken. w-space is one of the few aspects of eve that isn't seriously damaged. whs could use a few coats of paint (random sleeper waves, better pos mechanics, granular corp roles) and a few fixes (being able to open containers inside of arrays would be nice), many of which are not unique to whs, but anything that makes w-space more like k-space is going to dilute this part of the game."
"keep wh as they are, improve them but don't take it away from the little guy ! didn't stay there for more than a few h, but that's how i imagined eve was like when i signed up for this !! .. not super blobs."
"makes sense that they the counter originates from the same slot/hulls. might even make bcs carry something other than neuts for once, a prospect with which my amarrian half is most pleased with.destroyers are not exactly known for their lightning speed or extreme tanks .. a fleet could just have a sniper or speedy hac clear destroyers of the field and keep doing what they do with nigh unkillable safe-spotted t3sbumpin' for great justice!"
"damn pharisaism.\"being supporters of free speech and free and open [csm] elections... we removed fon revedhort from eligibility\". ccp, april 2013."
"+1please no more bonuses below from pos ff or safe point."
"1.0"
"because that would mean giving even the smallest bit of attention to low sec, breaking their commitment to ignore us"
"i completely support this idea. good idea jack."
"mystified, why would they have removed corpse names?!"
"new missile names easier to remember when you only have one arm and one hand to count on it helps to have four names to remember for damage types! stop being a whiny two arm! down with the two arm menace!"
"i support this thread. first off, shooting at a pos should be like shooting at a wreck or a can. by shooting at it, you are granting the owners kill rights against you. it would mean that pos owners would need to protect their poses at all times. it would also mean that a large group of pilots would be required to maintain a pos. this is to greater enable the ability to fight over resources.second, \"conditional\" war-decs. my opinion- war-decs should be about a fight over resources (and sometimes revenge). basically, when you declare war against a corp/alliance, you pay for a number of \"conditions\". for instance, if your alliance feels that another alliance is mining \"your\" ore in a system, you can declare a \"conditional\" war-dec that grants you priviledges to kill any mining ships from the enemy alliance that are found in the target system. similarly, if your alliance desires trading rights within a system, you can declare a \"conditional\" war-dec against an opponent, granting you kill rights against any industrial/freighter ships that are brought into the system. of course, if those mining ships or industrials are escorted by pvp ships, then you have to weigh your options on whether to shoot at them or not. note- they would not be able to fire upon you first unless they declare the war \"mutual\" (which then removes the costs that your corp/alliance would have paid).the more \"conditions\" you pay for, the more expensive the war-dec will be. a conditional war-dec that targets multiple systems will cost more than one that targets just one system (perhaps a constellation would be the next step up, followed by a region). furthermore, conditions not related to \"resources\", would cost significantly more. for instance, if you want total revenge war, the war-dec will cost an arm and leg (potentially upwards of 100s of millions), but could allow for full-on combat anywhere in space.conditions would expire 15 minutes after leaving the target system(s). for instance, a cargo ship is shot at, and successfully runs through a gate. the aggressor can still pursue, and maintain kill rights for 15 minutes after the cargo ship leaves the target system(s). this is similar to the 15 minute kill-rights timer from shooting a can/wreck.what's the point of all this? 1.) war-decs would still allow all-out war, for a price, 2.) poses in high-sec would have to be supported by large corps/alliances to fight off both ad-hoc and organized assaults, 3.) corps/alliances that wish to push out the competition from a region can do so, and 4.) suicide ganking is still just fine.follow-on thoughts: the ability to \"see corp members in space\" would be a priviledge granted only by the ceo to trusted players. i would further suggest removing pilots from local unless they have spoken recently. d-scan and combat probes would rule the day."
"thats kind of lame, if anything, wardecs should cost less if anything because the more they cost, the more they'll be evaded."
"1942 is 2dstarcraft is 2dcommand and conquer is 2dmost modern combat sims are 3dx3 is 3ddust 514 is 3dwhat part of the concept of dimensionalism do you people not understand?whatever the case, it's a moot point as i think the dev's realize that allowing flight control in eve would cause a whole bunch of chaos. i'm fully aware of it, so why wouldn't they be? but let's just say, if you are going to argue, try to at least make your argument valid, and supply some legitimate reason why it wouldn't work.something like this:first person piloting would give too much advantage to the people who were adept at that sort of thing. for example: it would be much easier for them to use the game mechanics to reduce damage from incoming fire and increase their chances of hitting the target for high dps due to much greater control afforded them. for this reason, it would offer them an unfair advantage in pvp scenarios, when up against spreadsheet pilots who can't function well in that environment.zubzubzubzubzubzubzubzub"
"you may as well write a new game from step one for the amount of work this would need.basically what you're advocating is, like the us army in vietnam, that ccp need to destroy the town eve online in order to save the town eve online"
"the server \"ticks\" at 1hz... meaning that it only accepts [any new series of] new commands once per second. this is what allows large fleets to be on the same grid, at the same time.introducing wasd/fps type controls the way you envision them requires a much faster \"tick\" rate... which forces the server to make more calculations per ship... which slows things down significantly.besides... the smallest ships in the game that you can pilot are not \"fighters\"... they are boeing 747 sized ships with weapons that fire man sized shells. said weapons also auto-track... which makes precision manual flight a bit moot."
"getsirrus they stopped paying insurance to the evil suicide gankers so that they lose the value of the ship!edit: off topic part removed, ccp phantom"
"there are times when you need your ship to move in a specific direction but there is nothing to align to and there may be too much clutter around you, asteroids or ships, so you don't want to re-adjust your camera just to click the background. so here is a nifty feature that i've often dreamed about having in eve. you may have used a similar mechanism in other rpg space games.instructions:1. open your tactical overview. a yellow azimuth appears, extending from the center of your ship to your mouse cursor and confined to the horizontal plane of the tactical overview.2. move your mouse cursor to any point on the plane of the tactical overview.3. tap your shift* key. the azimuth disappears and a yellow dot appears at that point, confined to the vertical axis.4. move the dot up or down to a point where you want your ship to go and tap your shift* key again. the yellow azimuth reappears in the plane of your tactical overview and your ship immediately moves to that location. if that point in space is more than 150 km, your ship will attempt to warp to it.i can imagine using this in \"system view\" as well. it could also give fcs the ability to select and re-position your ship, but only if you give him flight control.* or whichever key you chose to bind this command to."
"no to fcs getting command of the fleet's ships, ever. but the rest of it, telling your ship to head off in a specific direction, i could understand. so long as it's simply implementing an extra degree of precision, rather than replacing or dumbing down anything."
"it could also work with drones. order them to orbit a point in space."
"well i partially agree with any kind of re-spec thread ^^ this one doesnt make that much sense tho, since you would lose sp + time that could be used for simply learning something new without losing anything at all...back at 2011 ive posted much better \"respec\" idea - you can see it here:"
"seriously. the posts have become annoying as hell. the avatar pic makes me want to punch some one. and he/she is every where. would really really like them just made gone but alas i will settle for a way to make sure i never see posts from certain selected people again.maybe link it with your eve block list.o and make it block the entire account so you can't see any alts they make post either. please for my sanity."
"um, you can block people just fine. click that little yellow arrow under their name and click hide posts.also, this is a forum for ideas, not for ranting against individuals; your posts will be better received if you keep the discussion more professional."
"lady spanks noooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo! destroy the two armed menace!"
"do i need to say it?"
"i haven't really been through the whole deep safe discussion before. why is that a bad thing? i can understand that having a spot that is too far outside of a system is nearly unprobable, but surely something within combat scanner probe range would be fine, right? what is the issue with spots that aren't around planets?"
"i'd been away for a three weeks or so and came back to six worlds in a low sec backwater, hoping the resources would have recovered enough, so that i would not have to destroy and rebuild everything. no such luck.i don't mind that they would need to be moved. i do mind that i would have to do this repetitive dull process six times. i just could not be arsed.could you be arsed? if not get liking and posting and lets get introduced."
"my corp says the best asteroids can only be found in low security and 0.0 security systems. so i venture to mine in 0.0 systems. then i discover these anti-warp force field bubbles that trap you when you try to jump so that you can be easily destroyed. they are too tough for anything less than a cruiser to destroy so, instead of \"high risk, high reward\", i'm faced with \"no chance, you lose\". why make it so easy for pirates to intercept ships at jump gates? wouldn't it make more sense to put turrets and empire navy ships around the jump gates so that players can at least get though them? why would the empire factions leave thousands of jump gates around the outer galaxy and not defend them?i'm not saying remove bubbles from the game, just change them so they can't redirect your ship when you're warping to a gate."
"make friends. fly in bigger groups. sorry...but this problem you are having will not change."
"uh...you already answered your question.0.0 is not empire space.go back to high sec if you want the security.================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"soooo... your thread goes down in flames over in f&i and you think you'll do better over here?"
"those aren't the empire's. those systems' sovereignty is held by alliances. if anything, we'd put gate turrets to shoot you, but instead ccp decided we can't.the bubbles are of course not always there, though the nice low-null sec gates are camped fairly frequently for the delicious killmails.oh and yeah, please don't abuse the rocks in nullspace, our communist overlords force us to mine them 23/7 to fuel their war engines. it's uh really terrible and you might get caught and roped into it too..."
"they are allowed to vote, why not let them speak?"
"okay, ban them from voting too"
"not really"
"this is one type of ship i most definitly would like to fly.supported.here i used to have a sig of our old camper in space. now it is disregarded as being the wrong format. looking out the window i see one thing: nothing wrong with the format of our camper! silly ccp......"
"supported. imagine the possibilities."
"2.0"
"still support this idea, would breathe a lot more life into the casual pvp aspect of the game, which is definitely something eve could always afford to gain."
"brilliant idea jack. i support this."
"i just got answer on a petition that this change was not a bug, but done on purpose. no explanation on why tho."
"this is a mindbogglingly stupid thing to do.reverse it immediately god damn."
"alright, let me get this straight.when you see a corpse in space now, it still says \"blah blah's frozen corpse\", correct ?when you put it in your hangar, it still says \"blah blah's frozen corpse\" when you show info, correct ?but if you drag it to chat, or trade, or contract, the show info just says \"frozen corpse\", correct ?hmm.as for why, i suspect it may be eventually something to do with dust, and making the dust clones out of reprocessed corpses or something."
"+1 supportedincarna - newest business example of mismanaged capital. ccp - continuing to gank independent pi producers every day pvp's latest incentive program ** unified inventory ** 'cause you gotta kill something after trying to use it"
"this is the kind of crap that is driving players out. ordinance has different names for a reason. it differentiates between class and damage. assigning similar names is just moronic. change the names back. ahs"
"derp de derp the new names all share a name for a damage type for all classes it makes it easy and great. old names were tardharded and while the new names could use some work using a name for the type of damage rocks. now if you have tech two missiles you know rage is short range javelin is long range and trauma is kinetic damage."
"awww... you have to have your caps lock on to get your point across. are you clenching your fists and stomping your feet too? there are gameplay functions within the game that need to be addressed. renaming the missiles was really low on the priority list and not necessary. i've been playing for 8 years and never had a problem with it. now go to your room young man. you're on time out....ahs"
"also what is nice about the old names for example is if someone says scourge, you know exactly the size of missile they are talking about. it makes it much easier to differentiate the different classes of missiles from one another."
"*this really only applies to station/day traders*i would like an indicator that shows that the buy/sell order is yourssome ideas:highlighted buy/sell or to your buy orderstars *a box outlining it"
"+1 add to tos or ccp document most commonly violated undocumented rulesincarna - newest business example of mismanaged capital. ccp - continuing to gank independent pi producers every day"
"assuming something like this was ever seriously considered by ccp, i think it would be most easily implemented to function with the current mechanics.basically, you on the client would get to fly around willy nilly as you wished, but you would still only send trajectory/vector information to the server once per second. effectively, the server would receive a once per tick direction change the same as if you just kep double-clicking in space. the rest would be done client side.everyone else in game would see you change directions, pitch, velocity, etc.. just as if you were doing it through the current double click, set velocity interface. server side, there would be no difference and load wouldn't change all that much; in fact, if you consider people spamming buttons 10s of times every second, it wouldn't change at all.it would be more graphics intensive on the client in most cases of course, but overall not that bad; you still have to account for slow maneuverability resulting from time dilation and larger ships. some would be almost entirely intolerable to fly this way, and even a frigate might seem so when time dilation is in effect.the tough part of all this, is actually modifying the client ui for those optional features that would be required to make this happen and change the pov for those players who would use it. granted, you could make it very basic initially, just to try it out, and employ a 3rd person view, (just above the ship ad behind it), with those controls, and later option to 1st person if that seemed workable and well-liked.only other requirement would be a ui button which you could use to jump back and forth between the two perspectives. eve isn't really a game where you can only play from a 1st person perspective, as much of the space flight and intel is garnered from that distant perspective that allows you to see everything. not having access to that would be seriously detrimental in most cases. it wouldn't matter as much as you might think, if there was some form of radar available, but it would still matter.zubzubzubzubzubzubzubzub"
"+1incarna - newest business example of mismanaged capital. ccp - continuing to gank independent pi producers every day pvp's latest incentive program ** unified inventory ** 'cause you gotta kill something after trying to use it"
"please also allow the option to include the cargo. make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"ecm is the only e-war against you can't actively defend yourself. it just prevent you from playing with your own abilities. i've recently been perma-jam by a griffin for about 7 minutes, while being in a tempest. after that experience, i've been surprised to make myself that reflexion : \" you definitly can't go pvp if you don't have more jam than your target(s)\". and then \"how can this game could be reduced at this point ?\" .i often hear pilots relating fights, where they have been perma-jam, despite their overloaded eccm. you can fight all other e-war. damp ? sensor booster. neut ? cap-booster. tracking disrupt ? missiles. but ecm ? the fact it is based on probability, making it always possible even with 250 sensor strenght, and finally always happen, is a kind of exploit, in a game supposed balanced. i dunno what ccp was expecting from this \"e-war\". but i'm sure they never wanted the final result, which is the i-win-button.small-scale fights are ruled by jam, nowadays and since a long-time. people are using and abusing of it. this is dangerously reducing the small-scale pvp at a simple factor.topics about ecm seems to get more and more rare, like if players are losing hope. maybe they prefered to cancel their account.it has always been easy to find out what is cheated or not in this game. when something is cheated, everyone use it. nanoera, supercaps, dramiels, drakes, considering the good improvements we had on the last patches, i'm confident that one day ccp will re-consider the ecm mechanics."
"what differentiates this from double-clicking a point in space?as to the warping at 150+km, that would invalidate a lot of gameplay, namely probing and the already-kicked-in-the-pants sniper fleets."
"its one click less, and more precise/tactical + tells the ship when to stop when destination reachedit doesn't have to work with warp. warp needs a friendly or neutral object or a location... you don't have to change that."
"-1 unless thisincarna - newest business example of mismanaged capital. ccp - continuing to gank independent pi producers every day pvp's latest incentive program ** unified inventory ** 'cause you gotta kill something after trying to use it"
"-1 working as intendedincarna - newest business example of mismanaged capital. ccp - continuing to gank independent pi producers every day pvp's latest incentive program ** unified inventory ** 'cause you gotta kill something after trying to use it"
"i agree.wrong forum.make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"-1 learn to blockincarna - newest business example of mismanaged capital. ccp - continuing to gank independent pi producers every day pvp's latest incentive program ** unified inventory ** 'cause you gotta kill something after trying to use it"
"nope, cause that is all you say. \"ban alts from posting\"you're as original as blatant forum alt with his fixation of growing balls on people."
"what the hell were you on when you made that avatar?(and could you please share, as it's clearly good stuff!)e: just hit \"hide posts,\" as stated by others, op...you'd be amazed at how much better threads get without that petulant, perma-pms'ing little piece of teen-trash shitting them up every second post."
"these forums over time have increasingly suffered from posts made by players clearly ignorant to how eve is supposed to differ from some other better know mmorpgs. i propose a pop up alert that will inform them of a few of the basics that they have to then accept as read before making their first post. initially all of us will have to click it once after implementation.here are some that come to mind, there may be others.1) eve is a pvp game, you consent to the possibility of other players attacking you when you log into the game. high security space while offering some additional protection is not, nor meant to be, 100% safe.2) eve is played on one server and there are no instances. interaction with other players both positive and negative are constant possibilities and part of the game.3) eve is a sandbox mmorpg, there is no \"end game.\" it's up to you the player to define and pursue your own in game goals."
"people just wouldn't read it. or we'd get a pile of 'get rid of this popup' threrads along with our 'change every aspect of the game because it's hard bawwwwwwwwww' and 'i personally am bad at this game, please chance [important feature] to suit my whim' ones.more chance to troll i guess, but i don't think this would help very much.a good idea might be to prevent npc corp characters from posting suggestions. hopefully, the effect would be the same, and it'd cut down on some of the alt badposts."
"bump and added a clarification. the goal is not to curb or prevent ninja salvaging, but to make sure a site's explorer group will not get jumped by a number of ships higher than their own numbers when they are also engaged with the rats within a room."
"the answer is still \"no.\""
"more specifically, the answer is still \"working as intended\". eve isn't instanced, ever, period (which is pretty much what you're asking for)."
"today there is several skills that there is no real \"logic\" behind capping them for example \"max industry slots x 10\" \"max science slots x 10\" \" max planets to have pi on x 6\" \"max remote trade distance\" etc. i propose we add new tiers of skills to skills that doesn't impact on the game play more then give us more ways to go.for example a producers is 10 slots why? i don't see a reason why i can't if i would want to go for 40slots (with the increase in sp cost of) my sugestion : add alot of new advanced version of skills that \"double the training time\" so for example of the skill is x4 next version is x8 and next is x16 followed by x32 (we probl. don't need to go past x32 due to time it would take to train)example: interplanetary consolidation (x4 skill)[new skill] advanced interplanetary consolidation (x8 skill)[new skill] massive interplanetary consolidation (x16 skill)[new skill] master of interplanetary consolidation (x32 skill)mass production (x2 skill)advanced mass production (x8 skill)[new skill] massive mass production (x16 skill)[new skill] master of mass production (x32 skill)"
"you can max out at eleven5 for mass production / lab operation5 for advanced1 for being a capsuleerit makes sense because you can train up three toons in ~3 months (assuming you were using 2 and 3 for basic stuff -- copy/me/pe/etc) and it doesn't cost you anything. in fact, that second toon will train up to 10 slots (lab op 5/adv 4) in just about the same time it would take you to train from adv 4 to 5.as far as planets ... i imagine it would work out the same... if for no other reason, ccp wants people to work together here... [sarcasm]which is (i know) an insane concept to apply to a mmo game... [/sarcasm]"
"because if you make it unlimited, there will be people that will abuse it."
"warp bubbles are countered by cloaking and by having bms around gates. use cloaking to make bms the first time in system - then, no problem - you can take anything you want (within reason, no reason to lose a freighter) into null without having to worry about bubbles or cloaking."
"+1 supported for immersionincarna - newest business example of mismanaged capital. ccp - continuing to gank independent pi producers every day pvp's latest incentive program ** unified inventory ** 'cause you gotta kill something after trying to use it"
"this seems like a wonderful proposal that would go well with the ideas of revamping local. it would be nice to jump into a system and have an idea as to what has happened or may be about to happen based on the evidence on the field. maybe ccp just needs to bite the bullet and upgrade the old hardware department so we can get this level of immersion."
"+1performance regression is unlikely and could be solved via dynamic lod on week hardware. you don't see 99% of the wrecks anyway in a large fight.. only a few icons.if(wreckcout > 100 && framerate < 20fps) use old method...else the eyecandy"
"+1incarna - newest business example of mismanaged capital. ccp - continuing to gank independent pi producers every day pvp's latest incentive program ** unified inventory ** 'cause you gotta kill something after trying to use it"
"every year someone post this bs right around time for the campaigning to begin instead of wasting time with this **** why don't you campain to get people to vote maybe then the csm won't be a null sec circle jerk"
"+1 supportedincarna - newest business example of mismanaged capital ccp - continuing to gank independent pi producers every day pvp's latest incentive program ** unified inventory ** 'cause you gotta kill something after trying to use it"
"because an election campaign is hard, and highseccers always want to take the easy option(that's why they're in highsec)"
"but but but my l4s and my incursions and **** the mittani just ganked my retriever ban he ccp ban he and strip him fom power why aren't you listening to me? :qq:"
"thread is pointless and can't be accepted by the csm as it contravenes the constitutional rights of every voter:("
"i appreciate all of the support this is garnering. let's see if we can keep this thing going.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"+1 for making me go look that up. and yes i agree. there's no reason to apply special treatment to miners. if they want the bonuses then the orca or whatever bonus giving ship should be fulfilling it's role by being on field."
"+1 for support of this, i really like the idea, though i don't know if i agree with the station/gate guns bit."
"+1 or 10/10, whichever you preferi am amazed that nobody thought of this before. easy to implement, noticable upsides, no downsides.it doesnt fix every lowsec-problem, but it could attract a lot more poeple to low and especially those who are particularly"
"+1briliant, and it might give ransoms in lowsec a breath of fresh air too.if nothing else, this idea needs the support of any/all candidates running for a lowsec csm seat."
"low sec has been ignored by ccp since the game started. there aren't any real incentives for people to move to low sec other than small group pirating or fw. both also very ignored by ccp.i keep advocating the same thing over and over. get rid of the ridiculous station games. it's utterly absurd that a station manager of a npc station would allow someone who just engaged someone else outside his station to dock up after a very short amount of time.atleast not without letting them pay a very hefty fee, but even that after quit some diliberation.you want to shoot someone at an empire controlled station then fine, but the concequence is that they will keep you unable to dock at the station, you chose to fight at, for 15 minutes.standings with the corporation which owns the station or the faction can decrease the timer somewhat till maximal 5 minutes unable to dock.if you want to dock anyways after the old 30 second waiting time you pay a fee. fee depends on your shiptype but should reflect a substantial part of your hulls + modules market value.same should go for gates.next to that put some more incentives in low sec to attract more people willing to risk to venture there for a certain advantage which they are unable to get in high sec or null sec.add certain minerals needed for certain production to low sec or make it more attractive for factional war to hold certain parts under their control because then the stations in the controlled part have certain advantages for the side holding them.ccp created a game where corruption by players is part of the game, yet there is no way to bribe a factional relieve for a longer or shorter amount of time. only thing you can do is grind your arses off to get standing or security gain.now why isn't there a corrupt way to gain those standings for a certain time?just looking at the lore of all factions i know for a fact that corruption is one of the engines the empires thrive on.factional or security standing gain for a limited amount of time due to bribery should be possible. depending on what you plan to do or for howlong the price varies. depends on howmany channels have to be temporarely altered and then ofcourse even that isn't a guarantee that your cover holds as long as you paid for because next to being able to be bribing there is also the possebility you get uncovered by someone who is specialising in locating and fighting corruption and bribes.there are many options to make low sec get more layers of experience and thrills."
"99% of this is unrelated to the proposed fix, it also fails to address most of the issues brought up in this thread. the idea of this thread is that we're not trying to attract carebears to lowsec, we're trying to make people who would like to pvp in lowsec able to do so without the unworkable highsec penalties associated with that. i'd much rather have willing people to get a legitimate fight out of rather than carebears who will get continuously ganked, regardless of any added benefits to carebearing in lowsec. just saying \"there are many options\" doesn't accomplish anything.tl;dr, let's stick to the proposed topic and work around that, shall we?"
"and limiting yourself to only one variable accomplishes anything?the whole point of threads about low sec are about making it more part of the game. not just a fun shooting gallery for wannabe pirates who's biggest accomplishment is to gank a few newbees and an industrial at a gate.so take your horseblinds off because if low sec only stays a shoor em up place for a few then you yourself exclude yourself from way too much of the game and should be the last to even consider posting in a post which tries to offer options for low sec in the first place.if you bring more incentives to low sec then you also get more people to low sec. but instead of making low sec just a thinned out version of high secs station games the whole concept of station games should get a kick under it's arse aswel.i am sorry if that messes up your stationhugging playstyle but if you don't have the balls to stick to a fight or the means to get out of it other than docking up then eve shouldn't be the game for you in the first place.they made it so that supers who are agressed can be agressed over and over so the logoffski doesn't work anymore. yet we still have way too many other, completely out of context, options to start a fight and then run like little pussies over and over.people who would come to low sec would know no concord retaliation but also would know that if **** hits the fan the agressor can't dock up like a little girl after a few seconds.ships have gained a lot of ehp but still agression timer remained untouched.it would merit bringing for real what you can afford to loose instead of what you know can tank a few seconds before you dock up and quick hop onto your big gun."
"ignore the posts, skip the logic, and jump straight to the ad hominem, i like your style. first of all, you're an idiotic parrot who didn't read my post at all and has no idea what you're talking about, or perhaps a troll. second of all, you have no exposure to lowsec if you think you can bring carebears to lowsec. they won't do it. from years of personal experience, the only carebears in lowsec are noobs who don't know better, or russians who control huge swaths of lowsec who can carebear in peace. pirates will find carebears and kill them, with little effort, negating any gain/risk ratios they hope to achieve.also, i'm not quite sure what your obsession is with station games but it's probably not healthy. supers compose a non-existent percentage of lowsec combat, and your insinuation that i play station games exclusively is laughable. please allow me to add you to a long list of people who badly need reading comprehension trained up a few levels."
"i have restrained from posting in this thread simply because i don't spend a lot of time in lowsec. mostly null and wh space. i use highsec enough that i need my sec status high enough to allow access to all of it unhindered. now that i am spending more time on lowsec roams i can definately see an issue beginning to arise with my status lowering and (thankfully only minmitar) certain factions hating me for it. this is a good idea. +1why has this not had any response from the csm yet? this is probably (short of my bouncing boobies thread and the dead horse thread) the best idea in the ah yet."
"this, pretty much.so it should be a shoot em up place for everyone, and it shouldn't exclude you from the rest of the game.what happens in lowsec, stays in lowsec, lowering the barrier to entry to lowsec pvp:"
"wut t3h f0x!?i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"yeah this needs to be fixed asap"
"exactly. why have em if you can't show them off?you may be right. if this is the case then ccp should say so or find a fix."
"supported. corpses should have names always.jint hikaru - miner / salvager / explorer / spacebum in the beginning the universe was created. this has made a lot of people very angry and been widely regarded as a bad move."
"corpse tradinign has always been kind of a fun little thing to do with corp mates/ friends."
"thought i would iterate on this some moreto make one of these what would be needed?remembering it would need to add up to 20 - 50 milsince it is a \"hacking\" type modulecodebreaker iand then some stuff similar to what make pos's or customs officebroadcast noderecursive computing modulewetware mainframecapital construction partsstront"
"very nice idea, supported!"
"i would agree to 72 hours max or i should say, if the anchored module were to be placed it would require the pos be out of fuel for at least 72 hours and then require whatever amount of time to hack keeping in mind that this is a module you have to anchori would say 3-24 hours on the hack 24 seems a bit long to me"
"best idea for stealing offlined pos i've seen yet anchor it and they have 72 hours to destroy the hacking unit or fuel their pos"
"1.0"
"it isn't about \"patience\". there are a few skills that are really very hard to communicate, and there is a lack of attempt to even do it.there is a real problem with tutorial agents being able to be driven away. no new player should be able to get their tutorial agent to stop talking to them in any way but by finishing the tutorial. fix this please.there is a problem with skill books in the tutorial being given in confusing ways. one communication channel, all relevant skill books up front.that said, exploration is a headache. the tutorials explain it poorly. they should just link to the video of the tutorial, maybe in the browser.the more common scams should probably be explained. you don't have to ban them or do anything special, just have some agent explain how a small selection of market scams work. maybe this should be done by a new agent, a criminal agent who teaches about the very basic common techniques of how to travel and survive in low security space, how can flipping and looting work, not to overspend on a ship, how to scam in the market, war-declarations on new corps, and so on. honestly, learning the mechanics of some of the scams can give a lot of insights into how the game is to play normally; it's very useful educational material.finding a corp. this is actually hard. i heard in rookie chat from someone who had been kicked out of a corp for sitting and reading help guides and such. apparently she looked suspicious because she didn't think to dock in station to do it. seriously, this isn't \"spy\" behavior, and the corp in question lives in high-sec anyways.there is no guidance on low sec and null-sec. everyone gets the impression that both are terrifying places that one shouldn't enter until they have an ancient character and the best battleship isk can buy.nowhere do i see any lines of communication where more experienced characters can talk to the rookies."
"i don't really think that ecm is overpowered in small gang fights. when i roam with 5-6 friends we almost always found that damage drones are better in the drone bay unless we are expecting to run into recons/logi. ecm on a nonbonused hull is practically a waste of a slot as a tracking disruptor/web is a guaranteed effect as opposed to the chance of ecm. tbh i can't think of a single time when an fc ever suggested/requested that we fit ecm in a utility mid over a td or web (occasionally remote eccm if we are running with logi)."
"i just want to get rid of my goddamn industry skills"
"many of us would feel your pain. personally i have a few i wouldn't mind getting rid of but i do use them from time to time."
"no.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"the whole point is that there be some kind of punishment for training the wrong thing in the first place. we can't just allow a respec for free with no punishment at all. this idea allows you to do the respec making it a logical choice for you right then and there if you don't need or want the skill but still puts you further behind where you would be had you not respecced at all in the long run."
"whats the point if it puts you further behind????any reallocating sps is a bad idea. i dont care if its aurom (whatever), isk, plex or unlearning time.... its just a bad idea!eve is about consiquences and living with your choices.... you claim the unlearning time is enough 'punishment' for remapping skills... what about all the money or benefit you got from those skills before you unleant them? you used them at one time, why should you be allowed to forget them and flip them into the new fotm.jint hikaru - miner / salvager / explorer / spacebum in the beginning the universe was created. this has made a lot of people very angry and been widely regarded as a bad move."
"this is a proposal simply because some people want a respec option and ccp has already been looking into it and the csm didn't shoot it down entirely. it is very likely that a respec option of some sort is going to happen eventually whether we want it to or not. might as well make sure that we have ideas out there so ccp can at least do it with as little impact on the game as possible.again...it will likely happen. whether we want it or not is going to be irrelevant."
"seconded."
"i'm down. ishtar, eagle, sacrilege and muninn could do with a little love. zealot, deimos, cerb and vaga are fine however."
"not supported.i find lady spank to be insightful and witty. the op probably got burned by spank pointing out the obvious."
"yeah just block her. there are more than a few people on these forums i have blocked simply because they do nothing but troll and act high and mighty. it really cleans up the forums when you block them."
"lady spank = xenuriaso it's really not a surprise why she is so annoying."
"only after your permanently banned.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"block her and have done with it if you have a problem just don't bother us with your inability to skip over her posts."
"lady spank for csm 7!"
"i would have to say no to this as well. simply because this would prevent pvp in said sites when enough people enter the site so that nobody else can get in. i doubt this would hinder ninja salvaging at all since all it takes for that is one more ship...either way...sorry...it's a no."
"so you want arbitrary rules added so that you can be safer? utrollin?say they warp in two force recons or bombers, wait a minute then warp in a main force of four ships. how is this any different than six ships landing in the site with you at once?edit: also, i see a serious potential for abuse when someone just cycles an alt back and forth, using the gate once a minute so that no one else can enter. the ability to lock an acceleration gate is just stupid."
"this proposal would make pve sites more pointless and boring than they already are."
"hmmm...this thread makes me think of something...what would happen if ccp added 5 more levels to every skill with corresponding level bonuses? would this make some ships and weapons more overpowered than others? example leveling battlecruisers to level 10 to get the +5% bonus to kinetic damage per level on the drake for a total of 50% bonus instead of 25%? if this happened with all skills and all bonuses and considering the amount of time it would take for you to get your skills that high...(god forbid should i have to level up my engineering skills any more)...would this break the game as we know it? or would it make the game just a little more diverse for pvp?"
"this...that is why they are capped in the first place.================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"bumping for exposure."
"+1 efficiency helps the market move. makes the game more immersive and less dull ... lesser people quit because of bordom too :) ..."
"i do agree that pi has got to be one of the most boring professions out there...what with all the scanning and repetitive clicking. it is already passive and only requires a few skills and minimum competency to use. i don't see any reason why not to simplify it to keep it from being so completely boring that nobody does it.+1"
"reported for crossposting.on topic, bubbles are easy to avoid, just make sure you have an overview tab with them on it for null flight (so they show up in dscan)."
"cross posting is not allowed as per the forum rules: thread locked."
"dearest fellow capsuleers,like to propose for a sound notification for ingame messages. some settings thatallow players to turn them on or off . or even better micro manage their own choices.sound for :~ incoming text message on corp~ incoming text message on local~ incoming text messages on private chat~ request for private conversation.i believe this will aid player interaction for those who love to interact with real people.and the option will allow those who do not want to interact to shut them off.thank you for your time gentlemen. all constructive discussion is appreciated whetherfor or against are all welcome.cheers,chin hakonen"
"i'd love this idea i think that would be great since they all are blah. like others said, we need numbers. test it in jita first, i'd bet it would be in tid 24/7."
"its client side. client slowdown won't cause the server to slow down."
"another bump in support of the space truckers who help with the logistics side of warfare.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"i generally like the principle. but if you are going to call the ship class a tug abandon the dedicated cargo hold suggestion.give them exclusive access to three capital class tractor beams and have all four vessels fly in formation.the towed vessels should be (1) empty of pod pilots (2) have all modules offlineso that if a pirate gang was to intercept they could board the vessels but would have a helluva time delay to get them started and a logistics problem to suss out about what to do with their original ship."
"since initial work it has been changed to envoy-class. and the external towing of ships would be a mechanics nightmare. that, and it is just downright ridiculous.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"pretty elegant idea tbh. it encourages exactly what brings me to low sec - casual small gang pvp.-liang"
"are you afraid that the numbers would all of a sudden be against you?as it is low sec is under populated. and instead of making it more attractive only for pirates and gankers it should be widen't up more than just kill some and then squeeze easy back to high sec.low sec isn't just to cater the wannabe nullbear who either hasn't the time nor the inclination to be one of the nullbear herd of sheep.more people venturing to lowsec also means more people will get attrackted to pvp. but i can understand why some oppose that so darn much.just imagine you actually get what you want, pvp with people who shoot back, then the fun isn't fun anymore because they would learn and adapt and eventually overcome.and as for me being excluded from parts of the game, you have no idea what parts of the game i have been in nor will you even scratch the surface of it."
"you're really just gonna keep hurling insults and repeating the same thing over and over without reading what people write? do you understand what dialogue is? you have no idea what you're talking about, and you really should just cut your losses in this thread because you're becoming quite annoying. the thing is, you don't understand that you don't know what you're talking about, so i suppose it's not your fault. i would advise you to try to gain a better grasp on the issue you're commenting on before the commenting takes place."
"as a paranoid highsec carebera who is breaking the system and pvping in lowsec while making isk in highsec.... i have to say this is idea is actually good and even could do a lot of good. its not the \"big lowsec fix (aka removing highsec incursions and l4 and l4 and mining, and industry, and exploration... )\" some people keep demanding, and that is why it could actually work and help a bit."
"i ask for more pvpers in lowsec, you think i expect them all on my side?well that's the fun. fighting people who adapt, figuring out how to counter them. the trap and countertrap, the narrow escapes and the times you don't escape. it's a game, i don't mind losing ships, especially if i can take something with me.it is indeed under populated. but populating it with bears will fix nothing.the pve proposals for lowsec generally ask for: 1) safer pve, 2) more rewarding pve.but there's safe in pve in highsec already. you can't compete with that without completely nerfing lowsec pvp. this is where all the suggestions about stronger sentries, concord-like npcs, etc, go wrong.so we increase the rewards. but there is already a place with much higher rewards than highsec in exchange for a nominal risk. it's called 0.0. but 0.0 is secured by alliances and is pretty safe. so to compete with that, you'd need very high rewards in lowsec. what's to keep those same alliances from taking over the lowsec pve, then?those two options just turn lowsec into a highsec clone, or a 0.0 clone. while ignoring the population that is already there because they don't want to be in either highsec or 0.0.funny expression for someone whose average kill has 50 people on it. but why not? why shouldn't lowsec be the one (almost) pure pvp area of the game? we already have an (almost) pure pve area, highsec.do you even read? i meant being excluded from parts of the game via sec status. but that particular char of yours has no lowsec history to speak of. so excuse me if i assume you are posting on your main and have no clue about lowsec.what happens in lowsec, stays in lowsec, lowering the barrier to entry to lowsec pvp:"
"ah, so suggesting to increase the time it takes to being able to dock after shooting someone decreases people shooting at eachother. sorry if that wasn't clear to me.and it never even occured to you that the rewards can be designed in such a fashion that the only true benefit would be for the same region of space as you can aquire it, namely low sec.null sec has it's own \"advantages\" from the sov mechanics. why not some mechanic to have something in that line (though more fun to play than sov warfa\"re) in low sec.you might feel like the low sec population that's already there get's ignored in my suggestions. fact however is that i want to get a lower threshhold for people to venture there but at increased risk than it is currently. or do you think prolonged docking denial is decreasing risk?on the other hand make it worthwhile for people to take that route. low sec has the same issue as null sec. the risk versus reward is completely off balance.sorry for taking my job as logistics pilot too serious and actually have logistics drones aswel instead of killmail hoarding by bringing light drones just to farm killmails.the few times i actually used other ships was mainly because at that moment no logistics was available.sorry for being part of an alliance who has to work together and has to bring bigger fleets to counter bigger fleets and as a result has more than a few people on a killmail.mostly i am sorry for your complete ignorance and assuming that that has anything to do with the underlying problem.excuse me, but did i miss the part where you didn't get the choice to keep your sec status? and if this were my main i am not entitled to an opinion in a forum section where opinions are gathered?once again, i am not against changes in the system that adresses the issues with the sec status loss and gain. but by saying \"ow let's just pop ships but not pods anymore in low sec so we don't drop below -2\"is ridiculous.you create a whole new area of abuse then and without differentiation i for one do not support the idea."
"station games are dumb. but they are 100% consensual pvp, you are never forced to fight at a station if you don't want to. even more so in lowsec with no bubbles (just instaundock away) and after the recent session timer changes (dock if insta fails). they are a minuscule part of lowsec pvp, and not really the problem at all.if you have an idea on how to do that, make your own thread about it.i find the risk vs reward of lowsec to be just fine. the reward is high: solo to small gang pvp in tight groups of people i know. the risk is low: i can lose my ship at a fight, but i have a decent chance to avoid fights i don't want, and i can save my pod 99% of the time.about denying docking? docking games do need some fix, but that's not lowsec-specific, and it would need another thread. but anything that makes gcc more annoying than it already is, is a bad idea, so it should be approached carefully.of course, i chose to lower my sec. in fact, i welcome being outlaw because it gets me fights without sentries. you still don't understand my reasoning:life as an outlaw is fun. life as an outlaw would be more fun if there were more outlaws. people don't become outlaws because with a single account, being an outlaw sucks for logistics. so let's make it possible for those people to enjoy the lowsec side of being an outlaw, without losing their highsec logistics.ok so you don't agree. can you reason why? what abuse would it create?what happens in lowsec, stays in lowsec, lowering the barrier to entry to lowsec pvp:"
"killer gandry, this is the fundamental problem with what you're saying. you're posting in a thread about a specific solution to a specific problem, but you're adding nothing to the discussion. if you want to make your own thread about your own idea of a solution to a partially related problem, you are welcome to do so. but here you're just muddying the waters and causing confusion. you aren't offering ideas for or against this proposal. this thread is not about station games, which you oddly seem to believe plays a much larger role in lowsec than it does, nor is it about bringing carebears to lowsec. please formulate a position, on the specific solution that's been proposed, and post that. or start your own thread."
"fully support this proposal. a fantastic addition to sec status rules which boosts lowsec and overall pvp at the same time without draining any other styles of play (highsec loses nothing while gaining more access to lowsec)"
"the funny thing is... every player in the game has gone through the same thing. eve is tough to start with, but with some research and work, you get over the first bump and the game opens up into this huge sandbox.now every player has done that... we made it, we did the research, learnt how things work and we enjoy the game.not sure what the op intends his post to do... there are no new ideas, suggestions or anything, just some posts from people who quit because they were too lazy to learn things and wanted everything handed to them. jint hikaru - miner / salvager / explorer / spacebum in the beginning the universe was created. this has made a lot of people very angry and been widely regarded as a bad move."
"all you need is finding a good experienced player who is willing to be your mentor.then you need access to a voice server like ventrilo or teamspeak and start talking with him. he wil invite you to his corp or give you advice to join a friendly corp.then he probably give you some isk to buy skillbooks and give advice whenever you need it.so if you are a noob, go and ask people, join help channels, find friends, join a corp with some experienced players. show that you are able to read and understand guides, they are tons of all sorts of guides available. read that.then start playing the game. spend some real money and sell a plex or two, dont avoid loosing your ships at all costs, take some risks and learn playing the game by doing.if you then still dont like, eve is not for you. then stop playing and find battlefield 3 or kitty online.also look for www.uosigena.de and make yourself a character or play wow.if you cant find a mentor, send email to me. i might be able to support some new players for a while. but dont expect ttoo much. i am busy learning the game and reading guides. still.. after so many years playing.<U+266B> when your ship gets blown to bits <U+266A> <U+266B> and you lose your faction fits <U+266A> \<U+263B>/ don't worry <U+266A> <U+266B> <U+266A> <U+266B> <U+266B> <U+266A> <U+266B> <U+266A> be happy \<U+263B>/"
"i'll admit it. this is my third time around with eve...first lasted about 30 days. reason for leaving: totally lost in where/how/why to \"play\" eve and nobody to play it with. i'm sure this is still the biggest challenge for new players.second lasted about a year with some irl friends. reason for leaving: incarna and total lack of resolve for player's issues by ccp. i could care less about walking in a space station just because the ships aren't worth flying. also, one irl friend quit for reason 1, and i never could figure out \"why\" play eve.third time is still ongoing. reason i came back: crucible and the refocusing of ccp back to making eve more eve. they are trying, so will i. i have a corp mate who is an irl friend that makes it worth the play, and he didn't stop playing from previous, so he solos l4s, and i tag along to \"salvage\" and such (he tanks and i spank).the game is still way bigger that i can comprehend, and i am still as lost as ever. however, i still have time to learn and like discovering new things that i didn't know existed before. keeps the game new all the time.i also like that that the gates are no longer static graphics on a 2d plane. i didn't think ccp was listening when i suggested to point them at the next system for better game immersion. lol at all you trolls who flamed me for that suggestion."
"+1because if the pirates find time to kill more npc for their loot, then there's less time to kill me!hell, have the pirate factions regularly fight the empire npcs at stations less visited by players. not to challenge the sovereignty, but to provide imme"
"i think mass swarms of npc rats should attack stations in every system. number of rats depends on the number of players in system. the tears on the jita undock would be epic!"
"i can't help feeling that something of what makes the eve universe a rich and interesting place has been lost by the streamlined naming convention.they should as least add the original label string to the item description, if they are not doing so already."
"scourge does have a better ring to it then trauma, what is this doctors online? having the same name for damage type makes things simpler, consistent. but that name should be cool, heavy missiles being the most commonly used with the popular scourge, scourge should be the name of kinetic."
"you know, i am pretty sure anyone who does thta will get a warning first instead of getting a ban ;)and to the one talking about \"not knowing a law and judges\": that depends really. if there is an obscure law you do not know about (and that common sense does not dictate) you might get off light....that does not hold true for laws you are \"supposed to know\" (all traffic laws more or elss after getting your license) or the once covered by common sense (hurting people, stealing etc)"
"the blatantly obvious pop up warning when you open a can that doesn't belong to you isn't enough? sorry...we shouldn't dumb things down for idiots that can't read.i congratulate you on searching and finding a post on the subject instead of posting a new one. while necro posting a thread that is 2 months old is annoying at least you aren't posting yet another thread on the subject."
"so let me get this right in my mind...you want to gank unarmed mining ships in something nicer than a disposable destroyer? that way you can be lazy and not need to buy and refit so you can do it all over again?no consequences to standings...free reign on industrial ships...lower costs to gank...less time between kills...more killmails of unarmed industry ships...other than time and cost, pretty much as thing are right now in empire. kill as you see fit - nobody is preventing you from pulling the trigger initially. you just better be fast on the kill, or is that your real problem?it'd be really funny if industrial ships could \"buy\" contracts with concord for protection in low sec space. we all know that's out of the question, and so is the idea of making empire space 0.0 space."
"i have had the experience recently of losing several ships to player pirates who camp out and then jump on you just because your small fry. i dont see the point in this but i suppose that's part of the game. what has got my back up is that i cant place a bounty on these people because their sec status is higher than -1.0. they know this and keep thier sec status high for that reason. sure i get kill rights but that is no good to me flying and iteron 3....can the bounty system be overhauled for a more level playing field?s.d."
"need more details ... but since you're api verified on battleclinic i was able to dig up a few things.1. the losses in seylen, parts, and basgerin were all due to you flying into lowsec space. don't do this alone unless you know the locals. if you don't know the locals, they'll shoot at you. concord is not in lowsec to protect you.2. the losses in the other systems all look to be your fault as well. looks like you were mining, and ... presumably, someone came along and flipped your can. because they did this (and went flashy red), you probably started shooting them. soon as you shot them (which you were allowed to do), they are allowed to defend themselves without concord repercussions.suppose people could be ganking you just for the simple fact you're in a belt mining (though, bit surprised they're going for something cheap like an itty 3), or more likely you're at war with someone (or multiple someones). check the \"notifications\" tab in your evemail to see if you have anything from concord in the \"war\" category.if you are at war, it's generally a bad idea to be mining. your ceo and/or directors should really be keeping you informed about what to do in wars though... edit - clarity..."
"yeah honestly the best advice is to join a player corp and ask them to teach you how to play eve. this is an mmo after all and is way more fun with friendsyou know what. why not let people with positive security status put bounties on one another. this is of course assuming that the bounty system gets fixed. and there are some very good threads on the forum about how to fix bounties. mainly they are about preventing it from being profitable for someone to get on an alt and blow up their main to get their own bounty.but yeah sometimes carebears hate other carebears. why not let them fight each other in the only method they know how to, with isk.i honestly think poco based sov is a good idea"
"actually, given that you were in lowsec, they were shooting you because you were there, not because you were small. if you go to lowsec, go there prepared for a fight."
"you are right, losing ships is a part of eve, the fun is on the risks, that is why we have the \"only fly what you can afford to lose\" rule. also, soy should never be alone if you don't plan to lose a ship alone, i'm 99% of my time in a fleet,and for moving assets, we have some really secured jump routes and we know how to do it. so we only care if there are 70+ reds on local...i'm not a new player in eve...but the only problem that there are on cloaked ships is the fact that you can only fight them if they want and if they assume that they will win the fight. otherwise you can bite as much as you want, and they will not drop on you, and you will have to take the fight somewhere else...yesterday an an afk-cloaker stayed in our system, we got annoyed so we razed its corporation system and killed their small capital fleet so they would not have capitals to drop on us. and now their corporation will not enter our system otherwise we will steamroll the rest off their assets, and send them back to hi-sec. but the cloaker lives on... and we should have killed him too... but we cant. (at last we got more profit on looting their ships and assets then we would have done that day mining and rating )if the afk cloaker doesn't belong to any corporation, and it is not willing to get caught, he is there only to annoy you. and even if you have 143715193213 members in your corp there to get him, you would not be able to do a thing.now size up the scene: you would have a cloaked care-beer hided inside your bedroom singing to you all night preventing you from sleeping, like a big colorful noisy fat and fluffy mosquito, while the rage and the will to slaughter it will only grow in your heart! in rl i would burn my room to the ground just to see him burn too, but in the game you can't do nothing... so you say: **** that ****, and log off and go do something else ( on singularity )... cloak is an overpowered defense that prevents annoying thinks to get killed.ccp can (and probably will) put a realy nerfed cloaker hunter ship and see how it affects pvp... and then buff it, nerf it or remove it... new pos system new sov system"
"if you can scan down cloakers, then cloaking becomes useless. you might as well advocate for its removal from the game."
"no, if you can scan down cloakers, in some minutes, you will make them move, making harder for them ( at last harder then siting/sleeping ) ... or if you are better pilot then they are and/or are lucky there would be a chance to get and kill them... read this: new pos system new sov system"
"i have several points to add in: i'm not opposed to a de-cloak mechanism.... something like probes could work well.. however, there are several points or addendums i must add: 1.) (bo) jump portals: the majority of a danger from an afk cloaker (assuming he's no longer afk and actually hunting your sorry ass down), is hotdrops. if hotdrops were more vulnerable (i.e., not an instant protal for a gang to enter), then a huge part of the afk-cloaker danger would be allieviated. this would allow the locals to actually assess the danger the local represents, and fly in gang's that mitigate the risk a cloaker poses. truthfully, hotdrops have far more \"issues\" than mentioned here, and a hotdrop balancing will solve most of the afk cloaking problems (that is, for competent pilots...). 2.) the risk: having the ability to hunt down cloakers has a lot of benefits for a system owner. they could deny access to station, destroy all enemy pos's, and now probe down all enemies in space... effectively removing all danger from the system. this is unacceptable, as the only way a nullsec resident would then die is via very unfortunate timing (an untimely npc scram, or you land on a gate at the same time as an enemy enters system) or incompetence (you keep belt ratting when enemies enter system). any anti-cloaker technology needs to be balanced with our instant i-know-who-entered-local intel tool. essentially, the only way to balance the \"i-can-remove-all-dangers-from-system playstyle is to significantly alter local, or create a new intel system that doesn't provide instant intel on who is in local. imo, for the sake of balance, any new intel system must balance the predator and prey relationship. an alert and competent prey nees to be provided with enough intel to be safe 95+% of the time, but always have a small risk of danger, especially when working alone!!!! 3.) cloaks: cloaks are currently a very powerful tool. they allow you to hide from an enemy (be it to stay safe or suprise attack), and they allow you to navigate gate camps that would otherwise be impassible. if we create a de-cloaking tool, it must not destroy the above benefits of a cloak, or you essentially nerf entire classes of ships and modules. there is a diametrically opposed idea there... you want to scan down a ship that is using a cloak to stay safe. this means, whatever the mechanic to decloak a ship, it must be balanced so that scanning down a ship is expensive (moreso with time than isk) and unusual. the standard roaming gang should not readily expend the energy to find a cloaked ratting raven.... but perhaps would take the time to find a ratting carrier (which will then just log off to stay safe)."
"1.) if you are afraid to lose your thanny or nightmare, perhaps you should rat in a dominix or drake... you can run most plexes just fine in far less blingy ships. people will grow bored and annoyed of hotdropping you if they only get a drake kill, but if you keep flashing nightmares and thanny's, they'll keep up the efforts for months!!! 2.) you can go to the system next door, and pve there... 3.) you can fly in groups... 4 drakes can fly through anomalies, and destroy most cloaky threats very quickly, and if they can't, most can gtfo before they are caught. you can also get into safe habbits to keep your ship safe while ratting. 4.) if you're moving billions of isk... you should have an escort. with jf's, jb's, cloaky transports, tanky transports, and fleet support, you already have a ton of options to move your stuff safely. quit sitting in the corner cowering at the shadows."
"i am not seeing the rational between remap and respec. at the game's inception players would choose a culture within a race. the system had hard-coded attributes which would be beneficial to particular career path in the game. too bad if you decided you wanted to move from industry to trading.based on the sentiment of many opposing respec, \"live with the choice\" - players would still be trapped without remaps.i am in favour an extremely limited respec system. something like 3% of total sp, every two years.the re-distrubution of learning sp and adjustment to social sp were widely welcome in the game. providing some proof that the system of respec can be worked without major harm to the status quo."
"voting against respec / remap of sp not even 1% per anno..."
"another no to any type of respec.jint hikaru - miner / salvager / explorer / spacebum in the beginning the universe was created. this has made a lot of people very angry and been widely regarded as a bad move."
"yeah, just like gold ammo.....ccp should be careful about making big changes that the majority of the players don<U+FFFD>t want.jint hikaru - miner / salvager / explorer / spacebum in the beginning the universe was created. this has made a lot of people very angry and been widely regarded as a bad move."
"i lol'd. the only ones not wanting any form of respec are those psychopathic hardcores and masochists, who likes to punish themselves for no reason. fortunately, they dont represent the majority."
"i somewhat agree with that sentiment. i don't really want a respec option. i simply believe that it would be best for ccp and eve overall as it would encourage new players to stick around.eve as it is now is a game for the hardcore and a very niche group of players. that's what we are. companies don't tend to make as much money catering to small groups as they could making it easier to play for the overall casual people that make up the vast majority of gamers."
"not a worthwhile use of resources nor of the csms time. this fixes nothing and encourages careless decision making. let's not waste any more time discussing this."
"the eagle needs completely repurposing. it's role as an extreme range sniper is completely eclipsed by the naga. imo the eagle should be reworked as a \"speed\" ship rather than a \"range\" ship."
"herpderp hurrdurr"
"yea she is"
"just block me, what the hell is this crap?also, it's not permitted to make threads like this one. i don't know you and find this undue attention rather disturbing."
"my alliance will wardec the op."
"if i'm blocked as you say, then why do you still feel the need to talk smack about me. i have never done anything to you to deserve this attitude. anyway, i know you have me blocked and therefore won't reply but i don't see why i should have to put up with this kind of negativity. it's not in keeping with the spirit of the game. try to keep your aggression to the blowing up of spaceships."
"if you think someone is breaking the forums rules please use the yellow flag above the post to report the thread to us. you can also use the \"hide posts\" feature if you click on the little arrow under a forum patrons name.this forum was not made for ban proposals. thread locked."
"i don't recall exactly what the real issue was. i know back in the day you could get a bookmark so far away from the solar system that it would be off the map."
"what? i thought the goal was for everyone to fly a titan...what a disappointment..."
"if being ignorant to new players and not educating them as to 'why' the idea does not have merrit instead of just telling them that they are 'dumb' may be a reason why its so hard for eve to gain new players.they are not accepted into the player base - that even though may not have 'valid' opinions...their opinions are valid to them."
"the problem is (in many cases), the newbie will stand firm that they're \"right\" and that whatever mechanic got them stomped should be changed, so as to align with their (incorrect) assumptions about how eve works."
