"welcome to my hell."
"so rvb - red federation has just disbanded (3000 players), and we just stole their alliance name so they can't reform. if only there were some mechanic in place to prevent these alliances from being permanently trapped in wars. i'm not even sure they can reform into a new alliance because they're still stuck in outgoing wars."
"10 isk says it becomes an \"extenuating circumstance\" and they get their alliance back."
"would surprise me if ccp would actually grow a pair and.. it wouldn`t happen :d<-- unbelievably low tollerance to stupidity in people. that + you being your mother's child might aswell be the main reason why i am not your father."
"what happened to that beating a dead horse thread with modulated pos's that's what i'd like to see"
"while you're at it, could you boost the corp bookmark limit as well? i have lost count of how many times we have bumped into it and had to go pawing through deleting bookmarks that may not be ready to expire out..."
"thats a poor reason. sure i understand no-one wants to get podded with bubbles in low sec but you could use the reason that the gates are controlled by concord and so any bubbles get popped by the sentry guns. smartbombs are allowed in low sec as an aoe weapon. should smartbombs be removed from low sec? poor fiction disallows bombs and a decent gameplay feature."
"cloaking devices are broken. they need some kind of modification, like fuel or something that one afk cloaker cannot spend month just sitting on system."
"please use the search function to find out why this is and has always been a terrible idea....not supported for the millionth time"
"jf cost allot not because they never die, it is because of the regular materials that goes into one combined with expensive tech 2 for a capital (tech 2 tend to be 5-10 fold cost of tech 1),"
"supported. every experience should be cool, even the ones that suck."
"fun trumps realism, imho. (at least for game implementation.)"
"i'm going to go with no."
"best answer to this: \"you mad bro?\"answer: \"yes\"reply: \"moar tears\"regards,lee anderson"
"nope. their counter is the ability to fire back - these ships are substantially weaker on their own and require the ability to attack targets of opportunity. to be honest, a procurer can probably kill a manticore no problem as a side note..."
"i, the right honourable and learned chief justice lykouleon of the good people of goonswarm federation, hero of d-gtmi, king of vagabonds, freer of slaves, destroyer of providence, lord-protector of kbp7-g until i got bored and left that terrible region, cooker of bacon, poster of badness, and owner of further associated titles, do hereby declare:no. hahahaha, no. and a thousand times no every time i see this same thread pop up every other week."
"there are 3 good counters to cloaking:1) move over: hop over a system or two, if they follow see below, if not they are truly afk and not a problem.2) set a trap: go out in a hulk and mine away with a blue cloaked nearby3) show force: have the blue not clocked i am not sure who is out in null with zero support anyway."
"@ op: the \"fix afk cloaking\" topic has been posted to death..... do some research before posting.... also, your forum thread doesn't add anything to what's already been discussed on the topic. hopefully this thread gets locked soon! things to keep in mind"
"try it on buckingham. you might be surprised.[b] eve game designer   team super friends [/b]"
"i was hoping an announcement like this was going to be coming on the day before deployment. well played ccp.not sure what i think about the red fed thing zerg. you're basically think-tank griefing now. i've noticed corps aren't getting proper instructions on what to do when they join decshield or on how many players they can be legally shot by. (the surrender list and the begging that comes with it just for us to let some bears out of a mistake they made by misguidedly joining decshield bear this out).i came into this experience thinking the only annoyance for us was the constant notifications (maybe even get some pew out of it) and that you were doing this solely based on philanthropic reasons but the red fed name steal and the lack of any kind of movement on your side suggests there is more to this and you're getting a little too much enjoyment out of being the hand on the mixing spoon.give red fed back their alliance name. you're actually affecting the new player base subbing on a game you claim to be an advocate for."
"the chance of this happening is pretty close to 100%. got to grant special protections to groups that ccp likes."
"screwing up low entry pvp is a good reason to force someone to change their alliance nametundragon ~ low sec piracy since 2003 ~ youtube ~ join us"
"even another alliance couldn't get this from the devs.i'm really curious what will happen next !"
"sweet. so you guys changed the rules at the last moment to stop the new loophole? i'm downloading buckingham now, but i doubt there's enough time left for me to actually verify things before retribution goes live ^^edit: i've just received a second verification from another dev saying that our proposed loophole has been fixed"
"honestly, i preferthe current method of actually messing witht he geometry, ive seen some messed up faces you could never get with just basic slider options, and it would eb a shame to see that go.also, as far as visual interaction goes in the creation process, alot of my friends have mentioend to me they prefer it over sliders because it feels like they are actually making the character, as opposed to choosing from various ones already amde that sliders (no matter how variable) tend to evoke."
"great article on social gaming...about a game created in 1985. personally, i think ccp is at its best when it creates simulations based of the canon of its universe. it tends to do horribly when it tries to make a game. fw plex balancing? it's gamey, feels gamey, and inevitably gets owned. the destiny engine for fleet fights? somehow, the core fundamentals of the simulation haven't changed that much in 9 years, and they keep working.just my 0.02 isk of course."
"i agree on most parts except for removing them form the open market.i honestly oprefer to think my character is just using a shady market-channel disguised as a teddy-bear-distribution-outlet to buy my combat drugs.realistically though, limiting these to only direct trades might discourage newer players, in that, they all of a sudden after getting curbstomped in lowsec 3 or 4 times they all of a sudden hear about these magical drugs that make them significantly stronger, that they have no way of knowing how tog et, or even what they are called, adn which ones do what. it would just come across to them as a hidden advantage players \"in the know\" have that they could not compete with.**sorry for any spelling errors, currently on an old computer, and the lines im typing take about 8-10 seconds to show up on the screena nd i cant be arsed to go back and type it on a bumpy bus**"
"but none of that matters, because all you experience was up to the transfer process. all that is after, and that info is a lost fork. not to say that there shouldn't be some confusing stuff, but it would be experienced during/after upload in the cloning bay.i'd suggested a quick cutscene for the beginning of the game, first person, of the pod filling with fluid while the system jacks you in and initializes the hud and camera as a replacement for the loading screen. could be just a couple seconds long."
"i was told about this thread just now so apologies for not replying earlier. since we are currently active on help chat on tq because of the retribution release today i can't go into specifics just now, but i have read the idea and like it a great deal and would like to thank op for bringing them to light. these ideas would tie well with an iteration to the overview. i will bring them to the eve ui group for discussion.all the best for now and i hope you all like retribution ccp arrow | director of user experience | eve online | @ccp_arrow"
"thank you ccp arrow.knowing that a developer have read this forum couldn't make me happier today. now i just hope the ccp ui group will like the idea too."
"ccp what have you done? taking away a good thing and not giving us the option for it once you implement your half-working dynamic sound system!what i propose is that you bring back the jukebox but also let location-based music be an option.i cannot live without having my below the asteroids or my surplus of rare artifacts ready to play at a moment's notice without alt tabbing into ccp's soundcloud then coming back to the game seeing i'm in half armor because i had to leave the game to change the music.a fellow player has made a petition for ccp, signing it will show our strength."
"same here!! it sucks!ccp please bring the jukebox back, would you?"
"they took the boobies away"
"what would the world be like with no more boobies? would there be less war? no...that's no religion. would there be more war?! oh god...no! please don't take boobies! think of the children!"
"fix large shield extenders. they are far more powerful and should be adjusted for ship classes. a hurricane with a great passive tank of 2 x lse is not a fair setup. i think a new module should be introduced, called xlarge shield extender, and hp bonus adjusted accordingly to ship that it fits on.this is how an extender size should fit each ship class:frigate: micro shield extenderdestroyet: small shield extendercruiser : medium shield extenderbattlecruiser: large shield extenderbattleship: xlarge shield extender"
"the current setup: micro -- wtf... are these actually in the game still.... i think they are legacy... small -- not worth fitting. medium -- for frigs and destroyers. large -- for cruisers, bcs, and bs... as for plates: 200 or 400 mm, frigs and dessies. 800 or 1600 mm, cruisers... 1600, cruisers, bcs, and bss... put in that context, the lse's seem to be in the right position... although a full rebalancing to make 50 & 100 mm plates as well as small shield extenders worth something is reasonable..."
"finally a senior gm handled the situation!i got the plex now, thx everyone for posting."
"+1having an external fix for something that wasn't broken in the first place is rather pointless"
"i second this, give us back the jukebox!"
"the wrath of retribution mutilated my beloved jukebox... what a sad day! where is my nouvelle rouvenor hero to save my day?seriously though, i read torfifrans' dev blog and i don't like the external solution at all. simple as that.please just reimplement it."
"yes ccp please please devote more of those precious developer hours to reimplementing and maintaining code that has nothing to do with the actual product you're selling.also, i demand that my refrigerator also preheat my oven."
"i also miss my beloved jukebox! please, ccp. bring it back or at least tell us why it was taken away."
"ingame sound has nothing to do with \"the game\"?.... oh well, you are probably just an armor triage pilot.i forgive you, poor sinner."
"i like not having to alt tab out to change the music tracks. i like being able to pick a track to play whenever i want while at the same time hearing cool event music when i enter a plex or am doing a mission. having a jukebox is just damn convenient like the stupid pointless web browser i love."
"oddly my game still has in-game sound without the jukebox. maybe your client is broken.and this was not a surprise, folks. they only announced this a couple of weeks agoremember, reading is fundamental. if you choose not to be informed, that is not ccp's problem."
"yeah well reading is fundamental? then surely you have noticed that i mentioned torfifrans/ team klangs dev blog. smartass... just because you don't care about eve's music doesn't mean nobody does.now that the troll is fed, onwards to another matter. if the jukebox doesn't return, it would be nice if you could not only put the tracks on soundcloud but also enabling them for download. so we can integrate them into our own playlists. cheers"
"this is a fantastic idea, and i support it. yes, 1,000 times yes.anyone who says that a successful drug dealer doesn't dip into their own produduct isn't harvesting their base materials and cooking them in their own spacegarage. besides, you never know what that stuff you buy off the guy on the corner of jita and sobaseki is cut with. >:3"
"nerf my drone, nerf my fit,spank me 'til i cannot sit,i don't care, i'm still freeyou can't put a bra on me...take me out into low,web me so i'm really slow,burn the pos and bomb with glee,you can't take my boobs from me.i know, ccp totally could, but please don't."
"i am laughing so hard right now. i got through half the first verse before i made the connection. i really miss that show!"
"same here. finally got a blu-ray player and bought the series (again) on blu-ray."
"honestly up in the air about most of these, however totally for mroe wormholes and c7+ wormholes, gets a little crowded in a c6 sometimes."
"i would like anyone who has thoughts on how corporation members killing another corp members orca or other high priced industry ship is \"combat mechanics working as intended.\" i understand corporation members allowed to engage in combat, perhaps for practice or what have you. but a disgruntled corporation members getting a free orca kill or taking out a mining fleet? and nothing you can do except hold the memory hard in your heart and never talk to other players? this type of behavior kills relationships with other players.though i have never lost an orca, i have seen examples of this kind of abuse and find it disturbing that there is nothing to really be done except forget about recruiting for corporations. perhaps someone can explain why this is perfectly acceptable or how one might avoid this kind of abuse.and yes, it is abuse. scoring free kills because of a \"lolz, you let me in your corp\" gets around the mystical ever watchful eye of concord. i would think concord would respond to non-combat vessels in distress... or why bother having them in the first place?edit: i might add, with the new safety feature, the excuse of friendly fire accidently concording them shouldn't be a problem anymore."
"have you tried shooting back?"
"you try combat in an orca against battleships, let me know how far it gets you :)besides, what i'm mostly referring to is two core problems. 1. concord believes attacks on industries is okay in high sec? i don't see how this would make sense on any level... they assume that corporations are approving these actions?2. corporation members are allowed to betray each other and get away with it. no criminal flags are going to be thrown, this retribution patch completely ignores this still present problem. someone can do close to a billion isk worth of damage to you for free, and the only recourse is \"well, don't trust anyone and play alone if you don't like it!\"there must be some middle ground... some way of allowing you to group with other players and not have this giant loop hole to worry about constantly. a corporation member should be the one person you can trust on some small level, as ccp does not allow you to recruit orca's into your corporation for the sole purpose of killing them, neither should ccp allow members to join corps for the purpose of killing orcas.edit: this comes from a gm reply to my concerns, stating that this is corporation mechanics as intended. i have come to argue there is problem, where industrial ships are concerned. i think this should be reviewed as an exploit."
"there are a several good reasons why you would allow corp mates to shoot industrials: -- they could be used in some entertaining battle badger like tournament. -- you might be insurance frauding them.... -- you are testing the their tank... -- you are trying to stop a corp thief that is hauling your valuable assets off... -- you are pissed off at the corp and want to inflict major damage to it... -- web-to-warp freighters and orcasso why should concord defend them???? furthermore, if you truly believe these ships to be of such value, why don't you step up and keep it safe? examples: a.) if it is so valuable, then why don't you have protection for it? escort it with a blackbird or falcon or even a griffin so it can \"get away\". you could even store these ships inside the ship maintenance array, and have your corp mates switch to them if you get attacked. b.) alternatively, you can keep your valuable assets in an alt corp, away from potential hostilities of an awoxer. trust should be earned.... my corp has \"trial\" periods, where members are given limited rights until they pass the trial period. you can use social media and forums to publicly declare awoxers and untrustworthy players for all of eve to know about. your entire corp can gang up on the member and destroy his stuff until he leaves corp, and then you can place bounties, declare wars, suicide gank, and socially sabotage him until you feel vengeance/justice has been served. you see all those options i listed above... that's the middle ground... what you are asking for is the ability to just straight up prevent someone from awoxing your valuable industrial operations. that's not looking for a middle ground, that's flipping an off switch to make you and yours safe because you don't want to utilize any of the other methods. awoxing has a long tradition in eve, and you need to have a very compelling argument why it should not be allowed! frankly, all you've brought to the table is, it's not socially/morally fair.... eve is a dystopia, and social/moral unfairness is not only allowed, but encouraged!!! now, can you show why it is mechanically unfair? can you give a reason, not centered around a moral compass, that these actions should be inhibited? can you explain why the current awoxing situation is unmanageable? then, and only then, will you have an case worthy of discussion."
"morality and money are the two things that govern laws. this mechanic abuses both."
"the best solution to this issue would be a margin call at the end of the trading day (downtime) when all margins are settled. if that leaves people with negative balances for putting up buy orders they couldn't afford, then they simply won't be trading until they grind back the isk they owe the scc for covering the trade.this would make margin trading a risky proposition, but a lucrative one for legit speculators."
"no, this would open the up exploits to get free isk... i setup an alt with 100b of stuff on a sell order, which, with margin trade 5 i need 24b in escrow to setup. i then sell my alt said item for 100b, putting 100b in my wallet. at the end of the day, i have 100b in my wallet, my alt has = -76 billion in his.... i forget about my alt, train up another margin trading 5 character... rinse and repeat... soon, i'll be very, very wealthy, and the isk i earn from this scheme allows me to pay plex to activate new accounts and repeat ad infinitum... any mechanic that transfers isk from player a to player b in a manner that allows player a to go into negative isk creates this dilemma, and will be abused as such....."
"are you really that terrified of a player who's away from his keyboard? maybe this game isn't for you if you scare that easily. perhaps hello kitty online is just right for you.summary of eves last four expansions:"
"not this thread again."
"so an update on what we're seeing so far:1.) we're not sure if the situation has been fixed.2.) wars that are set mutual by the defender can start a 24hr retraction by the aggressor. we set all our wars unmutual right before the expansion to avoid this (and rightfully so, a dropped corp experienced 74 retractions in under 8hrs by staying mutual)3.) no wars against dec shield have ended in the past 48hrs (by random distribution of our 286 wars around 81 should have naturally ended by now), so something is going on4.) we proposed a new method of maintaining infinite war by a repeating multi-day staggered sequence of dropping corps out of alliance and rejoining a few days later to restore any dropped wars. under the old rules this would have been effective because the start date of wars were set fresh when a corp joined/left an alliance. two devs have sworn this is fixed, but not how they fixed it. our proposed fix was to inherit the start date from the parent war when making a copy to prevent the 7 day extensions.5.) corps dropping out of an alliance still do not inherit the start dates of their parent wars. because of the dev insistence that this loophole won't work we've concluded that all wars have a hidden end-date that isn't visible to the players. it is possible that copied wars now inherit this hidden end-date timer from the parent wars. thus it's very possible the loophole is closed and we won't know until it's too late.6.) but using evidence from point 3 above, something has changed with wardec mechanics. or it's a \"feature\" we never knew about before because we had never unmutualed wars. as i said, we should of had 81 retractions by now and we've had none. therefore we've come to believe that the act of unmutualing a war sets the hidden end-date timer back by at least 48hrs (probably 7 days). therefore, since it's possible to instantly mutual/unmutual a war we've begun tests along these lines to see if unmutualing extends the end-date. we will know for sure in 5 days the results of these tests."
"starting a corporation for new players is extremely difficult and frustrating aspect of eve online currently.i started my corporation a short while ago because i enjoy all the administrative duties that come with organizing a large group of gamers. i also enjoy teaching new players all the intricacies of eve online. i have been having a grand time talking to new players, bringing them into a corporation, and teaching them all i know. they are a good natured bunch who are a great deal of fun to play the game with. then there came the first wardec. standard set-up. the enemy only engaged when they had a clear advantage. they are unwilling to risk a fair fight. another issue is with faction warfare. an incident occurred when a rupture from an opposing faction was camping the couster station killing new faction warfare players as they undocked. why weren<U+FFFD>t the station guns shooting him? why was he able to dock? are we at war with the faction or not? i was under the impression that faction warfare was a good place for new players to start pvp right away. clearly i was mistaken.wardecs are hugely in favor of the declaring corporation. they have the ships and isk prepared. they can receive help from neutrals any time and if they are any good they have them prepared as well. they can hide in a station all day and for whatever reason they have no problem not actually playing the game. they disrupt a corporations ability to make isk, to buy new ships, and to enjoy the game. they are only doing it because they can grief easy targets without risk. this ruins the fun for those new players. my people's first taste of eve includes getting 20million isk worth of stuff from starter missions. meeting a neat group of people who are fun to play with, and then losing everything they have to greifers and being unable to play the game they just spent hard earned money on. the only reason they stuck around was because i promised them it wasn't always like this and that eve was actually a really fun game. i am now under wardec from 2 other corporations and i have egg on my face. i can't hire anyone to help, i have no reason to trust that they will help.for the faction warfare end of things i recommend the solution of making faction police more responsive to enemy faction attacks in system. also by making gate guns, and station guns fire on hostile factions in highsec, and refusing docking rights to hostile factions in highsec. for the wardec end of things i recommend an exponential increase in the cost of wardeccing corps with new, active, players. killing a room full of kittens with a baseball bat isn't sport.the biggest thing that eve has going for it is the sandbox pvp, but if i can't keep things stable long enough for new players to get a good handle on the pve aspects of eve then how are my members supposed to get to a point where they can enjoy the best part of eve?"
"and? so should you. you're playing in a virtual dystopia where the economy is based on warfare. you should expect war to come knocking on your door at a moment's notice. interesting fact... if a neutral gives remote repairs to a person you are at war with... you can shoot them.always count on your enemy bringing back-up in some form or another. if it's logi you are having issues with, bring energy neutralizers. it it is off-grid-boosters... bring ewar.also... the tricks to getting rid of an annoying wardec is to...- bore the attackers (i.e. do nothing)- make the war unprofitable (i.e. kill their expensive ships and make the war expensive for them)- contact them directly and see if you can work out a deal (often, they just want a \"fun fight\"... so give them one on the condition that they drop the dec) george... lemmy doesn't understand the point of a war declaration.you can hire someone via the \"ally system.\" there are plenty of pvp corps that will gladly join in your war for free if it gives them targets.and those corps you hire have no reason to trust you either. for all they know, you could be an alt of one of their enemies and are trying to drag them into an elaborate trap.the docking denial makes sense. the rest of it though... no. speaking as someone in fw, it's already plenty hard to kill people in enemy high-sec without dying yourself. those that do it just have a lot of experience doing it.besides... if your newbies are getting killed by a cruiser in high-sec... how well do you think they'll do in low-sec?"
"exploit found. veterans create a corp full of newbie characters and use them to conduct their business in high-sec without fear of a war-dec.besides... what constitutes as a \"newbie\"?by not doing the pve to train for pvp? seriously... low level pve doesn't teach you much, if anything, about pvp or give you the opportunity to learn the mechanics that you must use to survive against another player.a level 1 mission will not teach a newbie that you must fit a warp disruptor and a propulsion mod (microwarpdrive or afterburner) to \"tackle\" someone... missions in general don't teach newbies how to speed tank, fit omni-resistances, how to evade pursuing hostiles by warping into \"icon clusters,\" how to \"get under guns,\"... the list goes on.you know what does? actually doing it. and talking to more experienced people (who may or may not be the same people who blew you up) about what you did wrong."
"let me spell it out for ya.no pve = no isk making = no pvp ships.i have no issues with these wardecs i have cash, i have experience. new players don't, and i can't cram years of experience down their throats in a matter of days. it's also is not fair to tell them, \"don't play eve for the entirety of the wardec.\"you make a new corp, recruit 30 new players, and teach them for a month. i'll send some people to wardec ya and we'll see how well your people do."
"i never said that.bolded the important bit.i pve every day in some form or another. i just expect someone to blow me up around every corner and plan/fit accordingly. and honestly... most people should adopt the mentality. even in high-sec. i'd bet hard isk that most of the whines on the forums here would disappear.experience can't be taught, it must be gained. make your newbies fight you. or make them fight each other. to the death. then tell them what they are doing wrong each time and reimburse them. that's what my corp leaders did back when i was a newbie. and when we were war decced back then, many of us died. so the directors gave us all cheap gank ships, assembled us, and told us, \"primary target is _____!! turn on everything and bumrush him!!\" we (the newbies) still died... but we killed way more isk than we lost."
"what do you do with a frigate fleet against a faction battleship that won't leave the station? what can you bring to fight roving bands of strategic cruisers? these are honest questions. on our first wardec i took our guys out to lowsec so our enemies would think twice about bringing their shiny toys, in exactly that kind of set-up, with exactly that plan in mind, but the enemy did not come. every experience i have ever had with wardecs is that if a fight looks even slightly fair your opponent will not show up. they will wait until they know hey have an easy kill. with a corp full of new players they are pretty much guaranteed some easy kills."
"if the person hugs a station...- don't engage. just fly away.- get ewar. a lot of ewar. ecm specifically. energy neutralizers work well too.if the person is sniping at range...- get probes. probe the person. make him/her feel unsafe using that shiny ship.- get ewar (again). damps work perfectly in this situation. a single celestis can frustrate the efforts of a single sniper.- fly into the next system. set up fast tackle and dps on the other side. grab the guy when he/she jumps through. use ewar. i know i sound like a broken record... but few people war dec eve university (possibly the one corp with the largest concentration of newbies in the game) for a reason; it's because they blob people with ******* dozens of blackbirds and griffins.they literally make every fight as frustrating as possible to make it not worthwhile to engage them. so use that to your advantage.if you don't want your enemy to engage, make it look like you are ready to spring a trap (i recommend a procurer).if you want your enemy to engage, make it look like you have less than you really have (ex. get one of the more \"experienced\" newbies into a battleship, super tank it, bait in a system, and \"save\" the newbie when he/she has the hostile locked down).and there is no problem with this. if given the choice, everyone, everywhere will take the easiest route to victory. i'll kill someone if it's \"easy\" the same way someone else will kill me if it's easy for them. hell... i'm sure even the famous carebear chribba would blow someone up if he knew his chances for victory were high and no one would come after him.look... if you feel you're in a bad position and you don't have the ability to climb out of it no matter what you do, then it's probably a better idea to just scrap the corp altogether and save yourself the angst.a proper corporation in eve is not like a \"guild\" in other games. it's not just a banding of multiple pilots under the same banner or cause. it's effectively a declaration that you're ready to play with the \"big boys.\" it says that you are confident in your abilities and can hold your own. a corp gives you the ability to do things and have perks that you cannot have by yourself... but the tradeoff is that you are opened up to the hostilities of others."
"here i thought the only attention i was going to get was trolls, thank you."
"i could go down this point by point but it would be laborious to point out the obvious for an extended period of time. so you get this instead: htfu, there are dozens of options available to combat your enemy so fight for what you have or dock up, it makes no difference to me."
"just put all your pilots in blackbirds and jam your enemies giving them massive blue balls. such a tactic will frustrate your enemies making them hopefully find you to be bad targets. have your corp stay together and always be ready at any given moment to outnumber your foes. if they don't kill anything you win and they go home bored and will find someone else to pick on. if they start stacking eccm modules and implants do something else to frustrate them without being able to kill you. also you can bring more blackbirds. if your members don't want to be all in one spot say to bad.put blackbirds cloaked in all your missions (falcons preferably but you can fit a reg cloak on a blackbird)! blackbirds at all of your mining ops! then when they have to much eccm get celestises and damp them for all i care! if you want your noobs to mine only let them do it in one system if at all and designate someone to keep a watch out on all the entrance gates, preferably with a cloaked ship or noob account not in corp. if you run missions have someone scout whenever you jump through a gate and do it in a system with as few entrances as possible. be wary of log off traps, the griefers will log off on a stargate you are likely to use and have a scout look for one of your members come by, then they all log on at once and kill him. i should know, i war dec nublets all the time. also you can hire your own mercenaries.people who wardecs are like bullies, we keep going for the person who gives us a good response. if you just don't reply and have no interest in fighting back with your feeble resources we will get bored."
"a faction bs on station? you ignore it... it can't catch frigates, especially in empire space.... use griffins to jam him out, use insta-undocks to come and go from station safely.... use tactics to evade him until he is vulnerable..... also, 20 frigates, especially now that there are rr frigates, can run lvl 4 missions very entertainingly!!! a 30 man gang of frigates is extremely powerful.... it won't beat a 30 man t3 gang, but it will destroy a 5-10 man t3 gang... learn to utilize ewar, learn to coordinate your attacks, and have fun doing it... so blueball them.... if they don't get easy kills, they will eventually leave you alone... run from them, move your base of operations... don't engage until you have the \"advantage\". utilize allies to help you out. utilize neutral alts to mess with them too... there are tons of options... you need to step up and lead.... in all seriousness, pm if you have pvp questions... agony's pvp-university teaches pvp to the general eve populace, and our introduction class (pvp-basic) is all about utilizing frigates to have great fights. we take 30-100 man frigate gangs into nullsec with everyone one of our classes and smash them into \"organized\" gangs of bs's and t3's and logistics.... and we often win the battles because a large number of frigates is extremely potent... even if they are individually fragile. so right here, you have found a way to evade the war dec situation... in lowsec, there are level 1-4 agents, there are good plexes, there is mining if that's your thing, there are s&i facilities you can access.. sure, you have to be weary of pirates and the like, but that's part of eve's landscape... in all seriousness... adapt... you may not get to play exactly like you want, but these \"intrusions\" into your gameplay should be seen as an opportunity to take your corp in a new direction..."
"it would be great be like 4 jitas one for each race i have never left my caldari space i have never left the main sys i live in for months not even one jump all the places cut off would become trade hubs and they would make the stuff and mine for it in that area of space then be right back to the way it is now x4 there is all ways a way to by pass you being part of the game 3 weeks later op we need to end high sec"
"missiles nerfed again. as long as ive played eve its seems that missiles get less and less. ive lost over 60 k of range from the cereb . the complaint use to be missiles are over powered. now they are crap . the drake a missile ship now wont even hit at max range. come on 35% drop off ... i trained all my missiles skills too 100 percent over the years. and the caldari a missle loving people cry at how sorry a missile is now . when an orcale can put out 1600 damage a round where is the comparassion to missiles... yeah i know the drake can tank alot but come on it has to as it will take hours to kill anything ....lets be fair here.. its a missile it should be deadly with the right skill set.... i could go on and on about comparisions but we all know missiles have the bad deal here......."
"heavy missiles had better dps than any other long-range medium weapon system in game, and thus needed the nerf.comparing anything to a t3 bc but another t3 bc before they are tiericided is silly, specially if even the weapon systems are different.hams, torps and rockets got buffed this expansion (by not being exluded from some rigs and implants).the damage of light missiles got buffed.tech 2 missiles had their silly penalties removed.precision missiles were buffed, they no longer do less damage than t1.fitting a bunch of launchers got easier.the golem's target painting got buffed.tell me again how missiles overall got nerfed badly again.\"we want pve activities to require active participation and mirror pvp more closely.\" stacking penalty for npc ewar then?<U+FFFD>lock range under 9km from over 100 in a bs is not fun. nor<U+FFFD>is two npc web drones making me crawl 10m/s. pvp sw-900 x5: 75m/s."
"so..... you got your butt handed to you by a hurricane. instead of changing your tactics, you come to the forums and plead with ccp to change the game in a futile effort to make up for your individual shortcomings?yeah, i thought so. lse's are fine. summary of eves last four expansions:"
"great argument, you do that often ?yeah. i thought so. you are dumb."
"meh, i prefer the \"sculpting\" approach. i just wish there was that level of customizability beyond the physical form of the character.i also wish that the clothing and hair designers had hooked up with the people who wrote the lore, too, instead of designing generic space/1980s rave outfits(tm), but maybe that's asking too much."
"on nov.15 ccp fozzie talked about change for ewar cruisers:fifty-nine down - ship balancing for retributionnow from yesterday's patch note:how does an unchanged dronebay and painting bonus being significant?every other ship (including golem) with tp bonus got the buff, why does ccp hate bellicose so much?i mean bellicose is like the only potential tp ship in the game that can scale into a real fleet, consider that the poor locking range/ehp of vigil and hyena, and the general inequality of web > tp on huginn and rapiers. show some love please."
"see that post? it's awesome. =3whatever is done, the current ui need some love. btw, a search filter would be, even by himself, anhuge improvement."
"hello nyalnara.yes, i have read betoli's post, but i don't know how all these changes could look like, ingame. here is what i would suggest..betoli wrote:we should not be limited to one ==> dual overview and maybe more tabs could help.betoli wrote:tabs are far too annoying, and unintuitive to set up (with consequences for getting it wrong). it is the epitome of spreadsheets in space. i like tabs. they help quickly split/filter elements in the overview. but i agree, they are unintuitive to set up. though, one thing annoys me a bit is the slowlyness of the ui : especially after jumping through a stargate or after undocking a station. the game sometimes, doesn't feel really reactive. i am sure some players have lost battles in lowsec/nullsec just because their interface hasn't refreshed quickly enough.and yes the overview window does look more or less like an excel spreadsheet but how could ccp gather and display all these informations quickly ? i haven't the final solution to this issue, but i tend to think players shouldn't have to search for these informations everywhere on the screen. so gathering them all in one window isn't (maybe) the worse idea ccp had.betoli wrote:configurable buttons column for common actions appropriate for each object (linked to tab settings), you should never need to right click. take cans - what do i ever do with them - approach and open. so my cans setting should have those two buttons in the button column. other people might want warp-to and orbit for cans too. here are mockup images for this (betoli's) suggestion:new column with action buttons:"
"i totally agree.i am not a good player... i don't know yet all kinds of ships. and sometimes, when i see a ship in my \"directional scan\" or in the overview, i tell myself : - hmm.. is it dangerous or not ?- is it big or not ?- is it a t2 ship ?i don't know how but being able to quickly know more about a ship could save many players' lives/ships.. mine first.maybe hovering the line in the overview where the ship is listed, could display the following tooltip :first the player selects normally the ship (there's nothing new in this image) :"
"its in some ways a handy feature to allow personal playlists into the game, not many other games offer that without serious modding. though... ccp picking playlists based on location and situation seems to add more atmosphere, and immersion.maintaining a mp3 player also takes resources that could be used in other places.from the list of changes, sounds like they adding a heck load more of sound related stuff, so its certainly not like they abandoning it."
"i have to support this the jukebox made it easy to music play without having to alt tab in and out of the game it also added a convenient interface for pausing the music. as for claiming that it takes resources to maintain a jukebox that is bullshit it probably took more time for the developers to remove the code than it would have to leave it in. and what is there to maintain about an mp3 function ?? last time i checked mp3 technology is was fairly simple and efficient it is yet another example of developers thinking they know best without actually thinking."
"red glowing dust, red glowing dust, i want the jukebox back. enough is enough.. i loved the option 2 choose what song i wanted. you took my baby away from me.. why... whyyyy?anyway you got my vote 2 save the jukebox.warm regards"
"oh no........after the patch i search my top eve tool , the jukebox.it's gone.. the help channel told me, ccp have remove it, wilfully and knowingly !in the patchnotes i red i cry my pain in the eve-universe. what do you have done ..... how can i hear my favorite song \"below the asterdoids\" ?stay near the asteroids? alt-tab junkie?on no, this is the worst thing you have done ccp! why ? why? why?????????"
"i don't know , if the subjectwriter is a troll, but i 'am not. i mean it serious.if you say nobody cares about eve's music , it is arrogant. perhaps i had a chance to red it on the devblog, but what have i done in this situation ? starting a petition ? collection signes? perhaps the most people don't use it, i don't know,but it was important for me and my user experience in playing eve. really.alttabbing is not the same or listen in browser..realechnaton"
"******* signed. we didn't fight to get this ***** in the first place to let them just take it away on a whim. 'context driven soundscape'? **** that. i'm sorry, but some of us play this game fullscreen, and the whole reason that we got it in the first place was so we didn't have to be assed with alt tabbing.except they're not using it in other places, they're using it to create 'context driven music'. like i want it hear the same track or two five thousand times while i camp or mine or whatever the **** i'm doing."
"don't fix what isn't broken. the jukebpx is what keeps me going with my own music, listening to eve music isn't what i want to hear over and over and over again.. pluse tabing isn't something i like to do between screens, that in it self takes up your . even if it is just for a few seconds. resources?whats even more funny is you leave your launcher program running on the screen. that takes up resources . something i don't care to have running when i can just log into eve gate and get what i'm looking for. de monik ~[u]*end of line[/u]*~"
"bump, because this is pretty epic.herping your derp since 19potato - [url="
"how'd you preserve your boobs but baby chuchu lost hers?"
"ccp hasn't forced a render of the portrait. as far as i know, baby chuchu simply chose to cover up. i think tanthalassa's portrait is also still the same.if i ever redo my portrait, the bra will end up being on. it's also on in the cq and view full body."
"ships get killed collapsing wh's all the time. and there is barely anything you can do to prevent that. declaoking is a ***** in a 3d space without reference. as for controlling your entrencepvp doesnt come through your static. it comes through k162. and when it does, it comes within seconds. in high class where you need siege and triage to pve this means that you have no choice but to fight, and usually die.as for stabilizers, yes, we should always listen to evaluate. however any player side tempering with mass restrictions kills what makes wormholes the place we live in. as for making the mass equations different, youre just looking at it from the perspective as safety. please realise we need those statics for everything. to fight, to do pve, to get skill books, fuel etc. if we cant control the statics as we can right now it would mean high class wh space would become much much harder, but not in a way anyone in wormhole space would enjoy. high class depend on the mass calculations, even though often enough it brings death to ships when maths are off.want general pve safety made less? as far as i know sleepers knew how to control wormholes and make them go where they want. they also only spawn to protect their assets, and they are very advanced. maybe they will soon figure out that the best defense against capsuleers is capsuleers. running pve? have double the chance to get k162. and light a frckin sleeper cyno so we know where the pve fun is. as for fortress systems. yes they are very very hard to siege and get alliances out off. however, the amount of work to setting them up is insane. and also, we dont care. we want to fight, not evict. why fight over a wh system? its useless. there are plenty of others. its not like 0sec where the system itself has its value. now that ive typed all this, can i have alliance bookmarks? awesome."
"not in a dystopia... a dystopia is a society most notable for it's injustices, typically enforced by biased societal laws... eve prides itself on allowing morally grey or inept behavior. the dev's purposely allow awoxing, scamming, in-game stealing, suicide ganking, piracy, extortion, and all other socially reprehensible activities. if i steal your bpo collection from the corp hangar, should concord force me to give it back or pay you restitution? if i disband your alliance, should concord re-form it for you? ccp dev's purposely avoid creating a mechanically enforced social/moral code. they purposely leave that to the player base, and it's up to you to enforce it... now, i provided you several examples of how to keep yourself safe, i gave several examples of why people want the ability to shoot corp mates. if the only reason for nerfing awoxing is awoxing conflicts with your personal moral code and causes you economic hardship, then you lose. especially since you can take ingame steps to limit your vulnerability!! /thread"
"i still think your love of every other aspect of this game would not be bothered by an adjustment of the mechanic where industrial are concerned. nice rant, but i don't see much credit to the argument that \"it's the way it is because it has been.\"that's why i'm asking for improvement.."
"you're supposed to trust the people in your corp. that is all this mechanic is about."
"and this idea, essentially, is about forcing people in your corp to be trustworthy.... i don't particularly find that appropriate for eve, and am vehemently against it."
"i think you abundantly made your point, gizznit. i would like to hear some other views. and, may i point out if you did want to attack your former corp members, there is a multitude of ways to do so...and my argument is strictly high sec. there's no limits what you can do in other places of space. live the life you want to, and don't assume we all wish to keep this faulty mechanic just because you find it \"fitting.\""
"easy fix. make a new trial corporation for yourselves. this way everything is separate.i know fleet mechanics can factor in as well but you can always kick them from fleet and let concord do their job."
"this is a good temporary solution for me, so thank you for posting ^^ i hadn't considered this. even so, i think it's still valid i shouldn't have to have two corporation to do the job of one. but, i will adopt this technique for now."
"no, you can't shoot a fleet member (unless you're part of the same no-npc corporation ofc)."
"ways to solve this:have recruitment standards."
"because even the most well known pirate can't make a 1 day alt and pretend to be friendly or new?or lets say i take one a 10 mill sp minimum and api check for industry skills, but they decide **** it, they never get kills and there's and orca right there protected by a bunch of retrievers. fit battleship out for, well, doesn't matter does it? concord isn't gonna stop them anyway. with almost no combat skills and a warp distrupter, boom, dead orca. maybe it was because they got into an argument with someone, maybe they want to turn pirate, or maybe they are just an asshat.my point is i don't care why they suddenly choose to abuse this stupid mechanic, i haven't heard a real reason to keep it. just ways i should be working around it.saying i can work around it isn't a reason for the mechanic to exist.... thanks anyways though."
"one reason to keep the mechanic is because the average hisec bear pilot doesn't have his/her overview setup to defensive or pvp tabs. accidentally shooting each other whilst trying to defend a corpie is a real possibility.tbh though if you have gotten to the point of disgruntled employee suspicion and not taken action first (removed roles, get ready to boot if it goes the way it is already, keep indy's out of harms way whilst the 24 hours cool down period ticks off etc. etc. ) then something bad is going to happen 9/10 times."
"the problem is even if you are ready to boot someone, kicking them out after the fact isn't going to help much. they already got what they wanted and were planning on leaving after anyway.edit: with the safety button, this is no longer a concern about shooting eachother."
"firstly, as the person that wants to change the existing system the burden of proof is on you. prove to us that your mechanical enforcement of your moral standard will make the game better for everyone.secondly, the first rule i learned in eve was never trust someone out side of punching distance. if someone is out side of the range of your irl fist, assume they have a dagger with your name on it.third, htfu"
"^ removing a mechanic that only occurs a percentage of the time and wouldn't effect the game in a negative way for any of the people complaining about this, but improve the game for the people who are affected by it... yeah i see why i need to explain my proof even further.the only purpose of the corporation kill mechanic seems to be to allow for abuse. and though players are forced to find ways to deal with it, still doesn't seem to be any evidence that it's existence is good, beneficial, or logical. the one argument was friendly fire, which retribution has made moot. so, i ask again, why should this not be revisited? if not across the board, at least where industrial vessels are concerned.taking advantage of this in the past does not mean it should continue for the rest of the game."
"you could, you know, have other corpmates shoot them. you do have other people in your corp, right? some of them have ships that mount guns, right?right?!?snarky trolling aside, if you want to protect your valuable assets, man up and protect them instead of crying to ccp to do it for you."
"don't see the point in changing this mechanic. it's fine as is."
"i'll bite, why is that?"
"do i really need to give an explanation? if so, then this is better suited for the f&i forums than the assembly hall. i'm simply expressing my \"yey\" or \"ney\" vote here."
"i wasn't asking for a vote, this topic is entirely for discussion. if you don't feel like stating your views, that's fine, but that is why this thread is here."
"i'm convinced people only make these threads to troll. i can't believe yet another crybaby would spew tears over this none issue."
"if they are afk there is no problem, just keep doing what your doing.i played in tribute for a while and when irc put a cloaky in our system everyone stopped doing their normal stuff. i continued to do what i was doing and the guy never bothered me.you let cloaked players keep you docked. that is your problem not ccps"
"i was disappointed to see how corporate recruiting has changed since incarna. the older system was buggy but at least it was useable. the current implementation for corporate recruiting is completely useless as most of the bugged filters from earlier releases were simply removed or disabled rather than reworked and fixed. it is difficult to find relevant corporate adverts when you cannot filter by region. say your in forge and looking for a local mercenary group you'll end up with hits for null sec corporations out in the ass end of minmatar space. additionally there are no exclusion filters so you'll end up with all the results that match what you want but for multipurpose corporations you'll still end up getting hits for corporations that perform activities you would rather avoid. i think we need to get this system fixed so you can actually find what your looking for rather than wasting time scrolling through hits that are not relevant let alone even in the same empire as your character."
"it seems it's no longer possible to join a dead corp to an alliance. but they didn't remove the dead corps that are already in the alliances. a corp applies to the alliance, alliance accepts application, corp disbands, corp remains in \"accepted\" state until the application becomes \"effective\", then the corp vanishes into thin air. the war declaration message is now incorrect, stating that outgoing wardecs increase in cost based on the number of outgoing wardecs you have. the message for booting a corp out of alliance is now incorrect/misleading. it states that booting someone from the alliance will make copies of all the wars, and then immediately retract them all. if this was the case we'd be back to dec shield v1.0 confirmed that wardecs no longer inflate in cost due to multiple outgoing wars confirmed that mutual wardecs can be retracted by the aggressor the right click menu ability is gone. which helps clear up confusion for many."
"so nobody really understands the \"simple wardec mechanisms introduced in inferno/retribution\"."
"i haven't wrote something in a while. i was hoping for ccp to end it well, but i doubted it. i had so many petitions about the \"copy\" mechanism being the root of the problem, but no gm nor any ccp member answered them in a satisfying way. last petition ended in\"it will be fixed\".i am so disappointed by ccp responses in this forum. i do not know if you, zerg, are in direct contact with ccp, but responses like \"try it on buckingham. you might be surprised\" show no professionalism.i started another petition, my last one on this matter, to answer for and to explain the current changes. i have to say, i am not surprised by the actual outcome. to end it i will use some words from my favorite eve moviecrap crap mega crap"
"i am being bullied off eve by a person who has taken offence at catty remarks i made on local chat. each time i get the bounty removed it is replaced. this is stopping me playing the game. the eve management dont seem to care about this treatment of me. i am not the only player this is happening to. who runs this game?who protects players from any form of abuse?i have read and understand all the penalties for misuse of this forum and respect them but players are being subjected to abuse in game and it goes unchecked, ignored and seemingly almost condoned.are there any other players who feel the same or have had some form of abuse directed at themselves?"
"it's not abuse. it's a feature. i am now going to place bounty on your head. oh yeah... getting a bounty does not mean that anyone can \"legally\" kill you in high-sec... unless you are at war with said person or he/she has aggro rights on you."
"let them.log in an alt and claim their moniez until they run out. its like them giving you their stuff and not rage quitting...for serious."
"except you only get a return of 20ish% of your loss.... coupled with insurance you still won't come out in the positive. bounties are garuanteed to inflict economic damage on an opponent now.... which is a good thing.. *note: there might be some items you can buy cheap enough to \"boost\" your return rate... but none exist that i'm aware of at the moment... also, have you tried apologizing for your remarks? i think this is good social pressure.... finally.... why do you care if you have a bounty on you? can you please provide an example of how it negatively impacts your game play?"
"you can only claim the bounty when you kill someone's ship... the bounty paid is based on 20% of the destroyed ship's value. that means you can never claim your own bounty in one go unless you kill yourself in something expensive enough... making it not worthwhile to kill yourself with an alt."
"working as intended."
"doesn't it require a person to have done something \"officially\" (read: concord standards) wrong for a bounty to even be possible .. or did the sages in iceland remove that nagging common sense rule?if nothing has to go before a bounty is placed then it will degenerate into a griefing tool with decade old carebears that has never fired a shot at a person having the biggest pools around .. hell, wouldn't be surprised if the suicide gankers organize into a murder inc. type thing, all chip in and make it a sport to see who can get the most bounties in a given time frame."
"sounds like a troll wanting bounty to me but seriously, it's an in game mechanic. don't make catty remarks and you wont get a bounty."
"i'd like to point out.... bad guys put hits out on good guys... which could also be called a bounty.... so why should bounties be limited to lower sec status plaeyrs?"
"placing bounty on op right now ..."
"lmao what a load of delicious tears! pro-tip: the last few updates have done nothing but swing the wardec mechanics far, far in favour of the defender. if you're still so terrible you can't deal with it then tough luck bro. you lose at eve."
"> complaining about wardecs and booh-hoo.remember that these guys, \"griefers\", are taking time and isks to create a story in your sandbox. the \"carebears\" that just want to mine and rat in peace ? nothing but npcs."
"worse than npcs. npcs don't cry and demand ccp further limit the scope of the game"
"you complain about war decs yet you put your noobies in a constant state of war with fw...... ummmmmok"
"jukebox was one of the first player requested features to be actually implemented by ccp, previously we had to hack the client to create custom playlists. ccp, please don't be an indian giver and return our jukebox."
"i support bringing the jukebox back, but i already have a thread up for this here."
"signed !realechnaton"
"i like the low sec idea but the problem is almost every gate you could think of would be camped.if you want to get rid of afk freighters prevent them from having auto pilot in the first place."
"it would be silly to think every gate would be camped. even rancer is not camped 24/7"
"this is the second time this week i have heard a similar idea,"
"actually mr. richard, i do not believe the op ever mentioned heavy missiles or heavy missile damage. point of fact, if you read his post, he is complaining about all missile range, and all missile damage compared to other races and weapon types. he at no point said missile \"damage\" was nerfed. the op also never compared anything to the tier 3 oracle, he asked where the comparison to that level of damage was in missiles. across hybrid, laser, and projectile weapons there exists a balance of damage. that is to say they are all about the same or are able to be made the same. missiles however do not compare to other weapon types at all. especially not in the terms of dps, rof, or now range. not to mention all turrets deal multiple types of damage.now to clarify i own a oracle, and have the maximum skills for it and t2 lasers. i can in fact get a amarr bs to this same level of 1600 damage he mentions (bs just cost more). cruise missiles, (also with max skills) do not come close to this level of damage, and will not hit a small ship for more than double digit damage. given the appropriate range my t2 lasers will \"insta pop\" frigates and cruiser's every time. no missile boat i have ever tested, used, or operated is capable of such action. (even with grouped missiles)frankly mr. richard to call the op or his post silly, because you either did not read, or are simply stuck in your own little world of wanting to be superior, is just rude. the op makes a solid point, and i do not know many who use missiles out side of pve. the accepted standard fits for most if not all pvp ships is based around turrets. now mr. richard if you are truly a player of less than one year, you have no basis of knowledge for your statement. eve has been around a long time, you have not. what gives you the right to complain about drones in another thread, and not respect this man for making a complaint of his own. you sir, forget yourself."
"the op complained about losing missile range..... of which only heavy missiles have recently had their range altered. teh op mentioned how the oracle outputs 1600 dps a \"round\", opening the door to discuss missile damage. (note: an oracle can not, in fact, output 1600 dps with any reasonable fit.)since half the missile systems in the game just had their damage buffed, and none of them had their damage nerfed, mr. richard pointed this out... which is extremely relevant. 1.) the fact turrets deal \"multiple\" types of damage is quite often a penalty, not a \"bonus\". 2.) what compares to the potential damage output of large pulse lasers, blaster cannons, and autocannons?? well geeze... perhaps torpedos?? note: you can't get your reasonably fit amarr bs to 1600 dps either..the torp raven has similar range, higher alpha, and similar dps as a pulse abbadon or gheddon. i'll acknowldege that applying torp dps to \"smaller\" targets is harder than applying turret dps to smaller target, due to differences in the missile vs turret damage formulas. however, it's moderately easy to outmaneuver turrets and negate all their dps, were as it's impossible to outmaneuver all missle damage, so a target (in range) always receives some dps. there are pro's and con's to both formulas! other potential examples: a ham drake outputs 500-600 dps consistently to 18 km's. an ac cane outputs 600-700 dps consistently to 2 km's... but can only deliver half that dps to a target at 15 km's. a hm drake outputs 350-450 dps consistently beyond 50+ km's. an arty cane outputs 400-500 dps to targets closer than 30 km's, but drops off to 200-300 dps for targets at 70 km's. these numbers are different, but nowhere near the \"missiles are obsolete\" level. mr. revelation.... you come across as very condescending and rude.... you sound like an old pot calling the new kettle black! i do have the experience and knowledge to backup my statements.... additionally, when you bring up cruise missiles rather than torps when looking at raw damage output, you come across as so ignorant of weapon systems that i believe mr. richard probbably knows more than you do, regardless of character age. in conclusion... mr. richard's reply was completely reasonable, not rude, and put's the op's whine about missiles range being nerfed well within the perspective of yesterdays changes. in contrast, your post feels condescend, pretentious, and is full of baseless counter arguments. would you like to try again... or perhaps you should just forget it!"
"and now, beam (or railguns) have better dps than any other long-range medium weapon system in game, and thus needs a nerf.see where this is going?"
"hoped someone else would reply to the rest of your post (and someone did), so i only reply to this part:the same right that you have to make a quite personal attack on me?no, that is not the answer i want to make.instead, i'll make a point:i complained about drones multiple times, and then there were several replies, some on a different stance than mines.some that made me reconsider my stance.in fact, they helped me.i have hoped i could contribute to the op's gameplay as have those posts to mine.that i did it in the way that i have... that's just me being a terrible terrible person.but i do hope the op's oppinion on the way ccp handles missiles has improved, and maybe he'll try out the new and buffed hams with rigs and implants for instance. slight correction, heavies did get a range and damage nerf.yes, you are right.let me try and phrase it differently:heavy missiles did unproportionately more dps than the rest of the medium systems after considering all the different factors, according to some on the forums, and apparently also according to ccp. (also, they made hams look pretty bad, the rest of the long range weapon systems didn't do that to their short range breathren in the same class that badly. or at least i hope they do not.)the fact that you mention both beams and railguns may hint at how maybe things could be more balanced now.how off or not it is, is naturally open to interpretation and discussion.and ofc the unmentioned projectiles and their having lower dps, but in return higher volley damage, is also part of the balance, they don't need a dps buff just as much as rails/beams don't need a nerf just because of raw dps numbers.\"we want pve activities to require active participation and mirror pvp more closely.\" stacking penalty for npc ewar then?<U+FFFD>lock range under 9km from over 100 in a bs is not fun. nor<U+FFFD>is two npc web drones making me crawl 10m/s. pvp sw-900 x5: 75m/s."
"baseless counter arguments? -shakes head-no one ever said dps, the op said \"round\" ie volley. and point to fact that 1600 took into account for some serious shield resistances.oracle stats 824/5672 (no implants or rigs) drake hm stats 370/3226 (no implantsor rigs ) drake ham stats 411/1473 (no implants or rigs) raven torp stats 939/5682 (no implants or rigs) hurricane stats 550/4015 (no implants no rigs) (all straight from eft, or are we denying that as fact?)now i admit that the topr raven can output a lot of damage. however i stand firmly by the point that your targets are limited to bs's and bc's to be effective. again turrets rare not as limited, and point to fact any person i know whom flies a turret ship operates within there ranges, and knows how to move around the battle field as needed. in the case of missions and pve, your generally able to kill anything before you lose your effective range. i do thins useing the oracle in missions quite often. it is actualy a pin to salvage due to bs and bc wrecks being 80+k out from entry point.as reasonable is a variable term dependent on the situation, it is sort of irrivilivant. the discussion was about \"potential\". i do believe that was more due to the belief 1600 was a dps number.turrets are preferd for sniping due to range, and instant damage. until the recent range nerf, the cerberus was capable of a hitting range above 180k. infact the missles went beyond the maximum moded range of the ship.i understand the frustration of the op, because the drake use to be a superb ship for pve. this is only the most recent in a long line of changes that have negatively effected it. yes they still hit for \"some\" damage, not that 17 is worth the cost of a missile. also i brought up cruise missiles because i knew for fact, after the changes, they could not hit a frigate for more than 20 damage. you expect a torpedo can do more? i have not tried but it is my understanding they are meant to hit bigger objects than cruise missiles. yes the oracle was a bad direct comparison. however what is your statement about the hurricane? it is the same class as the drake.also no one said anything else needed a nerf. it is ccp whom chooses \"nerfs\" as solutions. usually they nerf item a, and then introduce item b to do the same job at 10x the cost.as for the personal attack, i was board. my statements were backed by fact however as posted above. i think where your understanding falters is in refrence to the drake. its ability to run lvl 4s has been effected. and to switch missiles types or augment with rigs, negatively effects the drakes tanking ability.also the main complaint of the op was range, not damage. also beams do not have more damage or range at the medium level there equal now. never said they did. everything should be a bit different. this quest for \"balance\" is one thing that is absurd. i believe the larger issue here, and one we can all agree with is ccp should leave well enough alone. as the one guy said \"see where this leads\" some of us are old and set in our ways, and we hate having to refit, and rework all of our ships because they made more changes to a very old system. anyhow you all ahve entertained me, so my original post was worth the effort. ohh and by the way gizznitt, i was no more defending the op than you were mr. richard. us old farts have to stick together when one of us starts waving our cane around. :pbut really its a game, who cares."
"that is where we read it differently.in my ears, op complained about missiles being nerfed again and again, citing the current range nerf, and hinting at damage with the oracle.replied to the constant nerfs with the buffs some missiles gained this expansion (pretty much each of them apart from hms).now if the topic would be named \"heavy missiles ranges are not what they use to be\"...but it had a generic missile in the name, a statement with complains about how missiles in general are getting nerfed and nerfed again, i've read it differently than you did.you entertained me as well\"we want pve activities to require active participation and mirror pvp more closely.\" stacking penalty for npc ewar then?<U+FFFD>lock range under 9km from over 100 in a bs is not fun. nor<U+FFFD>is two npc web drones making me crawl 10m/s. pvp sw-900 x5: 75m/s."
"if read you will in fact see i said over the years i have played missiles get less and less. get this ( years ) my number one concern is that 35% fall off flight time is to much. 10-15 i would suck it up. think like this if i took 35 percent of the money or say isk you made would you like that.second i said where is the comparable missile boat that can deal the damage of and i used the oracal as an example as it put out quite a bit of damage.in real life calling a concern that a person has silly or that it a whine shows that you have no respect for an individuals thinking and your true character. yet you want someone else to listen to perhaps your silly whine or rant about something the word here is hipacrit.maybe some higher level of management training is needed.maybe you just need to have respect for othersa true leader will listen to all ideas and be respectful as he in return will get respect of his peers.as this is a game i could be nasty and say some nasty things why when you get your emotions so involved in a game you have some real life issues.eve has real life events people will always lie ,cheat. steal, too get what they want. so the real life quote and for eve should be and is what i use trust no one and yes that is from xfiles"
"with so many people complaining about how the new bounty system works i had a thought.what about two options when setting a bounty.bounty payoutanddurationduration would be a multiplier.say you placed a 10mil bounty on someone for a 1 day, it'd cost you 10mil.say you want it to last a week, it'd not cost you 20mil to place the 10mil bounty.want it to last a year? sure, but it'll cost you.after the time out the bounty expires and no one gets the isk\it defaults back to the person who placed it, like with buy orders."
"the point is to get ideas flowing, they are obviously looking for ideas or they would not have brought it up in the csm talks. beating a dead horse or not, now is the time to bring up ideas for ccp to play around with next year.~edit~beating dead horses gives us glue, and we use glue for everything :p"
"this illustrates while sizes between armor and shield are balanced, the size scale is obviously not related to the ship, and each ship uses a size a bit larger than the official size"
"so location driven sounds and music can make a good game even better. that said, i would support bringing the jukebox back if keeping location driven sounds and music remained as an option.issler"
"i agree with this 100 percent"
"um, issler, have you ever been in an mmo that had this? it's like elevator music from hell. if someone wants to torture themselves with it, they can be my guest, but i'd like jukebox back."
"who are you to decide?the music/jukebox is a significant part of the product i buy.playing eve without music is not playing eve for me. so now that i don't have the jukebox anymore, i have to log out and log in again when the music (for some reason) stops to play.\"for hundreds of years my community has enjoyed cheddar cheese and pineapple on a stick\" - william ulsterman"
"blast you ccp"
"nah. it was a bug, they fixed it. i'm appreciative that they haven't forced a render."
"i support this and i will also suggest the possibility of adding a sex in station system"
"double"
"never going to happen of course. frankly i don't play eve to watch virtual sex dolls go at it. lets just stick to clean realism."
"like watching iteron v's docking all day"
"i agree that mass limits should not be touched however i can see a stabilizer preventing natural decay and keeping the wormhole from despawning until it actually collapses."
"while betrayal might be a desired outcome on the part of ccp it should not be achieved by ****** ui but by hard won spy effort."
"holy spam posting. browser fail, sorry =("
"the new ai has brought with it a new dilemma and that is the fact that they will always target drones even switching aggro from the players.there are a large number of ships where drones are the only armaments and with the new system these become inneffectual in the pve environment. the issue is how do you rebalanced drones so that they are viable in pve without making them overpowered in pvp. it is easy to balance drones to survive in pve by making their tanks stronger or allow the drone bay to automatically begin repairing docked drones but most of the mechanics that would be used to balance them would in turn make drones too overpowered in pvp where players need to be able to take them out quickly. so does anyone have ideas how to make drones viable against the new ai"
"need a more skilled forum poster to take this up see about getting them to add it to chat options in game as soon as some one replys to this and agrees to take this topic up and make a well written post about it (delete) this post after this way we all have a place to talk in game do what ever"
"or you need to create the channel and advertise it in crime & punishment."
"i think he quite clearly stated his views. i happen to agree with him.i think a good point was made earlier in theis thread: jint hikaru - miner / salvager / explorer / spacebum in the beginning the universe was created. this has made a lot of people very angry and been widely regarded as a bad move."
"i still think your average battleship will take an orca down in aprox. 40-55 seconds. meaning, protection is moot coming from anyone in your corp who would only have to lightly tank the bs to kill it.i still maintain there is no way to effectively stop people from abusing it. even if he pays with his ship, he's still going to get an orca kill. and that assumes a bunch of miners even have the skills to take him on with the \"protection\" they'll be flying. he'll probably just shoot all of them down too.but, i realize i'm in the minority on this topic. i doubt i'm going to see any change made to this despite no compelling argument to keep the loophole or any real way to prevent its abuse.edit: i also believe the other poster simply stating \"i think the mechanic is fine the way it is.\" isn't as helpful to stating your view when they offer none of the reasons why they supported it. at least jint quoted examples."
"you can always place a bounty on them :/ not supported it has been this way forever"
"that's my point, everyone seems to be in favor of having to go through pointless work arounds for a mechanic that shouldn't exist... but are just used to it always being there.and don't get me started on the bounties in retribution. everyone in the universe has a bounty for talking in local chat or looking the wrong way at someone. mostly meaningless."
"get a corpmate to fly a blackbird. even if the hostile corpie is fitted to the brim with eccm, a blackbird fitted entirely with ecm is going to land a jam cycle against a single target.if your combat abilities are really that lacking, then the plan should not be to \"take him down\" but to stall him so everyone else can get away safely. then kick him from corp.there is no abuse. it's your corp and your assets. you are supposed protect it. not the game.beyond this... being in a corp has always been about \"tradeoffs.\" creating a corp give you the ability to set up a corp hanger and a pos... but you open yourself up to war decs. you have the capacity to let in who you want, when you want and no one can force you to do otherwise... but that means that those you do allow in gain the ability to be hostile towards you if they so wish (which actually encourages people to be nice to each other, lest someone in corp gets mad and decides to do something about it)."
"this statement makes no sense.... while the time to down an orca (40-60s) is reasonable, given a gank fit bs and a completely untanked (no dcu) orca. i don't understand what is moot? i realize that understanding what is happening and reacting takes a few seconds, but getting a corp mate to uncloak in a falcon and jam a bs, getting a corpmate to switch to the griffin and jam that ship doesn't take 40 seconds... (unless you are afk). i think i understand now... for some reason you think you need to kill the bs to save the orca... this is not the case, you only need to jam the bs so the orca can get away.... miner's don't need to take out the bs first and foremost.... they could all release ec drones (the orca too) and have them jam out the bs.... you only need to initially get away and then you can regroup and decide how to deal with the \"rotten apple\". as shahfluffers pointed out, that should be your strategy.... you know, you first asked: \"perhaps someone can explain why this is perfectly acceptable or how one might avoid this kind of abuse.\"i posted several reasons why it is useful... which you completely ignored.... i posted several ways you can protect yourself... which you completely ignored... i then asked you extremely pertinent questions as to \"why this should be changed\".... and your only response was essentially: eve laws, and hence it's mechanics, should enforce morally and economically fair behavior... which is a fluff answer... you haven't presented a compelling argument as to why it's a problem. sure, you've posted that some people have suffered losses do to this mechanic... but so what.... but people suffer losses do to scamming, corp thievery, suicide ganking, piracy, extortion, and much and more... and ccp has a long history of not only allowing that behavior, but promote it in their game. and look, shah fluffers just posted another reason to allow in-corp aggresssion... so, why don't you take a step back and focus: explain how the situation is unmanageable? and more precisely, explain why the ways you can currently protect yourself are inadequate."
"i'll take these one by one i suppose. this tactic is a possibility, albeit a remote possibility. you are suggesting that upon seeing a battleship warp into our asteroid field (or on top of us if they merit a fleet invite), we will have time to switch ships? i find it unlikely, considering they are piloting freaking mining barges, it will take them at least 20 seconds to get back to a station. if we kept them inside the orca, this would involve ejecting from their ships and trying to switch as quickly as possible to the already drowning orca. even if they respond immediately to this, which is unlikely high sec miners will be adrenaline pumped and watching every second with their hands on the ejection button ready to go, i still doubt this plan will work.i'll go further more, i have never seen orcas use in such a way, ever. small scale or large. doesn't seem like a realistic job for an abuse that will only occur a -very- small percentage of the time.perhaps already having a ecm boat there for the soul purpose of ratting and guarding could be, but i doubt a small operation would merit the loyalty or attention of such a guard, and would most likely get a bs to do the plan he was supposed to prevent. in all honesty, why shouldn't we? we need him there to prevent this from happening, admitting he is the only thing stopping anyone in corp from doing this... why wouldn't he do it himself again? ecm drones are a better option and likely to be held by the orca pilot as well as potentially other miners. i approve of this option and will implement it on the off chance i ever get in this situation. they aren't going to be 100% effective, but its better than nothing. if i am ignoring these suggestions it is because they:- don't justify the need to continue working around a mechanic that serves no one. there are a lot of ways to get revenge in the galaxy, corp killing doesn't need to be one of them.- are not realistic or defeat having the system. having multiple corporations to maintain safety? the system should not be so terrible i need to have multiple corporations. the fact anyone does this is a cry for reform. - convey that despite all the other ways pilots can expect loss in the universe, this one should be kept too.i am not crying that the universe is a harsh place, i expect it to be. however this mechanic in corporations is one that does not need to exist and easily rectified. there must be countless other ways to \"get back\" at a corporation you hated. maybe join another one, try to take it down any other way. but allowing free kills on industrials just before getting kicked from corp is stupid.you will keep listing them i'm sure but i think everything said so far comes down to \"well.. we like it that way. hasn't hurt us so far. learn to live with it.\"i'm speaking up for those that don't want to keep working around this for little reason."
"we're still investigating whether or not it's fixed. i could use information from our trapped people:what timestamp is your bill set for these entities?dec shieldwardec flopperwardec flipperwardec flapperzerg hatcheryrvb - red federation"
"dec shield: 2012.12.04 05:16wardec flopper: 2012.12.05 20:54wardec flipper: 2012.12.05 07:55wardec flapper: 2012.12.06 04:26zerg hatchery: 2012.12.04 03:29rvb - red federation: 2012.12.07 00:46"
"that seems to be when the notifications were sent out. what's the timestamp of when the bill is set for?"
"derp, one moment."
"found the due dates, my bad:dec shield: 2012.12.11 05:16wardec flipper: 2012.12.11 05:16zerg hatchery: 2012.12.11 03:29rvb - red federation: 2012.12.11 05:16wardec flapper: *war not listed in bills* wardec flopper: *war not listed in bills*"
"this is as we feared. the information i'm receiving from other aggressors is about the same. there is a hidden end-date variable to all the wars, and child wars are inheriting parent war's end-date. this means our proposed exploit of corp dropping and rejoining won't be effective. both devs were correct in their assessment that this loophole is closed (or at least very hard to time it appropriately to use it)."
"hello,i don't know if this proposal has already been stated or it's already in place, but maybe,- new players should get the mining frigate ship and it's skill, ( already trained to level 1 at least ), as part of their \"welcome package\"/player creation.thanks.kitty."
"already been done.new player get those when doing the industrial tutorials."
"the title says it all with ccp changing over to separate ore holds and slashing cargo space of mining barges it is unfortunate that we can no longer get bonuses from these modules."
"i'm reasonably ok with ore hold expander rigs, and perhaps ore hold expander modules.... however: make the ore hold expander rigs have an appropriate drawback: say -10% shields or perhaps -5% shield resistances. make the ore hold expander modules also have a drawback: say require 5-10 pg and perhaps reduces the structure hp by 15% (like nanofibers). finally, ore hold expanders should suffer stacking penalties... in short... ifyou fit out your mackinaw to have a 70k m3 ore bay... it should have under 10k ehp."
"or you could do it the easy way and make it work exactly the same as expanded cargo hold modules that reduce speed and agility which makes more sense. mining barges and indies are already **** easy to suicide gank and cant afford any shield or armor penalties a speed reduction is better as it gives a pirate more time to kill them while they align but will allows a decent tank"
"you're incorrect... cargo expander modules reduce speed and structure.... they do not alter agility... cargo expander rigs reduce armor. these are part of the reason why industrial ships are fragile. since a mining vessel's primary tank is shields, and structure to a lesser extent, it makes complete sense for ore bay expanders to reduce the shields and structure hp. then, you can chose to operate a fragile ship with a huge ore bay and lots of mining yeild, or you can sacrifice yield and/or ore bay to make it more durable... you shouldn't have the best of all worlds (yield, tank, and bay), but should have to make a fitting choice like every other ship in this game...."
"hahahaaaa, you were being a 'tard' in local chat and someone took offense and bountied you.... maybe you should appologize and stop being a di*k in local chat.i also have a snealy suspicion that you are trolling for more bounties, but as there is a chance that you are really crying on the forums to get gamewide rules changed to suit your own playstyle, then i continue to laugh in your general direction!jint hikaru - miner / salvager / explorer / spacebum in the beginning the universe was created. this has made a lot of people very angry and been widely regarded as a bad move."
"i need to test this bounty system out and you've just made yourself a better candidate than xenuria."
"you live in highsec, how is having a bounty impacting your play at all?you do realize that just because you have a bounty you're not in any more or less danger than you were before the bounty was placed, and that the bounty itself doesn't give anybody the right to shoot you."
"hey fellow spaceship pilots,i have been pained with this problem since i picked up this game. if i want to log out and in of my account to switch characters it takes too much time and is very inefficient. the game client closes, and i wait 10 seconds for it to re-open and reload the title screen and all. personally i think this is a waste of time and can be fixed easily. to fix this issue i propose that once you log out you are immediately brought back to the title screen without the closing and re opening of the client.regards,cinnabon"
"one of the complaints i keep hearing about is high security status players having bounties placed on their head due to personal issues. the thing is the term bounty refers to a price paid to bring in or terminate a fugitive criminal. a price paid to kill a innocent for revenge or a personal vendetta is usually referred to as a hit or assassination. which are a bit less than legal but still prevalent. basically my proposal is to separate prices on peoples heads into bounties and hit contracts. bounties will be limited to players with a negative sec status\ and hit contracts will be added for players of a security status 0 or higher. the difference between bounties and hit contracts is that bounties are legal and hit contracts are less than legal. there will be a penalty for placing a hit contract in the form of a moderate to significant standings loss from both concord and the empire in which the hit takes place however this will not effect your overall security status but may make you an enemy of the state if you place alot of these.."
"why not just call them all hit contracts.... i mean, if you are really going to get bogged down in the legal details, a bounty is placed on an outlaw by a police-like institution... but all in-game bounties are put on you by another player, that has absolutely zero legal authority. as such, all bounties should be renamed \"hit contracts\". p.s. while i like the idea of a sec status loss to the person that places the hit contract when a hit is made, i really don't see the need. i want to encourage people to place hits on everyone... and as such, see no reason to include a penalty to placing a hit."
"the standing loss is to encourage people to place bounties on criminals and discourage hit greifing on high security players however most pirates would not care and do this anyway. it is just to cut down on petty revenge hits for things like \"you look at me funny\""
"but there are many legitimate (as in not petty) reasons to place a hit on high-sec status players. perhaps i scammed you, perhaps i am in a rival industry corp and want to see your operations hindered, and i could go on.... sec status isn't all that indicative of how good or bad a person is... it's just indicative of one type of behavior.... they \"illegally\" shoot players in highsec and lowsec. here, legality means they don't have concord's permission to do so, but that doesn't mean they are in the wrong for doing it... for example: if, in lowsec, a neutral enters my fw plex, and powers right at me in a very threatening ship... i might not have concords permission to shoot them, but they are there to shoot me... by waiting for them to shoot first, i could easily be giving them the advantage and ensuring my demise... so i fire first when i need too..."
"maby we could change the penalty so it stacks if you place a hit every so often it is minimal but if you place them day after day the standing hits increase in severity"
"no"
"signed"
"ok, then if it is a matter of materials then why not have something fill the gap between jump-nothing and jump-anything. there is no middle ground. if you consider blackops as part of the picture then that still falls well short of providing a middle ground give that the size of the cargo hold is around 500-700m3.also, i understand that the ability to move items via a jump asset is not 'intended' to be an individual asset. yet, for the guy willing to throw 300-500usd at the game (yes these people are real) then thats exactly what it is and sounds like pay-to-win to me. if winning is being in control of the market simply because your the only one that can really move anything then being the guy with the j/f is the \"i win\" button. hell, for 8b it should be the i win button. for the sake of balance i think there should be something to fill the role of some sort of medium jump transport. it could be tech 3 transport that can jump 2.5ly and had a hold of 15km3 with some low slots. i dont care what it is, something is better than nothing."
"drones are still viable against the current npc ai in missions. i know this because i've spent my time since retribution's release doing l4's in a dominix. i've lost a grand total of one light t2 drone so far, and that was because i forgot to repair it and sent it out mostly dead to begin with. if i can do it, anyone can do it, because i'm certainly no master mission runner.but that doesn't mean no work needs to be done. the ai certainly needs tweaks, which has already been discussed in countless threads before. when and why certain npc's target drones is not very intelligent right now and needs to be further upgraded. drone ui and control from the player's perspective could also use some love and updating.the big change i would suggest, though, is increasing npc lock time against drones. as it stands right now, when they do target them, it takes them almost no time to do so and start damaging them. i'm not suggesting some ridiculous delay, but something rather small that would give the drones a little more time to do something useful before getting shredded.and drones do take a lot of damage fast, even with my near max drone skills (including durability iv, i think). but i think the damage they take is good incentive to train drone durability up. that said, it should be balanced by a slightly longer lock/engage time delay for npc's against drones. i can imagine that drones without ship bonuses like the domi's may get wiped out almost instantly."
"as a pilot who actively ganks corpmate orcas and other ships, i disagree with any change to the current system.everytime i gank a corpmate, it's always in highsec and their ships always have little or no defenses. no corpmates standing by in combat ships, no offensive drones, no ewar, no reps, no logistics. nothing. your ships are fitted and designed to yield maximum mining efficiency and minimal defense.you highsec miners just assume you're safe in highsec so you neglect even the most basic precautions. an orca fitted with an ecm module or ecm drones would've haulted my assault easily. offensive drones could have driven me away in sufficient quantity.inviting a brand new corp member to a mining fleet with multiple orcas on the field is a bad call. in several instances i was even told which pilots were in orcas and which ones to warp to zero. new members should be on a probationary status. you shouldn't straight up invite new members to your fleet within the first ten seconds of them joining.run background checks. i make little attempt to hide my intentions and actions. a simple 5 minute check would've reveled to any ceo what shenanigans i'm up to. even as i write this, i'm looking for another naive highsec mining corp to join, gank and hold hostage. if you're a ceo of a highsec mining corp i'm trying to join and you somehow miss this posting, then you deserve to get ganked.there was only one case where my attempts to gank a mining fleet were thwarted. multiple hulks and orcas were in the belt, but there was also a pvp fitted domi. the domi was there to take care of belt rats, offer remote reps, salvage, and most importantly deploy combat drones. his t2 heavies tore my hurricane to shreds and i escaped at 20% hull.tl;dr - you're not safe in highsec and you're not safe from your own corpmates. prepare accordingly.summary of eves last four expansions:"
"first post all week that's meant anything to me. thank you for your input.though i've never lost an orca, and i still think the mechanic should be changed, at least someone's experiences might help shape recruitment policy."
"maybe corporation members shouldn't be allowed to shoot each-other in highsec, still stands that regardless of where you go risk can happen.furthermore if they gunning for you, if you run the corp, boot them, if you not, quit. play with people you trust, once you got captials period, and don't have a alt account (or lazy, want to save time) and use others cyno chars in corp or alliance it is all trust, if the person i know cynos me into a hostile pos with gank fleet, that is my problem, and not ccps. freedom is the name of the game, security and morality are gotten with smart decisions. personally i only trust people who have been in a corp for a year to 6 months for cynoing."
"i disagree with your assessment of the situation, yet am willing to discuss it rationally and without trolling or petty insults.i can't tell you why every highsec corpmate ganker does it, only why i do it. their motivations are as many as the bricks in the wall. i do it because it's easy. i tried the lowsec piracy thing and found nobody for weeks. i was lucky to find a viable target, even luckier if i managed to land on the same grid as him. those instances are extremely rare.predators go to where their prey is. they follow their food source. if there's nobody left in lowsec and the prey all moved to highsec, then that's where the predators go.to further compound things, even after two \"revamps\", wardec mechanics are still just as broken as when they started. so how do you initiate a fight in highsec? there's can baiting, suicide ganking, wardecs, and there's corpmate on corpmate ganking. that's about it. -can baiting is pretty much gone. sometimes you'll see it happen in mission sites when ninja salvagers steal loot. jetcan mining is all but completely gone.-suicide ganking is very prevalent because the cost of your own ship is often outweighed by the cost of your targets ship and/or cargo.-wardecs are still broken because the aggressed corp simply joins decshield, sheds off the wardec, quits the alliance and is back to business as usual. it's incredibly difficult and expensive to get a wardec to stick to your opponent when they can so easily evade it.so what's left? corpmate violence. it's the one sure method of pvp in highsec that isn't broken. it's becoming ever more common because other methods of highsec pvp are broken or obsolete. it's far cheaper than initiating a wardec over and over. it's cheaper than losing your ship to concord. the griefer has the element of surprise and knows exactly what he's going up against.if you really want to cut down the corpmate ganking, ccp would have to revamp the wardec mechanics a third time and this time needs to put someone else in charge. the employee who's in charge of wardec mechanics carries the pre-incarna attitude of thinking he knows everything and doesn't have to listen to anyone.then ccp would have to revamp lowsec to bring it purpose. lowsec as it stands now has almost the same rewards as highsec yet it's risk is far higher. lowsec is worthless to industry and mining corporations, prime targets for piracy. if the industry/mining corps won't go into lowsec, what reason do pirates have to stay?summary of eves last four expansions:"
"that was one of my main points, is that this only really comes into play in high sec anyway. a lot of major orca losses occur in null during wars and greedy miners, i'm just trying to improve life for smaller time high-sec corps. but, i'm starting to see that this will have little impact on me. living in sov space and any corporation i manage in the future will most likely be out there. keep posting thoughts as people like. despite my arguments, i'm glad as many people took interest as they have."
"to further iterate, orcas can field some amazing tanking power if the pilot wished to. before the nerf, i fought against an orca that used dual asb's and i could not break his tank. since his cargohold was massive, i'd run out of ammo long before he ran out of cap charges.even with the nerf to asb's, they can still tank pretty well. it's just that highsec pilots don't feel the need to do so. they're under the delusion that they're safe and untouchable. my autocannons disagree.an orca with several ecm modules in the mid slots can easily shut down a corpmate ganker. hell, even fielding five ecm drones may do the trick. they can keep me off of his back long enough for him to align and warp away or call for aid.a standard mining fleet of 5 to 20 members can easily tear apart a lone corp ganker if they were all at their keyboard and they all carried combat drones. 20 members each with 5 combat drones equals one hundred drones on one target. very few ships can withstand that kind of pummeling.the underlying problem isn't players unable to deal with this thread. it's that they're unwilling or too naive.summary of eves last four expansions:"
"the counter to this is more stringent recruiting methods."
"works as intended. be careful who you trust and who you **** off. same thng as making a guy a director, then crying if he takes your stuff after you **** him off. you trusted them...your fault, not ccps."
"though true, i was not complaining about all possible trust issues. just one mechanic that i think should be fixed."
"i've been placing bounties on anyone and everyone i see in jita, help and recruitment channel. not because i hate them but rather because it's cheap and funny. when everyone is wanted, then the bounty system is a meaningless red flag for recruiters.summary of eves last four expansions:"
"i lol'd at miss use. (i thought it was a toon name or something)we were all in hisec once upon a time.rule 1 : don't smack local to the bigger kids. you wouldn't do it in the playground without getting a s&^%kicking so why would you think it would be any different in the sandbox?"
"it seems that this ingame feature will start to generate more foum alts with alot of bounties on their heads :"
"\"whaa whaa whaa other players can place bounty on me the same way as i can on them ;_;\"*puts 20mil bounty on op*"
"you all forget one very valid point if you lose all the noobs u like any extra income for ccp and if they cant get more people it will cause them to stagnate and possibly shutdown"
"here's the thought process.goal 1, locate and recruit new players.goal 2, grow the corp and teach the players.goal 3, initiate somewhat controlled pvp where they can earn their isk, build their ships, and learn advanced pvp through trial and error.goal 4, after growing the corp to a substantial size with most characters over 6 months old and plenty of pvp experiencing under their belts, seek out a nullsec alliance.this goal is unattainable. as previously stated we have been plagued with wardecs. the new players can't do their pve so they run out of ships, so they make alts or don't log in at all.my options from here.drop out of faction warfare, and/or tell everyone who can't deal with the war to drop out of corp.dystopian future or not this is just a game. everyone here started as a green nublet flying about in space going ooh ah to the all the pretty colors. we all made bad fits, we all slogged through missions. we all were at a time when we had no idea what we were doing and were prone to mistakes. the problem new players have here is veteran players who enjoy taking advantage of the new player's ignorance. these new players aren't likely to hit the forums before they quit eve and look for something else. i have made their case, i'm going back to shooting stuff."
"so...i have always wondered....why is there no option for arming a station in nullsec? give it like four automatic guns that act like low sec guns do. make it so alliance can set the attack options like on a pos. this would make station camping still doable by a medium gang, or one with enough rr, but still make it slightly more difficult. i dunno, just seems odd that these player built stations, with billions of isk in costs....can't attach even a gun to the outside??"
"especially true when you can put quite good guns on a cheap ass crap stick in a bubble pos."
"it is obvious that ccp doesent plan on ever actually releasing the left eye variant of most of the eyepieces currently available in the game so why bother keeping a left and right variation when it is so much easier to just mark it as either or in character customization. it is very obnoxious that the item exists in game but is unobtainable. players should have a choice of which eye they want the gear attached to. so please just scrap the left and right variations and make it a single item"
"i agree! bring back the jukebox, if the jukebox already existed how much maintaining could you need?"
"i agree, bring back the juke box, or at least give us an easy way to turn off the back ground music"
"silly me, it's under audio and chat, music level slider to 0 :)"
"well i enjoy eve music while killing hostiles in space,but this is a classic i would listen from all your favorite eve online music:"
"****bumpi want the jukebox back!!"
"fantastic.it would put eve on everyones first page.again.i like sandboxing 3rd party apps too as idea."
"nope, they definitely forced a render on me. i logged onto the forums the day of the expansion before i even attempted to update and log onto the actual game and i had my bra back on. i wasn't mad at first, but now i kinda am because i feel like i was specifically targeted..."
"i miss your boobs. :("
"yeah i get that point, but from really looking into this case i really feel that it's not covered here. if ccp want a corp of players doing science/manufacturing to lure noobies into the game, engage and involve them so those noobies are more likely to make friends, have fun and start paying for the game then this mechanic needs to change.i would love to be in the position where the game mechanics would allow for my corporation to build a titan and at the same time, allow some 1month old player to me research his frigate bpo.this one single change in mechanics can be summerised in a single statement:allow a player with the \"rent factory slot\" or \"rent laboratory slot\" to install those respective jobs into corporation facilities, without giving them access to deliver/cancel all jobs currently in production by the corporationit's clear from the limited number of people replying to this post and no massive outcry that most people don't see the pure significance of the current functionality, how many people may have tried eve and quit based on this single mechanic alone.simple question:are there any \"industrial corporations\" in eve, the real answer is no, there aren't any at all. the cloest thing you could find to an industrialist corporation will be a corp made up of half a dozen players who trust eachother due to rl connections, or long eve histories, these guys do t2 invention, build jump freighter, capital ships, whatever. their other 50 members are miners, maybe doe a little pi and sell it to the corpimagine this change in place, you could have serious industrialist corps, imagine a corp with 500 blueprints locked down, labs and factories in system, a single member of the corp can come along, drop the minerals in a hanger, select to build 10 megathrons, deliver and collect his ships and sell them, or have them get sold through the corp and the corp pays them for their effort.you could have some seriously active and fun corps and if players are kept that engaged, they are more likely to keep playing for longer.p.s. this response isn't purely directed at ronan, more to others viewing the thread and thinking about the same thing"
"i have drone durability v, gal cruiser v, and a drone durability rig on an ishtar kitted for massive drone bonuses. i launched my ogre iis against 4 elite cruisers and lost one before they had gone 20km and most of another on the trip back."
"i have no doubts about that. and it's exactly why it took me a single mission to decide there's no point in using heavy drones anymore. which doesn't bother me at all, i have other options.like i said, some changes and tweaks are needed. but sending heavies out to 20 km is no longer a good idea. use other options."
"use other options...would you say \"use other options\" to a pilot flying a hurricane in a l3 mission if ccp suddenly decided to obsolete autocannons and arties?"
"nope. but that isn't a valid comparison since ccp hasn't made drones obsolete.you can even still use heavies if you want, just don't use them for things orbiting more than 8 km or so away. and don't use them until cruisers and smaller have been destroyed. you really don't need heavies for cruisers anyway, since t2 mediums do just fine there and are generally ignored by cruisers right now. or fit guns and ammo that have the appropriate range and tracking speed to take out targets in any \"holes\" you may have in your current drone coverage for a mission (as dictated by size, orbiting distance, and what you expect the kill order to be).those are some of your options. other options include using sentries. all this works for me, including using the heavies as stated above. like i said before - if i can do it, anyone can.i'm not arguing that things shouldn't be adjusted. more work needs to be done, including adding in my suggestion of giving the npc's a small delay in how long it takes them to target drones (which keeps my posts ot here). what i am saying is that drones have in no way been made obsolete for running missions (at least l4 missions - can't comment on others)."
"no need to fix something that isn't broken."
"right so this has definetly been mentioned multiple times, but its something that has to be reiterated.eve is chaos, you can't just bring random people into your corporation adn trust them, people need to earn trust, giving trust freely si a weakness quickly exploited. i know many corps have dual-trial periods for members before they can even join, starting with them being blue, but not joined, flying some fleets, then joining a \"training corp\",a nd eventually after proving themselves trustworthy, get to join the main group.eve is never meant to be completely safe, from anything, including \"friends\", it's a agme where survival is based upon solid friendships and proven trust, if someone lacks either of the previous 2, its usually better to not let them have access to your stuff, information channels, or operation dates for your industrial activities.and as stated before, never send an indy that can't be alpha'd (orcas) on any run alone, send jammers/alpha ships to keep it safe."
"if you want a stupid rp reason.corps have a right to deal with their own members however they like. noone is forcing that member to be there.and finally an obligatory l2p"
"if everyone wants to continue to work around this rather than fix it, fine. seems to be popular opinion (at least of players checking this thread.)i think its illogical to keep something that's only existence is to make life harder. doesn't add value to game play and will only cause management issues and headaches. but why look at it from that point of view? it's always been this way, better to keep it."
"why did you join a corp full of members that would attack you? and now you are blaming ccp for this. . . .you sound like the kind of person that would deserve to get your ships killed."
"no one is blaming anyone here. i'm simply stating the opinion that this mechanic is outdated and not needed.the biggest -gameplay- reason for corp killing to happen was friendly fire concording players for accidently hitting a corpmate.this is no longer the case, and i feel the only thing it serves now is abuse.not a lot of ways to interrupt this... but everyone is going to get upset anyways i suppose."
"why do you fear? this is good news then as you have forced ccp to fix the exploit."
"i fear that i found a new exploit to keep everyone trapped. i will know for certain on the 12th"
"yep, 3rd industrial tutorial mission or so."
"getting blown to bits is part of the experience.i do it a lot personally."
"oh please help with my overview window, it needs a lot of improving. it's super important and yet such a bear to use.+1"
"more to keep this on the radarhrolt ceo live free; die proud"
"breasts and fat bellies are never a bad thing. super cali hella yolo swaga dopeness. -yoloswaggins, in the fellowship of the bling."
"there is nothing wrong with drones, you just have to adapt to the changes."
"an afk player can't stop you from doing anything because they're afk."
"a) try afk-camping a system for yourself. so you see how useless your idea is.b) personally, i don't minimize the client while nullratting with a neutral/red in system. has always worked so far."
"your corp description op !!!! my eyes!!!!"
"why not make it so that if someone is sitting idle and cloaked, not using dscan or probes or whatever, that after some time - say 10 minutes - they log out of local until they come back? seems like it'd solve most of the issues."
"it looks like ccp is clamping down on it from the patch notes today. but now is a bug which stops us from accessing wardec options. looks like the fun will soon be over though."
"most of the tactics we use seem to be about bookmarks, but the ui isn't very good.this is frustrating, because we have better uis in the game already. the market, for instance, allows for sub-directories..things i haven't seen how to do easily yet include:check box to filter out bookmarks outside of the solar system - which can also hide all directories that don't have visible bookmarks in themsubdirectoriesability to color-tag bookmarksdate created field that can be used to sort by, as well as alphabeticalability to add bookmarks to the overview, so i can have them on my navigation tabbetter default name; not just \"spot in x system\", put some identifying info in there to be able to distinguish which spot it is when i look down after a flurry of dropping bookmarks along a warp so i can say 'spot 19 was the one in the middle, 20 was the one i dropped at 4000 km' instead of 'hey, three unmarked bookmarks. yay.'"
"gas cloud harvester ship should have 5 turret slots to take full advantage of the skill trained to level 5 and allowing 5 harvesters. it should have 20% reduction in the gas cycle time and 100% to gas amount similar to the venture. it should have 5% to shield hp and resists per level just like the skiff. the gas hold should be 15k m3 like the skiff's ore hold. it should be a variation of the noctis hull using the ore skill to fly it.\"we cannot solve our problems with the same thinking we used when we created them.\" albert einstein"
"imagine that. a system where running your mouth could have consequences."
"join the club........all 300,000 of us........."
"you smack talked and as a result people put a bounty on you. that is not abuse, that is a working-as-intended feature. man up and face the consequences instead of tearspamming."
"i think the op will be interested in this fancy incoming feature!"
"as a complement or enhancement to the \"little things\" threads, could we have another crowdsourcing thread every six month or so?i found these were useful in order to \"clear the air\" so to speak. at the very least they provided some amount of \"bread and circuses\" to keep people feeling like they were involved."
"-1i support the removal of the jukebox; but only because it seemed impossible to make a 'stop' button on it. every pilot in eve, except for the 40 of you that posted before me, turn the music slider all the way down in the settings.a more elegant solution"
"coming soon, the removal of pvp in high sec from eve. that, after all, would remove a major irritation for a whole lot of people. ccp, bring back jukebox. i think it's clear by the point that the only people that would listen to what you want to replace it with, don't want it replaced."
"maybe heavy drones aren't supposed to be used against cruiser sized targets?if the new rat ai means that you have to pick the right tool for the job, rather than mindlessly spamming ogres at everything, that's a positive development, not something to cry and wail about because ccp is making missioners and ratters engage their brains for once."
"racing ships. an idea i had to give players some more ships. ships that are more for fun rather then used to reach a goal. players already hold frigate races for fun. why not make a class of ships for it as well as some modules for it. there are some modules for low slots and rigs for speed but how about some for mid and high slots. maybe a high slot module being something like nitrous that uses a charge or something. this could having classes of race ships from cheap and slower to expensive and extremely fast. maybe bordering on 1km/s. the high class being something for more end game players. the only other good application for these race ships out side of racing would maybe be setting up safe spots in low and null sec. this could also maybe be a collection of ships that has more player infuence in the design since they don't influence the overall game play of eve that much. just a thought. what does everybody think?"
"if they have more than 1 midslot, they will be used in pvp.... and even with only 1 midslot (for a prop mod), the will still be useful for setting up fleet tam's, etc... furthermore, speed is kind of a basic stat in eve.... there is a \"perfect setup\" with rigs and implants and modules and kills and fleet boosters that will create the \"fastest\" ship possible.. and anyone with less than perfect of the above will be slower... so what exactly is the point of a racing ship? there is going to be one and only one fastest ship model in eve...."
"i've seen stabbers that easily get over 7k/s. anything over 4k/s is very nice for making tacticals off gates...but i don't think a specific limited fittings ship is required. we've all found ways to get there from here quite quickly."
"this is one of those concepts that could be implemented inside a station - as a game within a game sort of thing... you slap a bet down, climb inside a 'flight simulator' and race.there are a ton of ideas for things to do in this game that wont actually work in the game as it is set up... these things should be worked into gameplay for station-dwellers. simple as that.wis concept, i'd give it a +1... but for real eve gameplay it just wont work."
"ccp would never do this, because the afk miners would get too upset."
"ya, they're after us hard. except i don't think they implemented the patch correctly because from our tests no one was able to escape, even after toggling mutuality"
"luckily you are chased by retards so you prob have another month of griefing! :)"
"we do have a corp that's sitting on the sideline just holding mutual wars to see how many we can retain. so far it seems to be in the hundreds. eventually it'll drop off though. once everyone who wants to escape has escaped we'll just leave things as mutual and then go into a dormant state until we're needed again.i'll update the main thread with the ruleset for the current wardec system as i understand it shortly"
"hey, all of you that want jukebox back, feel tree to tweet to #csmsummit your requests for jukebox back. it seems that the csm don't like our point of view."
"i want my jukebox back.please, start a petition to ccp./signed"
"-1sooooo after the first twenty times of that thing playing through i asked how to shut it down and have never bothered with it since. it sounds like music that would play on an old commodore 64 out of the games from back in the late 1980's. i get that yo"
"i think the issue most people have with the change in sound system is that there is no option to controll it. the dynamic location aware sound can still work with a jukebox just put check box inside the jukebox to switch from manual to automatic music selection... ahhh genius. to remove the system completely and not replace it with some similar system to change the music is criminal i am surprised concord didn't carpet bomb ccp for that.there is a petition for this here"
"you trolls talk of lazy entitled players but you fail to realize that there are some ships that are designed for drones and only drones and with the changes these ships have basically 0 dps"
"that's odd. if what you said is true, how am i completing solo l4 missions in my drone boat dominix without ever having to use my guns? and i can do most of them in good time even without those guns."
"how can people disagreeing with you and making suggestions on how to now use drones, make them trolls?also, how does having to choose carefully which drones to use on which type of ship, mean 0 dps?destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"as a succesful veteran sub-warp racer (yes, sub-warp racing is possible in new eden), i think i should give my 0.02 isk on this topic.in sub-warp trackracing, having the highest top speed isn't an automatic win. on most tracks, flying at 7 km/s will actually make you fly around rather sloppy, and your lap times will be worse, unless you are really good at thrust control management while maintaining spacial awareness.inertia is an important factor, but most important is the pilot skill and experience with manual piloting.while i personally don't use the highslots on my racing ships, i can't think of any modules that i would want there that are not just copies of existing rigs or modules, so it would not really add anything new for me, like an extra row of pawns on a chessboard. of course, some creative person might make me change my mind by coming up with an amazing new module, but i've not seen any good ideas on that front yet.i also don't feel the need for a specific racing hull. interceptors are quite suitable for sub-warp racing, and seeing as racing within new eden is kind of a tiny niche (if anyone is still hosting sub-warp races, please inform me), i would not want to waste devtime on developing racing ships."
"i know a song that gets on everybody's nerves..."
"why shouldn't someone be allowed, to sit in a system for a month?also while they are there, which mechanic are they using to interact with you?not only that, but it would be so easily bypassed without breaking the eula.destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"let covert cynos work inside of an accelerate gate \"deadspace\" plex. that is all."
"after looking at recruitment i have to agree, it's pretty useless now.it needs two major changes to make it worthwhile imv:1/ highsec regions need to be specified, or at least if its amarr, caldari, gallente or minmatar space2/ timezone needs to be specified as at present the eu and us tz's are completely mixed upit might become a lot more useful if the above are added but at present it returns far too many false results to be of any real use"
"i guess you have a point i mean even the strongest hulk tank doesn't work against suicide ganking without sacrificing almost all your yield so i guess sacrificing shields doesn't make much difference unless your tanking bs in null sec mining."
"i agree with the op. i want my jukebox back so badly that it hurts."
"this has got to be the funnyest topic iv seen so far....lolgo for it.... xd"
"it has been here for over a year! where ya been?! lol"
"some of the quotes in the original (way-back machine:"
"how about active self repairing drones? drones that can repair their shields or armor when being attacked. small drones will have low repping ability. may be able to tank one non elite npc frigate with decent skills. multiple npc frigates or one elite npc frigate would have no difficulty killing it. medium and heavy drones follow suit similar to small drones. sentry drones should be rebalanced as a pvp sniping drone.or how about a module that, when active, remote repairs drones that are close by. when this module is active and a drone receives damage to its armor and/or hull, it ceases its attack and returns to your ship to be remote repaired. then it jumps back into the fight.it would require a complete rebalance of drones though. probably not the best ideas but it's better than what everyone else is suggesting, which is nothing.summary of eves last four expansions:"
"why balance drones? why not balance the ai?drones are fine. if you mess with the drones themselves you may unbalance pvp a bit more than if you just mess with the ai of the mission rats."
"i think it was intended for corpmates to practice pvp amongst themselves without having to resort to can flipping each other. or so they can test each others tank fittings. or they can take from each others cans/wrecks without receiving a suspect flag.either way, a compromise would be for corporations to have a checkbox if they allow corpmates to shoot each other or not.if you're looking for an immediate remedy, you can simply keep your orca pilot out of the corp yet in fleet. or keep him as a one man corp in an alliance.summary of eves last four expansions:"
"i don't want to flag myself to all of eve in my freighter just to web myself tyvm....the \"aggression against corp mechanics\" is all we have left to web orcas/freighters in high sec"
"so much this, as long as local is omnipotent, cloaking is balanced, maybe if they changed local so that you can only see people who have at some point been ongrid uncloaked with you (such that if they leave grid you can still talk to them, and if they cloak afterwards you can still see them in local for maybe ~30 minutes), or people who are in your alliance/corporation automatically beingb in local, that kinda thing, then we can see about changing cloaking, but right now cloaking is perfect for its use."
"how it works:find rare item that is unlikely to be dropped, this used to be done with commonalities, now faction/officer items.buy all off the market for a cheap price say 100 mill.setup a buy order using margin trading for say 2 bill for 2-3 of the items (very important)sell 1 on contract for and 1 on the market for less than this buy order together, so the victim think he has a deal.spam jita local.why is this a problem:it's annoying, it's gotten more common with the new market addtions of faction/deadspace/officer items.it's effectively an exploit/bug, you are promising to to pay x amount but due to the game engine you cannot and as such the order fails.scams in eve shouldn't have to break the market in order to work.how can this be fixed:most people seem to think removing the margin trading skill will work, however i don't and if ccp agreed it would of been removed already.other options: - remove the minimum volume, yes it's a pain but does anyone actually use it apart from scamming? - link the price groups for the same meta item, it will lead to some confusions but if 3 items are the same in all but name they should share the same price and group on the market.i.e.meta 12 large armour repair would now display like thisship equipment / hulls & armor / armor repair systems / large / meta 12and in the window it'd be the same apart from the faction/officer/deadspace would be under the meta levels. - hide buy orders that do not have the correct amount of funds. // yes people will try to keep their wallets full but you always have to go offline. - show buy orders in red that do not have the correct amount of funds. // same as above but least it's far more obvious - change margin trading to only effect buy orders on items under 1 billion# //annoying but it'd help - remove the linking of contracts in local. // would be quite effective in terms of stopping the scams but i guess people would resort to check out my bio ones.and to clarify for the stupid people who always assume, i've never been scammed, the market breaking is annoying, if you can't be inventive you don't deserve to be able to scam and the time you spend pulling this scam normally you could of made more money from missioning in high sec.tl:dr it's annoying, cant do it in real l"
"what good is if we are seen as we leave the gate?should stay cloaked at all times till turned off or some how got hit by something."
"why?tl;dr, yoru proposal contains way to much explanation why this should be done. seriously:why do you want to use covert cynos in complexes? to hide cloaked fleets?cloaking is a feature used in pvp not in pve, isn't it? so where is the benefit in jumping into plexes?i am not against your proosal, just curious."
"it's so they can hot drop people in factional warfare.it's also never going to happen."
"be nice if we got a nice gift for once....lollike 1b in isk or 2m sp.thats a gift everyone can use. :)"
"kids - this is the definition of ingratitude"
"also i dont give gifts that no one wants...lolyou give gifts they will like or need.dont be cheap.if i cant do that i dont give anything other then wishing them well.why waste time giveing stuff no one wants.most people will not say anything so not to hart there feelings then toss it or give it away.im glad my kids did not have to get poor gifts they did not want.and it makes me happy to see them happy for what they get."
"wut?ccp's gift is not cuttingt heir losses with this impossible to manage community and shutting down eve, their gift is continued free expansions, free patches/updates, the ability to pay for your account in isk, and refraining from adding p2w items to the game.these s are just items ebing given to us from the kindness of their hearts, if all this isnt good enough for you, then i truly feel sorry for you."
"i take it you haven't seen everyone having fun outside jita and amarr with the new snowballs...andi take it you haven't read what we are getting this year, the main gift isn't even out for another 2 weeks. not only that, i'm still using the s from 1 or 2 years ago. the geno ca1/ca2 implants are really nice to use. not only nice to use but nice to sell as well (as i'm watching the prices quadruple)"
"op: can i have your gifts then, even though me asking for them devalues your claim that no one wants them?"
"problem:fights kick off half way across eve and you have to decide if you want to spend the next 24 hour stuck somewhere. unintended solution:set medical clone to destination system, leave ship, un-dock and pod yourself. unintended affect:isk sink caused by the need to re-upgrade your clone upon arrival of your set medical clone destination.proposed solution:depending on the amount of time remaining until your next clone jump, apply an early clone jump fee calculated based on the % of time remaining on your 24 hour cool down timer with a the base fee derived from the cost of your current updated clone. example:updated clone cost for a 92,500,000 sp character is currently 20,000,000 isk. the hypothetical current time renaming until the next clone jump is 18 hours 15 minutes. (100 / 24 ) * (24-18.25) * 0.01 * 20,000,000 = 4,791,666.66 isk reduction resulting in an early clone jump fee of 15,208,333.34 isk. the 24 hour cool down timer would reset to 24 hours after an early jump just as current mechanics operate. proposed affect: the unintended isk sink is maintained (all be it slightly reduced depending on the length of time remaining) and a more streamlined solution is implemented to an existing in game function while being scaled as to not penalize newer players. i believe this would be a fair and balanced solution to increase player conflict while null affecting any current unintended isk sinks. if you support this solution please show it by posting in this thread. -thanks"
"\"check box to filter out bookmarks outside of the solar system - which can also hide all directories that don't have visible bookmarks in them\"bookmarks in your current solar system are green, as far as i know, sorry i cannot check that atm.empty directories should only show up in the window that creates bms, that is true..\"subdirectories\"you can already creaty folders iirc, that should do.\"ability to color-tag bookmarks\"nice idea, although with proper folders that should not be needed\"date created field that can be used to sort by, as well as alphabetica\"yes, please. maybe combine bms wirth an expiery date e.g. an annomaly or wormhole bm may just stay for 24 hours. \"ability to add bookmarks to the overview, so i can have them on my navigation tab\"could be useful, but rightclick in space is not that much time effort.\"better default name; not just \"spot in x system\", put some identifying info in there to be able to distinguish which spot it is when i look down after a flurry of dropping bookmarks along a warp so i can say 'spot 19 was the one in the middle, 20 was the one i dropped at 4000 km' instead of 'hey, three unmarked bookmarks. yay.'\"suggestions? spent some time and name your bookmarks properly when creating them and you have no problem. ccp cannot know your intent while creating a bookmark. safespot, gate/jb bookmark, warpout or bombing points, how should they tell, what you want to do with the bm?maybe you can clarify that idea."
"yes, they are green, but i still have to scroll past the white ones. and i'm not asking them to. but the other day i hit a warp in a new system and in that time i dropped:on grid tactical bookmarkoff-grid d-scanning pre-check bookmarkmidpoint bookmark for use for making a safeoff-grid d-scanning safety check bookmark of destinationon grid tactical bookmark (this one i mistimed, so it was a bit off grid, but it was worth a try)...then i had to go back and try to figure out which one was which, because i didn't have time to type the naming convention for all but one of those. if i looked back and saw a string of bookmarks numbered say 2092-2096, i could just rename them then and there and be done with it.bookmarks don't show up in space. i was scrolling up and down my bookmarks folder trying to find a bm in a folder i had named by system (so i can avoid having to scroll up and down past white bms not in the system) and thinking \"you know, i wish i could just expand the off grid tacticals>iv folder right about nowso i could find where i put that scan safe for somewhere iv, belt 6 easier..\""
"you're in luck. with the retribution expansion came the mining frigate venture. an ore ship with low requirements to fly and quite inexpensive. average jita price is around 1 million.summary of eves last four expansions:"
"someone doesn't read posts lol"
"venture:+5% to mining yield per level+5% to gas harvesting yield per level+100% to mining yield+100% to gas harvesting yieldcargo capacity: 50ore hold: 5000slot layout: 3 h, 3 m, 1 l, with 2 turretswith the 100% gas yield bonus you get 4 gas harvesters with two turrets, i assume, since i have not used the ship yet.only problem may be the ore hold of 5000 m3."
"atm with the new gas ship with the frig trained up to level 5 i hear it's better than mining with the bcs even though they use 5 harvs on them. the ore bay is ok for c2 sites but for the c4s and up where i hear they have larger gas sites so they may have to take more than one trip.over all i'm kinda happy about the venture, not excited but happy lol"
"since we now have walking in stations, ccp should give players the tools to make our own clips and movies with it. give us the ability to animate our characters. give is the ability to manipulate their movements. give us more character environments. i'm a fan of the clear skies movies, but at the same time i was disappointed to see the creator use half life 2 characters and animations to complete the movies. we have walking in stations now. we should be able to use that instead of half life 2.come on ccp. give us the tools and let us make some amazing creations.summary of eves last four expansions:"
"ccp need to do this, player created content is a great way of advertising your game."
"the title speaks for it's self especially with minor spawns in low level missions and in asteroid belts. the use of npc jamming is normally ineffectual especially if your ship has a perma tank that can survive anything the current spawn has to dish out. the issue is that it wastes valuable time and is annoying. small trash spawns should not be able to keep a ship perminintly jammed for more than a few seconds at a time with a decent gap between jamming attempts anything else results in a stalemate situation where neither the npc nor the player in question can win. especially if the npc's have warp scrambled you ship you can be stuck in a room for hours before you manage to take out just one of the frigates. and lets face it most pirates if they realized they could not kill you would either run away or call in reinforcements not just sit there like retards and keep shooting and locking a invulnerable ship. and while there are modules that mitigate jamming they cost slots and consume power which can literally destroy your intended fit's functionality. npc ships need to have some kind of link between them that prevent 3 + ships from perm-jamming under any circumstances there need to be gaps at regular and fairly frequent intervals to mitigate the issues. this was never an issue prior to retribution."
"love the idea."
"well thought out mate. +1"
"signed! +1 bring it back....... mining with myout awesome music...."
"please give us back our jukebox"
"ask yourself, how have people been doing this for ages in wormholes.pro tip get sentry drones and rep them."
"you don't need to web an orca..."
"i should think that the biggest gameplay reason was actually to keep player corps subject to sabotage and all those other \"ooh darkbad harsh universe ooh\" things that ccp likes in eve.you need to think carefully about who you recruit and, if you really want to recruit noobs with dubious pasts, protect your assets even from your own corp members. bring your own alt as a guard, use an alt corp for your valuables, tank your ships, and all those other things that also give you a defense against suicide ganking. that fosters an atmosphere of trust between corp members, because the corp members know that their recruiters are looking out for them and they know that they have ways of keeping themselves safe. that in turn fosters an atmosphere of \"if you betray the corporation, everyone else will find you and they will kill you\".this certainly won't completely prevent awoxing or corp theft or what-have-you, but that will serve you much better on a corporation-wide security scale than \"well no one can shoot my orca in a belt, we're safe now\". and maybe stop recruiting noobs with dubious pasts. hold out for the classy scammers who burn years-old alts to ruin your corporation utterly."
"the web-to-warp function is extremely useful for moving orca's and freighters through suicide gate camps and lowsec.... not to mention just speeding up otherwise painfully slow logistics."
"eve is a dark game where anything is possible, theft, piracy, space prostitution etcwhat you are proposing is basically the start of the end in terms of this gameplay philosophy.next you will be suggesting that ships should be put back into the station and have to be repaired instead of blowing up and loosing all your stuffs.dont get me wrong, its never nice to loose your stuff, especially to someone in your corp but that is eve and its why we love it.i suggest that if you dont want corpies to blow up your shiney's then be selective in your recruitment and keep expensive ships like boosting orca's in an alt corp.other than than if you really have a problem with guild/corp mates awox'ing or nicking your stuff go and play wow or some other game where a whiney mail to the gm's will get you your stuff put backor as we say round by me \"go hard or go yard brah\"ps. u mad bro?"
"yeah tell that to my friends who have saved their orca in a c4 coming from a c2 connector. orca got the web insta warp, bad guy fleet jumped in as soon as it got off. (granted this wasn't in high sec.)it still helps the orca move faster in high sec to web it."
"here is a idea of how not to get scammed.don't deal in weird items, ever, never, ever. if you can't use it or can properly gauge what it is used for, or real value, don't buy it.in general don't do trading unless you understand what you are doing, going back to the first point. also officer mods, well heck if it is a very rare item good luck finding a consistent price to begin with. any trader worth his sack, will buy with buy orders, and sell with sell orders, and never buy from sell orders, or sell to buy orders if they out to make money. have a feeling that this scam is considered a problem because of market bots or people behaving like them, just scanning through items, including obscure nonsense items through a program to see the largest gap in selling and buying price. i am pretty sure that is it because no way in hell anyone but someone who is not using a program will find this obscure shitzu.legit traders use margin trading, and to lesser extent minimum buy orders, the latter being for commonality that they don't want people selling them in quantity that are not worth their time to dock in a station to pick up."
"this isn't an issue at all. margin trading and minimum units are both legitimate if not necessary mechanics. just don't be so greedy next time and then you wont need a crythread :)"
"if you treat all buy orders as possible but not garaunteed, you are much, much less likely to fall for a margin scam. the reason, you then actually look at the value of what you are buying, you look at how well it moves, and you don't buy stupidly overpriced and slowmoving items... it's pretty simple really... *edit* there are about 10k threads on this already.... do a forum search before posting next time...p.s. if you buy an item, you accept the risks you may not be able to sell it for a profit. just because you misjudged that risk does not mean there is an issue with margin trading..."
"negative, as time and time again, margin scamming has been confirmed to be a feature."
"anyone not bothering to check the market history of an item deserves everything they get."
"it's fun when people don't read everything or quote tiny bits and jump to conclusions.my beef isn't that people do it, it's that it completely messes with the market data.i want to look at the lowest buy prices for x y z units yet i get stupid person 1 who has a buy order for say 1 million trit up for 10 isk per unit but can't actually afford them when you try to sell to it.it's annoying and it's stupid that it still exists and has gotten worse, i see about 10-15 of these scams being spammed into jita local at any one time among the \"give me isk i am quitting eve i will give you 2 time back\" ones.yes it is effectively an exploit, just like logging off supercaps and waiting 15 minutes was effectively an exploit even if ccp say it was working as intended they still fixed it.also the wonderful log on log off mechanic that super cap pilots used to bounce out of harms way which was effectively an exploit but again ccp said it was working as intended then fixed.i fully agree but is it not annoying when after that scam the price for that item the scammer used is warped and people seem to think it's worth more than it is.captainobvious.jpg, and you know what if you read them as well most have a point that it messes with market data, then scam victims and trolls come along and derail the thread by demanding the removal of the skill."
"i brought it up because your post doesn't reference any of them... at least not directly. i have read most of the nerf margin trading threads, and feel i've contributed positively to many of them.... (although many people probably don't view it as a positive contribution when you shoot down an idea). and while the threads are started by like-minded people, the rebuttals found within are relevant. so, here's a few questions you need to answer: 1.) why does it matter if people manipulate the market and market data? people manipulate markets all the time, even without using the margin trading skills. why is this a bad thing? --- note: if your answer is, because it becomes harder for me to distinguish between legit and illegit sales, so what... 2.) how is the margin trade skill itself at fault for the scam? in reality, if i setup a buy order using margin trade, yet i can't afford, and you attempt to fulfill it... what exactly is the problems with the way the order fails? -- example: it automatically attempts to put the goods i was selling onto the market in the form of a sell order, leaving me with additional brokers fees which i didn't agree to. <-- this is a problem that i think should be addressed. -- example: it cancels the order, no goods are bought and sold. <-- so there are no victims here... i see no problems with this. 3.) what is the crux of the scam? it's your willingness to buy overpriced items. if you don't buy goods at an overpriced value, you don't lose money here... why are you buying goods above their market value? <-- because you assume you can immediately sell them... guess what... you were wrong.... you take a risk when you buy goods to resell for profit, and when you can't resell for profit, the person at fault is you.... so why is there any problems here? ^^ you do know, that in rl, companies that buy goods to resell them (like every retail store in existence) takes a risk that they won't be able to resell those items for a profit. so what exactly is wrong with our game mechanics reflecting this?"
"normally you can't mess with the market unless you have a whole bunch of isk and frankly that is fine, however when it comes down to rare items that people want but aren't willing to pay an inflated price due to the lingering effect of the scam it becomes a problem.selling deadspace and officer item has always been a problem before the market allowed for them and they started of perfectly then people realized they can use the old scam and use it on these.the problem is it's hard enough to trade these items as it is without the extra input from stupid. the skill is at fault because it allows the scammers to have no risk to themselves, which honestly praying on people's stupidity is fine but it shouldn't be risk free.it doesn't even require you to be active since the nature of a buy order is enough to get people's attention. the scam is just a rework of the dog scam,"
"always nice to dream."
"instant teleporting is a bad mechanic. the game would probably be better off without jump clones."
"interesting idea....and how do you think this will alter implants? i know many pilots, like myself, that always fly with implants in their head. so death-cloning is a fairly expensive option that i don't take very often.... i instead fly from point a to point b, which is generally much, much better for the game i think!"
"it would be nicer if you just have a cooldown per jc insteada charge would be fine but i don't think you should be able to bounce around too easily."
"still a great idea"
"still want to see my dream become a reality!i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"because we get these gifreakingnourmous mountains of bookmarks to scroll through really fast really fast? i mean, i'm leaving a folder for each system i go to and some of those systems it's already annoying to scroll up and down finding things, and i'm using naming to sort things too. i end up feeling like it's the most often used interface i have to use, and it's barely more usable than ms-dos. it's really clunky and annoying and it frustrates me, and i have to fiddle with its annoyingness every time i jump."
"the pirates are just scared because they don't want a sb to drop a big steamer onto their gate camping party"
"now that would liven things up a bit"
"that could make for hours of quality entertainment in rancer.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"and lets allow people to anchor bubbles in low sec as well while we are at it."
"how has this idea gone without support?is it a good idea, so no one cares to troll it?is it a bad idea so no one supports it?i cleaned it up a bit so it is easier to read."
"as a work around, eve-agents.com does load in the in game browser but this should be default function for sure!"
"i support/endorse this product/service.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"pretty much this. i want to kill bears and it irritates me when they hide."
"capital guns would be completely usless against sb and cruisers which a suicide ganker would be using. if your wanting them for defence."
"some thoughts on how to fix black ops. working on a major hangover right now so its probably a bunch of bad ideas but here goes.make cov ops cynos work in hisec. after all real black ops, much like the honey badger don't care if they are breaking the local laws. add a penilaty though. as soon as the cov ops ships uncloak they get a 15 min suspect flag. additionally the black ops bs would get a 15 min suspect flag and the ship that lit the cov ops cyno would get a 15 min criminal flag. a smart cov ops fleet would not affected by these flags too much but we all know not all fleets are smart ones. could also make lighting and brideing a cov ops cyno in hisec take up more fuel .a new tech 2 cov ops carrier. can fit a cov ops cloak but only 5 unbonused fighters, mega nerf the sma and cargo hold as to not make it op with logistics. give it 2 bonused bomb launchers or 4 bonused torp launchers (not capital torp launchers). but not the ability to use both at once. cant be used in hisec.also have some ideas about making bombs work in hi and low sec but they are probably really bad lol.bombs useable in hisec and in lowsec however if they explode within 7500 of a gate or station they do no damage. also you get a 15 min criminal flag even if they do no damage to anything. if they hit a non wt, suspect, or criminal you get concorded.yes miners would whine horribly and it would be glorious however to help quell their tears we could add a module for an orca which would give a temporary pos shield effect. a 10km bubble for 10 seconds. would drain all the cap in the orca, make it immobile for 30 seconds, and you need 85% cap to use it. recharge would have to be over 30 seconds as well. also like the bombs to counter griefing you would not be able to use it within 10km of a station or gate. also would probably have to balance it so you couldn't starburst non corp members.please post all positive or negative feedback and or hate mail :) like i said im sure these ideas suck but i think they would be fun."
"there's a limit, too?? oh gawd, i'm gonna hit it with my face, i just know it. *sigh* whyyyy?seriously, they wanna know why people get annoyed, it's because most of the game is in three windows that are all a royal pain to use. overview, d-scan, bookmarks."
"f&i thread started:"
"wouldn't the sentries merely shoot the bubbles? anyway bubbles are completely different."
"awoxing in faction war:;as i understand the term its, when a player of an militia attacks the other allied militia player without provocation or as an act of piracy. they don't get standing penalty for their respective militia. this is flawed, they should be penalized somehow, or don't appear purple at all."
"the relevant thread where brought it up is here."
"this was a problem before retribution. the standing hits to your faction are easy to circumvent. finally listing who is in an allied militia is a big help and saves a precious a column on our overview. i would definitely not be in favor of changing the ability to easily see who is in an allied militia.the solution is to wardec the corp but i am not sure how long this lasts and therefore how costly it is. also this won't help people in the npc militia."
"hello ccp,do you like gamemechanics which cannot stopped by players with modules or/and starting concord?we can bump freighters with mwdbattleships and the freighters flip away like shrapnels, ok, sometime the corporation of the bumped freighter will come with some webbermodulesfitted ships and want to stop the flight of the bumped freighter, but woops, the webbers dont work on bumpinduced speeds ...so, how i can counter this manveuver without starting concord?"
"a complete revamp of the corporate management and corporate structure code would be the perfect time to fix this problem too."
"hi,how about getting new players to stay by giving them the ability to quickly get into something. give them 5mil (or some number that makes sense) of skill points to distrabute over their account.keep older players happy by also giving them 5mil to spread around their account.this would be a once off change. so that forever after a new account created gets the 5mil.money will spill be a restricting factor for early progression.think of it as we all go to school before entering the working world. so we have previous knowledge prior to becoming a capsuleer."
"how about instead ccp rebalance t1 frigates and cruisers so that new players can be useful from their first few days and don't need 5m to compete?oh wait."
"also, google \"malcanis' law\"."
"i have to disagree, its more about what people want and from what i can see in current game mechanics and grunt line members where ever the fight is, that's were they all want to be. if that encourages more fights then more things get blown up. more things that get blown up, more demand on the market. having a game mechanic that prevents people from making it to the action makes the game very stagnant. fights come from players starting fights. that kind of talent / dedication is very rare which is why you only see fights break out every once and a while, but when they do almost everyone and there mother wants in on the action (inb4 blob warfare). if you try and come back and say travel by gate to get there then you really don't understand anything about the subject. by the time a person traveled 40 jumps to get to the fight, they would ether be dead via gate camp or the fight was already well over or almost impossible to get into the target system because of gates being locked down. this would not affect implants due to the fact of cost. people who keep a full set of implants in there heads don't do this (pod express) for that reason."
"an excellent suggestion, allow me to quote as reference, what to my knowledge is the most recent information about the pos revamp.as such, i would still like to have faction pos blueprints and faction pos module blueprints reseeded into the game, albeit with the changes i stated above.q-\"does this mean you want current faction towers in highsec to be up-anchored?\"a-\"no, let them be grandfathered in.\""
"agree, the overview at the moment has a lot of functionality but the usability is terrible.in addition to streamlining the overview interface, eve should come with good presets for new players that are reasonable defaults for mining/travel/pvp/pve."
"hmm will have to see how well the new system works first before demanding my jukebox back"
"how about encrypted bookmark packs that are only readable by the client that can be installed out of game similar to the way overview settings are? i'm sick of spending two hours importing bookmarks."
"nope."
"probably started out that way due to a bomb potentially affecting a massive number of objects and in low each \"hit\" would require a sec.status calculation = bombs would crash almost any lowsec node when deployed.but .. they just rewrote the aggression code i think so perhaps .. can certainly argue for the utility bombs, not sure about vanilla bombs though (certainly out from an rp perspective) as the blobs they are designed to counter rarely spawn."
"i think bumping freighters just for the heck of it is a reportable offence. bumping miners just for the heck of it on the other hand is not.... not sure whyalso to have a true proposal, please put an idea not just \"omgwtfbbq my freighters been bumped for 3 hours help meh\""
"bumping mechanics are fine, you're just bad.ps web the freighters before they get bumped"
"i like and i think this idea is just wrong.question 1:how close do you have to be to a gate to jump?a. 2500mquestion 2:how close do you have to be to something for it to decloak you?a. 2000m500m isn't much to play with, so you would be finding yourself decloaking most of the time anyway. i could maybe see this work with a wormhole because of the 5,000m jump on it but i still think even as a hunter my pray should get some sort of small warning. if they pat attention that's great, if not... well they go boom."
"you must be new to the game. welcome to eve.you're referring to the cloaking effect after you jump through a gate, correct? the purpose behind that temporary cloaking effect is because many times your ship will appear in space before your screen loads. it sucks having your ship blown up before your screen ever loads after a jump. so ccp came up with a 30 second cloak effect to negate that problem.if you want to stay permanently cloaked, there are cloak modules for sale that you could fit onto a high slot. there are even cloak modules that let you warp while cloaked.summary of eves last four expansions:"
"so is it an exploit if hi sec noob mining corp for example, forms an alliance with its own disposable , one-man alt -corp; which in the advent of war can quit the alliance, taking with it a copy of the original corps war with it to another alliance, lets say dec shield and adding that war to their ever growing list . thus entrapping the aggressor in their now famous/infamous perma-war without the original corp being lumbered with the dec shield war list?if not then would it not be prudent for all corps and alliances to install such a beast.of course this game-destroying weapon of mass destruction would only be unleashed if attack and with a colourful corp name and description would serve as a powerful deterrent.welcome back to the cold war."
"it's not an exploit."
"dec shield offered this service for the duration of the chaos. they were labelled \"dec shield ambassador x.x\""
"thanks for that, i was unaware that was the case, but these ' ambassadors', are they not generated by dec shield ?.cannot a single corp/alliance generate there own?and have them function in exactly the same way? i mean no disrespect and agree that the current war dec system is broken; just trying to get a handle on the whole thing. and once again thank you.any and all clarification is most appreciated"
"at this point the current issues with war decs have actually been patched, so while decs are transferable, the length is also transferring. mutual wars are now retractable by the aggressors.and yes to your main question. non-dec shield entities could utilize the same mechanics to spread wars around."
"to answer your second question, yes i would still do it because you wouldn't be able to hit me."
"ok....increase tracking bonus to 5000% per levelgive 90% web bonusgive 200km web range"
"i wish there was a thumbs down button for ideas like this.but to add some constructive points here 5 million skill points would be a lot to start off with as a little nublet. they can be useful in about 1 hour of training by learning how to fly a tackle frig. i could maybe see starting out with race frig level 3 instead of 2 but just giving them skill points to throw around is a joke."
"if you gave me 5m sp when i started i'd have trained something daft"
"i wouldn't mind it being dropped down to about 12 hours. keeps me from bouncing around with impunity, but still allows me to do multiple things with my weekend."
"personally i think drop it too 23 hours.i always login with an hour left before i can jump clone. please fixty"
"just like the thread please it really doesn't need that much explaining but a brief explanation of why below.introduction of the warp to and jump icon was a wonderful thing ........ except it was put right next to the warp to zero button which is basically stupid.my proposal has 2 options (but both can be applied):1. move the damn \"warp to and jump\" key to the far right of the selected items box.2. make the selected items box configurable and we will move the damn \"warp to and jump\" key ourselves.i appeal to anyone who has ever been in a fleet and suffered accidental lemmings, derped themselves over a gate or wh or just assumed they pressed the correct icon.please support this. thx."
"i would have to take an opposing stance. the buttons grouped by 'common usage' is great.left to right, align to >> warp to >> warp to jumpgreat.much better than having them spread all over the place!jint hikaru - miner / salvager / explorer / spacebum in the beginning the universe was created. this has made a lot of people very angry and been widely regarded as a bad move."
"/s"
"ctrl + space"
"this is a great great great idea!~at the end of the game both the pawn and the queen go in the same box."
"as i am an industrialist at heart, and i do see the benfits of a pi revamp (especially the focos on team and corp activities got me hooked) i think this change would drastically alter the game itself. eve is already called \"excel in space\" by a lot of people. its probably the most complex mmo-game out there. and adding to that with such a drastic \"improvement\" would make it even bigger, but not necessarily better. maybe i would have to read and re-read it again, but as of now i think they should make pi more worthwhile and team-oriented, less tedious. making it into a complex game itself while having appeal , will most certainly cost too much time and money and drive focus away from improving the core of the game: ships in space and the interactions they create between space and each other. its not a planetary simulation...dont get me wrong: its probably the most rounded out idea ever presented.for that alone you guys deserve props.\"gotta spend money to make money\" \"a fool talks, a wise man listens\" \"he who doesn<U+FFFD>t wanna listen, talks the most\""
"as someone who dgaf about my security statusthe 'allied' militia are neutrals as far as i'm concerned seeing as attacking them doesn't hit your militia standings. the thing that annoys me is i can't seperate them on my overview (unless you guys and gals know of a way i can?) as they are treated as 'allies'.i'm amarr and the caldari militia is fair game to me unless my corp/alliance has blue standing with specific corps/alliances in calmil or i know them and have personal blue standing towards them."
"is this not possible in freighters?herping your derp since 19potato [url="
"sorry for wall of text, tl;dr: margin trading scam is an exploit, but op does a poor job finding good arguments for this.i really dislike this thread cause while i feel that the margin trading scam is an exploit and something should be done about it, the op mixes so many irrelevant issues into this and imo uses rather bad arguments to support his opinion.so first off, i think there are no problems with minimum buy amount, reward/risk of scamming, manipulating the market, required amount of funds for starting a scam/manipulation or any other side issue i might have forgotten that was brought up in this thread.there is one particular problem with margin trading though and that is the ability to create invalid (by game mechanics!) buy orders on an anonymous(!) market.there are basically 2 different kinds of scams and imo they should require different means to identify them:1. purely technical scams using only game mechanics, an example would be the minimum buy amount thing described in the op. these should be 100% identifyable simply by reading the available info. the minimum buy amount scam is identifyable cause the buy order lists the min buy amount. if someone ignores that number it's his own fault.2. scams that have a social component or generally require some interaction by the scammer. imo those don't need to be identifyable just by reading stuff, it is ok that they require suspicion and common sense to be applied by the potential victim because the scammer needs to apply more or less clever interaction to make it work. an example similar to the margin trading scam would be if the scammer sets up orders similar to the margin trading setup, but doesn't use an automated way to make the order fail, but instead deletes the buy order manually after someone bought from the sell order. i'd be completely ok with that because manually retracting orders is a basic feature of eve's market and people have to consider that possibility.my problem with the margin trading scam is that it belongs to category 1 (being purely a technical scam using only game mechanics) but the potential victim can't identify it just by reading. you have to apply common sense (and a very specific knowledge of how the margin trading skill works which isn't available ingame) to identify it because technically it all looks legit and there's no way for you to know the wallet balance of the other guy. this would be much less of a problem on a non-anonymous market cause you could just avoid the unreliable trader who had orders failing in the future, on an anonymous market this poses a serious problem imo. i'd be very surprised if you could find a single payment system in real life that can have automatically failing orders caused by missing funds and that is also anonymous.directly manipulating market data ingame would be a very bad thing indeed, but it's not possible afaik and i don't think you actually meant that. manipulating the market as in supply, demand and/or price is completely fine.by \"in reality\" do you mean in real life? if so i already said above you probably can't find an anonymous system with automatically failing orders there. the problem with how it fails is that on an anonymous market you can't filter orders based on the reliability of the issuer so you have to be able to trust the reliability of the order itself. and of course there usually went time and/or money into the attempted order fulfillment so there is a loss when it fails, doesn't matter really if the stuff was bought overpriced.i would argue against this game mechanic just as much if it weren't used for scams. unreliable invalid orders on an anonymous market are a very bad combination imo. if there is a standing order (which is not interfered with by the issuer like manually removing/changing it) you should be able to trust that order.there are several possibilities to fix this issue:1. remove the margin trading skill.it's the easy and clean solution, but the skill is very useful for legit trading, i have it and like it a lot, more dedicated traders probably depend on it much more. i feel it's not an absolutely necessary skill for the game so this solution could be done imo, but it would be harsh on many players.2. make orders come through no matter what and give buy order issuer negative wallet balance.this would mean the skill couldn't create losses for particular victims, but making people have negative wallet balances opens a whole new ugly can of worms. the problem i see is not so much the restrictions for the players with neg balance because it was their own fault to get there, but since there is no real way to enforce players paying back their \"debt to the economy\" by going positive balance again, this could be exploited to create isk.3. make sure buy orders are always valid.this could for example be done by checking the coverage of each individual buy order every time the character's wallet balance gets smaller and remove buy orders that aren't covered anymore. this would still enable players to use margin trading because they don't need to be able to cover all their buy orders combined, but each individual buy order would have to be covered all the time. personally i'd prefer some solution like this."
"hi guys...i don't know if this was talked about before but i have a small and (i'm guessing) simple idea.right now in the chat window we can only write in languages that are alligned to the right (like english for example)but when i try to write in hebrew, every word is spelled backwards...i don't know if this is allignment problem but i'm guessing it's easy to fix.please consider this"
"this sounds like a localisation issue.you should take it up in the appropriate forum:"
"give this man a metal. proposal of the year."
"we'd kill you before you could cause any damage. 500% of nothing is still nothing."
"try and catch up"
"i think everyone who played eve for more than a few weeks will agree that 3rd party tools are an invaluable enhancement of the game and can improve the game experience a lot. today it has been 2 weeks since retribution was released and the 3rd party devs still haven't got a proper static data export without errors by ccp. most of the tools (including the 3rd party devs ) rely on that data to do their job.i know that at least some of the csm are aware of this problem, but i think it can't hurt raising awareness a bit. the current process for releasing the sde appears to be that whatever dev finds some time besides doing \"real work\" does a data export, publishes it at some random place (which could be twitter, irc, the tech lab forum or the fankit website) and the qa process seems to rely mostly on the 3rd party devs coming back at him and telling him what was wrong with the released sde.just to make this very clear: i don't want hate for the poor dev who did the erroneous sde releases after retribution, who apparently isn't even responsible for doing this. i want hate (or any other emotion you can muster) on the eve expansion release process which puts such a low priority on this.ideally the release of the sde should be on some release checklist and because this data usually doesn't change a few days prior to an expansion and because it usually doesn't contain any big surprises which players couldn't have found on the test server already the sde release should be a few days prior to an expansion (around the time when patch notes get published) to give 3rd party devs the possibility to prepare their applications in advance. also this should happen at a well-defined place, and while i don't particularly care which place that is the twitter account of some dev might not be the optimal solution. and dare i ask for some internal qa on the sde? probably not, but i'm doing it anyway ."
"i thought about nothing revolutionary but something that may be worth implementing:mine fields ( space mines)with that there would be dedicated modules (with the mines being ammo types)and even deicated ship types (ships to lay out mines, ships to clear minefields)with the most expensive mines being cloaked mines, for which you would need dedicated decloaking modules(which should be able to decloak close enough ships, too -> hint)i think it would bring a whole new array of strategies and options to sov, pvp and such.mine and mine fields would only be usable in nullsec space (which nation would want such tech in their backyard ??)or maybe only in systems where theres no station present ?skills:mines ( each level grants the ability to set up 5 mines, decreases time to lay out mines by 10%) advanced mines (each level grants the ability to lay out an additional 3 mines per level, reduces time to lay out mines by 5%)defusing (each level increases the chance to successfully defuse mines by 15%, while lvl5 gives you a base chance of 75% success rate, lessens time needed to diffuse by 10%)ship types: minelayer ship (to lay out mines ( minefields))( advanced )destroyer classrole bonuses: decicated mine bay (10m<U+FFFD> / lvl)each lvl of mine-ships grants the ability to lay out +1 mine per level. (up to a maximum of 6 per cycle, maximum mines layed per character and proximity factors still apply) (spamming of mines would require a substantial amount of ships / pilots)minesweeper ship role bonuses: decicated mine bay (10m<U+FFFD> / lvl)defusing bonus 5% per level (so lvl 5 in mine dessy gives you a 100% success rate of defusing any mine)modules: mine launcher:gives the ability to lay mines. (high slot)mine defuser:gives the ability to defuse mines (high slot)mines have a decay rate and will vanish from space after a certain amount of time (maybe 48h or so ??) due to damage by micrometeorites or such.. :-)mines, as grouped into small, medium and large, should be able to really wreak havoc if pilots just fly into them.also they would need something like proximity triggers, factoring into account the size of ship in proximity (all ships in proximity added up in a threshold per mine).so a single frig would never trigger a large mine, but 5-10 most certainly would).but a bs or larger will always trigger all kinds of mines but could ignore the damage sustained by smaller ones, if not too many of them...\"gotta spend money to make money\" \"a fool talks, a wise man listens\" \"he who doesn<U+FFFD>t wanna listen, talks the most\""
"yeah, this would not be abused by suicide gankers to make throw away alts at all./sarcasmjint hikaru - miner / salvager / explorer / spacebum in the beginning the universe was created. this has made a lot of people very angry and been widely regarded as a bad move."
"this is the best idea i found in all of this forum... kudos on a very bright thinking +1"
"i think ccp should show us what they have on wis right now...they have the technology and we have seen it before"
"no.. been playing for years.my toons i have now are only a little over a year old.i have 4 accounts.and i know about cloak modules."
"really? because you seem to be new to eve. this is common knowledge and one would have to go out of their way not to know this.summary of eves last four expansions:"
"well... i was thinking about it. but all i can find there was bugs in game and in the launcher...i just thaught here will be better to make my voice heard still... no matter where this topic is at... i think it's a very small \"problem\" that can be solved fast by ccp"
"oh yeah that would be awesome! they are already too safe with my alt visible in local :("
"hey, we've all got dreams here and i'm sure none of us are going to die anytime soon. patience and we will all eventually see pi and dust develop into fully mature game features.you've got my vote though for ccp to see this through till the end."
"look, no matter which side of this topic you come down on...pro or con, there is a very real issue of real money involved in this:there is a weakness in the system that allows an unscrupulous player to exploit another out of a large sum of isk; which in reality has a real dollar amount attached to it. if i can buy play time with isk, that playtime has a value of $15 a month, which then translates to that isk now in effect having actual money value. this margin trading issue allows players to steal real money from others. using margin trading you accept a contract attempting to then re-sell it. the person that issues that contract is the same that issued the buy order you were trying to fill. unfortunately that person issued that order via the margin trading skill and did not have enough isk in their wallet to fulfill the transaction so any attempts at selling items to that order will fail. your isk that youve spend hours, days, years accruing legally is stolen from you. thats real money out of you pocket."
"scamming and stealing are completely legit in eve.... ccp welcomes it as part of the game. most of the time, the \"weakness in the system\" is either intentionally there, or at least willfully left exploitable by our game developers. corp thefts regularly amount to tens to hundreds of billions. there have been several scams stealing over a trillion isk from other eve players... i understand it sucks to be scammed out of a lot of isk.... it may take a while to recuperate from that loss.. please realize, even when your lost isk represents real-life cash investment on your part, or even if it is only a time investment, it's computer pixels, and ccp fully supports players using ingame mechanics to pry it away from you! final note: if it is too good to be true, it usually is.... think before you buy, and you won't be scammed. it's really simple to avoid 99% of these scams... and if you're spending lots of your hard earned isk, you owe it to yourself to not be stupid...."
"while it is currently legit, that does not mean ccp welcomes it.this is how laws are made, someone finds a way to game the system, a law is made to close the loophole.unfortunately in eve the people ( or the csm ) cannot make or change the laws!!just because it is not currently illegal does not mean it is not a problem. it means there needs to be change in the system and the start of that process is discussion! not simply telling the people with the problem to stfu and play in the sandbox."
"you are right, scamming being legit does not mean ccp welcomes it. ccp welcoming it however means ccp welcomes it.except it's not a loophole but working as intended. (i think we might be back to the part where ccp welcomes it.)while it might be quite funny for a short while to have players making laws, generally i would consider it very fortunate that they can't.you're right again, i can't help noticing that you're pretty good with this logic stuff. however, it not being a problem means it is not a problem.ah, i got you now! this is not a logically sound conclusion, just because it can't be proven that something is not a problem by its current legality does not mean that there needs to be a change because the absence of proof for a non-problem does not constitute proof of a problem.p.s. htfu!"
"you are right, that just because something is legit, does not mean ccp supports it... however, when ccp gm's repeatedly allow it... when ccp dev's are openly nostalgic about their in-game scamming activities... when ccp's marketing develops game trailers centered around stealing and deception.... i'm pretty certain i can claim ccp welcomes it.... 1.) you opened the thread up for discussion, claiming it's a real issue because people experience real losses. perhaps i wasn't clear enough: ccp's entire game is built on real losses. how is being scammed out of 70b isk different than having your titan sabotaged and destroyed? a player in either case feels the same value of losses... the entire game premise is that losses are real... 2.) scamming is a subset of how you can take a loss. theft, loss of ship/pod, or simply market swings all cause losses... so why should margin trade scams be singled out? what makes a loss from a margin trade scam need to be addressed? 3.) i did not tell you to stfu.... i told you to play more carefully, and to play smarter... that's how you avoid losses in this game..."
"look, no matter which side of this topic you come down on...pro or con, there is a very real issue of real money involved in this:there is a weakness in the system that allows an unscrupulous player to exploit another out of a large sum of isk; which in reality has a real dollar amount attached to it. if i can buy play time with isk, that playtime has a value of $15 a month, which then translates to that isk now in effect having actual money value. this margin trading issue allows players to steal real money from others. using margin trading you accept a contract attempting to then re-sell it. the person that issues that contract is the same that issued the buy order you were trying to fill. unfortunately that person issued that order via the margin trading skill and did not have enough isk in their wallet to fulfill the transaction so any attempts at selling items to that order will fail. your isk that youve spend hours, days, years accruing legally is stolen from you. thats real money out of you pocket."
"cry more..margin trading is pretty much the only way we have in game to buy and sell on credit. buying and selling on credit is a thing that is real. every time you buy something and write a check or swipe your credit card you are using your irl margin trading. it's a thing and it's important. the fact that people can set things up so they are offering to buy something, then they swipe their card and go \"oops, declined! sorry!\" doesn't seem like it's even a problem.you know what one of those schemes looks like now. don't get caught by the next one.by the way, it took me a few minutes to write this. you owe me money."
"not sure if you're trolling cause this has been covered in detail so many times it's not even funny. isk doesn't have real money value, plex doesn't have real money value, nothing in the game has real money value for a player. you don't own anything ingame and you can't turn anything ingame into real money.cry me a river. this is eve; if you don't like a harsh world i'm pretty sure azeroth is still accepting connections.i respectfully disagree, cause as i've already said in my wall of text, the main difference here to such things happening in real life is the anonymity."
"two points... a.) i think you are completely missing the target. the technical aspect of a margin trade skill is not responsible for the margin-trade scam. the technical aspect of the margin trade skill allows you to put up a buy order that you can't afford... but it in no way earns you isk (it actually costs you isk). the technical aspect of the margin trade mechanics is why you should not trust that a buy order will succeed... i have not heard any good arguments why we need to trust in that buy order, although i'll admit that the reason people fall for this scam is because they do trust that buy order when they should not. b.) paraphrasing your statement, \"the minimum buy amount scam is acceptable because a player only needs to look at the minumum buy amount to identify it,\" to mean if the data is right in front of you, and all you have to do is take a close look at it to identify a problem, then it's alright. guess what.... on any item in the game, you can look at a lot more than \"minimum buy amount\". you can pull up its price history for up to a year in a nice graph or table format. it tells you the average buy and sell prices, and how well that item moves... it's all right there, and if you take 60 seconds to look at it, you can spot a margin trade scam very easily. in your words: \"if someone ignores those numbers, it is their own fault!!\""
"rob crowley wrote:1.) why does it matter if people manipulate the market and market data? people manipulate markets all the time, even without using the margin trading skills. why is this a bad thing? directly manipulating market data ingame would be a very bad thing indeed, but it's not possible afaik and i don't think you actually meant that. manipulating the market as in supply, demand and/or price is completely fine. i think we have different definitions of market manipulation... when you corner the supply of an item to increase its price, when you put up unfullfillable buy orders to fake demand, i call that market manipulation. and eve's market economy has run very well for the last decade despite having individuals and groups routinely manipulating our markets . rob crowley wrote:2.) how is the margin trade skill itself at fault for the scam? in reality, if i setup a buy order using margin trade, yet i can't afford, and you attempt to fulfill it... what exactly is the problems with the way the order fails? by \"in reality\" do you mean in real life? if so i already said above you probably can't find an anonymous system with automatically failing orders there. the problem with how it fails is that on an anonymous market you can't filter orders based on the reliability of the issuer so you have to be able to trust the reliability of the order itself. and of course there usually went time and/or money into the attempted order fulfillment so there is a loss when it fails, doesn't matter really if the stuff was bought overpriced. two points: a.) have you ever ordered pizza for take-out? you call in with a unregistered phone, place an order and state you'll pay in cash, you give an unverified name, and tell them you'll be there in 20 minutes... they make the pizza, and if you don't show up, you don't buy the pizza and they don't sell the pizza. that, my friend, is the perfect example of real life anonymous buy order system with automatically failing orders. when i was in junior high, kids often pranked each other by anonymously having pizza delivered to a classmate, who may or may not have the cash to pay for it... there are also many, many, many examples of other non-anonymous buy orders that automatically fail too... people cancel appointments (which is the same thing in essence), companies cancel production orders, and on and on and on.. sometimes companies make contracts to protect themselves, sometimes they take note of unrealiable \"purchasers\", but most businesses deal with \"automatically canceling buy orders\" on a very regular basis and eat the loss as part of business. in eve, we have a mostly anonymous buy order system... as such, we unfortunately cannot place the reliablity of an order on the issuer (it would be neat if we could). this brings me to my second point, how do you determine reliability? b.) how do you predict the weather tomorrow? i'll give you a hint... the weather tomorrow will be roughly the same as it is today. how reliable is that prediction? well, how much has the weather changed during the last week... or the last month... if it changes every day, that prediction is very unreliable... in other words, you should not place the reliablity of the order on the order itself, you should place the reliability of an order on the item's history... it's hisotrical price, it's historical movement rate gives the best (although not perfect) indication of how it will move tomorrow, or the day after, or the week after... how does this not register? that is your source of reliability... if an item historically has major market swings, especially if it historically has a slow movement rate... then it is not a reliable product to buy/sell for profit. yes, you can still buy the item and attempt to sell it for profit, but since it is unrealiable, it is risky to do so... and more importantly, when you buy the item to resell, you assume all the risks in regards to reselling it for profit... rob crowley wrote:3.) what is the crux of the scam? it's your willingness to buy overpriced items. if you don't buy goods at an overpriced value, you don't lose money here... why are you buying goods above their market value? i would argue against this game mechanic just as much if it weren't used for scams. unreliable invalid orders on an anonymous market are a very bad combination imo. if there is a standing order (which is not interfered with by the issuer like manually removing/changing it) you should be able to trust that order. why is unreliable or invalid orders on our anonymous market \"very bad\". eve's economy has been working extremely well for years, and these mechanics are nothing new and haven't been problematic yet. rob crowley wrote:there are several possibilities to fix this issue:1. remove the margin trading skill.2. make orders come through no matter what and give buy order issuer negative wallet balance.3. make sure buy orders are always valid.1.) i have never run a scam in eve... and my marketeer utilizes the margin trade skill extensively.... so i'd be sad to see it go.... very sad... 2.) extremely abuseable... i spend 1 month training margin trade v on an alt... in a remote area, have them put up a 100b isk buy order, putting 24b in escrow. i complete the order on my main... and make 76billion isk.... that pays the plexes need to repeat the process on 70 new accounts... and before the second month ends i'll have trillions... 3.) this is probably the ideal compromise, but i don't understand why we need to compromise to begin with... you haven't convinced me there is a problem that needs to be fixed... instead, you keep pointing out how morons are morons, the ignorant don't know better, and the unscrupulous take advantage of both."
"yeah, these scams are head-bashingly obvious. scams are usually pretty easy to spot. they all have to do with people going \"hey, if i do this wacky thing that's set up in some off-the-wall way for no apparent reason, i'll get rich!\" beware of these things, they aren't there on accident.i keep trying to get various kids i know to play eve so that after a few times of them running into things like this they will have learned basic wariness as a survival skill. the scammer did you a favor! there are people who do worse than this outside of eve every day! the memory of this bit of foolishness, and the memory of everyone pretty much pointing and laughing because you expect the world to take care of you and keep you from getting hurt when you're the one who stuck your hand on the hot burner or whatever will stay with you forever and maybe save you from driving your family into the poorhouse or something someday."
"i want to point something out with your reply... rare items that only a few people want are risky... they have low movement rate and an uncertain value because, frankly, their demand is very low. i used to collect baseball cards, and had a fair number of \"rare and valuable\" cards that were potentially worth a fair bit of money (according to my market guides). however, it was hard to find a buyer that would purchase the cards at that price because there just weren't that many buyers out there. in the end, i didn't part with the cards until i found a buyer that was willing to pay a price that i was willing to sell them for. the same thing goes for rare eve commodities. when you are dealing with a low movement item, it's value is very unstable and you need to treat it as a risky endeavor. buy orders should be viewed as those \"market guides\" i used to price my baseball cards. they are only guides however, and not a garauntee of value. realize, you can always put up a sell order for what you think it is worth... if a purchaser agrees, they'll buy it from you... if not, you have to fiddle with the price until you find a customer. realize that \"margin trade scammer\" that thinks your rare commodity is a good choice for hoodwinking the ignorant is actually doing you a favor. they will / must buy that item from you, which just increases demand for your very-low-demand item. the only people that get burned with the margin trade scam are people that don't understand the value of what they are purchasing, and choose to purchase an item above it's actual value. finally, scammers do have a small cost to setup the scam.... (brokers fees). they also risk the scam not working, and they risk some trader undermining their scam by undercutting their sell order. people keep ignoring this because the scam profits cover the losses, but that doesn't mean they aren't there.... finally, for truly rare and/or valuable items, there is an entire section of these forums devoted to connecting buyers and sellers...."
"thanks for your detailed reply, you raised some interesting points.both parts of the margin trading scam, the buy order and the sell order, are technical (i.e. only using game mechanics without interaction of the scammer after setting it up). and guess what too, you can't identify a margin trading scam with certainty by using this, cause as i already mentioned you would need to know the wallet balance of the issuer for this. you can guess that it's a mt scam but you can't know, in other words simply reading the numbers is not enough, you have to interpret them, which might be misleading and which i would like to reserve for scams of the 2nd category where the scammer has to interact.i don't think so, and we both agree it is fine and not a problem. however i think we might have different definitions of direct market data manipulation, which in my understanding would mean manipulating e.g. the numbers of the market history after they became that data.that's an interesting example and indeed i haven't thought of it, but at the same time i can't help noticing that this example, while it proves that such things exist in rl, is pretty much making my point. you already mentioned how easily abusable this system is and so the only reason this system might work is because there aren't enough silly school kids abusing it. but this system is clearly not what i would call sound and solid and basing an entire economy (even if it's just eve's) on it should cause a slight headache.quote:there are also many, many, many examples of other non-anonymous buy orders that automatically fail tooyeah, as i mentioned it's only the combination with anonymity that makes it problematic, cause in those rl examples you mentioned the party who experienced a loss can just decide to not make business with the unreliable party again.while you make a good point here how those typical mt scams can be called out with reasonable certainty when applying common sense to it, this is not something i ever argued. however, it's not so easy anymore if margin trading manipulation were used in more subtle ways (which might already be happening, it's not like we can know), or even just having accidentally failing buy orders if the buy order issuer didn't intend to go below coverage. as i said before, i'm not arguing against mt because it's used for scams but because it is a bad system imo, which doesn't create major problems only because not enough people are abusing it."
"his idea is to remove decloaking while moving systems. with covert op you can warp cloaked but you have to deaclok while moving from 1 system to the other. i think his idea is to prevent this from happening. so a covert op cloaker is realy cloaked at all times.. inc moving systems"
"perhaps (part of) one of the teams for the next expansion could be assigned to an i18n/l10n/unicode-handling cleanup of the eve codebase? (eve seems to have issues with \"astral plane\" (i.e. non-bmp, code point > ffff) unicode characters in that when they are pasted into the eve chatbox, the resulting surrogate pair shows up as two discrete character glyphs instead of as the glyph for the original, non-bmp character.)"
"very good idea!1 would also be possible in regular pve plexes like 8/10's. this would add significanty more fun and an nice increase in tears creations."
"ok so i searched for fw fixes in this forum and did not see any recent ones, if i missed it i am sorry.i play fw for the pew pew mainly and not the lp farming. the whole lp plex farming idea to me goes entirely against fw idea. my proposal is as follows: (in my opinion)1. plex changing as current should not give any lp. the only point of plex changing is to control who can dock at stations, who can setup pos in system, and who has access to fw agents. if you want to dock at a station, setup a pos or use higher level fw agents, then your faction needs to control the system.2. lp is given out for kills or pve missions but not for plexing.3. pve agents should be as follows: lvl 1 given out in high sec for a mission in lowsec lvl 2 given out in low sec of what is normally controlled by given faction lvl 3 given out in low sec of what is normally controlled by opposing faction, is now controlled by your faction but not upgraded lvl 4 given out in low sec of what is normally controlled by opposing faction, is now controlled by your faction and upgraded this requires that if you want to do high level pve content for fw corp you need to actually take systems and hold them.4. change fw missions to be ones which require you to take a plex point or something with actual meaning. if there are no plexes left to take, then have missions be random go kill npcs.5. systems should have a level of control such that it is possible for lvl 1 missions to be able to take back lvl 1 systems. so that if one faction completely overruns another, then the underdog can at least take back a level 1 system with frigates. example: amarr has lost all of its systems and can only do lvl 1 missions. it should be able to do a lvl 1 mission in low sec for a place which has a plex for lvl 1 ship types. if they win the system back, it can open up lvl 2 agents. if they win the lvl 2 mission it can open up a agent for lvl 3, etc...in my opinion this will open up far more pvp action than the current system or the old system. it still gives rewards for \"plexing\" but you have to actually do a mission to get them. counter plexing won't do anything directly other than open up the agents in the system. if you want the lp you either have to kill players or complete a mission."
"i agree, ccp should also add louis' epic overview settings :"
"i like some of these ideas.smart filters should be contextual to your filter. only filter checkbox options should be displayed that make sense in the context of the filter of the overview tab i am viewing.i particularly would like to see better integration of the overview and the scanning interface."
"if you like this idea, please vote for it, clicking on the \"thumbs up\" icon, at the top right of this page. thank you.hello.this topic contains two parts : a feature request (at least, an idea) and a question concerning the right to do this with a third party software.in eve, there are lots of informations to keep an eye on : the overview, the local channel, the fleet window, the watch list, the scanner... (+ other windows that players often use : selected item, channels, inventory..).so with all these windows there is only little free room to see the player's ship and the fight scene in space.to circumvent the problem, there are a few solutions : 1 - use third party softwares like \"gimespace ultimate taskbar\" (unfortunately, it's a shareware) that can stretch your windows desktop to whatever \"virtual\" resolution you want (3200x1050 or 9000x4800, ... any resolution really...)with such software, if you want, you can display a very wide eve client window with all your windows opened.2 - buy an extra wide lcd screen. recent ones have up to 2560x1600 resolution but they cost a lot of money. example : lg intros 21:9 ultrawide monitorboth above solutions are good but displaying an eve client with such resolution doesn't make it run faster... on the contrary (especially with old gpu cards).3 - use autohotkey or hotkeynet to simulate a keypress (tab) automatically, each time your cursor enters specific area of the screen.but i don't know if it's legally possible (according to the eula rules) to use such softwares to simulate a key press in this specific case. (could a ccp team member enlight me ?)and this #3 point led me to this idea.. currently, to be able to clearly see the fight scene (like on this screenshot), players can press tab key to minimize all windows. pressing tab key again toggles windows states (minimized/maximized).so, i think it would be nice if the interface could interact with the player's cursor position. some windows could be hidden according to the cursor position on the screen.first of all, there could be some options for this feature :what to do if the cursor hovers windows areas :- - - make windows background half-transparent[ x ] make windows background filled with theme colorwhat to do if the cursor doesn't hover windows areas anymore :[ x ] minimize windows - - - make windows background half-transparent- - - make windows background filled with theme colorchoose which windows must always be displayed :[ x ] selected item [ x ] overview- - - scanner[ x ] fleet [ x ] watch list[ x ] local channel- - - other channels- - - private chats- - - inventoryhere is how it would work : - the player undocks (this feature would only work in space..)- player's cursor is being moved in the middle of the screen... (for example, the player is using the hud or clicks on ship's modules) : all windows are then hidden (except those specified in options, see above).so, the only windows the player sees are : selected item, overview, fleet, watch list, local channel- then, player's cursor moves to the right side of the scren (hovering the area where the overview window is generally displayed) : the overview which was half-transparent, is now displayed imediately with plain theme color- now, let's say, the player's cursor moves to the top of the screen, then all channels tabs would appear this is just an example... with this feature, a player could have a very clean interface (without any window displayed at first) and just by moving the mouse elsewhere on his screen, all windows could appear at once, immediately."
"reserved"
"rob crowley,always glad to have a discussion. a couple counterpoints.... you do realize you can't identify if a buy order with a minimum buy amount is legit or not.... it might be, it might not be... hence, the minimum buy order scam also falls under your technical scams category. i have similar feelings to you on scams... i believe that a healthy scam should be avoidable by informed participants. for example: i think the station-trade scam is unhealthy. i'll explain it, in case you're not familiar: the scammer offers to buy something expensive from their mark, but requests it is done using the station trade window rather than a contract or market buy/sell order. they open the station trade window, and first insert the agreed purchase price. then, they use a lag-glitch in the market window to quickly change the \"isk offered\" to a different amount, typically much, much lower than the agreed upon purchase amount. on the mark's screen, it only shows the originally imputed isk amount, and does not adjust when the scammer alters the isk offered amount. as such, the mark hits accept to complete the trade when the interface information is telling them they will get their desired purchase price, but when the trade completes they dont, and are left scammed. in the station trade scam, the trade window is bugged, and it states you will recieve xxx isk when in fact you will not. there is no information available to let you know the terms of the trade have changed. the only way to avoid this scam is to not use the station trade window... luckily, contracts are a very easy, accessible, and safe alternative. this is very different than a failed buy order (which fails do to the margin trade skill), because the transaction fails and neither the buyer nor the seller get anything. there is no trick nor profit in that transaction.... there is nothing unfair about this exchange... (actually, i have an issue with the automatic creation of a sell order when a buy order fails... but that's auxillary to this discussion). the \"scam\" in the margin-trade scam comes from people using that buy order, which they assume is legit, or at least assume it's an accurate representation of value. they erroneously use that value to determine profitablity of a completely different transaction. they improperly assess the value of an item, and they completely ignore the risk that a buy order can fail... an informed particpant understands risk assessment, and will include an item's market history and personal experience to properly assess the value of an item before purchasing it, and hence, won't fall for this scam."
"toonsdestination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"i had previously posted this in the ideas discussion forum but i guess that was the wrong place. don't see a way to move or delete it myself but i can least repost the idea where it belongs. a new way of cloakinga device that can enable my ship to masquerade as something else. this device could use scripts in order to change for instance my hurricane to show up on scan as a maelstrom, the device would work by boosting the signature radius and disguising it. therefore, it could appear as something bigger but not smaller than the current radius. otherwise, that would make baiting to easy and then nobody would go looking for a fight.an army of nonesecond, maybe a launchable beacon that you can set, these beacons can put forth a signal that will show up on scan as other ships., or maybe even wrecks for baiting purposes. when your probing that solo ratter, he has the ability to make you think that he has some friends along, showing up on grid would allow you to see the beacons and the hoax for what it is. figuring out what to do with local would be the problem here.i'm not sure of the practicality of these ideas or even if i would use them. however, it might change the dynamics a little, nobody ever shows up to fight you unless they are sure they can win. with these it might add a little uncertainty and throw in a little more of the unknown into the equation.you might show up on grid because you think this guy is cloaked as something else, and then find out it really is a battleship, or it could be that tech 1 cruiser just trying to bluff you into leaving him alone. either way, your going to have to put yourself on grid to find out."
"they're already still too safe. kiting the rats, blitzing complexes, and the warp in beacon decloaking the hunters.also, warp to range on acceleration gates shouldn't be warp to zero. this removes all of the elements of stealth when in a bomber.the fight vs. flight is still mostly flight."
"add another box to the split stack option, that allows you to choose how many times to split the stack by. i use the split stack option alot for pi, and im sure many others are doing the same, and would appreciate the option :)pros:stops pi types, and alliance ship builders getting rsimakes life much easiercons:might make life to easy?could be open to abuse?i have no idea how difficult it would be to implement...please give your thoughts?"
"this is still broken, there is no way to end the mutual wars still and new wars are still accruing."
"it seems that mutual wars cannot be retracted until after the next downtime. check again at that time. don't ask me why it was implemented this way"
"ok that is strange. i thought ccp had failed yet again but hopefully this is minor issue then. thanks"
"i think im one of the many completely stupid people in eve that have no real clue what to do with the recieved gifts.the ship: okay loose it, <-- what else do you do with ships..the snowvballs, shoot them at people.. i got that part aswell.the implant, stick it in you head and loose it with the ship, also easy..but what's with the rest ??are they collectors items ??, or will they get usefull one day,??or are they there to collect dust( 514) in your hangar i seen that 450.000 players play eve now so the \"goodies\" are not rly rare.anyways, merry evemas and a happy new dust !!"
"they are collector items for people that want to collect them... it's like the baseball cards you collect as a kid... they don't have any intrinsic value, they are just something fun to try and collect... assuming that's your thing... if it ins't your thing, you can contract them to me...."
"i know who to send my fruit cake to this year.btw, there's always the right-click > trash option..."
"+1please allow us to select our own favorite tunes."
"all ships should get damaged when they hit a nother ship, so if a frig bumps a freighter it should be squashed"
"i absolutely hate the corp recruitment tab and how utterly useless it is. despite obvious problems with search functionality, corporations who are recruiting abuse the window by checking every box, thus claiming to do everything. searching for a highsec corp? example corp a is listed. searching for a lowsec corp? example corp a is listed there too.searching for a nullsec corp? example corp a is listed there too.searching by any criteria at all? again, example corp a is listed there too.that is no way to recruit, yet so many corporations do this that it's impossible to weed out the ones you're not looking for and find the ones you are.summary of eves last four expansions:"
"this exploit renders the diplomatic relations skill completely worthless. who can i petition for an sp refund?summary of eves last four expansions:"
"hows that going to work out at station exits? jita 4.4 for examplejint hikaru miner / salvager / explorer / spacebum in the beginning the universe was created. this has made a lot of people very angry and been widely regarded as a bad move."
"define 'greedy' in terms of profit margin on an item please."
"three things stood out in the op.first off it's not an exploit or a bug.being 'annoying' is not a reason for change.then we come to the final doozy. real life.what relevance does that have? i can't warp between planets in real life, does this mean we should end warp travel in eve?also, if you honestly believe you can't do this in real life, i doubt your claim not to have fallen for this in game.this scam relies on peoples greed and get rich quick mentality. much like the send me 100 mill and i'll double it.destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"so for this example we assume that margin trading issues don't exist and the buy order is technically covered? in that case you can identify with 100% certainty if the buy order is technically legit: it is because all buy orders are technically legit if no mt is involved. if it asks for 10 items and you bring 10 items you will be paid. that doesn't mean the buy order can't be used for a scam like if the issuer knows you probably won't be able to find 10 items, but that's not a problem imo, that's what i would call a proper scam. as i said before it falls into my technical scam category, but you can 100% identify/avoid it just by reading the buy order properly and noticing that you'll need 10 items, no interpretation or common sense required, so that's fine in my book.now here's a little problem then, you can't be informed enough to identify all possible ways of mt manipulation.consider this example:an item that is traded in rather low quantities has sell orders for 1 bil and buy orders for 800m. a \"scammer\" has 1 such item and wants to sell it for as much money as possible. he creates a buy order for 900m and uses mt to not cover the order. now there's no way anyone can be informed enough to notice that this is a fake order because this looks like a normal thing that happens all the time. (and should you think that these numbers are suspicious, then just use subtler numbers instead, it's about the principle.) this new buy order will likely manipulate the market price of this item upwards eventually, cause it looks like there's increased demand and other buy order issuers might feel inclined to increase their order prices to match the fake order and sell order holders will maybe increase or at least not lower the prices on their orders. i consider this a problem because the \"scammer\" increased the price of an item with a buy order while never risking that he had to pay the price of that buy order.i totally agree with you on the station trading thing, scams shouldn't use technically induced lag.the thing is: a buy order on the market is a promise that you can sell that thing for that price at that place at that time. and you might spend time and money (not necessarily on a scammer's overprized sell order) to make use of that promise. so there is inherently a loss incurred if this promise doesn't hold true.as i said, i don't really fight the mt scam as such, which i think would survive in some form even without mt, probably by just using minimum buy amount or by being logged on and manually deleting the buy order after the sell order sold, which both are proper scams in my book and not a problem. what i'm fighting is the crappy game mechanic of the mt skill which imo is hurtful to the economic system.i agree on the automatic sell order creation if that's what happens when you pop a fake buy order, but that's another issue.silly troll logic. while eve's space travelling is not based on rl space travelling, eve's economic system is based on the rl one. so anything in the economic system that is a problem in rl is likely a problem in eve too.i already asked for rl examples of working payment systems which have technically invalid orders combined with anonymity. the one example i got so far is anonymous pizza ordering, which does exist but clearly is not a very solid system and gets abused, just not often enough to make it completely unusable (though many pizza deliveries don't use it in this form because of the abusement issues).if you can enhance the discussion with more examples feel free to do so."
"even though i was actually quoting the op, i'll respond.based on rl, doesn't mean it's relevant to balance of a game mechanic. based on, doesn't mean just like. it means based on.much like throwing in the terms exploit and bug, when they have no relevance to the discussion. like saying silly troll logic, when someone disagrees with an argument. they are weak and irrelevant, poor man's arguments.those arguments, don't enhance much at all.just as the eve market is based upon the real life one, my point was more towards scam and scandals based upon similar things. you can't fit the exact framework, because no market in real life fits eve's.scams in real life go more towards making other believe something is worth more than it is, so they think a quick buck is to be made.whatever the scam or scandal, it's all based on peoples greed and need for a quick buck. even the banks have been at it.destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"well, could you provide a reason then why the particular mt issue is only a problem on a rl market but not on eve's? what are the relevant differences between a real market and eve's in this regard?oh come on... of course i could have used friendlier wording, but you basically pulled the equivalent of the old \"you can't expect consistency in a story with dragons and magic.\" trolling. i'm pretty sure you're too smart to actually consider it a serious argument.that's a rather bold claim. i have to admit i can't name any specific market with an anonymous broker system in rl, but i would be quite surprised if such a market didn't exist at all. i would expect something like this in stock trading maybe.yeah, i think with the exception of maybe the op everybody in this thread agrees that scams as such are fine in eve. however, that doesn't mean that the mt mechanic isn't crappy. and i don't want a crappy game mechanic to stay just so one more scam is possible."
"i know the secret to destroy the margin trading scam, it works surprisingly well. would you like to know?"
"no."
"one is in a game and the other is real life. the affect in one, is disproportionate to the other.yes the stock market may be similar, but not the same. this is another reason why real life comparisons when talking about game mechanic balance, simply do not work.much like insurance in eve and real life. you pay to insure and get paid when your vehicle is destroyed. but look at the details and the whole comparison starts to fall apart.i honestly don't see it as crappy, simply because it doesn't solely rely upon the mt skill. it needs people to fulfil buy orders, in order for the scam to work.this is the point when people have full control over their own actions. whether they check the market history of an item, or prices in other regions, is down to them. but if you pay massively over the odds for something, without checking prices first, then why complain about the mt skill later?destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"just a friendly little reminder / bump to help put a little christmas cheer on this proposal.happy holidays and season's greetings to everyone for their support.dmc"
"i'm not sure if this has been brought up yet, but with the new ai, npcs in missions are targeting drones, even if you've already drawn aggro to yourself. this has been making combat missions extremely irritating and difficult for me as a droner, and i'm sure i'm not the only one having problems with it. i feel that this brings the value of drones as a weapon down far below the other weapon classes, and should be addressed."
"someone didn't read the dev blogs. or skim the forums a week after the expansion came out.npcs switching targets is intentional (more than intentional, that was one of the bigger features of the expansion). targets can include drones. drones are still usable, they just require more fineness and less afking. my advice? slap a target painter on your ship. not only does it help drones apply damage easier, but the npcs rate ewar as a \"bigger threat\" and will thus primary you."
"using one of my mid slots for a target painter is a significant hit to my tank (i fly a rattlesnake), and therefore still a disadvantage. whether intentional or not, i feel this is unfair, and that is why i brought it up."
"my alt uses a rattlesnake too. trade in an omnidirectional tracking link. the target painter will provide most of the same benefits except for range.also bear in mind that drone ships gain a wide range of benefits compared to turret or even missiles ships.- you don't use any ammo or capacitor to deal damage, allowing your ship to operate relatively independent.- with sentries you can change your engagement range faster than it takes for a hybrid gun to swap ammo (see: pull in one set of sentries and deploy another).- you have versatility in what ships you can engage (e.g. lights for small ships, heavies for battleships, sentries for range).edit: also... your claim that this change is \"unfair\" was already discussed to death weeks, even months ago. it still went through."
"the solution to this \"problem\" will likely be addressed in the next year or so with some kind of revamp of how drones are used. that is my guess anyways, ccp did say that a drone revamp was high on their priority list."
"for him to know that, he would have had to have thought the idea threw first. we can't have that now, can we?destination skillqueue: it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"the only reason margin trading is allowed to exist in real life is because there is accountability for actions and orders, accountability which is lacking in eve. if orders fail, if trades go bad, there are assets which can be seized and liquidated to compensate the victims. if accountability is not present, margin trading as a parallel should not be present.as it stands, margin trading is a vital part of eve's economy that lets traders leverage their assets and increase liquidity, and without it, much of the bulk buy orders that are key to trading would disappear, removing margin trading is not an option, but giving buyers more information on buy orders would be much welcomed.a simple example would be (open to tweaks)if the buyer does not have sufficient isk to fulfill the minimum buy amount allowed, the order is shown in redif the buyer has enough isk in wallet and escrow to fulfill the minimum buy amount, but not enough for the whole order, the order is shown in orangeif the buyer has more isk in wallet and escrow than the complete value of the buy order, the order is shown in yellowif the buyer has lots of isk available, more than the total value of all total market obligations, the order is shown in green.information available to a player should be plentiful and accurate so we can make the best decisions in our situation. this lack of information regarding market orders is a oddity in eve. the best metaphor for margin scamming right to the rest of eve regarding the unreliability of information would be like this.you see a hauler in low-sec, but it could also be a bait tanked drake, the only way to know for sure is to bump the ship. experienced players might be able to determine what the ship is by looking at the behavior of the ship, but the ui will only tell you it is a hauler. now how many players would be happy with that situatimagine the rage that would ensue if combat ui was not absolutely accurate, or if a module was introduced that let you camouflage your ship as another. that's what margin trading depends on right now, the inability of the eve market ui to give the needed information."
"i'm sorry, but i can't really answer to that if you just claim that the markets are too different to compare, but you don't go into some detail and provide some arguments as to how they are different exactly and why that means that the mt mechanic is not a problem in eve when it is in rl.yeah, as i said i'm not fighting the scam, i'm fighting the game mechanic of the mt skill, which just incidentally happens to be used for the scam too. there are a lot of use cases for the mt skill where you won't be able to see that the buy order will fail by looking at market history or any other use of common sense."
"thanks, finally someone agreeing with what i've been preaching in this thread. i'm not sure i'd call it leveraging your assets as mt in eve will work without any securities and i guess that often buy orders are covered in the future by selling already completed parts of the order, but that's not important really. i don't think the mt skill is that integral to the economy as you think, professional traders (which i guess are a small minority on the market) would need to have 4x as much isk to put on their orders or alternatively just make new orders more often. imo not a game breaker but a mild inconvenience, as i said before it's not my prefered solution though.i don't like this solution though, because while it would solve the mt issue imo it gives way too much information about the buy order issuer. imo the information that is missing is about the order, not about its issuer, and allowing people to gather information about someone's wallet balance is not something i can agree with.how do you like my earlier proposed solution of automatically removing individual buy orders as soon as they become uncovered? it's even easier to implement than yours and while it does limit the abilities of professional traders a little bit compared to now, i feel it's easily manageable to keep your buy orders individually covered while still making good use of mt.you know how you can avoid falling for this? apply a bit of common sense, lad! a hauler in lowsec is obviously too good to be true! if you weren't so greedy to go for a hauler killmail and just settled for a mission running noob caracal you wouldn't have fallen for this. you also could've looked at the killboard history of killed haulers in that system, but you just like to jump into lowsec uninformed, don't you?"
"margin trading scamtake some of your own advise and use it"
"sorry, what?when you asked what the difference was, i assumed (wrongly it seems) that you were already aware i don't think the eve market is like any rl one. i was pointing out that scams in real life, affect people in a far more disproportionate way, than any eve scam.plus eve is designed to include scams as part of it's game play. they even advertise it as such.do i have to mention why scam are bad in real life? what exactly are you missing here?banks have recently found themselves having to pay very large fines, for scandals of late. the libor scandal, springs to mind.differences? let's list one simple difference shall we, the skills we buy and train. if you can point to every skill and a counterpart, then be my guest. but like i said, the mt skill is not solely responsible for the scam and it can so easily be avoided.as far as the skill is concerned, many many players use it for exactly what it was intended for. it works well, so doesn't need change.common sense comes, with looking at the prices and finding out what a product is worth. i personally have never had an issue with this and wouldn't blame an unrelated skill if i did.now let's ask you about something you stated.can you show me proof? i've never seen anything from a ccp dev regarding this.destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"thanks for supporting this idea, louis deguerre. i appreciate."
"why the need to encrypt them on he player's computer ? it's not sensitive data..."
"oh no, you actually have to pay attention in missions now with a drone boat instead of warping in -> get aggro -> launch drones -> watch netflix. the horror!"
"no answer? hmm ... but everyone does not have two screens (or more)."
"i originally proposed this idea in october 2011. the thread got an incredible amount of interest for features & ideas (four whole pages!!!!) and i had a few people call me into taking it to the assembly hall. i never did. the thread is linked, and my original post is below. it might be worth reading the thread; the debate on ideas was actually very widespread and improved some of the points i proposed in my op."
"as a player who semi regularly kills corpmate orcas and other shiny toys, i understand your concern however this is not a game mechanic problem but a lazy ceo problem and a complacent player problem. residing in highsec is a terrible excuse for not fitting a tank on a ship or taking even the most basic security measures. i wrote a blog post about how to avoid such problems arising:"
"still slower than the mwd trick."
"false."
"the preemptive action you are looking for is called \"kicking member from corp the moment he becomes disgruntled\".failure to follow this course of action leads to friendly fuqing.your failure to kick is working as intended."
"bumping should be prohibited , doesn't matter if they are miners , haulers , prewarping any ship if a convo spam is prohibited , bumping should be too."
"because it's a cloaking device, not a 100%-guaranteed-absolute-invulnerability device.besides, have you ever tried catching someone with a cloak coming through a gate? that fraction of a second between them hitting \"warp\" and \"cloak\" isn't much to do anything at all."
"i would like to see my ships value in the fitting view and in any saved fittings. this would help in deciding whether or not its worth it to risk a ship for a particular task. it would also allow people to see what they are getting into when they view a fit and are considering looking at it"
"hello friends,i am proposing a slight change to the way the \"selected item\" window works. right now it displays approach, orbit, keep at range, etc... this is perfect. however, if you double click in an empty portion of the window. the window minimizes. so in the heat of battle, if i am trying to spam my warp button and accidentally click on the empty portion below, it minimizes and in the second it takes me to double click it to maximize it again, i am disrupted or scrammed. this is a game of seconds and milliseconds. when the ui is causing me to lose precious moments, i find it necessary to bring it up in the public forum.proposed resolution: simply make the empty part of the box do nothing when double clicked, rather than minimizing the window.thank you for your time."
"so, the game also has things like a notepad, internet browser, calculator, etc. those exist outside of the game, will ccp take those away as well? what about the chat system? there are plenty of other ways for me to chat to people outside of the game, so why not free up some more of those \"valuable resources\" by removing talking? why even have portraits when there could just be an external site for people to upload pictures? in fact, i'm pretty sure there are some other games that have spaceships in them too, so why not just let them handle that sort of thing so you don't have to worry about it ccp?+1"
"i liked the jukebox. i don't run multiple eve clients while i do run full screen. as such it was nice and handy. i also recommended to new people that they download the e-uni class recordings into a custom play list so they could learn about the game while playing.i also liked the ability to simply \"advance\" when not in the mood for a given tune or pause/stop it if something important came up - such as voice comes issues or the like.i do miss it.that said, if it's extra work keeping it up to date and if it causes issues in other areas - leave it gone.the more focus on game mechanics and fixing the ui - the happier i'll be. if it is a difficult part to keep going, i'd much prefer it gone than having it potentially prevent other fixes from coming out.i just don't know how much extra work was involved. again, if it's not a major problem to keep it around, please do restore it. if so, i can live without it but it is missed."
"still looking to keep this easy one going!hrolt ceo live free; die proud"
"do you people honestly use 13k bookmarks.... all the time?i doubt it."
"imagines a freighter \"suiciding\" into another one in high-sec."
"as clarified by discussion in the thread:"
"it'd also be cool, once the ships are interlocked after a ram, to be able to have a company of dust mercs board the other ship and capture it!i can just hear a cfc carrier pilot on comms to a dustbunny: \"stand by to repel boarders!!!\""
"maybe as another mechanic? i prefer the idea of ramming capitals to ensure death to the pilot or at least the ship"
"if eve was the real world, i could see this being a good idea. in game i'm not sure these would be needed.the first one would be thrown out because so many people use cloaked eyes first to see what they are attackingthe second one would work in wh space because of the \"no local\" but again so many people use cloaked eyes. i don't see either one of these valid.unless... you just wanted to scare the hell out of your corp mate and make him think a 50 man bs gang just jumped in to your wh"
"recently ccp has been making changes to stop afk/relative afk isk farming with changes to static respawn plex's and indeed the ai changes to rats so they retarget drones etc for the carrier pilots, however afk cloakers sitting in systems are safe, they like the afk isk makers are having an impact on the game without actually playing it, and the people they are stopping from doing stuff have no way to hunt them down.proposal 1: introduce a variant of the combat probe that can detect and pinpoint cloaked ships meaning that if a player wants to stop hostile isk making in systems they have to be active (ie warping around bookmarks in system)proposal 2: introduce an activity timer to logoff pilots after a certain period of inactivity (defined by player interaction with client not their computer system)would love to hear thoughts on this issue, i have no problem with people playing the game in a way that causes a detrimental impact to the money making of other players, however there needs to be a way to combat a cloaky who's only purpose is to affect other players while watching netflix etc"
"until the afk cloaker starts making isk while afk, there is no problem."
"obviously there is, the concept of eve is anything can take anything but a cloaked ship is pretty much invulnerable.i am not saying that cloaked ships are bad, far from it, however they should not be untouchable as they are currently.adding a probe for cloaky ships would allow people to activley seek combat to \"clear\" out systems, whilst still allowing the cloaky ship some form of defence, ie ur a cloaky in a system using your d-scan, and you notice \"sisters covert combat scanner probe\" in the list you then know you have to move around rather than just go and watch netflix safe in the knowledge that your f***ing someones play time, however if you have logged in, cloaked and gone afk to watch a film or even logged in then gone to work you could then be probed out and destroyed."
"when i have a way to jump into a populated 0.0 system on a random roam and have a decent chanced of grabbing some poor random... then and only then will i agree that cloaking detection is needed.as it stands right now, afk cloaking ships is the only viable way to attack the industry of a null sec system without bringing in your own thousand man fleet.not supported."
"not really, cloaking ships are a viable way of interuppting industry, not afk cloaking shipsif your gonna sit in a system to stop them making money thats fine, but leaving your character in someones system 23/7 whilst your away playing wow or watching east-enders on the telly, that is wrong.im not saying people should not be cloaked in a system to disrupt industry, just that they should be at their keyboard doing it.if i have a mining barge in a belt and i go afk watching a film i have a very good chance of being popped, so why should someone go afk watching a film or whatever and have no risk associated with it??also if you are at keyboard as the op stated its not an issue, cloaky ship sees probes, moves position."
"nope. afk cloaking is working as intended."
"in the 10 years of eve online's existence, no one has ever lost a ship to an afk cloaker./thread"
"well for starters while mining you are making isk, the cloaker is not and cannot make isk while cloaked.secondly, would it bother you just as much if the guy was docked up in the same system?i am talking about changes to the way local works.nikk covers it best."
"i could see this being helpful. this would work for distributing bookmarks too.i want 5 stacks of 1 bookmark to hand out, or for sleeper loot. my corp use to keep their sleeper loot out in high sec and wait for prices to go up. you split the stacks. 5 people came along, and you do the math splitting the stacks 20 items in 5 stacks.+1"
"i'm missing the jukebox a lot too.. i'm a guy that actually likes in-game music a lot and i loved to switch sometimes to my fav \"below the asteroids\" song... it made me go pownage on big battles. and kept me company for when i locked myself in a wh.i also liked the quick ability to pause it for voice conversations or when it was unwantedso please give it back if it is not a to big problem... i saw some great idee's here already about making it a option"
"i want my jukebox back."
"of course we don't use them all the time. can only use the ones in the system i'm in *at the time*, however it's damn nice to jump into a new system, right-click, and find a full menu of safe, tactical, and scanning bookmarks readily available from the last time i was there."
"as a member of a large wormhole alliance, i can tell you stabilizers of any kind are bad, m'kay?currently the only difficulty in a c6 is logistics, and if we all of a sudden have a way to keep wh's open until we collapse them ourselves, well then, we no longer have to worry about scanning for a highsec to only find eol's, we cna just lock them open and bring 10-12 bestowers in and out, then force it closed. would make thinsg way too easy."
"i just came back to eve after a long break, and this drone change is by far the worst thing that has ever been done to the game. was this done by team super-not-fun or what?!it was already annoying that you couldn't fight sleepers with drones, which kind of rendered an entire skill tree useless, but now you can't even use them properly anymore in missions. as it stands currently, this change does not add even the slightest to the game. it isn't even adding any challenge, as all you need to do is watch the targeting of npcs and hit retreat once you are no longer locked. and buy an occasional new drone if you had lag.while before i was strategically playing a mission, i now sit there and watch my drones. drone in. drone out. drone in. drone out. drone in. drone out. drone in. drone out. drone in. drone out. drone in. drone out. drone in. drone out. drone in. drone out. drone in. drone out. drone in. drone out. drone in. drone out. drone in. drone out. drone in. drone out. drone in. drone out. drone in. drone out. drone in. drone out. drone in. drone out. drone in. drone out. drone in. drone out. drone in. drone out. drone in. drone out. drone in. drone out. drone in. drone out. drone in. drone out. drone in. drone out. drone in. drone out. drone in. drone out. drone in. drone out. drone in. drone out. drone in. drone out. drone in. drone out. drone in. drone out. drone in. drone out. drone in. drone out. drone in. drone out. drone in. drone out. drone in. drone out. drone in. drone out. drone in. drone out. drone in. drone out. drone in. drone out. drone in. drone out. drone in. drone out. drone in. drone out. drone in. drone out. drone in. drone out. drone in. drone out. drone in. drone out. drone in. drone out. drone in. drone out. drone in. drone out. drone in. drone out. drone in. drone out. drone in. drone out. drone in. drone out. drone in. drone out. drone in. drone out. drone in. drone out. drone in. drone out. drone in. drone out. drone in. drone out. drone in. drone out. drone in. drone out. drone in. drone out. drone in. drone out. drone in. drone out. drone in. drone out. drone in. drone out. drone in. drone out. drone in. drone out. drone in. drone out. drone in. drone out. drone in. drone out. drone in. drone out. drone in. drone out. drone in. drone out. drone in. drone out. drone in. drone out. drone in. drone out. drone in. drone out. drone in. drone out. drone in. drone out. drone in. drone out. drone in. drone out. drone in. drone out. totally not fun at all!"
"for everyone saying that i just need to pay attention, i'd like to clarify, i do not afk during missions very often. in fact, i use my drones in passive mode so that i can choose my priorities for them to attack and try to better manage the aggro. no matter how i handle them, since the retribution release, i'm losing drones every mission, because they can't get out, kill a ship, and get back in the bay before one of them dies. i've had to go back to using my raven, and i'm still losing drones when i need them to take out elite fast frigates."
"easily worked around. get corpmates and/or friends to bring your right to the limit... then go and wreak mayhem."
"that's divergent gameplay. if you want to restrict people's options in combat then do something with aggro mechanics. but it'd be pretty amusing to see freighters smashing into each other in gank attempts; especially considering the cost of freighters that the gankers would need to employ."
"aaaaaaaaand up."
"like the op i suck at eve and cry on forums.lets try to learn how to play the game and then go to the forums, now couldent that be fun."
"still the best solution to everything is to remove local, as per wormholes. i suggest you go back to ratting in your golems, its all fine as the cloakers are away from keyboard. zero risk"
"tldr; lower rl plex prices, increase revenue/happiness!so i was looking at plex prices compared to monthly subscription rates. with \"monthly\" you pay from 10.95 to 14.95 depending on the increment. plex on the other hand are 17.50 per, unless you buy one at which point they are 19.99. (prices are in usd)firstly, i am going to ignore the whole \"ccp is screwing us qqq!!!!\" line, they are a corporation. their goal is to make money. the problem is that plex are very elastic. if someone is buying them we can assume they are also paying for their account, so they really have no need for it. they can always go out and farm isk or not lose as many ships during that paycheck.on the flip side, i have friends in game who are playing from plex to plex and if anything it takes the fun out of it. one of the appeals to newer players is that you can pay for eve using in game cash. however when it turns into a second job to keep your account up and you have to spend more time farming for your plex then actually playing the game. this is also the bittervets, god help the poor noobie running lvl 3s in a myrmidon. my proposal is simple, just lower the price of plex to be more in line with monthly payments and make it more beneficial to buy more of them, the same way it works for monthly. honestly, even just lowering the price of the multipacks would help. why buy a six pack when you can buy three packs of two at the same price? this also helps those of us with low resistance to impulse buying wreck our wallets more often. lower prices means more plex sales for ccp, cheaper plexs for players, easier accessibility to eve and general better lives for everyone."
"we need a new mechanism build in the forums to prevent ppl from making topics about . i think this will be the next best thing since introducing covert cyno's.."
"i agree.jint hikaru - miner / salvager / explorer / spacebum in the beginning the universe was created. this has made a lot of people very angry and been widely regarded as a bad move."
"put in under a sticky, then move all new topics there so people can read how their brilliant idea was shot down 3 years ago."
"this post is concerning the inclusion of a new market option for both hisec and lowsec markets. the introduction of generic products and services as a failsafe against non sufficient product availability and extrenuous price variances. this new system would create a new product for each product listing, but using either a hisec (csm) or lowsec (isd) brand schemas.why competing generic brands?some corporations only work in certain areas. the two major divisions of hisec and lowsec gives each group and their regions a more fair coverage.can anyone create generic brands?with respects to csm/isd provision and ccp developers; everyone should be 'enabled' to create generic products. the competitive environment for time sensitive market activity expands to provide npo's and regular corporations greater coverage to reach their preferred customers by producing generic as well as their normal brands.do generically mean lesser quality?possibly, if the corporation that produced it insisted on it for quantitative purposes. but all csm/isd products would be approved for mass distribution to the public.what steps should be taken for generics to be implimented?by filing petitions on the main ccp site, creating alliances and formally presenting a resolution, you will be in position to represent your favor group of hisec or lowsec products and market shares before ccp and its developers.your input on these issues do matter. please respond to this post concerning if interested."
"proposal 1: sheesh, i can see you put a whole lot of thought into that. so with just two clicks, someone can launch a probe and press scan..... and know if a cloaked ship is in the system. well done, you just broke wormholes.seriously, this has been suggested many times before, try reading the forums before posting the same tired (i don't know what to call it, wanted to say 'idea' but that word suggests some intelligence).proposal 2: what about people in stations, outposts or poss, they are showing up on local too, and are also uncatchable..... don't you think they should be treated the same as people using cloakes?jint hikaru - miner / salvager / explorer / spacebum in the beginning the universe was created. this has made a lot of people very angry and been widely regarded as a bad move."
"i want it back. can not imagine any reason why it has been removed. it is like devs do not play or care this game anymore so they better keep their hans off.it almost really flipped me to just dowloand the music and not to sub this game anymore."
"i came back from a break and was well aware of this change.but right now it is a bit too harsh imho.no, i am not afking, but while my hobs ii are trying to shoot down an enemy frigate that is dampening and scrambling me, i lost 2 in a few seconds due to many enemies targeting it since i was unable to shoot anything because i could not target anything. at the end of the mission i had 1 hob ii left. i really don't want to think about my next blockade where i am mostly constantly jammed...as a gallentean, i don't really like this change."
"if you are looking at the ship you are doing it wrong, this is internet spreadsheets simulator, not some fancy spaceship game"
"how about finally getting custom bloody roles and access like every other mmo under the bloody sun"
"eve becomes angels fall first: planetstorm, i approveseriously though, ramming should become a thing for all ships whenever they feel like it, crushing a frigate in a mining barge would be hilarious"
"if this was the case i'd like to see a system with some sort of mjd-esque module implemented. that'd be cool."
"yep, scamming is as legit in eve as anything, it goes right with the deception aspect of the gamepersonally, i dont do it though, even in internet spaceships i am trapped by my morals"
"perhaps just bumping for blackmail purposes as bumping is a very useful tool for other purposes, especially in pvp"
"elaborate"
"tl;dr... seed \"civilian\" mods and weapons everywhere in empire (via npcs) so i am not required to have a logistical supply line or carry my equipment with me to some far flung area of the map.suck it up op. we've all been there and part of the challenge of this game is making do with what you have and planning around it."
"do you want the unreliable estimated prices or actual market prices, either way, work it out yourself, its not like the market changes at a whim or anything"
"and then everyone were hurricanes and the belts were empty forever"
"once upon a time we couldn't warp to zero on a gate...so we made book marks. honestly your idea is pointless, put up a drag bubble and setup your gate camp to uncloak people..."
"all the 'location aware' system seems to do is cut the playlist from 60 tunes to about 5. virtually all the music in eve, with the exception of the instrumental heavy metal that used to play when going into a deadspace plex, is gentle ambient music that could be listened to in any situation."
"convo spaming was good too in pvp especially in shooting carriers"
"hehehe..."
"ummmmmm...... yeah... whatever he said... just do it, please"
"thank you jack logans.i appreciate."
"i totally agree."
"i detected players who are placing low bounties (100k) on people. it seems to be affordable for almost any rich player to mark the whole eve universe \"wanted\". i think this an exploit of the bounty system and renders it useless. i ask you, csm and community, for a change. [edited] conclusion: see new topic subject..."
"as you appear to be upset about the low bounty threshold, i've added 100m to your bounty. enjoy!and to the proposal itself, no, there's no good reason why it should be 1m instead of 100k. giving everyone 100k bounties is hardly an exploit and the idea that it makes it \"useless\" is laughable."
"come live with us for a while, then you'll find out just how horrible an idea the op really is.seriously. trying to limit 0.0 afk cloakers would cause hell for us w-spacers, especially when operating well away from one's home base...how would you deal with running out of cloak fuel when you are a covops working random routes out of a hostile c5? fly 30+ j to empire and back, strongly risking the route collapsing out from under you?"
"the only way to \"rework\" bumping is to remove it completely i.e. make the ships fly through each other. it's not like the physics are in very central role in eve anyway..."
"i concur with the learned dutchman."
"bribing npc factions and corporations for standings.removing your ciminal flags and resetting your security status to 0.0 by payng a fine proportional to the severity of your crimes.matching the price on your head should nullify the bounty contract."
"so basically any pirate or 0.0 person who is rich enough doesn't have to worry about doing \"bad things\" in empire anymore.i can see a rash of suicide ganking and wardecs happening after this."
"so my ideas are simple and quality of life stuff.#1 fleet templatessave fleet wing squad configuration and names for them. simply click the upper left corner and select a saved template.i would love this. we always make fleets and having a template could save me a bunch of time building it.#2 fix boostersanything so people in fleet or wing get boosts properly. also assigning boosters and such needs to just work#3 drag/droplet me click someone and drag them to a squad or wing position"
"i've recruited a number of friends and seen them leave because there simply wasn't enough casual things for new players to do, and i'd like to add a few ideas on how to help give newbies reasons to stay.- make mission running fleets more exciting, give players additional goals to reach, f.ex give style points(lp, isk, or whatever) for doing a mission right instead of just flying in and shooting left and right cowboy style. a mission could award you style points for not using certain modules that would draw attention, or affect a nearby anomaly or whatever else makes sense in the situation. or perhaps just a simple boast system that increases rewards if you fly a ship with only t1 fittings, no armor/shield tanking fits, or adding a strict time limit.-make the skill queue accessible from api; smartphone apps/evemon/etc, or increase the queue time so you dont waste time training skills to lvl 5 you don't really need yet because you want to go on a christmas vacation :)-make exploring a shared experience, let people meet and work together or against each other without it just devolving into 'pew pew pew'-action. -make events that are accessible for newer players, like incursions or wormholes, and make goals for different career specializations(pve'ers, explorers, miners, haulers, etc)-lower training time on skills, i think the fact that you can spend a few months specializing in something you think you want, only to realize that mining wasn't the thing for you, can be devastating for a lot of peoples patience with this game, i dont mind it, i'm one of those people that enjoy doing lots of different things in the game and i keep myself busy. but really, think of the children!-make logistic ships, and other ships that give a strategic advantage other than 'more guns' available sooner.-make mission specific objects highlighted in the default overview, and add a shitton of tooltips to help explain mechanics like tracking, signature radius, etc. and maybe add default fittings for some of earliest available ship classes to prevent confusion.-sort of off topic, but some ship designs really look unsound, i love my drake, but it looks like it's meant to combine with other ships to form a dragonzord, and getting a new cool looking ship is something everyone looks forward to. also, a complimentary plastic surgery every now and then to fix that nose you messed up when you first created your character would be nice, as a new player you dont really want to spend ca. 580mil isk for a nosejob.i hope this is the right place/form to submit this, and i'd be happy to hear more suggestions, i'm not trying to make the game easier, just more accessible for new players to get hooked on. it gets lonely in space you know...your ideas/critique is welcome, even if this thread goes unseen by the powers that be, i still enjoy discussing ways to improving the game that nurtures my addictive gaming problem.happy new year"
"right"
