"now this is a ship i can get behind. especially any time i move to a different section in space... also helps to clear out a hanger for pirating xd+1"
"you really should evemail all the csm with this thread ^^ .. make sure they get it so its presented to ccp."
"you wouldn't need to target the attacker, only the friendly you intend to protect.for an aegis destroyer to protect a friendly, it must activate a specialized module on that friendly. when an attacker fires, the position of attacker, defender, and friendly, along with the skills and characteristics of the module determine the percentage of damage reduced. given the role of the ship, it would be expected that this ship is primaried by smart fcs. the expectation is that you have more than one, and that they form very small defensive units protecting each other, protecting logis, and friendlies. they are the first line of defense, but they are expected to go down in a fight, that's why they should be cheap.the range considerations need not be dictated by the capability of real world ciws. some lore crafting could alleviate that requirement. there's also the question of ammunition use. it'd probably be more useful to have a module that offers damage reduction for all incoming fire, in which case, ammunition would be impractical. some manner of cap using force field magic, on the other hand would likely work better. i think i mentioned this in another post (though i did have a fairly long post eaten by the forum, so it may never have made it here).overall effect of the module would have a maximum effectiveness percentage based on skills (racial destroyer skill for role bonus + skill at using the defensive modules). i also imagine that for each successful reduction, each additional reduction gets smaller. for example, the first module reduces the damage 25% (1000hp to 750hp), the next module reduces the damage another 25% of what's left (750hp to 562hp), and so on (422, 316, 237hp....). ideally, skill and position determine which reduction applies first in the case where one pilot has 32% reductions and another has 25%... etc. it probably should have some tweaking for how it stacks or scales, but i don't think it should be possible to make friendlies impervious to fire.i think i probably need some help squaring away the numbers and implementation details if it comes to that, but that's really ccp's job if they think the idea is worth implementing.i don't think we players ought to dictate the math, we should simply generate the idea and the request: a new role for an inexpensive ship that yields richer tactics. i think active defense makes sense, and i'd also like to see destroyers take a part in fielding that new ability.please support the idea if you like it. the implementation will take care of itself (or cause the idea to be vetoed by ccp devs, which is also a valid result)."
"looking forward to seeing the amended discussion. keep us updated.\"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"it doesn't really answer my question, but i appreciate the numbers. i'd like to see some examples of total warp time, starting from beginning align time to landing time. it does seem reasonable that less mass would be able to accel faster in warp as it does any other time."
"+1, that might also make warp rigs useful for more peoplecheck the moderated 10000 papercuts evelopedia page!"
"1.0"
"while they look at this, perhaps they can look at the freighter max warp speed. the details on the freighter and jump freighter show max warp speed of 0.75au/s but actual displayed max au on tq and sis is 0.70au/s.i know .05au/s is not a lot of difference, but for a freighter in an over 180au that time can add up."
"complimentary services: office location, free walking in station advertisement. discount or free advertisements in office location's solarsystem.vanity services: commercial ships warping around solarsystems. stationary structures (billboards) across along the spacelanes. targeted advertisements in selected locations or whole locations. propaganda: mass media coverage. headline news. (accumulation of paid services rewards bonus) big: propaganda: login screen advertisement. big: spot in e-on magazine."
"honestly i have been thinking of getting together a group of noctis pilots and offering professional salvaging services. the advertising billboard would make it easier to start a more specialized company such as freight salvage or services renderedwhile i support the above post i absolutely refuse to have targeted adverts eg popups"
"i think it is obvious that lowsec is highly under utilized and serves as merely a buffer between high and null sec. i know cpp mentioned that they had some plans for lowsec. i simply wish to put in my idea into the hat.what if we made the empires islands instead of one big continuous space? in essence a few lowsec jumps between each of the empires. this would give people much more reason to enter lowsec. it would allow for more non suicide pirates and create a better market for merc corps who could be hired out as escorts.just an idea."
"unashamed bump. also, original post updated.\"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"there is a 'next system' show on your waypoints thingie in the ui. you know, the thing with the coloured squared in a row.jint hikaru - miner / salvager / explorer / spacebum in the beginning the universe was created. this has made a lot of people very angry and been widely regarded as a bad move."
"what im getting at if the way points over lap you may have 2 or 3 yellow jumpgates all im proposing is differnt colors depending on what way point 1 2 3 ect or some way to tell them apart.. and yes i know abought the uper left hand corner next system thing , im purly talking a overview change not the route box"
"i would say remaps arent used at all for the first 30 days of a charcters life that would be my vote and up till 10m sp you can renmap for a plex after that you should know what you are doing and plan acordingly to the standard remap timer"
"why do you foolish #%@%@$ people love to necro a thread thats obivous dead?================ stop the evemail spam!"
"google for the win"
"really? i'm too lazy to fly 8 jumps and i am too important to wait for a courier contract?please remove a player career from the game to make things easier for me.all this from a 10 day old character.please can we ban people from making posts in the assembly hall until they have at least 6months game experience.jint hikaru - miner / salvager / explorer / spacebum in the beginning the universe was created. this has made a lot of people very angry and been widely regarded as a bad move."
"ok i'm going to flame you, why, cause this is not wow. you want npc to deliver you goods, like drop **** into a mail box and waiting an hour like wow.. umm no why?this game evolves around players doing the work in the game. this means either you go do it yourself, or pay another player to go do it for you.logistics is a huge time consuming job in eve. its not easy and a pain in the ass half the time. pirates are always looking for a quick buck. haulers are their targets. doing it via npc takes reduces the risk in this game and would cause alot of people to loose their way of eve life. so not only no but hell no.if you are to lazy to go 8 damn jumps to pick up ammo, then eve is not the place for you. go play a fluffy easy game like wow or guild wars.fly safe, i hope someone in a battle badger finds you and pops you for suggesting this."
"or at least specific forums, yes."
"this was proposed many years ago .... interbus was going to be that role however ccp went with courier contracts .....which are god awefull waist of game manchanics and no one uses hardly, for one they are expencive based on what is being moved or what the people value there atuff at , and 2 they affer little in the way of a reward . what i would like to see is a npc transport corp with actualy freiters or indys and security missions courier missions . where you have to eather run escort for the corp or haul assets for them (which are actualy peoples assets ) so say i went to a station and asked them to move 10km3 for x amount of isk the npc corp makes a mission to some one that requests a mission carry this package (the item 10km3) to the destnation upon completion of said mission they get x percent of the isk costing to transport the item and a certan loyality point for the in question corp . the lp rewards should be pretaining to indys (custon indys, modded cargo expanders, ect) this would do 2 things 1. make it player driven with npc faciliting the prosses and 2. increse the reward and give players a reson to do this contracts .lv1 missions should be under 100m3 cargo lv2 missions should be under 5000m3 cargo lv3 missions should be under 10000m3 cargo lv4 missions should be under 30000m3 cargo or ships requireing a carier or posabilty freiter missions if player has this shiplv5 all freiter missions please feel free to coment however i relise my gramer is not good so ...."
"i believe that this would be a way to guarantee easy botable shipping missions for players. if you can guarantee a cargo delivery being available from place a to place b you can have it always running with minimal risk and bot complexity. lowsec shipping mission offer a decent amount of lp for really easy missions, using bestowers or other high volume low cost ships. there is a place in heimatar, ingunn, where you can find bot couriers being run at all times of the day. though i haven't been back there in two years, a small group of people racked up over a hundred kills, haulers, pods and frigates, in about a week. now if you could automatically make those all level 3 or 4 you can make a very good isk to lp ration or standings grind for corps.you make the isk back by doing missions that are not ones you create in hisec."
"kinda what i was getting at is replace courier contracts with actual agent missions"
"and how do you steal them?"
"this is another issue that i think should be moved to the front on this idea for a trade expansion. thanks."
"i agree, and i see absolutely no way this can be exploited. (that's sarcasm, this is a terrible idea)if i could change my avatar's expression, he'd be expressing seething hatred right now.a lot of the people who play this game play it because they can be miscreants. stealing is encouraged, piracy is legitimate, and larceny is the driving force behind pretty much everything we do. stop trying to change that. you make enough isk already."
"i endorse this product and/or service.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"as long as there are no faction drakes or canes, this might work."
"yeah i purposefully left out the tier2 battle cruisers cause eve would explode if a faction drake was released. plus im pretty sure all of the existing pirate bc models use the tier 1 bc when they use any at all."
"navy drake there is hardly any navy missle boats plenty of gunships sacerfice dps for tank maby h6 m7 5l rof bonus and resist bonus"
"agreed... how about aegis destroyers also? (see sig)"
"there are plenty of counter-tactics to cloaked ships:- a standing fleet- a small fleet of ships with swarms of dronesbut honestly, if they're not at the computer, they are no threat to you. stop being a little *****! if you're afraid of a permacloaked ship, you should find some other game to spend your time on.if you want to find a solution to a permacloaked ship, jump up and down so your ****s will drop, grab a fleet, and go **** their **** up.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"jack, the quote you are using as a sig was, i think, originally \"war does not determine who is right, but who is left\"arent there like three other threads about this exact same thing, with all the exact same people posting the exact same things?"
"sometimes people don't get the message....and this will likely continue to happen until such time people wise up.jacks right btw....just a bit more terese that i would put it.but he's right.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"can you expand a bit more on how this works?"
"seriously? i mean bother to read what everyone already has offered.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"i meant how does one go about finding a perma cloaky ship. currently."
"if you dont have the people to be online to protect from cloakies, then you dont have enough people to deal with a regular threat.if you are being attaked by 20 people when you only have 15, a cloaky is pretty much irrelevant. you simply dont have the manpower to hold that system.sov is held by the group with the power to hold it.it seems to me you cant really justify a change to cloak mechanics as your argument doesnt seem to address that, but more of a wider manpower issue."
"you really don't get it do you?i suggest you consider the mouse trap and then apply it to eve mechanics/tactics.if you can't figure out that much let alone refuse to read what people have said in many topics...you have no business making proposals about this subject what-so-ever.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"maybe you can detail how a cloaky ship provides an unique threat to a system. maybe highlight how much more of a threat it is than say, a regular roaming gang or non cloaked scout."
"oo, i must have really struck a nerve, i see a lot of defensive posturing, but no answer to my question. i see a bait and trap, that may/maynot work, but it doesnt force anyone's hand. ive read a lot of threads, maybe youve seen my posts somewhere else? i havent seen any answers other then \"i swear it works fine\" how does one find a perma cloaky? im not making a judgement , here, but i am asking since you have presented it as an option. saying \"figure it out yourself\" is avoiding the questions, why bother replying if you dont have an answer worth sharing?"
"hmm, its guerrilla warfare, or terrorism, depending on which side you are on. roaming gangs are the forces that maraud from the hills, and wear uniforms, and \"afk\" or \"perma\" cloakys are the people that blend in with the civilians, hiding weapons in the basements of houses. you don't know when they are going to strike, you don't know where, but you know they are out there and want to. i dont want to break the cloak mechanic, i do want to break the system camping mechanic. how?, im not sure. i just disagree with people that say \"its fine, you can beat it by doing .... um , actually just figure it out for yourself:\""
"when a ship cloaks, it should be removed from local. problem solved.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"its quite simple. when cloaked, the cloaker is removed from local (and possibly has local removed from their ui to balance)you get a more realistic active 'cloaked' vessel, because the other system users dont know he is there.you completely remove the akf cloaker, because the system residents are not aware that he is there, and as he is afk he is no threat at all.however; as this would mean that the residents of the system would have to activly check for probes or be prepared for a cloaked attack (similar to wh space), i can't see them supporting this, becaue \"its too much work for them\"because, what these threads really boil down to is the null carebears want to rat and mine without any cloak threat at all. (the afk whine is just an excuse)jint hikaru - miner / salvager / explorer / spacebum in the beginning the universe was created. this has made a lot of people very angry and been widely regarded as a bad move."
"why trolling all forum topic you fcking moron ?"
"why not read the post you \"fcking moron\"?================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"so far the grades of security status mean nothing you either have 5+ concord or 4- nothing. additionally since 1.0 - .8 systems have the same security level as 7-5 this makes operations such as burn jita not only possible but predictable. my solution is simple. 1.0-0.8 concord shows up faster and pods criminals0.7-0.5 concord delay increases the closer you get to low sec0.4 -0.3 concord will send token ships with mission rat stats these are kill able and escalations are limited to a number of waves equal to security status of the system a minor deterrent that is as easily dealt with as a standard belt rat however jamming and scrambling may allow the victim time to escape but a well organized gate camp would be able to easily keep these at bay. basically make the variations in security status actually matter rather than concord no concord.before people start bashing me for wanting concord in low sec the increased delay-time will make suicide ganking much easier in 0.5 boarder systems and any alpha ganking build will be able to pop a concord rat in low sec with minimal damage. the purpose of lowsec concord is primarily electronic warfare rather than heavy fire supportadditionally an idea i had earlier would be to add crooked cops in lowsec that a corporation can pay off to disable concord spawns when their members engage in piracy"
"interesting post.i am inclined to support the notion that concord response time should be marginally quicker when a high security status character is attacked, and i am inclined to support a smooth change in response times in varying system security statuses (rather than having it change suddenly between .8-.7, .5-.4 etc). i don't support the concord npcs in lowsec yet because i think it requires a great deal of debating. its a big change and shouldn't be supported lightly. i'll keep an eye on this thread.\"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"+1supported, clean and well thought out system to make concord a police force not an uber dps monster that cant move one system over to 0.4 space."
"you have to remember that concord in lowsec will not be very dangerous in terms of dps. the low sec concord will be mostly specced for jamming and ewar to break warp scrambles and other tackling modules. the thing is that lowsec is less safe than null sec. and it is supposed to be the other way around. if you make it past the gate camps in lowsec and actually make it to nul sec your basically home free unless you happen to hit an active system. and one of the reasons null sec is safer than low sec is because you can actually ue preemptive tactics without fear of sec loss. speaking if preemptive tactis lets also add jamming rights. if you lock a players ship that player has 5 minuts in which they can jam you with no penalty. the only reason suicide ganking in high sec works is because the players targeted cant take preemptive measures without being penalized by the very system designed to protect themto be honest nerfing concord overall in hignsec would improve security allowing more vigilante action and hunting of the outlawed playersit has gotten to the point where in some of my previous corporations mining operations we hired pirates in cloaked destroyers to hid in the belt and if any player targeted a barge for any reason the miner called on vent and one of the destroyers would gank the ship regardless of whether or not the intent was malicious"
"well thought out +1"
"1. throw away mac2. buy real computer3. feel better now that you don't own a pos."
"how about you stop being an ass before i report you for being one in the first place.================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"ahh ok, sorry about that. i will admit to having a thing against macs.that aside, in an effort to make amends for this (quite small offense to be fair) if you'd like to come fly with us sometime, you can fly over to sujarento and fleet up with us. commands ship or t3 please. ;d"
"i'm hard pressed to believe that.the whole point of hte op's post is his protest over what he feels is an aparent lack of concern or care for mac users on the part of ccp.my point here however is complete ignorance and refusal to accept a few key concepts as a mac user when it comes to using a windows game such as eve online in a mac environment require a little bit of common sense and paitence.you show up and tell them to throw his computer out and go to a pc.minor offense my ass i say.i at least bothered to offer some custructive information and inferred a few things that are obvious to those who \"care\" about mac users in eve online that we should be paitent and bother to give ccp a little slack on doing work for a minority group.like it or not..mac users are here to stay....much like the quiet linux community that ccp doens't support in an officila capicity.some well known pilots use mac's.....so in short...stop being an ass and think before you post.you can hate macs all you want... but bringing it to here or anywhere where mac users are trying to get assistance is just plain stupid.it would be no differnt then you griping about a pc issue and me telling you and everyone else to toss your pc.obviously nothing short of spitting in ones face at that rate.i told him to wait...and if he cant...well might as well get a pc because like it or not...things tend to work a little better as eve is a pc centric game. i didn't tell him to throw his mac out or quit out right....obviously thats last resort.that's all i'm saying.no skin off my back....ps: and in case you missed it...i use both platforms (mac and pc)....in tandem.================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"lol!! he mad ya'll.......prolly for buying a mac"
"step 1) trade mac for abacus.step 2) post on forums complaining about lack of abacus support.step 3) profit??"
"soultion load bootcamp run windows client"
"fixed that for youi am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"i agree with your last two points, but here there is a net loss of isk. you could say that the net isk loss per ship is more now than if this were implemented, but ideally the aggregate would be more by encouraging more destruction."
"yeah sorry, the seocnd i read \"wormhole stabilizer\" you lost any and all respect i might have ahd for your opinions.learn to amke betterideas that arent game-breaking for a significant field of the game, then come abck and repropose your idea."
"not a bad idea. i think i might do just that.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"you had me at 'bouncing boobies'.+1"
"ew, breasts. -1unless they change the editor so i can have a cute looking guy."
"i like that!"
"i like this. support, +1."
"1.0"
"1.0"
"i agree popup adverts are the worst type of advertising out there. but i don't think that is possible in space. they would be billboards or on the screen in your captains quarters. so if you don't want to see ads, turn off captains quarters and/or piv your camra angle so you don't see it ;)..so other thoughts of how to advertise in game besides billboards, logos on ships, and captains quarters big screen?"
"well, i had considered a mod that created a floating hologram above your ship. the hologram could just show the alliance logo holograms in the same way that the territorial claims unit does. hopefully soon we will have \"walking in stations corporate office quarters\" (i've seen the signs!), and so other corps or players could pay to have posters up in other corporations offices.ps; i am updating the original post to include some current pros and cons. thanks everyone for your input, keep it coming."
"i support low sec buffers between regions (10 systems deep at least).would be a nice buff to regional markets."
"add dark glitter."
"and see escortation services pop up the people they were supposed to escort? well that stuff never gets old, does it."
"1.0"
"yeah, i understand what you mean. its a good idea.... it's been proposed before, and the new waypoint ui comes close to helping, but changing the colours or even only highlighting the next jump gate on your overview in yellow would avoid come confusion when traveling.jint hikaru - miner / salvager / explorer / spacebum in the beginning the universe was created. this has made a lot of people very angry and been widely regarded as a bad move."
"i agree!i hate it when i haul something inexpensive (therefore not concentrating) and then i have to figure out wich of the two-three yellow gates is the right one right now."
"it's the opposite. hi-sec carebears are the ones who are quite safe from dying. they might be the worst pvpers, but if they stay away from smartbombing-worthy targets, they are very, very safe.i am pretty bad pvper, but even the best in our alliance know that there are daily risks of losing your pod at 0.0.being good pvper does not make you invulnerable to getting alphaed and stuck in a bubble.therefore, learning implants actually reward carebears."
"attribute implants buffing learning speeds are ok. there is no problem with that.pros: they reward the player who wants to progress faster, the player who makes an investment to achieve a target quicker through deciding to play the game longer than expected. lp system is a money-sink. it's where isk leaves the economy and this not arguable - it is good.cons:they can be a tad bit excessive in their buffs. there's so much sandbox **** in eve that it's kind of redonkulous to have another layer of buffers being implants and boosters. boosters are especially f-ing excessive. too much is going on - reduce the madness!after all, if this is not resolved, how can ccp truly balance ships as they say?proposal: change attribute implants to be attribute-only! change attribute implant's 'named' sets to give an additional boost in specific attribute(s) (instead of buffs like increased damage, etc) remove hardwiring implants but; keep boosters and change them as contraband for upcoming smuggler professionals. new: immortal-grade clones (implant) (ideal for null sec pvpers and militia)(sub-legal: illegal in concord & empire zones unless militia)(denies use of +attribute implants)what would all these bring? controlled devastation of loss. (losing few boosters isnt as bad as losing hardwires) conservation of finances. (individual boosters cost less than hardwiring) increase value of boosters. (no hardwiring implants & illegal in secure space) increase production of boosters. (demand!) increase tactical advantage of boosters. (no hardwiring implants) boosters encourage null sec and low sec economy. (contraband) dawn of the smuggler profession, which is coming! (high-sec contraband for $$$) balanced gameplay yet still effected by wealth & economy. (less +stat madness)"
"the lp store is pretty much dead already due to lots of lp from incursions and the agent quality changes. the implants are a very large part of what is left of it. if you take out that substantial amount of the store without replacing it then the few items left will be swampted and the lp stores will almost certainly be worthless.that is a big impact on the game. now why not allow pods to warp out of bubbles? and then you don't have this problem anymore. i mean shooting bubbled pods is not really that challenging is it? you want to destroy a major part of the game (the lp store) that requires thought and research so you can continue to shoot fish in a barrel. that is about as clear an example of dumbing the game down that i can find. make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"i use courier contracts all the time (because i'm really lazy). but they don't stay up on the market for very long... something about them getting picked up and done in about a day or so... which probably has to do with the fact that i pay rather generously (about 5 to 10% of the collateral), keep the amounts small enough (sub-30k m3 amounts) for normal industrial ship capacity, and keep the collateral below 100million so \"poorer\" players (which are quite numerous) can pick up the contracts.now if i have a big job... i ask corpies when their next freighter run is. or i ask an organization like red frog freight to do it for me (and their rates are reasonable... mostly)."
"no.would take away some people's livelihoods.so no and go **** yourself.don't forget to give me your stuff and then biomass.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"1.0"
"but the skill-based idea is great - only people who actually need bigger limit would skill for it, therefore hw load would not increase that much.+1"
"this is interesting.many of us remember the ship as a \"here you go kids\" giveaway and the circumstances around it, and therefor obviously dismiss it as a ship of any use. we pretty much ignore it, it's tainted.however, most new players do not know this history, and it is on the market.i was just cleaning out my hangar the other day and decided to keep it (packaged and out of the way) and remarked my self how useless it was in relation to its purpose.there is nothing it can do that a well fitted industrial or transport blockade runner cannot do 20 times better.even as a hi-sec ship, why would you have two ships when one can to the same thing and a whole lot more.fix the primaeorremove itright now it is just a stale reminder of some serious ship design/role issues."
"you could say the same about every single one of the free gift ships we've been given."
"+1.scratch that.+10000."
"i think i left out the concord clause in number 5. it is on the notebook paper i designed these on. either you left it out or i forgot it. this is more to prevent ceo from robbing themselves for shareholder money. number 7 is to take place of concord in null security space that was supposed to be mention in number 5. i am trying to boost the idea of public corporations, not prevent actual theft. this will prevent all loop holes in the corporation value calculator. concord is the \"police,\" and corporation should be allowed to enforce it policies a lot more firmly to its members in its own space.i will add in the concord clause. thanks for pointing out my typo."
"here is the corrected #5.5. if a ship is stolen out of the corporate fleet specified earlier, as in leaving the corporation with it in you hanger, insurance should pay the payout to the corporation. a stolen ship is no different as a destroyed ship. a stolen ships should go through some process of being shot by concord and deemed not able to be sold in high security space or in systems that are owned by that corporation and its alliance. concord should have an arrival delay to give some chance of making it to low security space or out of the original owner's sovereignty, just not enough to use it for what is is meant to be used for, like mining and combat. that is what low security space is for, outlaws. alliance should have the option to respect each other stolen ships.this will make stealing more challenging and fun, not impossible. my bad, how can it be more if it never was. \"it will make it actually fun for once.\" stolen items are supposed to have a lot of heat on it, making it harder during the \"get away.\" lmao!"
"so i join a corp, contract a dread to the corp. they put it in the hangar, i take it out and drop the corp and the corp gets an insurance payout. then i rejoin, give the dread back, and do it all again.the idea is ******. you can't have insurance payouts unless you have a wreck."
"dont you already have a navy caracal?"
"it is a rare sight - to see carebears and blobbers work together. but when they do, the results are spectacular!drake navy issue is a shining example of what two opposite factions can accomplish together. designed no longer only for low-skill and low-skillpoint capsuleers, the navy issue is a pink-painted beast's power shine so brightly that it blinds everyone else, frind and foe alike.battlecruiser skill bonus: 10% self-destruct time reduction and 5% bonus damage of pink, blue, red, and green lazorz per level"
"why exactly do these need to exist?"
"wow, this blatant faggotry is still going on? then again, no real surprise.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"hey, i have an excellent idea of perma-solving the afk-cloakers problem: after a set period of time, the cloaked person disappears from local!"
"he i have a better idea , we still have the obsolete deep space probes , reform them to ghost hunting probes tha locks on the invisable shield of a cloacked ship , i miss the 600 au safespots , wel the trill to find them and blow the ships or highjack the ships that where undetectable , mm trow a special ship in the mix just crammed up with electronic warefare and i'll be happy to go into my 9 year of eveplay .offcourse still waiting on the roid filled systems and comet mining thet ccp prommised years ago"
"great, then you can throw out a single probe and see how many cloaky ships are in the system! it's like d-scan, but with cloak detection!"
"yeah give them more power"
"the problem with reading things like this on the internet is that you cannot set them on fire."
"still taking suggestions.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"in light of all of the support and suggestions received on this proposal, i have taken the time to forward the link to this proposal, as well as a personal message to the csm requesting that they take a look at it.thank you for all of your support, suggestions, bitches, gripes and complaints regarding this proposal. i will keep all supporters of this proposal posted as to any feedback i receive.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"gimme mah names back!i like to look at whos body i have sitting in my freezer."
"god damnit... i typically only collected the corpses of poeple i personally killed, and now you're removing the personal connection between that corpse and myself.... that's just not right!!!!"
"i am guessing each corpse would need to be a unique item and there would be one item generated per toon for each player. this results in a massive amount of database clutter. still collecting corpses is fun so i would say sacrificing some performance to bring back a well loved game mechanic would be worth it"
"good points! i feel that by just allowing people to choose either anti-pirate or anti-faction missions (or the current mix of the two, as at present), it will greatly increase the tag availability and thereby make using the lp a more pleasant occurance. i also might not totally object if ccp raised the tag requirements of the stores slightly, to compensate for the slightly increased supply, as right now my main gripe with the system is that simply too few anti-faction missions are on offer (and they are also generally slanted against the wrong enemy of the faction!)."
"actually i support the op's original idea about selecting between political and law enforcement missions. i am actually shot on sight by gallente navy through no fault of my own. with the stiff standing penalties from declining agent missions i have had to suffer some unwanted standings loss due to those goddamn political missions. personally i dont see why i am getting standing loss for missions like that after all the hostile forces are in your space violating your factions laws. so if any standing would go down it would be the diplomatic relations between the two sides not the pilot who blew up some navy rats. in the grand scheme of things noone ever blames the soldiers for a international incident. in a perfect world only militia activity and random acts of violence would trigger criminal status. but this is eve so i will settle for having a choice between political and law enforcement missions."
"this idea comes up sometimes, and at one time it was like that. but consider the current regional population balance. consider the habits of the high-sec carebear. why do you think that they play the way they do? if you rip away that play, do you think they'll adapt by playing a low-sec game, or adapt by taking away 50% of the income of ccp to go play the newest wow-clone?remember, a 9% drop in subscriptions last summer forced a 20% layoff of staff, including some very bright minds that could have helped develop eve over the last year. but, through faction warfare, ccp is trying to inject more life into lowsec... but does someone whose primary enjoyment is lowsec pvp really want fw datacores?"
"for the reasons so elequantly stated by the above chap, i do not support this idea.\"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"support x3."
"how about this.whenever you declare a war you have to put up some sort of pos module in empire space. as long as this pos module is up the war is on. but as soon as it explodes or gets taken down the war is over.small corps can still wardeck massive alliances but they'd be one pos bash away from losing the war.i honestly think poco based sov is a good idea"
"this would make each and every war a war of attrition. understanding that fighting a mobile force that melts into the surrounding area is frustrating, it's a strategy that's as old as the hills both in eve and in real life and is basically the only way for a smaller force to bring pressure on a bigger force.do you really want even highsec to become strictly blob warfare?belligerent undesirables selling griefer immunity"
"the one factor i cant budge on when it comes to these arguments is the fact isk is easily earned and gathered....and yet i see all the major grefing corps throwing a fit over cost.hell the last merc's i spoke to for grins and giggles where chargeing a bill a pop for what i was curious about...course that was way back in the day but even then.how is this such a big problem?now keep in mind i'm all in favor of your viewpoints and stances floppie...so i'm not saying this is outragously stupid like hte other half dozen idiot ideas i see every bloody day....so this is a sincere inqury...is it really that bad?================ stop the evemail spam!"
"it's not about the cost at all. the distribution of the cost is part of a larger problem which leads to an environment where small, noob-ish corps are brutally punished for not being in the know, while the big alliances are virtually invulnerable.i'm all for raising the cost of a wardec. it should be substantial enough that griefers aren't content to spend $x to sit at a station for a week, waiting until their wartarget finally undocks in a t1 cruiser. 50-100 million would be a good starting point."
"ok....lets say for the moment i'm a dense brick....give me an example of distrubution of cost...break it down.because everyone else is implying what it is when they don't just \"state it\".================ stop the evemail spam!"
"i think the current figures being tossed around is 50m base plus 500k per member. so it costs 60m to wardec a 20-member corp, 300m to wardec a 500-member corp, and 5 billion to wardec a 10,000-member alliance.conversely, that 10,000-member alliance can wardec the 20-member corp for....60 million isk.do you see where the disparity is? the proposed system completely favors large organizations, while making smaller ones even more vulnerable than they are today. nearly all of the increased cost of wardecs is going into protecting alliances at the expense of small corps. that's what i mean by the distribution of wardec costs."
"ok i get that.....and i have no real problems with the logic behind your statement.but economicaly speaking...its too easy to make a quick billion these days...thats where i'm coming from. most war-decs are station games and only last a week or so as it is.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"i agree that cash is very available, though i can't say that i consider a billion to be \"easy money\". there are some people out there who could permadec goonswarm forever, and there are some for whom a billion isk still seems like an outrageous sum of money.and yes, wardecs do devolve into station game stupidity all too often. i'd love to see that fixed."
"i think you're not looking at both sides of the coin...imagine a flat 100m fee for a wardec... then, you could use that money to wardec a noobish 10 man corp, and get ten targets for that one fee, or you could wardec a 1000 man corp, and get 1000 targets for that fee. imo, all targetted players are equally inconvenienced by the wardec... so if you're a griefer, you get to grief more people for less money when it is cheaper to declare war on large alliances. you might claim that larger alliances can rally more people and hence defend themselves easier, but that's only true when defending a pos structure or big op..."
"so you are saying that the are considering a linear cost formula along the line of ...war-dec cost = 50m + 0.5m * members ?why not something more non-linear with decreasing additional cost per next member? lets say e.g. to pick a more or less random number ...war-dec cost = 50m + 0.5m * (members) squared 0.9that would give about 55m for 20 members 195m for 500 members 2,040m for 10.000 members so the increase isn't that steep. of course you can play around with the \"number\" (unsure about the english term for such a root expression) ... the lower the less impact an additional member has and with one being the linear case of gizznitts example.edit: something like this even makes sense from an economic utility perspective. if i go from five targets i can shot at to six, i get way more fun out of this one \"mr.6\" guy as if i can already shot half the galaxy and in that case am presented with one more target.edit times 2: thinking about it for a bit, i'm of the opinion that their should be another part in the formula that adjusts the costs also based on the number of members in the corporation declaring the war. the more members you got that more costly it should be. it just sounds wrong, if 20 guys wanting to declare war on a company of e.g. another 20 guys should have to pay the same as 2,000 guys. for the twenty guys its (maybe) a though decision with regard to their resources, for the 2,000 guys it's - to quote some bankers facing billions in losses - \"peanuts\". so you would have something like:war-dec cost = fixed amount + a * (members aggressor) squared (something smaller 1) + b * (members defendent) squared (something smaller 1)"
"that's just a long winded way of saying that you'll dock up whenever more than one hostile comes into local.or that you'll get a 1 man alt corp to wardeck random incursion runners who won't get reps in fleet because the logi is skittish about getting aggression to whoever wardecked them.you wanna go around in a 1 man cop wardecking as many people as you can then fine. but there has to be a win / lose state for both sides of a war.every wardeck now is basically a battle of attrition. can the defenders stay out of highsec longer than the attackers can keep paying the bills.i honestly think poco based sov is a good idea"
"that would be one of the things that keeps me on the fence.right now pretty much anyone no matter how big or how small can war dec anyone.the change now requires you to be serious about it...and not #### around.which most war decs are just stupid ####ing around for lol's.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"is there an already open version of this ?"
"bump"
"minmatar ships are!!! put together with ducktape their designs are supposed to look primitive. personally i like the aged distressed look"
"why not make it limited regional logistics. items can be delivered by npc curriors for a fee. fee is based on volume and jumps. you would need a skill to use this service limit of 5 jumps away from place of purchase one jump added per skill level from 1 - 5, for example everyone knows if you are anywhere even remotely near a market hub the bordering systems have no economy and no stock. you could make the service prohibitively expensive so that players will really only use it in emergencies like for example see fedex and ups's overnight rates ;)"
"there is really no reason that plexes should cost more than the normal 14.95 a month. if anything the plex should be a bit less expensive to encourage it;s use."
"why not just use a more reasonable limit like 5k"
"that doesn't make any sense at all. the people that would need it, would be using the same amount, skill or not. the people that wouldn't need it, wouldn't use the extra space, skill or not. they're not declaring the station containers as an array of size 1000, it's a dynamically expanding database with an upper limit."
"as some of you may know ccp decided to remove non-corp fleet members ability to access the corp hangar to drop ore into. this will extremely negatively impact mining, much more so than hulkageddon ever could, (goons can blow ships up but they can't change game code.) therefore i propose an addition of a 50k m3 divided fleet hanger, similar to the corp hangar, only accessible while in an actual fleet. this would satisfy both ccp's desire to make corp stuff corp stuff and the desire for players to allow non-corp members to use their holds."
"no.that would add 50m3 to its total cargo capacity. i agree that not having access to the corp hangar whilst in fleet is an added hassle, but the orca doesn't need a buff.you could give everyone access to the ore hangar and let fleet members put things into there. that wouldn't be a buff, but it would mean fleet members could add into the orca again. (despite this fixing both problems i have some kind of intuitive dislike of that idea)alternatively, just use a tractor beam and pull fleet members cans to you, and tell the orca pilot not to be so damn lazy and go afk less.\"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"the problem with this is that it leaves the mining operation open to any canflipper who wanders into the area and reduces one ganglink from the ship that could boost the op. and it keeps the mining ships close to the orca for fun times with smartbombs when you can dump the ore straight into the bay"
"just add a white list option where the orca pilot can select a player and add them to the allowed list wether or not they are in the corp or even in the fleet"
"i think i may buy the remaining existing primae's to get them the hell off the market permanently. they will have a use - minerals for my battleship collection."
"get a crane :p"
"notice the #5. the ship would be deemed unable to be sold. i hope that would include re-entering back it into the corporate fleet."
"this does give me an idea. the theft should be able to pay the insurance to concord back and get the ability to sell it back to the corporation, and not anyone else but that corporation. this would allow the theft to hold it for ransom to that corporation."
"or...they could fix the broken ships already in the game before adding new ones to the thoughtless jumble heap of a ship roster we have."
"hoenstly, i know plenty fo games with similar engines to carbon, and they ahev very nice boob physics (and by nice, i eman realistic, instead of wtf-japan levels of bouncage) and they ran fine on my 5 year old computer (i ahev a enw computer now).so yeah,w e need bouncing boobies, makes characters look weird when their bodies behave like robots."
"wow, this many people still have cq turned on?? ^^"
"is this thread still going on? i honestly don't understand why.i haven't read anything past the first page, because i don't need to. i don't want ccp wasting their time with this crap.\"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"apparently your opinion isn't the only one out there. some people actually like wis and what it can be and realize that it would improve eve. some of those people also seem to want some added realism as well.i say it's a good thing you aren't the only person with an opinion in this world.as to the topic. i started playing tera on release. fun game but more notably the breasts on females do move and it is not over done. it was actually done rather well. thankfully my wifes character isn't made of granite and actually has some flow to it."
"yes please. names on corpses are very important to my corpse collection. this change really sucks and i want it reversed. if that was the reason why didn't they remove names on ships, cans and all the other random crap that can have a name? this was an intentional nerf to murder and i do not approve.personally, i pose them around a table and have tea parties. i also sometimes like to cuddle with them in my pod. it gets very lonely in space and i need something to hug."
"supported.although im sure ccp did this for a reason. i imagine it was some kind of code/performance issue. if they can find a way to bring them back without interfering with whatever they had to change it for in the first place then all the better.\"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"1.0"
"1.0"
"according to a ccp interview they apparently think the fw changes will fix it."
"i like the idea of getting rid of the isk system all together and changing it to a more configurable white list black list system. there are times i want to convo people to ask questions about non spam like ship fittings and i dont appreciate having to pay a fine for legitimate comm use"
"works for me. :)================ stop the evemail spam!"
"added previous suggestion to my proposal.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"cspa working as intended. it can be set up to a million isk, and after a while, the attritition of spending a million isk to spam several hundred, or several thousand people eats away at someone's wallet. for every hundred, that's a hundred million. for every thousand, that's a billion.do the simple mathematics. and the setup of a complete cspa overhaul would be an overwhelming pain in the **** that would take time away from fis and wis content.furthermore, them spamming to push their product is an isk sink, albeit a small one, it is still an isk sink.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"yes...and as i was pointing out....make the isk go to your wallet since your the one putting up with the #### altogether instead of some magic black hole.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"that would defeat the purpose of it being an isk sink.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"while i agree with most of your points, what you think would happen would cause a lot of the nullsec corps/alliances to become rather upset and rail on unfair tactics and gameplay.wardec changes have been wanted for awhile, and now that they are coming out, a general s***storm is taking place. isn't this what people wanted?"
"not anyone i know. almost everyone sees something wrong with the proposed changes. this thread was dedicated to a discussion of what would constitute good changes. i'd suggest looking through that and browsing c&p, w&t, and gd forums for more current discussions to get an idea of what people want."
"i agree with the op that the wardec price change just encourages people to wardec small corps and makes huge ones almost immune. it's ridiculous.i certainly didn't want most of the changes. all i wanted was for people not to be able to get rid of wardecs whenever they want."
"hello,i would like to propose a mwd sig radius penalty reduction to electronic attack ships, similar to the one given to assult ships recently. i feel it would help the durability of electronic attack ships, but not make them overpowered. and hopfully make them more usable. which is always a good thing :)im sorry if i am repeating anybody...thank you for your time :)"
"okay, okay, i know, rehashing old story, but the nex lacks items that people actually want. i think a list of **** that people want would actually be a good thing for ccp to see. suggestions i've seen:- hats- corp logos on ships- custom color schemes on ships- dogtags for military characters (either by school or fw)- dress uniforms by faction- medal plaques for cq- decorum for cqand while we're at it, why not run a contest or two to have players create items that could be sold at the nex. sure, they're vanity items, but there are people that will still pay for them by either buying plex from ccp, or buying plex in game to purchase them (think of the potential isk sink). not to mention, then more items would be made available on the market to help stabilize the economy just a bit more.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"definitely more decorum needed, i was over at an 0din party at tors cq last night and things got pretty rowdy..."
"scrap nex"
"sorry to say im in this camp.its pointless...waste of time.serves no purpose other than to indicate \"i'm rich irl\"not that i'm agianst jacks idea....i just don't like the possiblity of being pressured to spend money on something that does...well nothing than to be \"vanity ______ stuff\"================ stop the evemail spam!"
"i am sure they will add more nex items when time permits. it sure isn't going anywhere since dust will rely on aurum to a degree but i would rather they focus on actual wis content and developement before nex items."
"those two are pretty much already confirmed. and im pretty positive they are going to make more clothing items. and yes, it would be nice to see those in-game before more walking in stations turns up. otherwise though, i'm pretty sure things like these are in the pipelines anyway.as such, this proposal seems pretty much obsolete.\"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"where is the profit margin for resellers if plex cost less than monthly subscription?why shouldn't you pay more for plex, since they give you the benefit of being able to trade 30 days for someone else's isk?so right off the bat the are two reasons why plex should cost more than a monthly subscription."
"not supporting...because plex can be exchagned for hard isk currency that is a \"variable\" ammount.if it was only for just subscription time....it would be a good thing.but not with the market as it is.so thats an absolute no.================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"just reiterating on what the previous 2 said.the purpiose of the plex is that ti can be used for more then just agme time, it can eb sold for isk, or converted to aurum (if your into that).also, for epople who need that extra bit fo isk, it costs them more, in a sense punishing them for being impatient.so no, plex needs to stay at 20."
"btw the limitation is \"limited\" as if i get lets say 10 giant secure container with in each 1000 items and i repackage all them i will get 10.000 items in hangari have already some station to which i dont have access with more than 2000 items because i can't remote stack items which bring me to another little suggested featrure since long"
"introgiven that the current csm is reviewing the white paper that governs its functions, now is an excellent moment to review the csm election process.one major idea is that each vote receives a fair share of representation. 44296 votes were cast in candidates that were elected in the last election and 14813 in candidates that were not.the later did not receive their fair share and even if this doesn't mean that they are not represented now they still account for more than the first and second place together. if some or all these votes were not 'wasted', then the election result could have been somewhat different. maybe not so much of whom was elected, but who would be the top seven.two improvements regarding this were mentioned in the last december's meeting minutes, namely the nomination process and implementing the stv system, but i'd like to propose an alternative that is simpler, accomplishes roughtly the same result and is significantly better on a few aspects:two turns for csm electionthe idea is to split the election process in two turns. the first one is to prune the candidate list, thus replacing the nomination phase, and to gauge the support of each candidate. the second is to allow the voters to make an informed decision of whom can best represent them that still have a good chance of being elected, thus reducing the percentage of wasted votes.the whole process would go like this: candidacy application period opens. publication of the list of approved candidates; first turn begins. list of candidates who made to the second turn is published, along with the full results; second turn begins. results are announced. the elected members take office. the top n candidates are selected for the next turn on step 3. since there are 14 seats in total, i recomment n = 25, but any number between 21 and 28 chosen a priori could do the trick.edit: as stated below, some people would feel more comfortable if there is an abstain option in each turn.what i don't like about the changes proposed on december's minutes there is no commitment in the like-based nomination. two candidates received more 'likes' than votes (112% and 59% more likes than votes), and it is very likely that many players didn't vote for the candidate they supported or, in fact, gave 'likes' for more than one. people that want to make an utilitarian vote have no accurate way of knowing which candidate can represent them well that still have a reasonable chance of being elected. again, the like-based system doesn't accomplish this very well. the 2nd most 'liked' candidate ended up being the 11th most voted one, while the 24th most 'liked' managed to climb to the 14th place. the stv implicitly assumes that each voter has perfect information about every candidade. this could not be further from the truth in an environment where 83% of the people don't even vote. even among the ones that do vote, it is unlikely that most know well more than a handful of the candidates. the stv makes the action of casting the vote a lot more complicated. it is up to each voter to decide how much time to spend learning about the candidates, be it 30 seconds or 30 days. once one is chosen, however, casting the vote should be the most simple action possible, as to not be a factor influencing the result. for someone that spends 30 days choosing a candidade, spending 5 minutes to cast a vote may be only a small annoyance. for someone that spends 30 seconds, 5 minutes to cast a vote is unacceptable and may aswell turn some voters off (and yes, these too are valid votes). optional extension: make the second turn optionalthe main drawback of splitting the election in two turns is, of course, that people need to vote twice (although that's not much worse than having to nominate your candidate and then vote too later).one way to deal with this is to make the second turn optional for all the players that voted for any candidate selected for the second turn. in this case, if any of these players decide to vote again then it is the final vote that counts, otherwise the vote from the first turn just carries over.optional extension: each candidate chooses a number of substitutesthis is more geared to the second turn and is sort of a reverse stv. it is each candidate, and not each voter, that chooses a number of substitutes to whom his/her votes will pass on in case of not being elected.the direct advantages are: even less wasted votes. more visibility of each candidate aligment, since they will need to announce who they believe are other likeminded candidates. since they are immersed in the process, they are in a better position to evaluate who else to choose. in its most simple form each candidate needs to choose exactly one othe candidate. due to pigdeon-hole principle, each of them needs to choose n-14 substitutes to garantee that not a single vote is wasted. an intermediate solution (for instance, allowing each of them to choose three to five substitutes) has an extra benefit of providing support, without enforcing it, for players to form political parties, if so they wish.:sand: over :awesome:"
"why?"
"the main reason is to reduce the percentage of wasted votes.the other reason is to eliminate the 'like'-based nomination phase or, more accurately, to promote it to a first-pass election.:sand: over :awesome:"
"and why do you want to do that?why should internet spaceship elections be more democratic than rl ones?"
"i'm not sure the \"two turn\" thing i like.if a voters candidate didn't make the list, there is the \"i didn't vote for them so if things go to hell in a hand basket its not my fault.\"i like my \"write in\" votes when voting and don't want to think i have to vote for someone i don't necessarily want to vote for."
"you make it sound too good. i'm not certain about the rl comparison, because in most cases only one candidate is elected whilst here we elect 14 people for every term.at any rate, this is the direction that ccp already stated that they want to take with the council:i posted this thread because i think there are easier ways to accomplish the same thing.i didn't understand the first part. can you clarify it or provide a link with more information? about not being forced to vote for someone you don't like, i don't see a problem with an abstain option in both turns.:sand: over :awesome:"
"your idea actually makes sense and would work far better than anything we have right now. for this reason alone...most people will not like it. i, however, like it."
"supported.simple and well thought through.\"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"wrong.the ships have crews we as the pod pilot merely control the ship in a more efficient manner.to refresh your memory go read jovian wetgrave."
"i too very much enjoy wis. and as such, i would rather see ccp spending their efforts creating more environments for us to walk around in. \"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"i can't understand why ccp has not done this for a long time ago. like any other mmo game ( or some ) to make it muchharder to be a macro miner. how to do?simply let the game disconnect after 30 mins or so, when the mouse or keyboard haven't been used !kill some of the illegal isk flow and it would also kill the so simpel afk cloaky reds in a system. never saw the afk redsas very diffucult, frankly it's pretty gay. it's got nothing to do with with how good you fly, everyone can put an alt in a systemand leave game. just my two centshehron"
"no one wants your two cents.remove local chat!"
"yes please.op should take a hike.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"choices are good"
"the more i think about this idea the more i like it.a feature like this could change the political landscape in eve immensely. at the moment, only the large sov holding, war mongering, havoc causing corps get any attention or fame. but with something like this industrial corps and alliances could gain their fair share of the attention through the use of advertising.i've changed my \"hesitantly supported\" to \"enthusiastically supported\".\"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"cause a null sec blob perma-camping a key travel route is just so cool."
"i say make low sec income closer to 0.0 income and remove jump drives and warp to 0. basically, revert it back to the state it was in when i had the most fun in low sec."
"think about it differently.if someone decides to spam you to no end....they know the isk is going to your pocket...which benefits you..and gives you ammo to shame them.if it goes to a black hole...they likely don't give a crap and have nothing to show for it.its psychological mental warfare....i don't care if you spam me if i make money off of you.but right now...cspa means nothing to most people who have the isk to burn without question.might as well make it a benefit....in otherwords...get paid for spam.of course its already been suggested a whitelist/blacklist idea works as well.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"just one more way to wash isk huh? great. what other rmt friendly proposals will you make?"
"so basically you'd turn spam into an isk faucet. sounds like another delusional carebear-engineered idea. turn it into an isk sink, and it would help stabilize the market, and/or reduce the spam eventually.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"i agree the war dec system has been abused far too much in recent years.too many corps and alliance easily able to doge them by joining or leaving an alliance or character avoiding them by joining or leaving a corp.eve university being a primary example for some, others being the 1 man corp who war decs a bunch of guys from the same corp mining in a belt and wont let the guy salvage. so he sits nearby and waits till he sees them all log on and positions his guys in the system on an off grid from the belt and has them all apply to his corp and accepts them all and they warp in and kill the guys.usage of the system in this manner is what needs to be stopped.i have many ideas on how this type of thing can be stopped but it is not the main issue atm.the main issue is how ccp is going to lose alot of money in this change. ccp has always been a bottom line kind of business when it comes to eve.ccp ask yourself these very important questions.when a new player joins eve and finally decides to join a corporation is he going to still be able to join a small group of friends to play the game he wants to play?or is he going to have to spend a whole lot of money on gtc's to hire mercs, who are probably working in conjunction with the griefers to extort the money, who may even betray his corp?or is he and his friends corp going to have to goto 0.0 space and join an alliance that will grind him and his friends until they no longer have a use for him?how long do you think it will be before this fresh new player finds out he cannot play the kind of game he wants to play and stops paying for his sub?now onto the meat and potatoes of this proposed change.it has already been said multiple times that this new system favors the strong and ignores the weak.the community of eve is not really paying close attention to this war dec system proposal because if they were i would be replying on the 300th page or so of this thread already.so people stand up and take notice of what ccp proposes:to allow the largest entities in this game to freely move about with no fear or risk in empire and ruin you!some say the the great mutton head engineered this while he was in the csm.to be able to freely move the necc war goods and his cartels tech to and from empire with no risk.the largest entities in this game will also take the markets away from you.how? simple really when a large alliance is able to move massive amounts of goods they chose into a system such as jita, you will not be able to undercut them from the sheer volume they will be able to drop on the markets.so when you see the train of freighters coming into jita from goon, razor, and other tech farmers, you wont be able to war dec them because it will cost you and your handful of guys 4+ bil to war dec them to keep them from harming your bottom line.for people to sit here and reply to this thread with the idea that \"it should cost them more because we offer them more targets\" is absolutely idiotic. a war dec regardless of cost means nothing to them, but what means everything to them is they are part of such a large alliance that the avg corp cant harm them in empire and they can move freely without any danger.i am a nullsec player and i will say this to the empire dwellers. don't let this change happen because if you do you will regret it more than any change ccp has ever made.large alliances have already shown they can control jita by force, what happens when they can do it legally?if i were a major nullsec alliance leader i would war dec the largest industrial empire people and put a 20 man camp on the undock of jita 4-4 and crush your bottom line and make the rest of eve buy my product instead o"
"learning implants like learning skills should be removed.keep the hardwirings though. they make a fun risk/reward system.wormholes have the best accoustics. it's known. - sing it for me -"
"i support it. while on newbie chat it was disheartening how often people would become obsessed with getting faster learning speed, remapping, etc. all of which would lead to more highsec risk averse stuff. people who are risk averse aren't flying around to shoot at you or get shot at, and you kind've need to start the new people's pew addiction early.if you want good fights you need to make it so that new people won't worry about getting into them. just replace the whole shebang with somewhat raised base attributes, all flat across the board with no way to change them. convert all existing learning implants with a direct payoff of sp, much like happened with learning skills."
"there was a nice option long ago in a classic client.it's as simple as is sounds: when activated, a camera in your hangar is slowly rotates around the ship.it's was nice to switth it on, hide all the windows and get back to reading or other things.i think it's not too hard to do, a nice little thing."
"i wouldn't mind if all frigates got that role bonus."
"reimburse the sp/isk from lost characters or offer a free character transfer to a new account.tripple skills like interplanetary consolidation from 6 to 18 to compensate the loss.(new should be look like: 3/6/9/12/15 per skilllevel, +3 planets on level 0)same goes for skills like research project manager, etc.death to npc corp alts, death to trashcyno alts, death to free intel for everyone.eve is not about schizophrenia. eve should be hard.edit: clarified something"
"0/10."
"go back to school nooblet...you fail at trolling.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"no... i like the second and third character slots. i'm a secondary..."
"and why should i troll? crappy alts everywhere ruin the game in many aspects."
"people will just spin up thousands (if not millions) of trial accounts for neutral scouts or whatever. your solution will make the \"problem\" you speak of worse, not better."
"that may be true, but you could lock trialaccounts into a specific region or bound them to specific rookie systems."
"how about no nex ever."
"yes!and gloves..."
"not a bad idea.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"to be fair, no one makes you buy next stuff with cash, you can buy plex ingame and use it for arum, or buy it off the market after the initial price goes down for straight isk. that being said, i would prefer a significant drop in arum price for next store items, they still haven't gotten to a level of quality that the price would imply (lrp wise) in comparison to the rest of the clothes already available in the character creator. in game there are a good number of items that are listed but not available, they've been there for a while, id like for them to be released, at reasonable prices. but yes, there are a good many items that would still need to be designed and released. ccp's track record implies don't hold your breath, several years is a long time not to breathe."
"**** the nex. they know exactly what will happen if they add more, there will be an unrecoverable shitstorm of bad publicity.ccp as a company will lose at least 5-% of it's players."
"hopefully you're part of that 5%i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"you can now split stack from one item, and one stack.the divide stack window ui needs an extra field, \"stack number\" default is \"1\".you can set this to how many stack you want to create.you got 1000 slaves. you want 5 stack 200 slaves.shitft click slaves, pull out, divide stack window open up, you write in 5, and 200, and done.another problem, if you want stack up your exotic dancer, and freedom fighters too.you need click tooo much. so make it possible to select more items at once, then shift click, pull out, divide stack window open up,and made stacks from all the selected items!omg that would be fancy cmon ccp you can do it! :d"
"what is with people posting obsolete and stupid ideas recently? (just to clarify, im not specifically picking on you or this topic in particular)ccp is turning all inventory based ui into one window. \"one window to rule them all\"the stacking system may not even be applicable anymore.\"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"i know, everyone's favorite topic i'm sure. but, where most simply complain about something, i'm here offering solutions as well as supporting arguments to my issue of choice. to wit:ecm redesign-ecm advantages: equally effective against all types of ships, negates target ship 100%, equally effective across entire operating range (effect doesn<U+FFFD>t diminish or become more pronounced as range varies), no stacking penaltysensor dampers: massive stacking penalties, have to choose between lock speed reduction and range reduction, less effective against ships with long targeting range, unable to completely remove locking capability, target ships still have some ability to fight backtracking disruptors: only affect turret ships, don<U+FFFD>t affect other forms of combat such as warp disruptors, drones, or neutralizers, have stacking penaltiestarget painters: have stacking penalties, limited range, generally less effective than a webof the four systems, ecm, damps and tds are defensive, while target painters are offensive.generally speaking, few (if any) players complain about damps, tds or tps. almost everyone complains about ecm at some point. even the ecm (falcon) pilots. when a single system is more popular than all the others combined, it<U+FFFD>s broken and needs to have its balance addressed.some ideas about reducing the <U+FFFD>complete lockdown<U+FFFD> effect ecm currently has:1. introduce stacking penalties. ecm is the only ewar module that doesn<U+FFFD>t have a stacking penalty. each ecm additional ecm module (regardless of type, or which ship it is coming from) gets a 50% stacking penalty.2. increase cycle time without increasing duration: 10 second duration, 20 second <U+FFFD>cool down<U+FFFD>/cycle time.3. further reduce ecm jam strength. this allows the existing balance between ship signature radius, sensor strength and probes to be maintained. a 30% reduction in strength would be a good place to start.4. increase the heat damage per module cycle when overheated. when compared to guns with high rates of fire, and with defensive modules like shield boosters and armor reps, ecm have a long cycle time and as such can be overheated quite easily for a large performance gain with little to no drawback during a fight.currently, there are too many <U+FFFD>knock on<U+FFFD> effects that allow ecm to be far too effective when compared to all other ewar systems. ecm completely remove a ship from a fight, ecm is functionally 100% effective and ecm have zero stacking penalties/drawbacks.by all means, please offer constructive criticism, additional suggestions as to how to better balance ewar and ecm specifically and share your ideas on how to improve the other ewar types to make them more effective/interesting to use.please do not: troll, spam, whine pointlessly and post \"htfu\" etc.intelligence shouldn't be free. mining, reloaded. addicted."
"i think the skill to reduce jump timer would be a good middle-ground. maybe rank 4 or 5 skill.this is needed as jump clones in their current state do not cater at all to any section of the active eve player-base."
"double post:"
"pls make the pi link upgrade ui similar to command center upgrade ui.when you want upgrade more links to high levels, its a clickfest , and cannot calculate the cpu powergrid consume.need an ui where you can select all upgrade level with one click, and see the extra cpu and power consume at once for that level."
"there alot of spread sheets that miners can report their harvest on but how many of them are really being honest?lets face it every corp has a guy mining 23/7 out there and when a corp mining op comes up he's out there helping.but how much is he skimming for himself because your encroaching on his mining time with a corp/alliance op?give us the ability on a corporate level to tax a miners sale of ore/minerals to the market.as well as the ability to tax the personal sales on the market.we currently get the corp taxes for mission rewards, and bounties.but not for private sales especially the ore/minerals.how about the ability to set various levels of taxes?such as 1 tax rate for mission running and rat bounties.another for ore/minerals.and another for market sales."
"plex in-game should cost more in isk according to supply and demand in market.i have not paid cash for anyone of my accounts in over 3 years.rl has inflation and so does this game so deal with it.besides the only type of people who compare the price of plex to rl money are usally buying their isk illegally and then complain because they are not getting their monies worth."
"i agree. all payment methods should cost the same."
"+1ccp you should also allow us to have more than 100 fittings in our fitting manager.this info could be saved client side as it was before with no additional strain on the server.can not understand why you moved it server side when it just takes up more r"
"why can't items be stored in both ccps memory and on the local hard drive?only actually position changes use the ccp database.the client computer sends a request to move item xxx to yyy.if that item doesn't exist, nothing happens, besides perhaps a gm being notified of suspicious activity."
"ok i remember reading about ccp was planning some thing in eve some kind of side storeys or evens what ever, about the hidden race's in eve. the joven's and the talocan's. but that was about 2 years ago. i was hoping if ccp is done with t3 showing no sine of new ships e.g. battle cruisers freights, would it not be a good if at some point for ccp to start introducing these to hidden races. slowly in to game buy that i mean as part of the 9th year celebration with a on going project for the next 5 years plus. tank you for reading and fly safe."
"why? why would eve need new races? what benefit would it add to the game?"
"i propose they be a race of tall green amazonian women with three breasts."
"why? what would be the point? the only thing i want is an apotheosis because i missed that anniversary handout and it looks cool."
"heck, the 4 current races have no real differences in game play.so, why add more?"
"just before downtime, a classic eve moment unfolded, in high sec.a player doing a ~mining mission~ had their ore stolen by a player, who gave it back in another can. a yellow can. they then decloaked their tengu and obliterated the new player, much to the latter's total dismay.my friends, the time has come. enough. there are many wolves in eve, but they are now mocking ccp by overrunning the young sheep, such is their boredom. null-sec, low-sec, and wormholes are not enough. they insist on killing new players and social orientated players for nothing more than \"the payment in tears\". basic conceptseve is a business. sucessful in-game players who pay for their accounts with plex do not pay for eve. players who buy plex with real money do. ccp spent a lot of marketing effort to get me to return to the game and play. ccp's efforts are being undermined by people in-game deliberately trying to make people like me quit. the different zones of space are intended to have a risk-reward axis, from safer from pvp but poor mission reward/low quality minerals to high risk / high rewards. that design has been totally undermined by new ships, modules and rigs over the years: the gap between rich vet and poor new player is a problem. issuesplayers like myself who were going to buy plex have chosen not to, due directly to hulkageddon. i was going to buy plex to get an orca, more plex to have a hulk-ready toon moved to a new account. but now it's a bad risk. i know others who were going to buy plex to pay for bpos. but they can't mine the minerals now to use the bpos so no plex needed. ccp has apparently directly responded to hulkageddon, by offering minign crystal packages to miners, and cruisers to players (which ships are now horribly inflated in price, when the mission payouts for new players are not adjusted). can a miner, through hard work and industry, make thier on mining ship? no: they cannot. the moon goo debacle is making some corps/allainces super rich, and has destroyed the basic concept of eve, that you can get there if you work hard enough. t2 moon goo market has, in effect, failed, which ccp has now tacitly acknowledged by adding t3 ships which take different things to make. proposalsa. double the hold space on all exhumers. it is a joke that some combat ships have more hold space than ore ships.b. fix insurance payouts on exhumers. a 10 million cost policy should not pay 30 million, when the replacement ship is 300 million. moon minerals are minerals, too. c. fix the dps/defence impalance. destoyers were added, then repeatedly upgraded with mods and later rigs, and faction ammo etc etc etc. 4 destroyers will always kill a solo hulk, in any level of security, even though they can be made for less cost than the hulk's mining turrets and crystals. d. fix social guiild war-griefing. add a new type of corp, a \"craft guild\", that cannot initiate wars, be war decced, or own any pos / soverignty structures. it shouldbe able to be upgreaded to a full corp for a cost based on a multiplier of its number of members. social gameplay increases player retention: what we have at the moment are billionaire alts in new player corps who fly ships so large they are effectively immune to griefing, and greifers making people taking the step from solo to team player simply quit the game. e. introduce moon mining to 0.7 and lower planets, with mini-variant pos (not as big, not as efficient, not exclusive per moon, but with concord protection). supply and demand has effectively failed many players: there is no way for social / casual players to copy / do me research / refine / mine moon goos: yet the t1 ships are now effectively obsolete for the game content (mining, incursions, missions are all geared to the higher level ships/modules).f. introduce advanced drones for miners. in particular, a dampner drone, that when depolyed hides the site and ship from a system scan. even if it is tagged \"this clever device uses concord towers to achieve its aim, so simply won't work where concord are not as common\" (e.g. 0.8 ~ 1.0 systems only).g. consequences. dust 514 marines should be given an in-station environment, and when a player is scammed, they should be able to report the scammer to the proper authorities (i,e, a gm as concord's rep). the scammer should get a security hit, be allowed to have a bounty placed on them, and then dust marines should be allowed to go into stations and hunt them down and kill them (or not, if the scammer has hired mercs to defend ...). would i hire marines to go kill certain people? sure i would, they deserve it, mainly for costing ccp real income due to customer loss.h. consequences, #2. an alt should also be allowed to be killed if dust marines go in after their scammer/wanted toon. if you are running a billion isk a day sacmmer, every toon on your account should be a target if you get dusted. don't like it? pay for anohter account, at least ccp will get more revenue for funding the gms who clean up the mess from scammers.i. clarity. a player locking someone in highsec should not, on the overview, appear the same as an npc. but a huge player word over their ship icon, inside the yellow blinky.j. podding wanted players in high-sec should immediately pay out the reward. such a player should have \"wanted\" over thier pod icon. (why? because they currently fly their pods in, have an alt drop off destroyers, gank hulks, then have a blue alt simply bank all the goodies.) in short, concord is nice, but a joke. engagement times have reduced so much with the new ships that concord intervention times are not an effective protection for new players, but have become simply another way by which greifers can prey on new players, to the detriment of the game."
"oh and for those who didn't guess, when i say \"new ship\" i reveal my age: destoyers are new fangled ships to me. and before the curious ask, no i was not the miner who got tricked."
"i agree i agree that this is a problem. ccp's new wardec changes are about to shake things up a bit. might make things interesting, but its not going to make life any easier for cassual/new players. your fix idea is terrible though.i agree on the general theme of the proposal. new players are picked on much too easily. but most of your fix ideas are terrible and you really need to know more about how eve works before you start proposing changes like these. hopefully the new crime watch system ccp has proposed will sort alot of those problems out.\"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"is the tl;dr of this'please turn eve into hello kitty online because i'm scared'or is that just what it seems like?in short, no."
"it's not griefers vs ccp, it's griefers vs people who don't like to acknowledge that there are other people in the game. the miners should learn that eve isn't a safe and cuddly place and watch out for griefers, sitting there in a crowd of expensive and untanked ships is just asking for it (and i say that as someone who spent the first part of my career mining). a. that doesn't even make any senseb. you clearly don't understand how the insurance mechanic works or why it's that wayc. you can't fix the stupid miners refusing to tank their hulks or pay attention to the space around them, which is the real issue (it's not hard to put 2 and 2 together if you see a couple negative sec thrashers show up in the belt)d. way too exploitable. either form a chat channel to hang out and have your social experience in or man up and get a corp, with associated benefits/dangers.e. t1 ships are still pretty amazing when used right. and look at the fanfest vids and such, they're working on balancing moon mats already.f. no safety in game where nothing is safe for you, it's way too exploitable and totally against all of what eve is.g. lol, scamming is completely in keeping with the game's rules and is, in fact, encouraged if anything. if it looks to good to be true and you click it anyways, it's your fault for not reading the fine print.h. alts are completely disassociated with mains, so you'd never know who they are anyways.i. you can already see that it's a player, you just have to open your eyes.j. you can already see who has a bounty or not, just learn to set up your overview.and if you're going to continue to whine about not being safe in eve, a game where safety is something you fight for, not something that's given to you, then maybe eve isn't the game for you. the door is that way, we won't hate you if you leave."
"... you clearly don't actually know how people have been killing hulks. by the time a thrasher appears in your belt, you are already dead, even with a t2 defensive fit, ecm drones out, and aligned to station. stop blaming miners for poor game balance, as if it was the miners fault ccp upped small ship dps massively but didn't improve mining ship defences.\"safety is something you fight for\" ... no. saftey comes from having 6 accounts, years of training to fly ships that are effectively invulnerable in high sec, and the billions of isk to never pay a real $ for it.case in point: burn jita event. plenty of little transports went down. a nyx comes out ... does it go down? case in point: orca. can it mine solo? no. it's a ship for mulitiboxer players, basically. case in point: leadership warfare mods. where is the ship with these, typically? parked inside a pos bubble with an alt in it.the \"door is that way\" attitude is crap. this game has double the numbers it had 5 years ago. but guess what, it has nothing next to most games. will eve be here in another 5 years? i certainly hope so. will it have its playerbase still? ....well that's much harder to judge. given the greifing and already a threat to try and have me banned in-game for speaking up, i am really not so sure. make no mistake - ccp has been pushing really hard to get more players. if the community is dead set on burning the new players out of the game, then guess what - it really will be ccp vs players. and they have a reset button. would they reset sisi? no. but would they make a new server where all the new players go, and many medium age players shift to? now that is not so unlikely - which would be a defacto reset. bottom line - think about what is happening in the game, and what it does to players comming back / joinign the game. ccp does, and as things stand, my view is ccp is going to need to hard code in changes to better protect new players. and the turorials still suck, sorry. not as much as they used to, but ... yeah, they really need work still."
"they have craft guilds, set blue join private channel. while the tax is 10% you cant be decced or get decced and you are still able to chunk a pos up.also use dem killrights. dont warn the griefer, or threaten to pod them with your rights, just go and blow their **** up. the only thing needed is pod kill rights if the griefer pods the victim."
"quit trying to remove all risk from eve online.it is high security space, not absolute security space.hulks are industrial ships, and thus not designed to hold up to ships that are designed for combat operations. everything working as intended.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"i can sympathise with the view that the hulk is too weak and too easy to gank.. but the reason why there is so much contempt for miners is for the kind of suggestions that the op makes. most people suggest that what is needed is a base tank that has higher resists or a higher shield buffer, but this still wouldn't mean that it was \"suicide-gank proof\" and therefore still keeps to the \"you are at risk everywhere\" theme of eve. what you are suggesting is:\"i'm losing, please remove risk.\"we've heard this before - gtfo."
"op - understand your frustration but, there is no way the csm or ccp will even begin to entertain all you propose.i do believe the real issue is that low and null sec is so broke and stagnant that hisec griefing is about the most fun they can have.fix some of the major issues with low and null, including those preventing null-wars and i think a lot will smooth out.oh, i do agree about the insurance payouts for t2 ships ... that one is universal for all players"
"local chat's current intel function diminishes strategic gameplay, stealth, and scouting. this proposal aims to fix that while still giving tools to sov. holders (and those in npc null who make the effort to align with npcs). it also encourages the use of smaller ship classes bellow that of bcs for use as raiders and scouts by giving them a greater potential to move about unnoticed.local chat intel changes:new delayed mode:- automatically applies to high and low secplayers will now appear in local after a set time of entering the system based on ship class:frigates, shuttles, pods: 5 minutes delaydestroyers: 3 minutes delaycruisers, transports, mining barges: 1 minute 30 secondsbattlecruisers, industrials, exhumers: 30 secondsbattleships: 15 secondscapital ships or player docked in a station: instant* cloaks will end the timer and cannot be picked up by local intel if not already registered or unless the player broadcasts in the chat.* once registered on a systems local intel only logging out or leaving the system will remove you. cloaking after this time will not remove you from local.note: none of this applies to wormwhole space which remains the same.- null sec:local chat intel is no longer automatically part of null sec, the default state being the same as wormhole space.outposts in sov null provide the new delayed mode local intel in the system they occupy. much like docking rights, who has access to this intel in controlled by those that own the outpost.stations in npc null will provide the new delayed mode local intel in the system they occupy to those players or corps that have 8.0 or higher standing to the npc corp holding the station.a new mod for titans and perhaps other cap ships that will allow them to provide the new delayed mode local intel for the system they are in for all corp and alliance members. active mod that will not work in pos shields or while the ship is cloaked. also will not function in wh space.a new deployable the scanner array: when deployed will provide the new delayed local intel in the system in which it is deployed to the corp and alliance that owns it. cannot be deployed in or near a pos. will not function in wh space. has a large volume that no subcap combat ship can carry one. is relatively expensive to produce and relatively easy to destroy. also shows up on overview.note: this proposal is the local chat portion of a larger proposal in features and ideas on improving intel in eve which includes additional ideas including cloaking improvements and means to detect cloaked ships which can be found here"
"first, i would like to say i dont support this. i've lived everywhere except wh in my times and local works just fine. attacking people in their own space is easy enough as it is (and this isn't coming from the person being attacked by the way).secondly, this has been proposed a million and seven times. if you want to bring it up again search for it and post your support in that thread instead of posting another one. (also, by the way, the fact its been braught up so often and shot down so often says something about how little support it gets each time.)my 2 cents... or pence, rather.\"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"i too have lived in null, and know that because of local it's near effortless to avoid being attacked when you're not traveling via gates...and for those who are part of large alliances even the gates aren't that dangerous as others will generally warn in intel channels if they see anyone on local in their system, so you know a hostile is nearby long before they even reach the same system as you.as to the game breaking nature of local chat being being brought up many times before, this is true, but i never saw you saying the same in the gazzilion afk cloak whine threads that pollute these forums, why is that? besides my particular solution in this proposal is new."
"no.i'm seeing more than enough ads out of eve already.as long as i'm not searching for a new corp ingame for some reason, i don't want to see anything about it."
"sure. there is really no way to now, except for dropping jetcans around gates that have been named with recruiting blurbs."
"but it sounds stupid. why would any interstellar empire allow it's trade routes to be broken with areas of rampant lawlessness and piracy? no."
"the empires do hate each otherthough would that mean they would have lawless borders, not sure."
"no, he's asking (in one idea) to have spam be an isk handchanger.no different than the market (minus taxes).and cspa charge has no effect on spam received. i have gotten 4 mass mails in 2 years, and my charge is zero.as to this suggestion, meh. it doesn't bother me, but i can understand the annoyance."
"more tools for corp mining like this would be good, definitely."
"you do know that this is an exploit?a character doing this must undergo a session-change--gate-jump, dock/undock, eject/re-board a ship, etc--before attacking their new war-target, otherwise it's petitionable, and possibly bannable, iirc.i misremember the exact source, but i think there was a dev-blog or a gm-post about it somewhere."
"idiotic goon proposal and immediate pile-on of goon supporters.so typical, so obvious.no support and i could only hope the csm can see it too."
"the fact that you don't support this means that it's clearly a valid proposalbye now \"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" - abrazzar"
"learning implants, much like learning skills, feel compulsory to new players. losing them can be prohibitively expensive depending on what level they are.hardwirings will still provide a nice risk vs. reward opportunity to players without feeling absolutely 100% necessary."
"+1. learning implants just encourage people to stay docked up or carebear in hisec, while giving none of the rewards if you pvp. or do you think shaving those 20 seconds off training time while on a pvp roam before losing your pod was totally worth it?"
"no.why implants? let's remove sp already, so everything will be nice and fair.an ability to fly different sizes of ships determine by paid month of a character.it's a player's problem, if he is using something that he can't afford to lose.having 2 improveds inserted while pvping it's not such a big deal.and if it is to you, +3 is not that different from +5 to whine about this.but i'm also not pleased that t2 implants forces to lower the attributes. but this proposal is not a solution, neither a +5 t2 implants, which will be a carebear implants."
"oh great, nobody even cares"
"its okay if you dont like this idea, but why do you start to insult me? i think its now pretty clear whos an idiot. nice arguments though.edit: oh look, his post got deleted."
"or have an sp requirment to post outside of new players section"
"1.0"
"supported.those slots should have been removed a same time when their simultaneous training was stopped.i have some useful \"alts\" of that kind, but it'll be right thing to have this handled. no garbage chars.as for sp reimbushment - only if those characters was created on this account, not transfered to. if it'll not possible to track, no sp reimbushment, something else - i didn't really care what it'll be."
"no."
"this.and atleast, someone who doesn't flame like a russian oven.i got also 2 useful alts on my account, but to be honest. it annoys me a lot to have them. if i dont use them, i cant min/max my business. ccp messed this up and they also admit that.i can understand that many people need their alts, but if you sit in 0.0 and want to trade in jita, move your ass there and dont just log into your 3mil sp scam alt. having 3 chars on one account cuts the size of the eve universe. beeing able to permascout systems with npc corp alts diminishes the real reason to do it by yourself.1 account, 1 identity, 1 skillqueue"
"no support.basically, because i believe your initial premise is incorrect.you state, \"eve is a pvp game.\"you are wrong, \"eve is a sandbox game.\"your proposal is taking away the sandbox from players to force them to play the way you want.this would be as bad as making hisec perfectly safe."
"that is literally the idea. goes with being a nation of ex-slaves coming up with whatever sort of design works.except for shuttles... no. why would that ever be a consideration?nothing is stopping the caldari and minmatar pilots from training amarr and gallente command skills.face it: the minmatar are a nation of barely escaped ex-slaves who cobbled together a navy to fend off being thrown back into chains by largest of the empires. they aren't really that big into aesthetics. the caldari are a corporate meritocracy of what is efficient and what works and what maximizes the corporate profit margin; not being pretty."
"ok, i'll support.not that i really want this, but i think that we're be allowed to do remap for a plex sooner or later. i prefer sooner.but it's should be multiple plexes.and maybe price of such remap will increase each time the player uses this feature."
"courier contracts are already implemented."
"why the blithering hell would we ever want or do that? the direction this game is going is more player driven economics, not less."
"this would take a bit away from the whole playerdriven thing.in addition to ruining moving profession, it would totally eliminate having to go to a player established market hub, or establishing them because you could just be anywhere and get items ferried to you.no, eve has a good deal of realism in some ways. every item is distriuctable, and it has a physical location. you don't like where it is, you got to move it."
"those rich people already can just buy plexes and get better ships and equipment - they will fly a better ships, use better implants, will lose it and buy it again. they're can also have more accounts and computers than an ordinary pilot.it'll be nothing new about that. so what's your problem?"
"but it's a very good thing!less shitposters = a much more pleasant gameplay = more subscribers = proffit!"
"that is actually the stupidest thing ive read today. your saying that if ccp add nex items 5% of players will quit? why would they? if people dont want anythng to do with aurum and the nex store (and i certainly dont) then they just wont, it wont make them quite eve you idiot."
"on the test server, with the all in one invertory upgrade, the stacking system is working as the old one.thats one of the reason i wrote this idea. new invertory, would be better with new divide stack ui."
"touche, in which case you obviously know more about the subject than i.although i do think its a good idea, i dont think its should take any priority over other changes. because i wouldn't have any use for it.\"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"yep, not everyone involved with this.but if you need do lots of logistics with more characters, feed dozens of poses, or planets ohh, its need more clicks than star on the sky :)with this simple ui improvement, that would be solved, and the universum would be a better place :)"
"still accepting input and suggestions.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"the technical knowledge of the op is pretty amazing, because macrominers just log into eve and the game just starts mining by itself!? wtf do you even know what a macro is? it replicates mouse and keyboard movements, and more or less plays the game for you. also afk cloaking is a viable balance against local and \"oh **** a red in system i'll warp to station\" if you wanna play eve-safe mode move the fack back to empire. tia"
"the ccp changed this rules in 2005. was disconnected those pilots which didn't use his mouse or keyboard within 30 minutes.but the macroboters and afk cloakers always crying for ccp like a bunch of pu..., this is why they changed this nice function.i guess, if someone not playing dont waste the server resources from others, who play the game.+1"
"no to the lot of ittech 1 is not obsolete, use the tier 3 mining barge in place of hulk if you feel in danger. also the tech 1 destroyers seem to be working.and if you want fancy stuff, go to low/nullsec. not everything is in the newbie safezone, deal with it.also moon materials are generally worthless and not worth mining unless it is tech (the fuel you put into a pos is not free, and each month could be in the hundreds of millions, if not a billion). you are free to buy up ones in market and react them yourself. and do tech 2 manufacturing (from what i hear, most people do it in empire, safety and access to market hubs trumps everything else).also in addition to properly tanking your ship, i would get a good buffer tank, as big as possible, less likely they could alpha you in a few moments before concord comes.as to larger cargo holds, maybe? not too much because that would take away from industrial ships though, who specialize in cargo hauling. if a ship uses more space for mining lasers, less exists for storage. space is finite in a ship that is not too largealso..... a lack of understanding aggression mechanics (stealing), players need to seriously learn the game, how did they get into a hulk and not learn anything.as to punishing scamming, that would be up to players, but being ******** or sapping tards is not a punishable offense by concord, and shouldn't ever get rid of the legal system just to benefit people who are bad at math, business or all around dum dums. whats next, ordering hits over one isk wars. also how do you fall for scams? it is absurdly hypocritical to suggest people should be podded over scamming, and on the other hand demanding other player murdering should stop in space. \"kill the people i want but not me\", yea no, i say anyone who does any kind of highsec murder gets sec status revoked, and face concord retribution. you can try to do anything, but concord will not sanction it, and may punish you if you do something bad.over all, lot of bad ideas."
"they will when it hits thier quarterly and annual income figures and someone asks \"why are we failing to grow / maintain subs as intended?\".as for hulks being gank-proof in highsec, so what if they were? freighers are, orcas are (mostly). this game has no design consistency any more, so conceptually either hulks can be upped to effectively immune to ganking by ships not costing 300 mil+ (equivalence), or the currently immune high sec billionaire trade alts have to be made not effectively immune - and that is not going to happen, is it? why is it ok for one game-play style (trader) to be effectively immune to harm in space, but not miner? oh, and just so you remember - ccp *did* make it safer for traders in highsec, by adding \"warp to 0km\" to stargates. when you used to jump to 15km out every time, they were much more at risk of pvp. guess what, people didn't like the pace of travel, so ccp carebeared up on that and made it quicker - and made traders much safer, too. so don't tell me ccp will never change things like this - they have in the past, and many here simply choose to forget how much ccp changes things. bring back cruise missles for my bomber! in considering that, it is important to remember that the base design is that (for miners) you should go to places with better asteroids to get more isk for your time, but at the same time increasing risk. that is part of eve's design - and i agree, low/null sec are broken atm, and need much love. i am totally fine with all t2 ships having thier insurance changed to cover the moon minerals too: someone buying a plex to buy a shiny fighter ship that goes *puff* and has a payout that can't allow them to get back into the game will be every bit as likely to quit as a pilot who bought a plex to buy a hulk that goes down in hulkageddon to ultra-bored former low-sex/null-sec pvpers. and that is what this is about - ccp added plex, that means what happens to carebears matters a lot now. much more than previously, where everyone just paid their sub and whether ccp retained new players or not, they had money come in every month. pvp pilots should not be so bored they have nothing better to do than spend hours trying to get people to take a can, and mining 1 gas cloud so that people give up on poorly designed missions (which incidentally should be mine x units, with a check of you personally mined x-30% of it, and the mission resource has 3x of the relevant crap mission resource - basic coding, currnety set up to promote greifing and encourage people to quit the game ; not designed for pvp as a solo mining ship can never stop anyone taking 1 unit with their t2/t3/faction fit ship).save a carebear today, improve ccp's bottom line, and give them enough dev money to fix the damn game, and to be able to make a video that shows gameplay as it actually is for new players, not as ccp wishes it to be but never was."
"outside empire you have no concord, you have roaming fleets of reds that use more then a few catalysts to kill you, without fear of any god like concord retribution (and they do collect insurance). same reds can also hotdrop covert ships, and or do a regular hotdrop.risk vs reward is pretty balanced, step into lowsec and you will know.and yes i did it once to get fancy ores, ship blown up, concord, never came."
"this is not happening in remote places, it happens where new players are. you can get a hulk inside a few days if you buy plex and buy a character off the character bazaar and more plex for the ship. guess what, ccp wants that kind of player to join this game - and give ccp us$. remember, ccp is running a business, and they want people to buy and use plex. so deal with it, the underying business dynamics have changed. the game is likely to change as well to support the new business model. that means supporting people who believe what ccp say, and advertise. guess what, gankers, greifers, and outdated mechanics are not in the glossy picutres or videos. sure. eve was always intended to be a full space game, not just a space ship game. eventually, i would expect to see capital ship boarding actions, where you can disable a large ship, it goes reinforced (invulnerable and immoblie in eve space) and the attackers can send dust marines in to try to capture it, with the defenders also allowed to get thier own teams in to defend. if you think my ideas are crap, then offer better ideas. because \"go play wow\" is not going to cut it, when ccp wants more subs for this game. guess what, all those dust players are about to be lured here - and ccp wants them to play eve, and stay, too. so get over it, and come up with better ideas - because if you don't, ccp gets to listen to just mine and others like me."
"no that's the point. wormhole space and lowsec are safer atm than highsec for hulk pilots, and gives higher rewards. all you need is an alt on the door in, and a pos to warp to if anyone trips system, which has your orca hiding inside it invulnerable for the bonuees. tell me i am wrong."
"you can do this in highsec too."
"you know.. i treat highsec pretty much the same as lowsec and null when i'm flying around. i cloak, i use fast aligning ships, cov ops, and generally don't stay in one place for long. it's pretty risky, even if you don't have a super pricy ship and fit. there really isn't any reason not to blow people up aside from the isk cost of doing it. if you don't care about that, then it doesn't matter unless security is a problem, and that is the real issue and deterrent. in a short time, with inferno, that will no longer be a problem, then we'll see how safe highsec truly is.zubzubzubzubzubzubzubzub"
"hi there,i would like to say, i too understand your frustration but i cant support your thread, because you clearly dont understand the way eve works, and what eve is.((i'd like to say the people who are saying \"buffer tank your hulk\", \"tank your hulk better\" are idiots and have obviously never been suicide ganked in a hulk. even with the best possible buffer or active tank with max skills (except officer fit that is), you will never survive a suicide gank against 3 well fit destroyers))i also agree that this situation is a problem for new players and potentially stunts ccps and eve online's growth as a company.instead, i would sugest that suicide ganking should be mentioned in the mining tutorial missions or something of the sort. i think players expectations of highsec are that it should be \"safe\", at least when you start playing eve. i dont think we need to change the fact that it isn't safe, we need to change new players expectations so that they are more in line with the reality. i also agree that tech 2 ship insurance payouts are terrible and need looking at. otherwise though, the rest of your post is rediculous.if you let this thread die (like you should) and start a new proposal to give new players a more realistic impression of their relative safety in high sec, i will support it.ps;it is against the eula (or whatever the hell its called) to pick on players in newb entry systems. you can get them banned for that."
"this is what i was going to say almost verbatim."
"in agreement with t2 insurance payouts needing to be looked at. besides that though you are really coming across as \"eve isnt safe enough so please make it safer\". i agree that miners are getting the shaft in some aspects but you went over the top"
"tldr: stop ####ing about hulkageddon and grow a pair...welcome to eve online.op is clearly a noob who doesn't know what or how to survive in high sec without getting ganked because he's too busy being afk while chewing on rocks.ps: actually the above quoted piece is very well written and well said..just stating the obvious ================ stop the evemail spam!"
"dearest lady lupia,there are multiple types of tanking in eve.active tanking wherein a pilot expends capacitor to regenerate shields or armor. this is a common approach taken by pve pilots.buffer tanking wherein a pilot increases total effective shields or armor creating a sturdy boat able to endure a terrible beating. this is a common approach take by pvp pilots.passive shield tanking wherein a pilot cleverly creates a hybrid active/buffer shield tank utilizing shields inherent regenerative powers. drakes are renown for this.whine tanking wherein a pilot proceeds to the forums complaining, <U+FFFD>my preferred ship is too weak! please recode the game so my preferred ship<U+FFFD>s weakness is reduced/eliminated.<U+FFFD>you have chosen to whine tank. a laudable all or nothing approach. however, if you<U+FFFD>ll forgive me making a suggestion . . . whine tanking, to be affective, must include an ultimatum. something to the affect, <U+FFFD>either x&y or i terminate my account.<U+FFFD> if ccp doesn<U+FFFD>t code in your whine in a reasonable amount of time, terminate your account! for you see, without the ultimatum and follow through, whine tanking is little but noise.if you<U+FFFD>ll forgive another suggestion, be sure to scale up your whine tanking ultimatum to include many, many players. ccp is not foolish. when many many players whine tank and then follow through on their ultimatum by terminating their accounts, ccp notices and responds. incarna/moniclegate producing crucible is good evidence of the astounding power of follow through whine tanking.with luv,direnecessity"
"a) name one. you claim combat ships have a larger cargohold than exumers, so go ahead and name a combat ship that has a larger cargohold than 8k. go ahead, i'll wait. (titans don't count)b) agreed. insurance payouts for exumers is ridiculously terrible.c) first of all, hulks can't use mining turrets. exumers don't have turret slots. second, destroyers have only recently received ccp loving. they've barely changed since the day they were introduced into the game. third, a destroyers intended purpose is high dps / low durability. they're not meant to tank, only to dish out dps.d) um what? there should never be wardec immunity. never any pvp immunity. do you even play the same game as the rest of us? seems like you don't.e) you really should pay attention. this is partially what ccp is doing. f) lol no, just no. again, there should never be pvp immunity. and you can't go off hiding asteroid belts in highsec. they're publicly available for a reason: to be available to the public.g) gms don't deal with scams. again, what game are you playing because it sure isn't eve online. absolutely terrible idea.h) this ties in with the previous terrible idea. terrible is terrible is terrible. compounding on a terrible idea doesn't make it any better.i) lol what? players don't look like npcs. never have, never will, and currently don't. once again, what game are you playing?j) seriously, i want to know what game you're playing. you're obviously not playing eve online. learn this next sentence and learn it well because you obviously don't have a clue. concord does not protect people nor is intended to protect people. concord only punishes.i will concede that the ganking in highsec has gotten out of hand. last night my alt got ganked in a tanked industrial ship for two million isk worth of pi goods. i'm not mad about it, but it does illustrate a growing problem in eve and that's the lack of consequences for ganking in highsec.summary of eves last four expansions:"
"i like this idea, maybe i'd tweak it abit personally but still+1"
"what would you tweak and why el geo?"
"then your opinion/argument is heavily biased....you have no right to make a judgement call on such a thing....aside from your dislike of the idea.you should spend a little time in whs before you make your final opinion on that matter.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"intruiging twist xorv...not sure if it would fly well in high sec (15min delay on pods) as it could hurt war decs in high sec for hunting targets but then again....why not just make it delayed local all together? (i'm not really asking that..but i'm asking for more background on your line of thinking)================ stop the evemail spam!"
"tweak with sliding scales depending on sec status (of the system) and standings (player/corp/alliance/militia/faction) aswell as ship mass, to make it more dynamic. (a word which i'd like to see applied to many things in eve )and yeah maybe lower the times in highsec so its a bit quicker, ofc i expect it would all add to server load..."
"the goal is to make active intel gathering more important, i don't think it would negatively impact wardecs in empire, either side in a wardec could benefit from this change either in pursuit or evasion, but both would now require player effort. why not no local intel altogether? it's partly a bit of compromise, but it also falls into the secondary objective i had with this particular proposal which was to give a strategic advantage in using smaller classes of ships. ccp has already began looking into this with finding roles for frigates, but i think they're missing the mark just be playing with fitting stats. this proposal gives a real strategic reason to use a gang of all frigs and destroyers, or a gang of cruisers; these ships become the skirmishers, raiders, and scouts they should be, while bcs and up remain the ships with the real firepower and capacity to stay in a slugging match. just a few clarifications: it's 5 minutes, not 15 minutes delay for pods in the proposal. also the default state for nullsec is the same for wh space, except there's multiple means of creating the new delayed local in null systems whereas there isn't for wh space.the times are just rough numbers, they could change. however, the goal is to make it so frigates and destroyers are able to enter a system have a fight in that system and leave without ever showing up on local, and for cruisers to be able to pass through systems without showing up on local if they don't linger. ..and ofc for bcs and up not to have this advantage.as to making based on ship mass as you suggested, or ship signature (which i thought about) i rejected because signature would hurt passive shield tanks and be overly favorable to t3s with certain set ups, and mass would hurt armor tanks. in any respect neither mass or signature give the clear results i wanted to see, the way ship class does.i would not be against making standings to npcs effect hs, ls, and npc null more than my proposal suggested, but it would make the proposal a lot more complicated than it already is and i don't think it's the most critical element, so it's left out."
"why not...it will shut up the afk c loakers whiners and make them bleed (not cry) for local to come back. +1================ stop the evemail spam!"
"no you dont. you see renamed cans, people's bios, spam mail, local spammers, and people putting bounties on themselves to show up on the bounty board. if you give people a way to officially advertise, it can be limited and regulated so that the annoyance you convey can be kept to an all time low. if anything, you should be supporting this thread to get rid of all the damn spam.\"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"head up there is already 3rd party constructs that have achieved this ---- razor alliance may actually have something for this for their useso this could be a job for 3rd party developers"
"yea, i know.the idea is to make it available to everyone. if a 3rd part app can be made, it cant be that difficult for ccp to implement.\"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"seriously, why are high grade clones so damn expensive? yeah i get the isk sink bit, but the 30mill it costs me on my clone is 30mill i would probably use to buy implants that would get destroyed anyway. also what it does is prevent me from being able to move around in the galaxy without paying 30mill or 60 if i want to get back. and that is if the clone your podding is without implants. also i tend to avoid going on frigate type gangs since getting podded is so much more likely.tbh just slice the prices to 1/10you could argue that if i have this much sp i should be able to afford a 30mill clone. well i tend to enjoy pvp and not hoard isk so no i'm not that rich. yeah, i can afford it, but its just plain annoying and its just another incentive for me not to go out and die and just sit in station and spin my ship, the game has way to many of these."
"train up alts to do interesting things too. there is no reason for you to be flying ahacs with your titan 5 character."
"actually my character has no cap skills whatsoever, but it can fly more or less anything subcap in the game, my question is why should i need to \"train alts to do something interesting\" if i dont wanna pay 30-40mill + ship + implants. what im saying is that using clones as isk sink is ******** and restricts the use of high sp characters"
"it doesn't restrict the use of that character, it just makes you more adverse to using that character when situations are not in favor of survival. but that doesn't mean you cannot use it. people train up alts to do things like fly recons not because its mandatory, but because it makes sense, you do not have to. you do not have to upgrade your cloneyou do not have to stop flying riftersyou do not have to stop flying ahacsyou do not have to stop flying dessysyou do not have to stop flying anythingjust be aware that the burden of having large numbers of skill points and fittings options and ship classes available to you is that its going to cost more for you to be regenerated."
"i know it does'nt restrict me per se, but it is a 30-40 mill extra loss if you die, and that tends to make me want to not go out in something small, my question is why should it be like this? is there a point as to why i need to be billed 40mill more if i want to fly a dictor in a gang rather than being a sniper? other than isk sink i dont really see the point in these high prices other than being ******* annoying.can anyone give me another viable reason as to why these prices need to be this high? i know its not a big issue for most players, but its an easy thing to fix and i dont see it being a problem in any way."
"because the assumption is they figure you know how to make that kind of money very quickly considering the amount of time you put in.not supporting.edit: spelling noob here >.<;;;================ stop the evemail spam!"
"define very quickly, 40mill is not very much but die two or three times in a day and it adds up. my point is i wanna be able to to die or risk dying without using my isk on something not playerbased, i have no problem with ship or module prices, because that is isk into the eve economy. eve has enough isk sinks. also i asked for a viable reason other than isk sink, and your answer was more or less \"isk sink\"also why would you not support something that has seemingly no bad impact? other than one less small isk sink..."
"so you go driving more often because you enjoy it....so much so that you end up refueling 6 to 7 times a month.and you demand to lower gas prices.figure it out yet?don't get me wrong...i like the idea myself...i'm getting up there in sp's myself.but i'm not jaded or blind to recognzie the value of those sp's either.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"by that logic there should be a meter on your client and you should be paying for the time you play. if gas was unlimited, prices would be low as **** and they would want us to use more so they could earn more. witch is part of what im trying to get at, more ppl on the battlefield = more fun. if what you're trying to say is what is on the last line i have this to say.probably close to 90% of my skills are useless in say an interdictor, it would take more or less 6months to train a new alt to a fully fledged dictor pilot with close to my skills in that perticular ship. he can pod around the galaxy for give or take a million isk. when i have trained my alt, i trained him for versatility so i could do whatever i wanted with him as for what the situation demanded. i never wanted to get in a situation where i needed a spesific shiptype to do something usefull and would be months away from being able to do it. should i be punished for having invested all my skilling towards this goal? point is, yes my 120mill sp char would be alot more versatile when it comes to filling a fleet position, but the skill level itself does not differ much from that of a 6month to a year spec trained alt."
"there's a gm post by karridor buried in his thread regarding the lifting of dec shield rule. it's buried several pages deep in a threadnaught."
"i've been reading this thread over and over, and i've been thinking about the implications of the proposed changes. i have to say, i am still very excited about what is to come. people are worried that the little guys are going to get picked on, and i believe that is probably true. but you have to remember that eve adapts and its important to try and think ahead to how people will adapt to the proposed changes before declaring them broken.there are already \"no obligation\" alliances, where you can simply join to get a common chat channel and some company in high-sec. these are going to get very common, so the little guy can be protected. a simple solution and it will become \"the thing to do\" for new corps. it will force interaction which i don't think is necessarily a bad thing.as for it becoming difficult for the aggressors because of people being able to infinitely bring in support, well i think it should be difficult and risky for the aggressors. besides, there is always room for guerrilla warfare. you don't need to outnumber your opponent to be a problem. having said all the above, i am in favor of a price system that takes into account aggressors and defenders sizes and skill points in comparison to each other and scales so that the price per person goes down in the extremely high levels such as in the big sov alliances.\"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"well, if noone against it, then it's a good thing, right?"
"no one is responding because it's a 'meh' idea at best and just a waste of dev time. we were hoping that if we ignored the thread, it'd just go away. we really don't need a ship spinning bot and there are many things that devs should be working on instead that are far more important."
"yeah, it's not the most important thing. but it's also a matter of a few minutes if not seconds to a single programmer.there is a lot of ui fixes which are \"meh\", if you take one of them and describe it in a separate topic..."
"no for the same reasons as posted above.edit: off topic part removed, ccp phantom"
"please stay away from this thread, if you cant bring any arguments. thank you."
"i currently use all six character slots on my two accounts. all characters can harvest pi goods and the pay is nice.summary of eves last four expansions:"
"i have resisted posting in this topic, because i hoped it would just go away.it is a terrible idea, for reasons i hope have already been stated.please let this topic die, it is taking up perfectly good space on the first page of the assembly hall.\"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"there is alot of arguing going on about hisec should be safe, ganking should be stopped etc. ganking should not be stopped. hisec should not be 'safe' but safer. than everywhere else, which it currently is. and no dont start saying about how nullsec is safer because that is a ridiculous argument. nothing in nullsec or wormholes is safe. here is an approach that allows ganking to remain, allows people to randomly kill if they want to but allows revenge to be meted out by players, doesnt disable concord and is in line with eve backstory and immersion. concord should not be absolute punishment, it should be possible to avoid concord but very very difficult, so here is a fairly easy mechanic. when you attack a person in hisec that would normally spawn a hisec response, two things would happen: a: concord is triggered but with a slower response time and b: the criminal warp engine is shut down (note, microwarpdrive ability should remain functional) until their ship is destroyed. obviously pods need to be able to warp away. shutting down the ships warp drive can be done through the neocom network monitored by concord, this is within game immersion. this means that the aggressor can not warp off obviously, allowing justice to be meted out by players if they are faster than concord. delay concord by 20 to 30 seconds (maybe 10 seconds per sec level? so a response of 10 seconds in 1.0, 20 in 0.9 and so on.) allowing the aggressor some time to a: be killed by locals and b: get away from the area as fast as he can by mwd or ab if he can (but it wont be that far of course.) probably being chased by local people. then of course after that delay concord turn up and slaughter the aggressor. it would probably mean that the timer for jumping through gates and docking would need to be increased (because of course from immersion, the stargate operators and station managers wont allow them access) it would be even more immersive if the concord respose was by ships af the same class as the aggressor, so frigates get 3 concord frigates chasing them (very very fast and still huge damage) up to battleships (faster than our bss and of course horrific damage.) another small perk could be that if players manage to kill the aggressor before concord arrive, they get a sec status increase, possibly a small reward from concord based on the sec status of the ganker. i dont think gankers can really complain about these changes, as they were going to lose their ships anyway, and it should make the gankee a little happier to see them get killed by players not npcs, it would open up the possibility of self styled 'security forces' career paths too. this would even make theconcept of defending (gasp! yes defending!) mining ops viable, all you need is fast locking, high dps ships such as the tier 3 bcs with sensor boosters, if anything comes within gank range, you lock them up, if they aggress your miners you blast the crap out of them. you may well even kill them before their target is destroyed. i think this is balanced and involves more player input, it also allows people to defend their vulnerable ships, creating more reasons to play in groups. still allows ganking, allows a window of revenge for players, encourages more teamwork and is still immersive with no reason for insta death rays coming from nowhere."
"what problem are you trying to solve?your suggestion tips the balance very heavily in favour of the aggressor: following your design would mean that gankers would pretty much have carte blanche in hisec, and concord may as well not exist at all. the ganker joins with friends and they take turns to blow each other up for sec standing bonuses, meaning they also get insurance payouts because it wasn't concord that killed them <U+FFFD>sorry, this idea doesn't even stand up to the briefest of casual exploit discovery.apart from giving yourself more time to gank hulks, what were you hoping to achieve with this change, dear nullbear?ps: i especially love the part where you imply that nullsec is as dangerous as w-space!"
"why does it favour the aggressor? it allows people to actually attack gankers? concord will still kill them anyway, but there will be time for players to attack them too and also add some fun for people to be able to chase them around a little.how would gankers gain sec from each other? the mechanic would only give a sec increase if the ganker had initiated an attack, thereby they receive a sec loss for doing it anyway, it would be pointless. and so what if they get insurance for doing this meaningless little thing, once get sa sec decrease and loses a ship, he gets insurance which doesnt pay for his entire ship. the person who shoots him gains a very small sec increase which could have been achieved by killing say a cruiser rat in lowsec (i did say small sec increase) so no one would gain anything of value by doing that.the idea here is to give players a chance to do something about the gankers, not just to have concord do the job, this generates lossmails/killmails etc, opens up a career path too. concord are still going to kill gankers who dont get killed by players, you still wont get away.insurances would basically have to be voided if you initiate an attack that results in a cocord respose, not just if concord are on the mail too though.yes gankers would get slightly longer if players dont do anything in respose, but players themselves should actually respond faster than concord do, which means that some ships would be saved rather than just avenged. i know people can do this anyway but hopefully this would encourage people to defend/police themselves.ps: wormhole space is nullsec and they are equally dangerous in their own ways, just becasue you dont have local in wh space doesnt make it more dangerous, just differently dangerous. and this wasnt the subject i am talking about so stop trying to sound releveant."
"bad idea - you will crush noobs before they get out to the harsh world of pvpone must crawl be fore they can run.most of the accounts for eve are in empire. one must make null sec, and low sec more customizable.i play eve not to pvp but to care bear in a pvp invironment... i am now trying lowsec for a change a while in null seci enjoy with the proper prep work i can go and mine in relative safety. i change my locations randomly often not in my territory.on occation i get duped because a pvper out foxed me, i do get upset a little but always don't fly what you can't afford to loose.i have lost a rorqual, even though it was fit with warp stabs, neuts cloak and micro warp drive. jumped into a system that had a frigate from a neut came in - i logged off waited 3 hours. logged in . 1 frigate there in system.. warping to my warp out location.. local spiked 2 other figates, 1 opened up a cyno and summoned a dreadnaugh which did me in quickly. neuted 2 frigats, 3rd had warp disrupters and the nuets also had done their work but went down before the nuets finished their work. that was a great fight.on my mining ops i try to have a intaloc arty bs or bc to inta pop those frigate attempting to take out a hulk or covetor or cyno in a hot drop."
"i agree. everywhere but starting systems should be 0.0. newbies get 30 days of not being attackable to learn the game, skill up and find a corp. i was living in a 0.2 within days of starting the game with no such protection. it's not hard.fixed."
"realy i see the trial account bussiness become boooming when you can't be attacked.what you want is tried in many mmo's and tragicly failed over and over again.a 30 day pilot is no match what so ever for a experienced pilot.eve's player base is a little older than most mmo's, (people with jobs and families) which can only play a few hours of those 30 days.most of al eve \"is\" a sandbox even in highsec, having rules doesn't make it less sandbox.most of all stop telling people they should play \"your game\" in the sandbox."
"bring in the borg (caldari) cube :)personaly i like lots of the caldari and minmatar designs.okay the moa is but ugly, but the merlin, hookbill, kestrel, caracal, drake, ferox, tengu, scorpion, rokh, bager and rhea are nice looking ships if you ask me."
"lets notand yes the bombers designs will be changed. the new models where shows on fan fest and also they will add the new \"skin\" to all ships in time. makes them look nices but the same.but a definetly no to redesign all minnie / cal ships... it's like saying lets redo all the ships in the game.plus i wanna fly a huge space turd some day... aka revenant"
"after having some ideas and having spread in them on several forums already, i thought, lets post them here, so people can give their feedback on the ideas.some backgroundas a high sec marketeer / inter-regional trader i handle a lot in courier contracts. the amount of courier contracts i have out each day surpasses the capacity of my corpmates time, so i use the public market to get them done. while i have made friends in courier contract networking channel and some other couriers around to get the work done, i would still prefer some improvements within the system. setting up 10 to 20 courier contracts a day gets you annoyed at the little things within the courier contract wizard, those little things i list here now.ideas make it possible to drop a station destination from; search, info and locations, within the courier contract destination field within the wizzard make the # of open slots of contracts visible within the complete contract wizzard when adding containers within the contract wizard, make it possible to shift click the yes / no button on adding non-empty containers. make it possible to double click the discription formfield of a courier countract, just like in browsers, to select a before used discription. thxi hope you all find this some good ideas, ofcourse feedback is welcome ;). \"schr<U+FFFD>dinger's missile. i dig it.\" ~ makari aeron"
"still comes down as a pay2win mechanic and everytime something is close to that i say no."
"as marketeer i strongly oppose against this idea, my whole playstyle is possible due to the risks within the transport system of eve, if that is automated its just loss of a part of the sandbox. \"schr<U+FFFD>dinger's missile. i dig it.\" ~ makari aeron"
"this is an excellent idea indeed, makes it a tad tedius but also makes it not completely easy.also there is one other thing ppl havn't thought of, having a new ship like this would help mineral prices (yes that means making them higher) by the fact that a lot of mins would be needed to make these ships =)and as someone who mines for his pvp funds and moves ships arround for said pvp i fully support this idea+1 for me"
"i can only assume it has something to do with the carebears drowning out all good ideas with their incessant screaming, whining and crying that they should be absolutely safe from gankers in high sec, and hulkageddon.short of that, i would assume it's because we haven't raised enough support for the idea.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"to the front page, this is the most pressing issue in pvp in my opinion."
"friendly bump."
"^^ this is what it is all about. in the next year or two ccp is about to have a game that is potentially 100x or more valuable to them than eve. if darkness takes off as ccp hope it will, then where do you think their design effort will go?if i believe the trolls in-game and above, then eve is perfect, and nothing needs to change. are you really happy with everything as it is? you would be ok with eve going to maintenance only patches every year with major content additions being decided against due to cost/reward being in favour of applying the resources to ccp's new games? i know ccp wants eve to grow, thrive, and stay viable indefinitely. but the commercial reality is if you keep kicking new players in the guts and they keep leaving, sooner or later eve will become \"minimum input to maintain only\" in terms of ccp's business. you don't like my ideas? no problem, that's your view. but don't say i have no idea how to play etc etc etc ... you have no idea what i know, or do not know. and attacking me won't fix the underlying issues of low-sec null-sec players being so damn bored they grief newbies because they have nothing better to do.and all you trolls, please remember this thread. come back in three years, and either laugh at how wrong i was, or swear loudly at your lack of foresight because ccp is devoting its primary effort to darkness, and hasn't done all those things you always wished for in eve. i really hope ccp can pull the subscriptions to do both to their full potential: however ccp's player numbers are not nearly as good as they ought to be for such a well-known, stong game, particularly given the immense advertising effort ccp deploys.you don't like my ideas .., come up with better ones. and \"go to another game\" is not a good option, because when darkness launches, i expect a significant portion of eve's current playerbase will do precisely that. and guess what? null sec etc will be even more boring ... and about three months later ccp would be reviewing resource allocations, and could well put eve into reinforced mode indefinitely."
"you asked for it:shield tanked maelstrom has more cargo capacity than a tanked procurer. 1,000 capacity for a mining ship... really? you want to say that's good design from ccp?strip miners are mining lasers, go look on the market under \"turrets & bays\" if you don't believe me.basic issue is that there are people who are genuinely immune to pvp in this game. go talk to barbie in amarr: one of the richest most wanted scumbags ever, who apparently makes a billion or so a day without ever undocking. go watch the freighters ambling past in their day newbie corps, 9 years on from launch. good luck taking one of those out, with warp to 0 mechanics and gazillion armour points.frigates could not kill miners nearly as easily as destroyers; they were quickly celebrated as a griefer ship when introduced. oddly enough, i cannot recall ever seeing a t1 destroyer in null-sec low-sec or wormhole space. they are too squishy for real pvp, and if you want mass dps, get the latest bc, the one with the battleship guns. yes, that's nicely balanced ... friggin candy to distract from more fundamental issues.you seem to wonder what game i am playing ... maybe the real issue is you don't want to look more closely at what is going on around you. go play other games and you will see just how different npc/players look in most of the games out there. although your last comment does show that you are at least not blind to the issues.bottom line: in this area of the fourms, we can talk about ccp and eve, the business. my suggestions are not because i personally want to see eve totally turned into something else ... if i wanted something else, there is plenty to choose from. that's the real issue: in the game market games rise, fall, and die. don't kno about you, but i want this one to stick around another 9 years and beyond. but to achieve that, it needs to keep healthy revenue streams to justify its postion as ccp's #1 game: and guess what, if you greif newbies, you really do run the risk that eve will become #2, with all the long term resource implications that carries."
"thank you for pointing out just how much ccp is willing to change eve to retain players. the power is in your hands: i have set out what i see as an issue, you don't like my suggestions. that's perfectly fine. but unless you come up with better options guess what ccp is going to do [reread above]."
"appears in your belt?what you're telling me here is that you're too lazy to watch local or use dscan in order to ensure your own safety. i hope you aren't looking for sympathy in this thread, because you don't deserve any."
"i hardly think a 19 day old player is qualified enough to propose such dramatic changes to the game. the op has clearly shown such a massive lack of understanding of what eve is about and what eve needs....once again a post here in the assembly hall has reconfirmed that perhaps we should have a 6month age restriction on posting threads here.jint hikaru - miner / salvager / explorer / spacebum in the beginning the universe was created. this has made a lot of people very angry and been widely regarded as a bad move."
"so far the op has managed to soundly refute every argument posed against their idea. while i don't completely agree 100% with the idea i can say that most of it is sound. there is a problem with a 300m mining ship and how weak it's defenses are. insurance does suck but that's how it goes with tech 2 ships. if that is going to change for the hulk, it will need to change for all tech 2 ships. i don't see that happening. i can fly a hulk on several of my accounts and i have mined before but honestly have never experienced being ganked in high sec. it was always in null and i was running d-scan constantly...a major pain in the ass that needs to be corrected. the game stops being fun when you have to spam click a single button to perform one mind numbing process just to stay safe. sorry...that's a mechanic that needs correction. period.overall i agree with the op. i am not going to nitpick the parts i don't agree with in the op as they are minor in the grand scheme."
"my sweet lupiah,you're missing the point. whine tanking, to function, must produce noticeable disruptions in ccps bottom line. ccp knows they need paying customers. they have over 300,000 now. if you're going to wrestle ccp into changes via whine tanking you and yours need to terminate your accounts - en mass - to generate sufficient ripple among that 300,000+ for them to take notice. lacking sufficient ripple, whine tanking will prove ineffectual. ccp needs customers but they don<U+FFFD>t need any one specific customer and they don<U+FFFD>t need you. ccp sells eve as a harsh and brutal universe. the approach has treated them well so far. until you prove to them via mass account terminations that eve should be less harsh and brutal in your little corner of the universe, your whine tanking will prove ineffectual.perhaps i misunderstand your intent however. perhaps you<U+FFFD>re not engaged in follow through whine tanking. perhaps you have no intent to follow through. perhaps you merely wish to whine. very well. you<U+FFFD>ve found the place for it. whine away! one caveat, however. as you<U+FFFD>re discovering, the eve forums are every bit as harsh and brutal as the in-game universe.welcome to eve lady lupiah,we<U+FFFD>ll see if you have the mettle for it,luv,direnecessity"
"yes..agree with a 19 day old toon like a fool and ignore the obvious...great job...typical of your mind set.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"tldr version for noobs- quit eve online and get everyone else to quit and you'll get somewhere.otherwise buck up and grow a pair because this is a sandbox where its ok to kick sand in your face and laugh because everyone else does it.if you can't use a little common sense in how you fly then don't expect mercy from everyone else.we havel ittle to no trouble in 0.0 in defending our mining ships and have far more to worry about then you paulty high sec carbebears....get over yourselves.the fine gents here who have pointed that out have made it clear there are ways to avoid the trouble.changing the game to suit your needs is wrong..end of discussion.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"yes...continue to be an ignorant fool, typical of your mindset. what does the age of his toon have to do with the idea itself? oh...right...it doesn't. you are just looking for an excuse to disagree because you are incapable of using your own brain to think about new ideas.i am just going to block you again. you never have anything of value to contribute at all."
"if you want a tanky miner, use a rokh. lower yield and smaller hold, but hey...that's realistically what you'd have to give up in order to have a tougher ship. exhumers are fragile because they're just a gloried dump truck. they are built to maximize yield, not survive combat. you have a choice to sacrifice one benefit for the other. please stop asking for both and claiming it's \"balance\".as for a \"craft guild\", just the use of the word \"guild\" tells me all i need to know about where you draw ideas and preconceptions. if you want to have a little corp of you and your buddies, you run the risk of becoming a war target. if you want to avoid war, you suck it up and take the 10% tax and just use a private chat channel.i don't really understand why you want to change the overview. i can tell the difference between players and npcs at a glance and know who is and is not safe to shoot. if you can't be bothered to learn how to tell the difference without eve saying \"hey there's a player on grid with you now\" then i'm inclined to agree that this game may not be for you.eve allows us to do almost anything we want, but in return it requires vigilance. you're asking for change after change to allow you to be less attentive and more lazy. quite frankly that flies in the face of what eve was built on."
"some specific points:which combat ships? i've never seen one that could carry 8k m3.yes, let's remove one of the few remaining drivers for conflict in nullsec.it's a cloaking device, but without the downside of cloaking devices! now you can cloak and do all those other things you wanted to do!let's just stop there on this premise. prove you were scammed. come on, show me definitive proof that someone scammed you. now do so in a way that the system could automatically adjust security standings based on that proof. otherwise gms will be consumed with playing detective and marking scammers, driving players to use alts for scams.as for the threat of being shot in-station: i can avoid that right now. don't dock.players don't look like npcs on the overview. i'm not sure you're using that right."
"only a fool would consider/trust what a noob has to say concerning severe game changing mechanics more importaint than experience....you have no excuse. what-so-ever.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"what is your fit? i am looking at a procurer in eft with a damage control and reinforced bulkhead. it still has 1000 m3 of cargo space. without any cargo expanders a maelstrom can only hold 550 m3 worth of stuff. and the battleship with the highest cargospace is the megathron with 675 m3.also bear in mind that you are comparing a battleship with something that is more or less cruiser sized.while they may be under the \"turrets & bays\" market section, strip miners are not technically turrets. otherwise they would not be able to fit on mining barges or exhumers (because neither ship has any turret slots).station traders may not risk themselves physically but they do open themselves up to the risk of having their wallets nuked by someone smarter and/or with more capital than they have.fortunately for most station traders, not many people have the patience or mind to economically outmaneuver them.in a way, it's no different from people who have learned various combat tactics and aggro mechanics to keep their ship safe while applying maximum damage to their target. it's just a different form.it's possible to kill such ships with the right planning.just because you haven't seen ships being used or you dislike certain aspects about them, doesn't mean they aren't being used.we use a lot of destroyers in fw.now...a. double the hold space on all exhumers.see the first quote above.b. fix insurance payouts on exhumers.t2 insurance is supposed to suck. if you were [more or less] fully reimbursed for the loss of a t2 ship, what reason would you have to fly a t1 ship ever again? you pay for that 10 to 20% edge over other players.c. fix the dps/defence impalance.what imbalance? four destroyers can kill my pilgrim (a 150mil isk cloaky recon ship) without too much of an issue. they can also kill a 180 mil isk zealot.and the ships i mentioned are combat ships. really... why should a non-combat ship be able to better defend itself against certain attackers than a combat ship?d. fix social guiild war-griefing.fight back and generally be more trouble than you're worth. get your corp into 4 cheapo gank-fit destroyers and gun for the squishiest, most expensive thing on field. most war decs end when you consistently \"ruin\" the aggressor corps isk efficiency. alternatively, jump corp and set up a \"locked\" channel to stay in touch with everyone. now your enemies have to suicide gank you if they want to kill you. problem solved.e. introduce moon mining to 0.7 and lower planets,ccp is looking into removing tech moons entirely and re-inventing \"belt mining.\"f. introduce advanced drones for miners.cloaking module. and no... you can't have something that conceals you and allows you to continue doing what you were doing. you have to give up something of equal value to what you are gaining.g. consequences. 'killing scammers.'\"if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is.\"scamming has been with eve since the beginning. i was scammed when i was a nubbin, my peers were scammed... it's a rite of passage and, in a twisted way, prepares you for stuff you will encounter later in the game (which is arguably worse).h. consequences, #2. an alt should also be allowed to be killed if dust marines go innow you are trying to institute meta-penalties for allowable in-game actions. this is a bad precedent no matter how you look at it.i. clarity. a player locking someone in highsec should not, on the overview, appear the same as an npc.as others have said... a player does not look anything remotely close to an npc... even on the overview... or in space... or in any way, shape, or form.npcs are \"crosses\" (white or red). players are \"squares\" with may other colors differentiating them.j. podding wanted players in high-sec should immediately pay out the reward.if someone has a -5.0 security status or lower, you can pod them anytime you wish... provided you can catch them.concord is nice, but a joke. engagement times have reduced so much with the new ships that concord intervention times are not an effective protection for new players,repeat after me: \"concord does not protect... it punishes.\" it is a means to increase the cost of [illegal] engagement in high-sec. the fact that some people do it anyways means that they have simply accepted the costs.newbies are generally \"protected\" because they have nothing of value to gank.and for the record... concord has been buffed many, many times. it honestly can't get much more powerful than it is now without removing suicide ganking as a mechanic altogether. however... removing it as a mechanic means that people who \"live\" in npc corps effectively become immune to almost all forms of combat."
"actually if you carefully read the details this proposal it doesn't remove afk cloaking as an option, although i doubt many would bother as there simply is no need to do it the first place."
"oh there is.....you won't show up on ds if your cloaked.but thats a minor detail in the grand scehme of things.even if you don't know i'm there...i'm still going to cloak up.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"the only real afk cloakers are the ratters who dont want to be found"
"it wouldn't. if anything, just the opposite. they would have law enforcement and military crawling all over the borders staring and each other and be obsessively investigating each crime as a potential act of espionage.for god's sake, the only equivalent to the most extreme level of border tension i can think of is the korean demilitarized zone, which is probably one of the most monitored areas on the planet.and even if the empires hate each other, they aren't going to allow their trade routes to be ruined. north korea's breaking from this logic by being a hermit kingdom doesn't count, because north korea is ruled by a dynasty of insane megalomaniacs who demonstrably do not care if their entire nation starves to death."
"if you can call it a war at all, it would be a cold war, that is why millitias are shooting eachother and not the navies.even in de cold war between us and russia they where trading with eachother, not liking it but, they where still trading.if they realy where at war it would be smuggling.getting more people in to lowsec, should not be giving the current populations more gates to camp, but giving non dwellers something that will draw them to low by them selfs, which in return gives the current population more gates to camp.so instead of trying to make it harder for high-sec people to do what they are doing now, give them good low sec prospects, fun and stuff to do and they will come and take your attempts to shoot them for granted."
"i also +1 the contract idea, would make things far simpler. and would make it easier for beginner miners, they could see a contract up and try to fill parts of it as they could and get payed for it."
"many pilots start their careers eve by grinding missions during their first few months (first 12 months for some of us )unfortunately missions become repetitive very quickly due largely to their static nature and the limited pool of missions available. i believe this can lead to many people opting to move onto other games before they get a glimpse of the player driven content that makes the eve universe so unique.i propose that we can keep the current set of missions interesting by making mission spawns dynamic instead of static. please keep in mind i am not a programmer and this is merely my take on how my proposal could be achieved first introduce the following values that are invisible to players:<U+FFFD>total mission bounty<U+FFFD> this value is static and sets how much maximum the mission will yield in bounties.<U+FFFD>minimum bounty per stage<U+FFFD> this value ensures that every stage in a mission contains at least some rats.<U+FFFD>maximum wave count per stage<U+FFFD> this value ensures that you do not warp into a mission to fight 1000 waves of one frigate each. <U+FFFD>maximum unit(rat) count per stage<U+FFFD>this value ensures that you do not have fight 1000 frigates worth 5k eachspawns per room can then be <U+FFFD>randomly<U+FFFD> generated using current bounty values on mission rats to be greater than or equal to the <U+FFFD>minimum bounty per stage<U+FFFD> value while not exceeding the maximum wave or unit values. as an example a mission with 1 room (gone berserk) and a total bounty of 10 million that we run twice through:total mission bounty=10millionminimum bounty per stage=10millionmaximum wave count per stage=3maximum unit count per stage=30the first time you do the mission you could have 2 waves of 10 ships each:wave1 = 4xbs at 1.25million each wave2 = 4xbs at 1 mill each; 4xbc at .5million each; 4xcruisers at .25million each. the total value of the spawn is 10million.the second time you do the mission you could have 1 wave of 28 ships wave1 = 8xbs at 750k each; 4xbc at 500k each; 6xcruisers at 250k each; 10xfrigs at 50k eachtotal value of the spawn is 10millionin conclusion varying the \"content\" of a mission in this style would remove the repetitive feel of missions and provide a more interesting experience for new and old players alike.comments welcome."
"i agree with this. we all grind missions at one point and pilots still do today. either too make some isk or fix their sec status. an increase too bounties too missions would be nice and more randomly generated rooms would be cool and give newbies a challenge and make some pilots go back to missions instead of incursions.i also agree that it gets repetitive after a certain point. with incursion ******* everything up pilots tell newbies \"**** missions, get into a bc and go fly vg's.\" when they have little chance of even getting into one and even when they do their most likely too be contested by an nightmare fleet or something. increasing mission bounties will make vg's look like lvl 3s or something.(little rant i know :) )+1"
"a little variety in the typical carebear grind would be nice.....and yes..i confess..i do missions too due to minimal time constraints...but it would be nice to have a change of pace....different waves...different ships..etc.maybe a scaling affect for the type of ship in the mission and other things like sp's?================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"thank you for your comments.it would be awesome if the difficulty of a spawn set in a mission could be adjusted based off that it would provide insane scalability too missions. want to fly your faction cruiser but dont want to go level 4ing in it? well no issue! go level 3ing in it and the mission will scale to be harder based off your ship choice! a system like that would provide a since of progression that i personally feel eve is sometimes lacking. as you fly better ships the missions (within the same level) become harder and pay better.unfortunately a system like that would properly require heaps of work =( alternatively the spawn frequency of elite frigs, crusiers and high paying battleships could be weighted based of the mission level. i.e. the higher the mission level the more likely these ships are to spawn.i don<U+FFFD>t remember much about level 3 missions but i do remember how awesome it was (back in the day) shoot up a battleship in my bc (seriously i thought i was leetsauce). a weighted system like the alternative i just suggested could also be configured to allow low paying battleships to spawn in level 3 missions every so often."
"we all know about wip, but i don't believe that it should disappear for good, a response from ccp about the subject would be nice rather than not give any details about the topic indefinitely. however, i do propose some options that may help strike a win for a rebirth of wip. the social aspect such an environment will bring will actually form bonds, regardless what people think. however, it needs to be done correct, in a timely manner, and smartly. just a few ideas:1. station environments for every station is a little much, and very few people would be in the station, but lets say we have a focal point that every one goes to based on the region or even the faction that they are currently in. instead of being in a lonely empty spaceport, there will be a single focal point; this is done in swtor (star wars: the old republic), but making accessible by all station locations within a region or faction. however, it will not allow people to travel between stations, almost as if there body is tied to whatever station they first came from. this would even allow corps to gather for information sessions even.2. station environments (cosmetics) will be based on the faction the region or station is apart of. keeping design minimums to only 4 but allowing expansion of stations to be a little more intricate in design.3. marketing shops should not happen, however have npc shops which can give you access to things such as loyalty points and things of such manner that will not deter people but having to run everywhere to do things. as far as you go is a preference but can be expanded upon as needed.4. social areas, this would play a big role in meeting new people and building new bonds. such areas; like we have seen in older ccp videos, would be a bar where there can be mini-games and such. maybe even some gambling, and this would allow people to talk. another social area could be war rooms as was one of the earliest mentions when ccp was looking into this. these would be social gathering areas, easily accessible from starting location as to not have time dwelled on getting to the location, but will allow people to see each other corp mates and maybe talk about things.5. voip, a proper voip localized voip with the options to mute or not even be apart of to prevent harassments.6. a benefit of the reduction in locations is server load, cost to maintain such areas would be drastically reduced.ccp ambulation is not as far fetched as you may have worked it out to be, computers are improving as well, and even so eve demands more now anyways, but these things are possible. people didn't want to dispel the idea of ambulation, they just wanted it to be properly introduced and not have time wasted so poorly. i'm not saying this should be done right away, but it needs to be looked into in the near future. i have supported eve for many years, and i feel its missing a large social aspect. this would compliment eve well and definitely would keep playing and being more active longer than i've seen.final thought, ccp should not toss out the idea of ambulation, however, should be thought out again and implemented in a way to bring along a nice social aspect to eve.i'm hoping more people will weigh in on this topic and help feed some more useful information that can bring back wip, but please, be reasonable, and keep it within the ideas and concepts that have helped build eve to what it has become today."
"i agree on the theme of the post. i was annoyed when everyone else kicked up against wis. i still wanted it to go ahead.however. it seems as though you havn't been doing your reaserch. it has been implied through various dev interviews etc, that the first part of wis to be introduced will be corp offices. which pretty much fixes all the issues you braught up in that post (server load, too many people too spread out, mini games, corp gatherings, etc etc etc). voip has already been implied by ccp (admittedly, some time ago now). i would like them to put more into it (because i like wis), and that we agree on. everything else though, you have really just created a post full of obsolete speculation.inferno is going to fix alot of stuff that has really needed changing for some time. after that, once they've fixed bounties and poses, i think more wis is in order.\"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"op: are you talking about work in progress or walking in stations. :parduemont: hmm? as far as i know, the first part of \"wis\" they are looking at now is exploring derelict ships in dangerous enviroments.anyway, yes, revive wis!"
"well, i haven't been able to keep up with all the dev blogs on the subject, and i'm sure a missed quite a few of them, i tried hunting down some research before posting my thoughts, and i do realize voip would be implemented. sorry for the speculation, but i feel like information is missing about the entire subject and its future use."
"yes, it always annoyed me that so many were hysterical about ambulation. it is a fascinating concept and a good addon to eve. admittedly there were some legitimate concerns about the whole thing, but a ridiculous amount of the fan backlash was simply morons screaming and chest thumping to make sure everyone was aware they thought they had big, hardcore pvper epeens."
"i belive there should be an option to revoke shares from ex-corporation members who have been kicked out of the corp. or for those that voluntarily leave the corp, shares should be automatically deposited back into the corp wallet.at the very least, give us a vote option that would allow all corp members to vote on whether or not corp shares could be revoked (in general, or on a player by player basis). if such a vote is proposed and majority rules to revoke the shares, then the shares get revoked, back to the corp wallet to be redistributed to worthy players or resold to increase corp capital.or, when issuing shares to a member of the corp, allow the selection of a few options at the time of issue, such as: \"able to be revoked\" and \"revoked upon quitting the corporation\" or some sort of forced buyback options.if a member buys a number of shares at x isk per share, then the corporation should be able to buy back those shares at the same price without the members consent when or if that member leaves or gets kicked out. being kicked out should include a penalty to the buyback option though. if i kick someone out of the corp for being unsavory, the last thing i want to do is buy back my own corp shares. but fair is fair. i'm not into scamming.please support this proposal. profit sharing is a guaranteed way to develop a loyal, active, reliable member-base. but what ceo wants to sell shares to players knowing if they quit they can still get paid corp funds? what player wants to be active and loyal knowing once they get shares they're set for life? with all the scammers in eve today, us honest players need a bit of insurance to maintain a moral character. ccp needs to furnish such insurance in the form of usable tools and options for controlling capitol.please support this proposal."
"the entire point of shares being implemented was for corporations to actually have activities, shareholders and operate something like a publicly traded companies. the ability to revoke shares from leaving member would render it pointless. might as well remove shares and just implement a payroll.but shares are completely useless at present, i'll give you that. i've never even heard of any ceo actually distributing shares."
"hey folks,while doing plexes in null i thought it might be nice to have an option for missiles that you could set how many missiles you want to fire. lets say you know that rat x needs 10 missiles to explode and you have 10 such rats in plex...so you set it to 10 and then there is no waste or you can check your other toon that is mining and so forth. there would be lets say 5 possible presets for different rats in anomaly, plex what have you and presets for how many repetitions.if you click on module by default it would fire non stop, but if you lets say left click, select the preset then it would fire specified amount of missiles.sugestions and comments welcome.take care,ns"
"funny thing is...there is a way to do this! either load 10 rounds into the launcher or turn off the launcher after it fires 10 rounds. cool huh?"
"you do know that reloading takes 10 sec, right? this wouldn't have any delay.turning off is what am doing (we all are) but this mechanic would make things easier, at least sometimes."
"micromanagement isn't always a good thing.the ui and controls are cluttered and confusing enough without adding more options stuffed into every corner."
"so you want more scripts in an already cluttered interface? lets leave the system the way it is.... and maybe force you to pay attention?"
"this tbqh....================ stop the evemail spam!"
"it would be nice :)no one has an opinion on this? it would make electronic attack ships useable imo..."
"and would it hurt you to do the same amount with just 2 characters? i think not."
"wait, what do you mean? how, exactly, would losing two thirds of his pi capacity not hurt?"
"bolded the importaint bit.you don't really think at all do you.it is one thing to complain about alts and alt posting.it's an another to emo-rage-fit and just say \"kill em all\" by asking ccp to yank it all together.not very bright to be sure.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"maybe you should read the first post too."
"level v of command centre upgrades and interplanetary consolidation takes over two weeks. how long, exactly, do you think level six should take?i have three alts on this account with both at iv, about a week per character. how many planets would i lose with your proposal and requiring level twelve skills? on top of that, having my twelve planets over three characters allows me to use one system should i so desire. having all the planets on one character is much more of a logistical headache that i just don't want, there simply aren't enough planets in most systems to support this, regardless of type."
"firstly, how long ago could you train all 3 at the same time?. i started mid 2006 and had to manage 9 accounts to train 9 toons. so my argument against is - why should i see all that time money and effort be negated because of a noob who wants to fiddle with things for no real reason other than he doesn't like it. transfer to another account, yeh, o.k., drop the sub to <U+FFFD>3.33 and i might be pursueded.most stupid idea i've seen on the forums yet."
"there is no level 6. the skills get just trippled. instead of getting 1 addtional planet per skilllevel, you get 3. and instead of starting with 1 planet on level 0, you have also 3. you have the same amount of planets before but just on one character. you enjoy logging between your 6 characters for pi? i dont. if you have trained you maincharacter on max skills, you will have 18 planets. now you have 6+5+5. in the end, you would get your sp reimbursed, 2 planets for 'free', and everything on one character. i think that should compensate your loss quite well.thats a point i forgot. ccp should allow people to place more than one command centre on one planet. so you could place 2 or 3 on one planet, giving you the threefold powergrid and cpu.i know the idea will butthurt some veterans, or bears with 15 chars on 5 accounts for their bearfactory, but people like that are an exception."
"\"i know the idea will butthurt some veterans, or bears with 15 chars on 5 accounts for their bearfactory, but people like that are an exception.\"yes it would, i notice you have worked out how to safeguard you pi farming - that's all worked out. i play each character as a character - not a alt.get rid of the ideas for pi and i might take you seriously, that and get ccp to drop the sub fees."
"is it just me or is his idea getting worse as he continues to dig his own grave or is he just going off the walls scrambleing for what little credibility he has left?================ stop the evemail spam!"
"its no consequent gamedesign, with or less pi/rd/whatever. ccp proclaims one universe, one sandbox. so why do we need 3 charslots? its just not consequent. (yes i said this twice now)2 additional slots bring too much advantages and ruins a part of metafeeling in the game. if you want that, okay. i do not.also i dont have a problem to discuss this topic, i would like to hear opinions and reason, when you bring some."
"if you don't want it, don't use them. no-one's forcing you to."
"well, i need them because eve is too big a universe to explore with just one char. in that respect even 3 might not be enough.one can be a pirate, another a fanatic sansha supporter, and another a peaceful industrialist.i will not support any idea that forces me to pay an extra ~12 euros to keep a character i love alive. i care less about the character's skills than their histories.i will only support it if subscription fees are reduced to 1/3 and offer a free character transfer. in fact, then i will welcome it, because it allows me to train all my chars simultaniously, and prevents one character from being judged by another's actions.and preferably they will have created the \"master accounts\" first."
"this to be hoenst.i have multiple accounts because i want to train multiple chars.however...eventaully i will need that 2nd alt/toon for various reasons whilst living out in 0.0 space.just because someone has an alt doesn't make them an evil ###### and your game is going to break.forcing people to pay more for something as simple as a dumb cyno toon would make them call out the lynch mob on you.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"meh...i agree with the op to a point but i don't think that the 2nd and 3rd slots should be removed. i don't even use mine but i don't see how removing them will really accomplish anything."
"tbh, i like the idea to drop the subcosts too, but i guess ccp will never do this. (just like my propsal)"
"in a game that is all about choices and consequences, playing with a lot of different characters is a bad thing.but ccp will never remove existing characterslots, the outrage would be bigger then incarnage. too many carebears that want to do everything and play this game like a single-player grind.operation write down all the things!!! check out the list at"
"i actually agree this argument and yes the outrage would be unbelievable but ccp set the precedent for this sort of gameplay by giving us the chance to run more than one account and 3 slots. the other point is that unless you are limited not just to one client open at a time but also only one account (active or not) then not much would change, people would find a way round it."
"i support the op's idea.would it not bring real risk back to eve?"
"why in the name of sweet jesus would we respond to something like that? some sort of suicidal heroism? realistically, concord, like the modern police would hate this kind of vigilantism."
"so basically what you are saying is you dont in fact want the chance to do somethgin about it, you want ccp to make it so you are nice and safe and concord will explode the naughty man for you.ok, basically all i see here is that all the rest of the forums are correct, the hisec community (that arnt also nullsec players, because lets face it our alts make up probbaly a good half of hisec) actually dont want empowerment, they want ccp to wrap them up nice and warm and have a risk free environment.i apologise for thinking you were slightly better than that. good luck in eve."
"i find it hard to believe someone in fa would make such posts.================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"give titans drone bay. fb capable. remove everything else. mothership hull. make them dockable to."
"taking troll thread seriously because... i dunno, i'm bored i guess. this is stupid, no it isn't. eve is not a pvp game, it is a do-whatever-you-want game and ccp has been marketing that and intending that all along. you'd have to literally be blind and unable to see the big shiny banners blaring that to the world at"
"that sounds like a terrible idea. why would we ever want to implement something that stupid? no, not fixed, you are just throwing a tantrum that not everyone is playing the way that makes things the most fun for you personally. eve is still a sandbox game in high sec, you are just angry that in this futuristic world, police still exist and enforce laws and will blow your ship up if you attack someone right in front of them."
"this proposal would solve allot more problems if the title read: \"hello, i fail at thinking ideas through and i'd like to biomass myself\""
"this is completely stupid. you would destroying everything that people like. pve would be gone. fw would be gone with its rise in popularity. mining would be worthless and those do continue too do it would be forced to pay for protection,constantly hide or keep moving around. not only that you would be destroying the whole eve fiction base or story base. eve is not all about pvp, your just closed minded about the game, you want too pvp go too low or null sec. getting rid of the empires would be stupid and knocking down so many things. yes this sounds like a carebear but i don't mind helping them every now and then."
"i stopped reading right there since you are clearly wrong. my sig attests to that. period."
"best comment (for me) for this year so far."
"as an example, there was a patch to the client today, may 8th, that i can't seem to find information on. but in general, is the csm being informed or consulted with on the changes with or direction of eve? i'm a little worried that we're seeing a change back to the 'old way' of running things that came to a head during the incarna period. i see devs talking about some subjects in the forums, and that's good. i realize that they all must be busy rolling out inferno with a reduced staff. i realize that some forum posters will repost the same subject no matter the answer, but not all of us. but to shut down communication, to make the csm inconsequential and thus remove one channel of player voice (that balances out the voice of the forums a bit), this would probably be a sad direction to see resumed."
"*adds more duck tape too hurricane* problem?"
"yes, please. i dabble in courier contracts sometimes and it can be painful."
"i think you hit the nail on the head with that one jack."
"unfortunately the worthless carebears that want isk just for the sake of having isk, because there is no real purpose to them having it (as they'll never need to replace pvp ships), are the ones ****ing things up for the rest of us.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"i know bettter idea than you, keep local chat and give afk tag on local."
"i completely agree with the op. drake your argument is now utterly invalid, rather than just idiotic.to whoever linked kills of freighters for the \"burn jita\" month ... nice one. it's meaningless data as it has no context, just like a hulk getting killed because i was using it as an afk bait in a wh to lure people in to thier doom is also just as utterly irrelevant to this discussion. i wonder what % of those players ganked unsubscribed because a bored null-sec alliance ruined their gameplay, without any real risk (lets face it, unless you lose systems there is not real risk for many top level corps, or thier pilots, given jump clones).and as for \"whine tanking\" needing to hit ccp's bottom line ... have you noticed that plex is suddenly on sale? part of the comments above are that social players are the ones who are most likely to buy plex to acieve things they want in-game. if you stop casual players being able to use hulks / mine safely in highsec, then you depress demand for plex from that highly volitile customer group, and that hits ccps pocket. i personally would love to see plex use/sales data, particularly analysed by account age. i don't think we ever will, but ccp will. and yes, that's going to impact their business bottom line."
"... but an iteron v can have 20,000 cargo without blinking, and has a ton of slots to play with. the dump truck has more mid slots and generic high slots. varying hulk's high/low/mid slots would be an option, as would introducing a t3 exhumer with cusomisable configs. as for mael fit, it has superb low slots, so fill it up with cargo expanders, tank on the mid, and high slots are mix of gas miners / cruise missles / turrets, whatever floats your boat. speaking of which, why can exhumers not mine gas? where is the mining ship that can?the comment was made above that concord do not protect, they punish. but there is no punishment when an alt scoops everything and the crystals/turrets in a hulk are often worth more than the ship used to kill it. perhaps concord should shoot thieves on sight, too.but those are not really the issues here, it's about player retention in the face of a sharp upswing in bored players suicide ganking. eve has always had an implicit arms race, between prey ships and hunter ships. the hunter's ships have had all the love for a few years, it seems. and yes, changing insurance for all t2 ships should happen. it likely hasn't because ccp wants people to buy plex to get the isk to replace thier ships, rather than just using insurace payouts: if that is the case, then naughty naughty on ccp; them fixing t2 insurance will be a clear message that isn't what they are up to on that."
"nice fail attempt at arguing on behalf of a noob.all i saw there is a bitter industrialist who can't handle hulkageddon. please..stop...before you embarass yourself.if i can survive it..so can you....its not that hard...use a little common sense people.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"the iteron is a cargo ship...the exhumer is a mining barge (tech2)what the hell is the problem again?and iteron only has 1 high slot...if at all.and i forgot to mention...your asking for an orca with mining lasers..ain't gonna happen.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"lady flute,your comment unravels itself before our very eyes. the presumption seems to be that young and/or casual, hulk bound miners buy a lot of plex. you then call that very presumption into question by pointing out your lack of use/sales data.i know not who buys or uses plex. i do know that from ccps point of view it<U+FFFD>s a zero sum equation since every plex purchased is destined to be redeemed for a month<U+FFFD>s game time meaning that month of game time won<U+FFFD>t be purchased directly from ccp by the eventual redeemer. in this sense, plex purchased now means less money later when the plex is redeemed. ccp is pulling future income into the present but this is nothing new, they do much the same thing selling comparatively discounted 6 month and 1 year subscriptions.caveat <U+FFFD> plex can also be redeemed for aurum but when<U+FFFD>s the last time you visited the nex store?perhaps that isn<U+FFFD>t the thrust of your comment. perhaps the thrust of your comment is ccp should cater more to a <U+FFFD>highly volatile customer group.<U+FFFD> are you daft woman? what gaming company in its right mind is going to cater to highly volatile customers over dedicated long term players? highly volatile customers are here today and gone tomorrow. dedicated customers are here today and here tomorrow.<U+FFFD>but what about the noobs!<U+FFFD> is a common refrain. eve isn<U+FFFD>t for everybody. a lot of noobs wash out. i<U+FFFD>m comfortable with that. to date, ccp has been as well.hugs and kisses,direnecessity"
"i have to say, i usually agree with drake. but in this instance, i think he's kind of missing the point.to clarify again, i do not support any of the changes in the op. but i do support the cause.i propose the oper close this thread and re-open a new proposal with a looser theme. if you can let ccp know that something needs changing they will often come up with the best design for change, or sometimes the players can. plex also costs more than game time. i think perhaps you didn't think about that."
"the weekend of burn jita had the highest playercount i'd seen on in quite a while.yesterday, a random tuesday during hulkageddon, i saw the online count peak a little under 53000and yet ... your claim is all these things need to stop to save the game?no, not at all. it needs to change to be a game you want to play.plenty of others want to play it as it is.also, the senior producer of eve has said these events are \"f*cking brilliant\" - so you're out of touch and sol."
"i subscribed another account to do it. sa forums has at least 15-20 people subscribing off the back of burn jita and wanting in on hulkageddon. two of my friends have re-subbed in the last 5 weeks.want an anecdotal evidence face off?"
"also.you want to insure t2 ships, i.e. fundamentally change the entire landscape of the game, because of one ship (the hulk)?so, rather than, say, the miner leaving the belt when danger is on the way, you want to rebalance the entire sodding game so he doesn't need to take a very basic precaution?i don't know what else to say. monumentally stupid."
"i've been petitioning ccp to add some form of directional scan module to ships for a while, such that players can use it to see what is in space and possibly headed their way.this would be great, as the miner could see the ships before they land and be in warp before they even load grid.but, they keep telling me it's already in the game.\"impossible!\" i say, \"surely if this were in the game people would be using it and not asking for massive upheavals in the game!\""
"every time hulkageddon rolls around the same old arguments hit the forums (its one of the more boring aspects of a tired and tedious event) sometimes even spouted by the same characters that supposedly \"quit\" eve because of a previous hulkageddon.strange as it may seem ccp hasn't been hit by a drop in plex sales or prices, people still sign up to play the game and existing players don't quit the game in droves as the doomsayer predict. miners inability to keep an eye on current events, use d-scan or find something else to do while the event is on vs the gankers need to pop ships that are too specialised to be a challenge to take down make this whole thing more than a bit passe. at least the tech and hulk producers get a bit of a laugh watching all you little hisec mining and ganking hamsters running in your wheels for their profit."
"worthy point. plexed accounts earn ccp about 25% more than directly purchased accounts. plex can also be destroyed in game (and happens with stunning regularity at camped hi-sec choke points"
"an itty 5 is also a pinata if it's carrying anything of value. they're one of the ships i've seen destroyed most by trade route gank camps.sure, you can do this with the mael, apoc, rokh, abaddon...any battleship with a lot of turret slots can be converted into a miner. of course your yield won't match that of a hulk, nor will your cargo capacity. what's that? you would be giving up yield to get more tank? gee, that sounds like something i said!good question. from a lore perspective, i would assume it's because ore has not interest in the gas business. other than that, i have no idea. rather than trying to force an end to suicide ganking, you should be pushing for more content to distract them and better education for new players who are more likely to be gank victims."
"i still think the inherent issue is with cynos, i mean picture this situation:i sneak into a highly populated, fully upgraded ratting system just after dt in a falcon with a cyno fitted. i log my character off in a deep safe for a few days, just in case anyone noticed me getting in there or is suspicious when they log in and system is loaded but empty.a few days later i log on, cloak up, quickly warp about and titan bridge the first person i see. once we've ganked a ratter i warp off to deep safe and log off once my aggression is clear. then i do the same thing again the next time i'm bored. the only defence would be a 24 hour guard that can react to any attack of unknown size and composition within a minute or two.whilst i do hate the current state of afk cloaking and local intel, i don't think the solution is going to be simple. and i think it is intertwined with a much needed look at cyno mechanics.[center]\"i don't troll, i just give overly blunt responses that annoy people who are wrong but don't want to admit it. it's not my fault that people have sensitive feelings\" -mxzf[/center]"
"i actually agree about the cynos, i've suggested elsewhere that warp scrams and distributors have the added effect of blocking a ships ability to light a cyno beacon.i also agree there are a lot of interconnected issues, i linked in the op a thread in features and ideas that addressed more of these connected issues. however, the truth is the more complex a proposal the less attention it will get. so, it comes down to breaking them up into their respective parts, and the first step in my view is dealing with local chat's very negative impact on gameplay."
"i keep reading this over, thinking that maybe im missing something.but i still dont like it.i said i'd never \"lived\" in wh space. i faught there fairly often. besides, thinking my view doesn't really count in some way because i live out of the space your proposing to change is a bit daft. its like telling someone your going to change their hospital to work the way it does in zimbabwe and then telling them their objections are moot because they never worked in zimbabwe...also, my concerns in my original post were never really accounted for. it is still already too easy to get people in their own space, this is just going to make it easier. i dont really understand why this has been proposed. sure, its a nifty idea and would be fun for a while, but it doesn't really fix any problems. it just creates new ones.\"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"any change to local needs to be coupled with power projection changes (read: cynos), and cloaking changescurrently one of the reasons cloaking isn't completely unbalanced is because you still know someone is there."
"i've avoided suicide gank in highsec a few times with local info. its already difficult enough to avoid suicide ganking, i would rather it didn't get more difficult.so no."
"lol, you cant avoid a suicide gank by looking at local"
"yea, you can. and i have. twice. an insurgance of \"i shouldn't be in highsec\" reds is kind of a give away if your paying attention. especially if a frig flew into you belt and cloaked up near you shortly before."
"if they are red in local it means they have a gcc, meaning they have already ganked someone and cant do another until the gcc is over, becuase of concord"
"i think he's refering to the sec flags.....call it a hunch.but yeah.....even the surge in population would be a bit of a tell-tale indicator.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"thank you."
"o7================ stop the evemail spam!"
"bad idea such as saving cloaky fags."
"updated op to include this as a pro."
"this does bring up a new problem. with the system as it has been used when created by players, getting payed has relied on trust. if you create a contract that calculates people's contribution to a project, you would expect the mechanism for their getting payed to be inbuilt in the contract, but doing that could end up being a huge programing problem. i'll have a think about whether there is any really simple ways of doing that. hopefully now that ccp have their new system for estimating mod/ship costs, this will be more feasible. \"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"ah, another whine topic that can be summarized by 'waaaaaaaaaaaaa i do not want to make a choice, i want it my way!!!!'seriously. you choose to do things your way. so accept your consequences. and more people on the battle field analogy being more fun...... absurd since you ignore that the same would apply for the opposition too."
"took me a while to get back to this....you completely missed my point by an entire country never mind the mile.the point is not a matter of cost or you having to pay less or more for the privilage.the point is common sense in how you spend that isk.your blaming your frequency of expenses over your deaths in game over the fact the game is punnishing you with cost.you know what? it should be like that....period. if you want to go blow yourself up recklessly for lol's and grins then you damn well better make each-and-every-one count.eve online is a game that requires tactical thinking..common sense...planning.you wana go recklessly forth and put your expensive brains in an high risk environment then you damn well better get used to the fact its gonna cost you.i've been told repeatedly...do not fly what you can't afford to lose.that includes your clone.now as i've said before if youve been paying attention and actaully reading while flapping your gums in your little whine fest....i'm in favor of adjusting the costs personally..but i'm not going to support this because overall this is a balance mechanic that is needed to keep you super sp pilots in check.one would think your experince and practice would make you a better pilot...not a reckless one.you can flame away...don't care...don't give a ####...but i will make sure you get my message loud and clear.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"oh look, one of these threads. if you want a solution, give me all of your high end stuff, biomass, and then roll a new toon, and never go over 900k sp.solves all of your problems.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"pretty much.... but yeah...that's what i would suggest to make it feasible....tbqh however the foundations in place....just means cleaning through various missions to get it there.================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"the random stuff i like, the \"scale based on what you fly\" not so much. although, id kinda like just once to get a thousand frig rat spawn so that i could justify building a quad beam nomen. lol"
"scale based on what you fly isn't that bad.you show up in a battleship...well they can't make it too easy now can they.bounties would be bigger based on the fact theres more/bigger ships to shoot at.not a big deal at that rate.makes risk more equal to reward at that point.all to often people pretty much just point the sihps nose..set auto fire and walk away from keyboard. (not macro but might as well be)================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"more wis would be nice. apsolutely."
"the shares aren't entirely useless. like you said, they can still be used to \"have activities, shareholders and operate something like publicly traded companies.\" but there has to be some sort of protection against scammers. that's why i mentioned a vote option for everyone to agree on the revocation from an ex-member by name... otherwise, people can join corps just to take part in the share distribution and then quit and reap the benefits remotely without any repercussions.my whole plan for corporate profit-sharing is derailed by the lack of control over shares. too much control is a bad idea as well, because of ceo's with less than moral character perhaps selling the shares and then revoking them. another reason why a vote might possibly be the best option.perhaps make two types of shares, shares that remain within the corporation belonging only to it's members, and shares used for extracorporate activities like you mentioned.i guess this issue might be too complicated for ccp to touch, but if that is the case, shares should be removed altogether.the current state of \"social acceptance\" in the eve universe prevents trust, and a lack of trust is what makes the shares useless."
"supported."
"not supported. really really really wouldn't want this change.\"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"my ships not autospinning means the client consumes ever so slightly fewer system resources. so no thanks."
"then just turn it off, it a spinning will so dramaticly hit your ancient pc, goddamit..."
"or, we could just not implement this silly, pointless feature and associated options menue settings to begin with... i really don't think it is even worth the few minutes you seem to think it would take ccp to put into place. there is no discernable benefit i can see other than it pleasing your obscure sense of aesthetics. pointless features shouldn't get even minutes of developer time and implementation just because. you need a.) a reason for their existence and/or b.) strong popular support for such a feature. and by that i mean more than one person."
"but this has more \"meh\" per bit than the others."
"well... i for one do miss the feature and cant understand why they ever removed it. all the negative comments are from pp who are afraid of losing their rank for the most spins :pthe csm xi election are now open until march 25th, 2016. consider niko lorenzio for csm xi."
"for gods sake ccp, base more of this game on reality and not only game mechanics. i propose that moon mining be opened to high security space, and than more than 1 station be allowed to be anchored at each moon. moon mining is way too elitest right now and needs to be deregulated.by restricting it to low security space you gave the outlaws an advantage, as if they really deserve it. they have their moons, now give us ours and stop herding us to our deaths. power to the people!"
"emo-raging carebear 12 o'clocknot supporting.go to nullsec for moon mining if you want it that bad or wait for ccp to finish there job.================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"i too would like to remove the biggest conflict driver in the game!you highsec idiots really need to actually live in nullsec before you scream and demand it be changed to benefit you personally."
"this."
"this is not at all about not paying attention. its more like micro management as katrina said before. some of us just like to do that. but i guess am the only one in the whole eve universe...."
"if you left-click on the active launcher, it will deactivate it. do this after ten missiles have been launched.hope this helps!"
"yes. most of us are actually paying some attention when our ship is in combat, and paying attention to ammo."
"i use the ancient art of counting, works every time."
"just switch to lasers. best weapon in the game :)the csm xi election are now open until march 25th, 2016. consider niko lorenzio for csm xi."
"lets just call the wasted ammo an isk sink and move on with our day. shall we?"
"how does it work??????????????"
"something like this, i believe. it appears to be an unreliable concept, however."
"and that is exactly why we need what i have proposed i rest my case"
"a bit of an overkill suggestion for something that would require just some simple changes to the way you run your plexes.split your launchers, set auto-repeat off and f1-f* to your hearts content if you are that concerned about wasting some missiles."
"it would be a good start."
"the new microjump drive may change since it was announced in or before march 2012.this device is awesome but kind of does the same as warping, and so they're likely to change it.how can they change the new mjd?have it incorporated as a recalibration/extension into specific specialized ships; and so where all ships have a warp drive capability the specialized types have an in-built 'tactical warp'what would mjd change into, then?a device for smugglers and scouts in the future;mjd would allow jumping into adjacent solarsystem (randon location);though can be 'fish-netted' by a cynosural field (fixed location, magnetized & trapped).afterburn: awesome (module, capacitor). warp drive: every ship as it (in-built). tactical warp: specific specialized ships (in-built). jump drive: capital ships have this (in-built, fuelled) micro-jump drive: condensed variation allowing for jump without a cyno present (module, charges) jump bridge: fleet portal (module, fuelled) (changed) 'micro-warp drive' changed to 'tactical warp' and not a module."
"and we would want that... why?"
"how?"
"do not make the distincintion that carebears are the only major party affected that do this.to do so is a serious lack of compentence in this game.everyone uses these alts.and anyone worth their salt in heavy 0.0 combat....infiltration....marketing.....war dec's....pvp combat....use these alts....and that's just the first things that come to mind.everyone i know justa bout has an alt in this game.....rarely ever i find someone who doesn't.those who don't...typically are bs'ing because theres no real way to tell without exposing api.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"yes, that is much easier, and completely minimizes my personal risk.pretty much. from my perspective, i'm having a difficult time finding a downside to that.a value judgment? grow up kid. i'm not a pvper and i like the idea of mechanics that minimize my risk in the gameplay in high sec. if i want something different i can leave high sec. this doesn't make me \"better\" or \"worse\" than anyone: it just makes me someone who plays differently than you and has different priorities. you'll discover as you get older that you can't generalize people so stupidly."
"yup =("
"remove local! think about the server resources that could be saved."
"no. add to afk tag to local or kick afk players from game that could be save server resources."
"interisting, afk tag idea.also removing local means more player created channels with more dynamic populations. not a server load saving device"
"i would like to see some data supporting your claim."
"no, that solves nothing. an afk tag would just be removed with a simple little macro, and disconnecting people would **** boosters, scouts, miners, traders, freighter pilots and anyone involved in nullsec fights over royally for absolutely no reason."
"this is why i play eve. moar tears. i love it. ccp loooooovvveeeddd the attention burn jita ad hulkageddon got. i doubt you'll see write-ups on mmorpg news websites about a universe wide mining op or mission op. so what if your friends or you put off buying plexes for isk? there are loads of pvpers who buy plexes to fund their terrible habit. if everyone stops buying plex prices are just going to go up and people will start buying again. human beings are greedy. you want to be safe go play another mmorpg or something. there are many out there where you don't have to fight to change something that is incredibly unbalanced towards nullseccers. sure there are loads more of people in highsec but have you asked yourself how many of them have a character in lowsec or null?"
"i am one of the biggest carebears but i dont condone ideas that turn eve into a kiddy game. however my idea to combat hulkageddon would be simply 1.no concord protection to players with negative security status period.2.no security loss for killing a player with negative security status3.suicide ganking removes players concord protection for 24 hoursthese changes do not make eve carebear friendly but rather encourage vigilante pvp and allow more pew pew in highsec if ccp doesn't protect the miners properly than they should not protect gankers in high sec. let us kill them fair and square. if there is a small frigate following our barges let them feel the wrath of our drones. if there is a destroyer bearing down on a badger shoot it. the problem isn't the grefiers it is concord not letting people preemptively defend themselves. additionally electronic warfare in self defense should not lock you out of a station only firing weapons should do that.also hulk+buffer tank+jamming and scrambling equiptment+ cloaked friends = fun fun fun"
"ships do have roles you know. you don't see a combat ship being able to outmine a mining barge right? because of that you won't see a mining ships out dpsing a combat ship. you want to mine afk, be prepared to lose your ship. otherwise align to a safe spot or something when mining and prepare to hit warp whenever someone comes in. carebearing in nullsec isn't meant to be as profitable as low or null."
"this was a module i thought of a while ago and it looks good on paper however the issue i ran into was how to balance it. so here is my idea. this module is a low power fitting that is similar in nature to the expanded cargo hold. i will leave the fitting requirements to ccp to calculate but i would suggest electronic warfare vsignal suppression isignal dispersion ithis module will install active sensor jamming equipment in your cargo hold preventing players and npc customs officials from scanning your cargo. the drawback will be a reduction in total cargo space as well as armor. additionally because of the active signal jamming coming from the cargo hold the ship will suffer penalties to targeting as if it were being sensor dampened the main benefit of this is that pirates and potential suicide gankers wont be able to calculate the exact value of your cargo.the main drawback of this is that now pirates and suicide gankers know you have something to hide. additionally this unit will draw agro from customs officials to any player with a 0.0 or lower security rating.so in the long run it may make enemies a bit more wary before popping your ship in highsec but on the other hand it may make you a more attractive target if your flying a cheaper ship that is easy to destroy."
"1.0"
"bumble sends his regards and thanks for all of the support thus far. keep the comments coming!"
"bit late to the fray with this, but why do you say that? what would you replace them with?"
"there is a simple way to alleviate that. players are not forced to accept the contract, they could just see what the vaule of the ore they are mining is and decide for themselves (whether they wish to accept the current price)i.e make the contract show what the unit price is set at for each ore =)then its far less coding =p"
"the costs for clones are ridiculously high when they can get to be the same cost as a ship, or greater including bc's.does seem a bit odd. regardless of fairness, or aversion to loss it seems kind of weird.more of a loss should be the ship itself."
"my point exactly, good to see that everyone on these forums are able to read.as to the \"whining\" acusations, i'm not whining. i am claiming that this mechaninc serves no purpose other than being annoying and sinking isk. it also gives people more reason to use more alts that imo is a bad thing. as i said earlier in a small ship my 120million sp clone is no better than a 6month spec trained alt, so why should i have to pay 30-40million isk for my clone just because i wanna be an interdictor/interceptor pilot in fleet (something that in many situations almost guarantee you to die, at least in the dictor) or is people of the opinion that fleet dictor pilots should be alts that have cheap clones?its not that im going \"buhu, change this or i will stop playing the game\" its more like \"hey ccp i feel that this mechaninc serves very little purpose and is pretty annoying please change this so i can have more fun in the game without impacting the general economy.\"i am still waiting to hear a viable argument as to why this is a good or balanced mechanic and should stay as it is"
"really? because i'm waiting for the opposite. you haven't provided a good enough reason yet."
"easy to understand you problem. this is just an unlogic isk sink from ccp.they want to more peoples for pvp but the clone prices too high and so many players dont want to risk them.they want to lure more pilots to 0.0 but risk of expensive clones not help for this.my opinion:in the 0.0 station the ship repairing is free, create same type for clone facilities there too.not at high or low sec, just in 0.0."
"not supported.dying should have negative reprocussions. if your worried about how much isk you lose, then be more careful in pvp. people often call me over cautious in pvp, but i prefer it that way. if i get only 15 kills in a week, but lose no ships i get a much greater sence of achievement out of that. if your more gun-ho about pvp, then you pay for it and thats the way it should be.just be more cautious. problem solved.\"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"how about you learn to read? but ill list them as well as provide a couple more.* game has enough isk sinks* limits my ability to pod myself to different locations when im in an unimplanted clone, because im not a rich player even though i have alot of skillpoints* for the same reason makes me more likely to fly ships that have a better survivability rate than say dictors and ceptors assfrigs and other stuff that are likely to die in bubbles.* these clones are litteraly more expensive than alot of shiptypes in the game* there is more or less no drawbacks to changing this other than mabye the ability to move huge amount of players from one side of space to another, but then again these people would all need to be in unimplanted clones for not to loose much and you can still do this pretty cheap in low sp alts.* i feel the mechanic is punishing people that focus training on one character instead of using alot of alts for different purposes (see my post above about my skill distrubution)* the survivability of a clone is extremely low when popped in a bubble and the pricetag punishment is unreasonable imoso i ask again is there any reason as to why these prices should stay as they are? other than \"eve should be hard\" because i'm all for that i like that eve is punishing and hard, but i dont feel like i get my money's worth for 30million when all i get is to keep my skillpoints if i die.... then again 30mill+ clones could get a built in interdictor nullifier :-d that would make it worth 30mill.... (that was sarcasm in case anybody didnt get that)"
"dying will still have dire consequences even if they remove this perticular nonsense pricetag, i totaly agree with you on what you are saying i just dont feel that the clone per se has any reason to be this expensive, you already loose your ship, fittings and your implants if you get podded. i'm talking about the isk cost of skill clones!if you feel this is ok, mabye we should just raise the prices on lower clones so people are more carefull, since after a certain amount of sp there is no longer a corealtion between the amount of sp you have and the amount of isk you can make....edit: also i wouldnt get any more gung ho about pvp since as i said i loose both ship and fittings+ implants, all it would do is make me able to fly dictors in fleets without having to pay 30million extra each time i die"
"let us know how that works out for you since your refusing to read.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"ehm, i answered your so called argument, and if you didnt get what i was saying, the 30mill is not gonna make me any more reckless, im still gonna loose my implants(player generated) and ship+fittings(player generated) i'm just not gonna put 30mill into a pointless sink, and i will have more flexibility when it comes to what i can fly, and where i fly (if i dont have implants) without having to put those 30 mill into the sink (i.e dictor in fleet battles) if people get more reckless on the account of those 30mill they are just plain dumb.so yeah i read your argument/claim, i just don't evaluate it as viable since it is illogical from my point of view. it could be that i am wrong though, i cant predict how players behave, people might start using suicide rookie ships to have more or less no loss in 0.0 battles... it possible... eve is full of dumb people apparently...."
"we call that selective reading loss or sheer dumb ignorance.go re-read my posts again and maybe you'll see the very small point you continue to ignore.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"i re-read all your posts drake draconis, and i still dont se any point you make that i havent already adressed.do i need to explain this again? if this is the reason why, then they should definitley fix it. as i've said several times, i dont mind payikng for player built stuff but i hate isk sinks. is your reasoning that since a high sp char knows how to make isk fast they should be \"taxed\" every time they loose a clone? clones have no real value other than keeping skillpoints witch is more or less what i pay my monthly fee to get, and they want me to pay isk to keep them if i dont want to stay in empire and mine veldspar?your driving/gas analogy is so meaningless im not even going to adress it.ok, it may be that since im not native english i have a problem getting what you mean here, but if im reading this right my answer is: why should it be a privilage for me to keep my skillpoints if i get podded? why do i need to pay 30 ******* million isk to not loose 2-3 months of training. as far as i can see you claim that high sp = lots of isk. and that is simply an assumption that i think is wrong, and if its right those that have alot of isk dont care for the 30 mill and people like me that dont have alot of isk suffer the penalties.what? when did i do this? i never said i liked dieing recklessly, my efficiency is 98.5% on the killboard, i do however hate using 30mill on the god damn sp clone the times i die, and yeas i would like to be able to podjump more when im in unimplanted clones.i am, i am paying for the ships and all of the fittings, and i do it with a smile, because i know a happy player somewhere is gonna log in and see i bought new stuff from him. i do not however like paying 30mill to ccp to be able to keep my skillpoints witch i ******* paid hard cash for!i've also adressed this if you didnt read it i'll repeat it. my so called super sp clone has about 10% effective sp in a dictor so why exactly does it need to be kept in check? shouldnt i at least be rewared with the versatlity of fleetpositions i am able to fly when i have put that much training towards that goal without having to pay 30mill if i get podded in a bubble.did i miss anything? if so feel free to be more clear about exactly what you argumen is!"
"* no it doesn't, hence the inflation we're seeing.*this is working as intended. we have jump clones and the delay they involve for a reason*that's your problem, not a problem with game mechanics* so what?*you don't think it's a drawback to allow me to instantly move across the galaxy several times a day? you don't understand power projection, do you.*that's how you feel, i feel that you are wrong. if you have that many skillpoints, you can make that much isk very quickly.* that's called a consequence. eve has those. stop trying to remove them."
"1: valid point, though i'm not certain lack of sinks is the reason, im willing to accept your argument. remember they just had a mass kick of botters and removed the drone materials, thats a huge impact on mineral prices, hence the price bump in ship costs. so its not certain that its a lack of isk sinks. best isk sink is ships destroyed and we all want more of that!2: jump clones protect implants, pod jumping dont, so some limitation would still be in place. im also not asking for removal of the isk price of clones, merly reduce at least the high price ones, aggreed that my original suggestion of 1/10 might be a bit much.3: yes its my problem and its caused by this game mechanic witch i want to change.4: it's silly that you clone that only protect you skillpoints cost more than the ship i was flying when i died, but yeah thats only my subjective oppinion as everything about the game is.5 well yeah, mabye it would. you can still do this with pretty cheap clones on low sp alts anyway, and there is no problem for an alliance to have a certified alt that can fly a full fledged drake or something and have clones around the galaxy for a million or three a pod. they do however not do this, probably because people like to use implants and those are not protected when podding.6: there is very little isk/sp ratio when you get above a certain point in sp if you have a little bit of focus in training, that cloneprice would probably amount to about 4-8mill. say if you rat it would probably take you about an hour to pay for your clone, and yeah i feel that is a bit over the edge.7: i know and as stated above that is what i love about the game, though tbh my limit is at my skillpoints since there is no other way of getting them back then to pay and skill for months. the ship/fitting/implants is enough. it's enough hastle to get the isk back from those losses.i'll agree mabye 1/10th is a bit over the edge, 1/3 might be enough to cut the prices, or even just making the highest clones cheaper, the ladder is a bit steep imo."
"1. ships destroyed isn't an isk sink. it's a faucet. it removes minerals from the game, sure, but the isk you spent on the ship goes off to another player, and you get given insurance money from nowhere for it. isk sinks pull isk out of circulation entirely.2. i don't know about you, but i tend to run with only +3s out in 0.0. they don't cost much to replace. you'd stop people with slave sets and things from jumping, sure, but not anyone else. i do it a fair amount, though i'll admit my clones are only 7mil a pop at the moment.3. it's your perception that's the problem, not the game mechanic. if my clones only cost as much as a rifter, i'd be exploding all over the show.4. see above. clone costs and ship costs are not and should not be tied together.5. i see people do it fairly frequently, i've done it myself a lot too. it happens already, why make it easier?6. fair point, but if it takes you an hour of ratting to make enough to buy an 8 mil clone, something is wrong. 7. it's your call, the pricetag or your sp."
"it takes very little time for me to make 30mil isk.wtf is your problem again op?edit: and no dont ask me how...because if you have to ask..then you have literally no business being here asking for such stupid requests. your likely going to get laughed out on your ass.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"-make lp sellable/contractable on the market-remove timesink missions for datacore agents and replace them with something that actually makes people want to do them (ie sufficient reward for the time actively invested - unlike the current system-allow peo"
"+1 great idea!"
"for to have shares to be really useful, you need safe market for it. that means ccp needs to create normal stock market, same as real life ones are. it can be region based (for example only corps with hqs in region can be traded there) the same way as market is, shares then can be put there as any other stuff. from that point on it makes sense to create company, try to sell its shares to obtain money for corporate stuff (pos, bpos etc.) and make profit and pay dividends. and trade shares as any other stuff, i. e. buy, sell, buyback with company money. there must be know, how many shares corp has, and how many are public. and for sure corporate button with option shares are/are not tradable. it opens really big possibilities of scamming for example, as possibilities of more nice behavior, like helping newbies with some hope getting your money back and much more.maybe separate market is not needed so much, maybe there is the way how to put stock to normal market, when stock takes form of \"physical paper\"."
"i see now that there is no one standing up for the miners and industrialist. are any of the csms truly miners/industrialist? or is ccp truly just want everyone to pvp? we have several avenues we can take in this game. combat, pirate, traders, miners, industrialist, etc. however it seems now there is a push for everyone to become pvpers whether or not you want to be one.i enjoy the peace of mining and making things to put on the market. that in itself is fun for me. and i'm sure there are many like me in the eve universe that wish not to pvp but play the market and build an industrial empire to provide for others. it is a challenge and different than what i do in rl. mining and building stuff is something that doesn't require my full attention at all times like pvp requires.that is the best part of the game. the complexity and different avenues you can take. however once again ccp seems to want everyone to be pvpers.examples:exhumers are like paper kites and burn up in the matter of seconds by small ships with bb guns. you think ore in their wisdom and experience in building ships would have made exhumers stronger knowing that space is a dangerous place (even in high sec).high sec is the new low sec. disposable ships that pvpers wouldn't use in low sec are being used in high sec to destroy high isk ships. really? that makes no sense!! but of course they get \"penalized for it\". yea right!! sure let concord destroy their ship, then how about a $25 mil fine for any ship destroyed and $50 mil fine for any pod destroyed. that sounds better then loose dogs running the streets. when crimes are committed in high sec. criminals should be penalized with a heavier hand. and now after getting standings for good r&d agents you have to become a pvp pilot in a faction war (you want no part of ) to get decent number of data-cores for research. that makes no sense!! their pvpers, give them more ships, weapons and ammo so they can go back out there and do more pvp because that is what they want!!! give them data-cores?? makes no sense!! how about leaving the data-core stuff alone. don't fix what isn't broke!!!! i really don't understand ccps position on this??charging fees for pi and now data-cores?? ok $10,000 fee is not real bad but pi fees are not worth it.and how about fixing pi!! hot spots of ore on planets are like weather patterns. it quickly disappears in a matter of a day. should be a slower process like weeks...etchow about addressing the miners and industrialist concerns for once!!!"
"there are multiple threads about hulk hp in f&id right now. go read those.pi is working as intended. if you don't like the fees, build your own poco in low/null. if you don't like highsec hotspots dying off, do your pi in low/null. market pvp is still pvp.i'm assuming by $25m you actually mean isk, not dollars. this is a terrible idea and won't stop anyone, since people will just put their money on an alt when they go ganking.in short, come out of your highsec bubble and stop trying to get the game changed to suit you personally."
"i agree with the sentiment, but not with any of your ideas or proposed changes. please think about your ideas more thouroughly before posting."
"don't forget the incredible turn around when ccp made the it so that you couldn't warp away after ganking someone in highsec. that is an incredible plus point to you already. how about the insurance buff? removing insurance payout when you get concorded. is that not enough? why not suggest an invulnerability mod? or a shield extender that gives you over 9000 shield hit points? you're not meant to be making so much isk in highsec without any risk. take incursion for an example. it is relatively safe but if someone fucks up thats a shiny ship gone. you don't want to pvp fair enough. but it is like in real life. you pay attention to what you're doing. you just don't walk around thinking of something. that would get you hurt."
"i'm an industiralist and even i'm insulted by your driveling crying whining stupidity.go away and stop embarassing us. you have no understanding how this game works and you obviously do not belong here.post with your main coward.================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"best idea to ever come out of here in recent times."
"routing...setting up a factory takes:output1 doubleclick on factory1 doubleclick on selected schematics 1 doubleclick on product to route1 doubleclick to select destinationinput1 click on launchpad, 1 click on storage icon, (if storage its a doubleclick)1 doubleclick on product 11 doubleclick for factory1 click for storage icon1 doubleclick for product 21 doubleclick for factoryif you got 3 input, its more with:1 click for storage icon1 doubleclick for product 31 doubleclick for factorythis is one factory setup.its around 10 double, and 2 single.okey.i got 21 * 5 = 105 factory.thats around 1050 double click, and 210 single.this is just the routing after i build my setup with 965 click."
"if you set up a pos in highsec with tech, likely the big boys will blow it up in a hour.1. have to have a corp to set up pos2. wardecks in empire for corpsthey won't use titans, but still, expect fleet of hundred if not thousand/s of bs's. empire safe..... not really, safer would be more accurate.also furthermore for lore reasons, the empires own the lot of the shitz in empire. you are a guest in caldari space, not the owner, if they don't like you, they won't let you set up pos's period or get good refine, if hate you, expect to get shot."
"when did they restrict moon mining to low sec?"
"i needed to rebuild my pi setups. i think, the game designers make that for mazohistics.(1), i needed to select and delete and accept click all of my buildings one by one.3 click / building.for me thats 75 click / planet. 375 click all. just to clear my setups. no i dont wanna delete my command centers and make logistic again for that.i will make 375 click, and i will curse game designers. need an option to reset colony, one click, everything erases except command center. (2), when in need build dozens of siimilar buildings, why i lose the building selection focus on the cursor?for this i need double amount of click. instead of 125 i make 250. solution: make right cick to lose building focus, easy. oh its already done when you build something. so all you need to do, just dont lose focus when you put down your thing...(3), the links. its really a mazo thing to build everything to very next eachother because of consumption of links.if i want high efficiency i need to do this. why good this? meaningless.hate nice pi designs? solution: the links need to consume the minimal, withing a 400km circle. maybe 300 maybe 500 i dont care. figure it out. that make the local setup free from links length stupidity.(4). link upgrades.. who designed that? i wrote this before. pls make the pi link upgrade ui similar to command center upgrade ui."
"free bump for a good idea"
"malcanis' law: any proposal justified on the basis that \"it will benefit new players\" is invariably to the greater advantage of older, richer playerslike transfering the static ded sites to the constellations anomaly lists?"
"retracted"
"scouts is afk ? or just the afk cloakers is afk ?who dont do it anything until 30 minutes dont play. we know many players why want to remove local, because they are just horrible cloaking fags and want an iwin button. no way."
"talk to a wormhole guy about how long it takes them to scout out a hostile system.and what about boosters, miners, traders, freighter pilots and anyone involved in nullsec fights? i see you picked up one one of the six example groups of people your change would affect, there are several others as well, and flat out ignored the rest."
"and talk 0.0 guys about how can secure 147 systems same time without local when a cloakers can't catcheable because he got huge advantages from cloak and not scaneable.what abot you talking what involved in null sec fight ? the afk players is involved from fight ? i think who is afk wont be fighting.and other thing why can terrorizing an afk cloaker without play, a players who want to play ?everyone is know this is the problem with afk cloakers, not the afk cloaking.remove local just more huge advantages to cloaker fags."
"you cant reason with this person, by the way. argueing with them is completely pointless.\"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"words of troll"
"did you know under heavy tidi you can spend over 30 minutes in warp across a very large system?not afk, but not doing anything either.did you know its not uncommon for one dude to run 3-4 scouts in various systems, making sure they remain clear and lighting a cyno eventually? they don't touch that client til its needed either, and that can take longer than 30 minutes.did you know that such a limitation is very easily circumvented by a macro that pushes the space bar once every 5 minutes? or even this?edit: and, because of the distributed processing nature of the eve server, game wide server load isn't something you need ever be concerned about, only system wide."
"30 minutes a long warp with tidi? maybe i playing with other game like you. i warped many times in 10% tidi but the longest one never was 8-10 minutes long.did you know easy to create a macrofilter which is check the client which is push space every 5 minutes ? do you heard abot ccp rules which is not enable afk macros ? do you heard about banhammer ? risk with macro and you will be banned.do you know cyno time is 10 minute and not 30 ? do you know u dont need to wait 30 minutes on station for cyno and you can log off ?"
"way to not understand my point. it will not help stop macros, because a macro already beats it by definition.the cynoscouts don't sit there with a cyno open in a system that is not being attacked yet... just watching while cloaked, usually with multiple windows he just tabs through while running a main in a fleet.this means that people who are breaking the rules will be immune to an afk time out stopping them, and people who are legitimately playing the game, using sit and wait strategies, or just stuck in a very long operation(ever put up a pos?) will be hurt.edit: *snip* we both seem to be trying to point out that an afk timer would be useless, and that removing local does help anything either, however all you are doing to try and accomplish this is flailing around attacking everything you see. please try to understand the posts you attack so you don't inadvertently undermine your own position.*edit: insult removed-isd eshtir"
"no one sit on local at least 30 without any movement if playing. moving mouse, check pilot infos, chat on corp or other chat etc. so i'm an idiot what you could to say, that's was your best argument. insult others when someone have other theory.all right i think let's see what would be say zagdul for this troll answer. time to move your stuffz from fa stations."
"if anyone thinks that the lack of a keypress or mouse movement is going to stop a macro then they are deluded.jint hikaru - miner / salvager / explorer / spacebum in the beginning the universe was created. this has made a lot of people very angry and been widely regarded as a bad move."
"wtf are you talking about?stop. breathe.now, calmly, and rationally, explain what you are trying to say."
"good luck with that....you say \"remove local\" or \"afk cloakers rule\" anywhere near by and he starts to have an epliptic seizure and emo-rages all over hell.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"1. nobody wants to be disconnected, especially not for being afk for such a short period of time.2. technically speaking, it's impossible for the client to tell a physical keyboard command from a program command.3. even if it could, macros would find a way to bypass it."
"autopiloting a freighter across highsec.sitting on a titan, talking on comms and waiting for the bridgea rorq or an orca sat in a pos providing boosts to a mining fleetsomeone ratting with an afk drone boat, possibly on an alt while they do something else on another charactersomeone waiting a bit before they update their market orders in a hubsomeone warping or fighting in 10% tidisitting in a formup pos waiting for a fleet to get startedsitting in a pos, station or cloaked in a safespot waiting for that hostile gang in the system to clear outneed i continue?"
"carebears can mine in nullsec ??? btw how many carebears does it take to change a hulks headlights?5one to scout the beltone to gank his alt and preload concord in the area.one to change the light bulbone to cry when the hulk he just repaired gets gankedand one to file the petition and rant on the forums about the incident"
"the battleship i referred to costs 120 million isk, and gets a decent chunk of that back if lost. a hulk costs 300 million isk and gets less than what it costs to buy a cruiser back if lost.comparing size is irrelevant, you need to look at value. bottom line, most of the mining ships are complete crap, but ccp has not fixed them: they made more and more shiny **** battleship-guns-on-cruisers type ships, which is very much in keeping with the world of warcraft design philosophy that when you can't think of anything genuine to add to the game, just add new armour and weapons with higher numbers and call it content.that's the point, dumb ass. removing suicide ganking in highsec *is* what is next. bored vets kicking newbies around hurts ccps bottom line, guess what, they want all the dust kiddies to come play, and stay. the time to think about how to protect those players with appropriate balance is right now: because where things stand, i can see concord appearing (but not firing) instantly when a blue player is locked, rather than after a blue player is fired on. or a simple pop-up \"you cannot attack that target\". don't like my ideas? give up better ones. because the simplest is to make non-consentual pvp in 1.0 to 0.8 systems simply not possible. that's not what i am advocating for, but as correctly posted by shah, it is the natural endpoint of the repeated changes to concord, which have failed to achieve thier purpose."
"dear idiot.the nex store is for carebears.griefing makes carebears leave. you can't grief pvpers who live in battlehardened alliances, they just call it pvp and return the favour with interest.ccp wants plex to be used on clothing, because you are right, plex is essentially morgaging future income. if plex builds up in the game, and it seems to be piling up on the market, then at some point ccp may have to run the game with no actual us$ income unless they can keep pulling in new players who buy plex for real money.plex is wonderful, until you have to pay staff salaries and advertising costs. then you need real money, and if they do not retain their new player base (who pay with a credit card), then all the vets with stacks of plex are not going to help them one little bit."
"what is there to fix? a mining barge mines. that is what it is designed to do. it's not a combat ship. it is not designed to kill or defend itself effectively. the same argument can be made in reverse. a thorax is a combat ship. it is designed to kill other ships. it is not designed to mine or haul stuff effectively.and \"cost\" is not a reliable measurement of power. just because something costs a lot of isk it doesn't necessarily mean it is \"better.\" example 1: there are quite a few officer-grade mods that cost billions of isk... yet are no better stat-wise than some deadspace/x-type mods that are worth a couple hundred million.example 2: i am flying around in my sniper tornado worth about 100+ mil. i get tackled by a velator worth... well... almost nothing (you get it for free at stations you have no ships in). i will die against this noob-ship because my rather large teir 3 battlecruiser is not designed to kill it at close range. example 3: a fully-fit ratting carrier is worth about 1.5 to 1.6 billion isk. it is very possible for 15 stealth bombers, each worth 20-25 mil isk apiece, to gank said carrier in about a minute.if i understand you correctly... example 1 is \"broken\" because something is expensive for \"no reason.\" and example 2 and 3 should not happen because the more expensive ship was taken down by ships worth mere pennies to it. honestly... i find these as some of the greatest perks of the game! cost and size are not reliable metrics of power and ability! and yet eve has been more or less growing consistently for the last 9 years with these mechanics in place. slowly. but consistently.also... how do you define \"newbies.\" because to me... hulk pilots are not newbies. it takes 2 to 3 months to get into one and by that time you should be well versed in quite a few of the mechanics that govern eve. you are aware that the dust players you are opposing during a match can shoot at you using a giant cannon of death and destruction... right? the same thing we can do to them. balance. so how are you supposed to engage a neutral in a npc corp that is supporting your enemy's war effort against your corp? and what purpose is that? protect? you are aware that since it was buffed and buffed again 3 or 4 years ago concord hasn't really changed at all? and there have been no hints or gestures from ccp that concord is going to be buffed again (at least, not anytime soon).based on this circumstantial evidence, it's a fair guess that ccp is... more or less... happy with concord as they are now. sure, they need some tweaks every so often as there will always be a loophole that no one thought of before... but non-consensual pvp has always been one of the cornerstones of eve's ethos and remains, to this day, one of the things that prevents true \"safety\" in eve (which is a good thing).plus... the tools that people can use to try and kill you are also at your disposal and can be used to avoid getting killed.eve is an eternal game of \"cat and mouse\" and/or \"spy vs. spy.\" it is the reason many of us came here. it is the reason many of us stay. and i hope is stays this way for a long time to come. otherwise eve won't be \"special.\""
"hi, it's come to my attention that you have no idea what you're talking about.plex can only be created through the expenditure of real money. every plex on the market is cash in the bank for ccp."
"you don't think do you. there are people who play this game for fun. people who unsub because of the buffs ccp gives to highseccers. ccp makes a certain area pvp-free its probably going to kill a few accounts as well. sand box game thats just like real life. you don't see a gun-free zone. you can bring a gun into a shopping mall and start shooting at people. you just get blown up by police or something after. same thing in eve."
"qft"
"^^ this.also, i do have some changes to help your cause. first, suiciding gankers recieve higher sec status hits, and when they're sec status is low enough that they can be shot at in highsec (or during their gcc) their pod should be destroyable by other players without penalty. simple solution. aso for people can flipping. just make the pop-up that comes up telling you that they will be able to shoot at you if you take stuff from that can clearer.\"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"why lady lupiah,i am shocked, shocked! by your impolite turn of tone. here i thought you were a laudable (though confused) whine tanker pleading your case for miner buffs / ganker debuffs but it turns out you're little but a troll setting me up for some forum griefing. that <U+FFFD>idiot<U+FFFD> crack stung.well played lady lupia, i am wounded. deeply deeply wounded.but perhaps i<U+FFFD>m mistaken. perhaps your lapse into ad hominem attack was merely a frustrated moment of dismay generated by your brilliant argumentation's failure to convince everyone.i<U+FFFD>ll give you the benefit of doubt <U+FFFD> i<U+FFFD>m generous that way. show us that more, safer carebearing is/can be/must be of much greater financial concern to ccp. now, to be effective you need to really show it. don<U+FFFD>t just make the claim, rather, present some genuine (not merely anecdotal) evidence that ccps 9 years of selling eve as a dark and dangerous place is a terrible business model destined for failure. present genuine evidence that eve<U+FFFD>s 9 years of growth can<U+FFFD>t continue unless ccp carebears up the place. prove, with evidence, that the nex store is eve's best financial future. lacking such argumentation, ccp will probably let the current situation stand leaving carebears to either fight back in game or remain prey.with compassion,direnecessty"
"would removing the overview improve eve at all? is too much information displayed into it? is the overview relied on too much?maybe it would make battles more interesting and pilots would have to use their brains a little more rather than listening to a commander barking orders that they shoot pilots whose name begins with a or z. ships icons and names would still appear on the hud along with things like warp disruption bubbles etc.it would make visual confirmation more of a feature in eve battlesi think. what tactics would be used without an overview? plus it would increase the space on screen without any visual overview. combat would be more measured i think and careful. might make eve a better place even for players who like shooting npcs or mining rocks."
"no, it would not. it would make doing even the most simple of things much more of a headache and it wouldn't make anything better at all. if you want to try out playing without the overview, try minimizing it for a week and see if the game is better without it. also, called targets will always be around, that's just how a coordinated effort works. but if all the fcs you've flown with simply call targets by names you're either a. flying with giant single-ship fleets against similar single-ship fleets who are just duking it out, b. just flying a simple dps ship who is along for the ride and doesn't want anything more complicated, c. flying with a bad fc, d. two or more of the above."
"try locking on to a frigate or a drone orbiting you at top speed like that.or playing with your brackets off. or getting any kind of visual confirmation of anything when there are a thousand ships on the field."
"i'm glad someone other than me has thought of such an idea. i always did wonder why there are even warp speed rigs if they didn't do a useful damn thing."
"i think there's a real disconnect between some of our experiences, because when i lived in sov null space, so long as i watched local and stayed in my own alliance's space there really was no risk of hostiles getting me. as brand new player living out there i didn't watch local and intel chanels and got killed, but the mistake wasn't repeated. i just don't think the occasional newbie, the really dumb, and the afk getting killed constitutes it being \"easy to get people in their own space.\"even with my system suggested you're unlikely to get jumped unknowingly by anything larger than a cruiser while staying in your alliance controlled space, and that's with no one watching gates. the goal isn't to deny players any form of intel, it's to make them have to actively pursue that intel."
"add to that....you folks who are paranoid of this....talk to the whs dwellers.... because they well tell you up front that its a 2 way street.they have just as much risk as you do.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"this thread is awesome."
"rats like to chill out in belts right now, and that's cool and all. it is sometimes fun to shoot rats who are waiting to get shot, i get that. but maybe if we make them more interesting it'll be more fun for the game?we're talking null sec here. no security. why would a bunch of ruthless pirates just sit around chilling when they could be wrecking people? all i'm asking for is some changes to make pirates act a bit more interesting.1) small roaming pirate gangs. they travel from system to system, checking out belts and when they find something they tackle and kill it. defense fleets can form up to destroy them, and it'll also kill bots. who doesn't love it when a bot dies?2) mining ops. pirates need to mine too i guess. have them have mining ops, complete with defense fleets. after a certain amount of mining done, they all warp off. it gives roaming gangs something to kill when they can't find any players, and can probably be lucrative. you've already got hauler spawns - maybe there should be a reason those haulers are chilling out in a belt.3) let rats in the belts warp to fights that are happening in their system. they're pirates! pirates love blowing things up, right?4) give most frigate and cruiser rats the ability to tackle. this is something that some rats already have, but not all. it is another thing that'll kill bots, and it'll also give roaming gangs (the player kind) chances to kill players who aren't catching on to the tackling thing. such as bots!please ccp, think of the npcs. they deserve to have fun too. the worst that happens is a ton of bots die, the best that happens is pve in 0.0 becomes more entertaining and bots die."
"this is a stupid idea.not supported."
"excellent idea, waste time with stupid suggestions for stuff that no-one but you want.not supported."
"posting in a terrible idea thread by vinatanot supported etc."
"ahahahahahah what is this stupidity, gb2 hisecnot supported"
"3/10would support again."
"a decent idea. has it's flaws and it's definitely not the first thing i would want changed with the game, but i wouldn't actually mind if this happened...at all."
"personally would make all rats tank and fight like sleepers"
"this is a good idea - i think they should also sneak in to salvage during fights."
".... you easily make 30 mil + in a good l4 run i dont really see how clones are that expensive."
"its not about making the 30-40mill, its about i want to use those 30-40 mill on player produced items such as ships and better mods"
"and when you go to 0.0 home defense battles many times, and you lost your pod 10 times within 3 days, i think you should be crying like a little girl because of the very expensive clones."
"the easiest way to avoid this is, once you are certain your ship is gone, choose an escape location. once your ship is destroyed, warp to that location as quickly as possible before your capsule (and yourself) is horribly murdered."
"consider setting up a separate server, just like singularity but without markets and without isk.i honestly don't need that level of complexity in a video game, i just want to fly ships and pvp against other players, tournament style like unreal, wolfenstein etc, i hate grinding missions , trading, salvaging and all the other useless activities just so i can pvp.i could care less about isk, and all the other useless game mechanics for eve online like titans, pos, mining, salvaging, carriers etc etc.make a casual version of eve online with a gladiatorial feel, nothing but combat 24/7make a payable subscription based \"lite\" edition of eve online for the casual gamer. remove the bloat, trim the fat and make eve fun! on this server there is no isk, you can fly any ship you want, fit any module you wish. no titans, no carriers no bullcrap just t1, t2 t3 and faction ships. people could try combinations, play with fittings, sandbox style, and not be bogged down by isk management, which honestly i have no time for anyway.i would happily buy plex and play on a server just like singularity as a casual gamer. when my subscription ends or i quit all my ships and ammo and loot etc are returned. on this server there is no ownership of goods only a ranking system for top gun like players.make a pure pvp server, just tournament style fights with stats and a ranking system. corps would still exist but activities like mining, salvaging, exploration etc etc etc would not be on this server.the subscription and skill system would work the same way as tq, except skill books would be free, well paid for with a subscription fee."
"there are plenty of games that offer a quick pvp fix that require little or no thought.however, if you want to play eve online as you've described may i suggest the sisi server. on the test server you can fly any ship that you're able to fly in game. all modules are 100 isk, all ships are 100 isk, and there's nearly always a fight.the very essence of eve online is in it's complexity and its skill point fairness. if you want to fly a titan, you have to put in the time.let's just say you were indeed willing to purchase a titan for good old hard cash. would you be willing to pay $5000 just for fun and just as willing to lose it? if you 'goofed' and jumped your carrier into the wrong system and 'oops' lost $30.00 would it bother you?\"eve has consequences\", and that's what makes it a good pvp world.for the record, a number of pvp alliances offer free frigates and the like to members.finally, ccp knows that if they set up a tourney ladder for pvp folks that didn't require any work the whole system would collapse into empty space. it functions as it does because the 10-15% of the population who pvp drive the economy.simon"
"a. just go to sisib. don't cross-postc. get over itif you can't handle the depth of eve, then maybe it's not the game for you. but the market is an integral part of eve and is what makes pvp mean something. i also laughed at you trying to suggest that you limit the ships that would be used and still call it a sandbox. you should learn that pvp isn't about combat that you think is fair, it's about trying to win, however you can."
"so...take one of eve's main selling points, the single shard world, and smash it into tiny pieces to suit you personally?"
"allow me to direct you to hello kitty online for your playing pleasure.see you later...have a nice life....we expect you to be turning over your stuff.because eve online is not the game for you.so long! farewell! buh bye! o7================ stop the evemail spam!"
"welcome to... not eve? get out foo"
"there are rules for sisi, as well, so you can get the 1v1, 10v10 fights that you may/maynot want. because everythign costs 100 isk all you need is one or two missions on tq to afford anything you want on sisi, just make sure you do it before they mirror the servers. even then, blow up a battleship or two and the insurance payout is enough to fit a hundred shipslog in to tq long enough to train skills and go back to sisi. seems liek the perfect place for you, (and you get to beta test everything for ccp too!)"
"the torp raven battleship is at least marginally effective. it's not used much, but missile flight time isn't a major problem.the cruise missile battleship is a waste of minerals currently.wouldn't it be interesting if battleship cruise missiles were instead effectively a 'guided bomb launcher'? once a ship was targeted and the guided bomb was released it would burn toward the target (llike it currently does) until impact where it would explode as an area of effect like a bomb currently does. obviously the damage would have to updated due to effective range and the sheer number of missiles.in battle currently, the bomb is the only splash damage weapon. a guided bomb from range would have the effect of long range artillery currently used in the military. it would also provide a real role for fof and defender missiles which aren't currently used.crazy i know, but it would make for a very pretty screen shot.and of the honor harrington fans... how about a multi-stage cruise missiles??"
"so ... you want to make cruise missiles un-usable in highsec? because you just know that the instant that they implemented this someone would take a probing frigate and go and fly over next to the rats you're trying to kill in any mission."
"cruise missiles?people still use those?================ stop the evemail spam!"
"for pvp... [suggestion] guided 'cruise missile based' bomb (ammo type) [only usable in null sec]for pve... cruise missiles work fine i believe*****as ships and ammunition are being rebalanced the caldari missile boats effectively have only one range (short) in pvp. this is particularily true in the battleship class. at maximum range of 250km it takes almost a minute for the missile to arrive.yes, railguns provide the instant damage if so equipped.guided cruise missile bombs - these would provide a long wait for a fair amount of splash damage and would be useful in fleets for a host of reasons.stealth bombers are useful and interesting, but rather than a 'suprise' ninja attack in this case you'd have a battleship providing bombardment from range. the battleship so equipped would be pretty vulnerable to small tackle but if implemented correctly would be pretty useful in softening up fleets. small ships would simply outrun the missiles which have a fixed burn time."
"cruise missile by definition is a long ranged missile...something no one really uses for the simple fact that most engaegments are in-your-face and mid to close range.thats why they don't get much if at all action in nullsec.while your idea is great....all your really pushing for in reallity is a battleship grade space bomb...likely won't happen.spash damge wise you should look to smart bombs for that....granted its close range but...well you cant get around the commonality of tactics these days.i'll admit i do like the concept...but its just not feasible due to sheer human habbit.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"large alpha fleets use maelstromsbrawling fleets use abaddon'sgallente - a little love recently the addition of the t3 flyweight battlecruisers has lead to more sniping fleets but with battleship size guns.and yep, a long range bomb platform that isn't stealthy would be fun. countering it would also be fun."
"true..but like i said...your talking about an item typically used for engagements at 150 to 200km there abouts.most engagements are within 100k or lower at best....our own alpha fits are pretty mid ranged are they not?not saying its a bad idea..just hard to kick the habbit. :)================ stop the evemail spam!"
"seems like you'd see a lot more micro fleet warping (then you already do) within the battlefield, change of positions (100-150 km position changes) which would make such a weapon (noninstant damage missile weapons) fairly useless."
"perhapsthere are instances where we 'know' a fleet is going to be fighting from a fairly fixed position: defending a sbu, pos, ihub, station. these remain the viable perches for stealth bomber fleets. similarily they could be useful targets at a distance for a ranged area of effect battleship group it would simply be a different platform at longer range.a good stealth bomber fc working with covops can get a fleet into position on an aligned alpha fleet as well. this can be challenging because the bombs have fixed performance and once shot move in a simple manner and detonate.a good interceptor pilot (and we need more of those) can get to a position alongside and out of range, warp the guided missile bomb ships to a position, target and launch some salvo's, and then reposition. i presume the battleship would have to stay on grid to provided targeting guidance for the missiles time on target. this would be a different mechanic than a stealth bomber who's trying to get off grid and re-cloak. note that if a fleet changed direction the target bomb would follow their movment until they ran out of gas, time, or range. they would explode on 'contact' rather than at a random point in space. a guided bomb would be a targeted bomb with an area of effect. you could warp off and avoid the bomb. you could fire counter battery fire (defender missiles). you could outrun them and you could out tank them.regarding ships entering a pos. currently missiles launched on a targeted ship will enter the pos along with the ship. this could be 'very fun' or it could be restricted. i can hear the fc now \"do not enter the pos\"; ships enters the pos... \"what the hell\" as the bomb's detonate. alright, so one more fun idea out there on the table."
"not being a cruise missile user myself (or much of any missiles for that matter,) do cruise missiles continue to track you if you warp within the same grid? i would have though not, so the consistent changing of position when you have an obvious fleet of such cruise bomb battleships out there seems like the same pattern that you tend to get with stealthbomber groups, jsut with less chance of a shot landing. its only because of how missiles work with flight time that i cant really see them being viable at long ranges."
"precisely, cruise missiles are generally useless for fleets in pvp. i believe an area of effect detonation would make them greatly more useful for pvp the reasons stated."
"missiles do not and will not track if the ship goes to warp...no different than any other weapon.exception to that is a splash damage area effect...if you happen to be on grid prior to going to warp..you will get hit by a space bomb or smart bomb blast (this i can atest to personaly )...so its a question of timing.cruise missiles are slow....and while great for very long range hits..just aren't rational in most combat areans.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"id personally like to see something like warp bombs, that act like probes except when they reach the area you send them as soon as they drop out of warp they explode like normal bombs :p real space artillery!i could imagine stealth bombers, heavy bombers and maybe a battleship sized vessel with multiple bomb high slots being used. they could in fact be tech 2 bombs."
"although i may need to have a more careful think through of the consequences of such a change, i have to say, i really like this idea. \"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"lp or rp in contracts?, if rp then +1"
"if you let sheep multiply without wolves to manage the population then you damage the eco-system"
"perhaps you could consider using less exclamation marks and less capitalized words? and perhaps a little more coherency? i can't understand what you are saying, but i think it's a rant about high-sec ganking."
"if you have too many wolves and not enough sheep, you get non stop complaints to ccp begging to force what little sheep are left into low/nullsec and bring the easy dinner to them. waves of threads demanding the removal of level 4's from high sec, removal of incursions from highsec, removal of concord from highsec, removal of all production from highsec, remake all highsec into low/nullsec, and so on and so forth.i have to side with the op a little. there is a substantial playerbase that want nothing to do with game politics and soverenity and pvp. they just want to log in for an hour, shoot some rocks, refine some ore, make a little money and log off. sure they're missing a lot of the game, but for them this is enough internet spaceship they want. i do agree with the op on one point and that is the survivability of exumers. when a cheap 1mil ship can swing by and murder a 300+ mil ship with little to no consequences or loss, that's a problem. it's like taking a pos car an intentionally going around smashing into ultra expensive luxury cars and receiving no penalty for it except the loss of your pos and a slap on the wrist by police.exumers need a buff in hp and their insurance payouts need to better reflect the true cost of the ship in today's market.summary of eves last four expansions:"
"fix it already"
"market bots, mining bots, mission bots, and now ship spinning bots?god no"
"orbit bot, keep at range bot...?"
"warp at zero bot, docking bot...yeah i'm being a bit sarcastic, fair."
"forget factories everything takes too many clicks. the entire interfacing system is inconvenient. more commands should be mappable to shortcut keys why not add macros into the game as a feature ccp can control how complex they are and you save clicks :p i wonder if i can sue ccp when i need carpel tunnel surgery"
"great ideas here =)"
"why thank you.it's refreshing to see more than the mindless sheep who continually spout off:\"it's called a carrier hurdur..\"\"get an orca\"considering both of those ships specialize for one thing or another, when this vessel in and of itself would be highly specialized for the job that it does. i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"exactly!the orca was designed as an industrial command ship not a hauler. the ship bay is meant for indy ships and mining barges. sick of ppl saying just use it. also as we all know, carriers are low/null sec only.we really do need a dedicated ship hauler.it would bring in something new that required mins (allways good) and something new to gank.nuff said!!!"
"i spoke about 30 minutes timeframe and \"cloaky reds in system- how to make life harder for them\"remove local ? no. afk tag ? yes.1autopiloting a freighter across highsec. (that is changing systems, no sitting in one place)2sitting on a titan, talking on comms and waiting for the bridge (who pushing radio button use keyboard, it's not afk, moving towards edge of ff, change position when noob pilots bumped him, talking with commanders and push radiobutton and last thing titan pilots just logged in the last moments before fleetops in most cases)3a rorq or an orca sat in a pos providing boosts to a mining fleet (time to change this, so many forum topic here want to fleet boosting just inside grid)4someone ratting with an afk drone boat, possibly on an alt while they do something else on another character (that is what the ccp want to change, find it out drones of afk boats why shooting the triggers, or you using macros which is not enabled and needs ban)5someone waiting a bit before they update their market orders in a hub (waiting 30 minutes it's a bit ???? and he is not checking orders, not refreshing marker orders, not moving his mouse etc ? this is not true)6someone warping or fighting in 10% tidi (same thing, 30 minutes long warp ?? it's not true again)7sitting in a formup pos waiting for a fleet to get started (and the pilots talking on coms - push keyboard button (radio button), chat etc, they are not afk)"
"oh, well, if any keyboard activity at all is enough to counter it, even out of game, i can just cloak, minimise eve and put something on my a key in word, can't i.1. fair enough.2. more than once i've been sat on a titan for hours, waiting for a fight to kick off. either waiting for a timer to count down, waiting for a hostile fleet to show up, or waiting for the fc to stop telling stories while the caps we're covering are doing things. no playing eve involved at all, just set keep at range and minimise the client.3. this is a topic about automatic disconnects. off grid boosts being remove are not the topic we are discussing here.4. what does that mean in english?5. alright, someone going to get some dinner before they go back to their market shenanigans. better?6. 200+ au warp in 10% tidi. that's not quick.7. again, no in client activity, which means this system would be so laughably easy to macro away, and since ccp cannot tell me what i should be doing outside of eve it would be perfectly legal to do so."
"2.i have titan pilot so pls dont talk untrue things, just idiot titan pilot go away from client , they everytime checking their positions, they dont want to lose a titan from idiots who bumping them, dont want to lose against spies who bumping from ff them and dont want to risk and they login in, the last moments, because the enemies always want to kill them first when they do a mistake.3this topic not just for autodisconnect5. if someone go dinner never check prices and dont play, he just go and log off.6. 200au warp not 30 minute long i know, because i many times fought in tidi and many times warped long jumps.7.again, you talking again cheating, read eula."
"abso-f***ing-lutely.i can't beleive that players with huge bounties get to be protected by concord still.add in bounty payable on killing the pod ith someone with a bounty in it. lot more people who have been up to mischief would be dying ... which is good."
"did you actually read the part where much of my concern is what happens after darkness releases?a view is not invalid becuse it relates to future events, and demanding data precludes thinking about the future, as the data will not come into being until 2013/2014. point is, now is the time to think about things - because come 2014, if darkness has 2 million players and eve has 250,000, guess where ccp is going to put their best people. ccp is running a business, and we know they have been under pressure due to the recession, like everyone else.new players matter.subscribers who pay with cash matter.new sbscribers who pay with cash and buy plex to do things matter even more.griefer alts of people who pay by plex ... not so much."
"it's just a fact that there isn't enough talent in the game industry to put together two good teams. i'm sure the three that ccp has going are very interested to hear which two you think are ****.also, valve called. their feelings are hurt. you are the dumbest person i've ever met.nobody can become as far gone as you are without being willfully, purposefully ignorant, so i know better than to hope; but if you ever get the urge to stop being so wrong in two sentences or less you should consider starting here:"
"lady lupiah,first of all, my complements for nudging ever so slightly from telling ccp <U+FFFD>now is the time to code changes<U+FFFD> to <U+FFFD>now is the time to think about things.<U+FFFD> if i read you correctly, it appears your sentiment has shifted from: game is broken and will surely die (probably next tuesday) to: i see problems on the horizon when wod is released.i disagree with your speculative conclusions however.1) <U+FFFD>if darkness has 2 million players and eve has 250,000, guess where ccp is going to put their best people.<U+FFFD> that<U+FFFD>s a *mighty* big <U+FFFD>if<U+FFFD> darling. last i heard wod was seriously backburnered in ccps recent layoffs. perhaps it<U+FFFD>s destined for a 2014 release but i<U+FFFD>m not so sure. that being the case, alarm that it<U+FFFD>s going to crush eve hold little water with me.2) as a business model, your push that eve should be made more like the promised wod beginning now is a little puzzling. if eve were to become wod in space, there seems little reason to pursue wod at all since they<U+FFFD>d be much the same game, only skinned differently. if anything, i suspect ccp would want the games to be very different to broaden their customer base rather than very similar and competing over the same clientele.3) sweetie, the difficulty you face is that you<U+FFFD>re arguing that ccp should abandon their current business model for eve as a dark and dangerous place where loss happens and it hurts. a business model with a successful 9 year run. ccp<U+FFFD>s attempt to wod up the eve universe (incarna) absolutely crashed and burned.4) i compliment you on setting big, big goals. getting ccp to return to a wod in space incarna direction is a tough, tough sell. good luck with that kiddo.all the best,direnecessity"
"dire you seem to think that everything is peachy in eve.how is it that in the highsec ice belt i was in just before, a single catalyst with a t2 fit and t2 ammo managed to (a) kill and exhumer, (b) pod the pilot of the exhumer, and (c) take away the podded pilots frozen corpse, all with concord mumbling sweet nothings at them?broken is broken, stop making excuses for bad game design. eve has been underperforming for years as a commercial game, and owes its survival mostly to imitation games being complete crap. you are so strenuously attacking the op that the simple inference to take is that you are worried what she has said is actually correct.time will tell, but at the moment the odds are firmly stacked in favour of the gankers. another poster correctly called it: the real problem is concord rules are screwed up: they should web and scramble pods of gankers, not just kill their ships. that would make things more interesting."
"wow, this seems slightly silly. one person is bitching about giving hulks better tank, and better \"lawlz ore capacity.\"is that wrong to say that? because it seems like one person is trying to hurt the bottom line by making everyone leave, though i came back or was still around since i had an account active til' august 10th, 2012. but decided to actually pay resubscribe just because of inferno's changes.freaking missiles! i so longed for freaking missile turrets in this game ever since i started playing two years ago on july 7th, 2010; though it's not yet 2 years yet for me though. i was like \"where is the missile turrets?!\" and i slightly got used to not having missile turrets and horrible designed turrets though i went into missiles just because one day their will be \"missile turrets\" though i can't believe i had to wait til inferno to get that.i enjoyed the gun turrets actually having nice animations; but i wasn't really into gun turrets.. >.>a full t2 out hulk can hold 18,727 cargo space that's 6 loads worth of ice or 18,727 veldspar.when i started out i kinda rushed for the exhumers, kinda wish i didn't or waited awhile but i glad i did slightly, a crazy freaking person who actually mined ore in a industrial ship just for lulz, and it took me forever to mine in that; a badger mark i as well. though i am grateful i actually got to the hulk, exhumer its much faster to mine though.i've enjoyed my experiences so far in eve online i tried a little bit of wormholes, a lot of mining and mission running, wormholes are risky, though i am slightly crazy and paranoid a lot. that probably helps myself out in keeping myself safe at least.@op: you are crazy.. and i am too though you have to be crazy to play eve online, it is the prettiest spreadsheet game ever. though that means you need to buck up, and grow a pair and stop whining about not being able to do things or you can stop picking on newbies yourself. lol"
"grace,i fear getting drawn into a tit for tat argument where the only purpose is to have the final word. i<U+FFFD>ve also reached the end of my basic claim: eve is working as intended. i like our brutal universe where innocence isn<U+FFFD>t automatic protection and villainy isn<U+FFFD>t automatically impossible. long term players generally understand this as <U+FFFD>getting eve.<U+FFFD> youngish players are often shocked to discover it. perhaps these youngish players were expecting the mere appearance of a dark and dangerous universe, not an actual dark and dangerous universe.re: ice belt murderlacking specifics, i can<U+FFFD>t comment insightfully. perhaps the ganker and ice miner were at war? did the ganker filch the corpse or did the ganker<U+FFFD>s spotter do it? (suicide gankers aren<U+FFFD>t necessarily working alone.) are you sure concord delivered no retribution? (perhaps retribution was delivered off grid when the ganker dropped out of warp.)re: <U+FFFD>broken is broken . . .<U+FFFD>i must don my mocking cloak:<U+FFFD>dear ccp, you only produce the best game in your market niche. your imitators produce comparative crap. i am most displeased. you should be producing god<U+FFFD>s own mmog. if you don't buck up and produce god's own mmog, you will die. i predict death at 2:03 pm next tuesday.<U+FFFD>re: <U+FFFD>simple inference . . .<U+FFFD>i retain my mocking cloak:simple indeed <U+FFFD> simple mindedre: <U+FFFD>concord . . . should web and scramble pods of gankers . . .<U+FFFD>you presume this would disturb the suicide ganker. the most annoying thing about it i see would be if some kindly white knight didn<U+FFFD>t come along to release said ganker from their scrambled on grid detention. <U+FFFD>no problem,<U+FFFD> says the spotter, <U+FFFD>i<U+FFFD>ll pod the ganker and endear myself to the locals as their on grid white knight.<U+FFFD>re: <U+FFFD>everything is peachy in eve<U+FFFD>absolutely peachy? no. but definitely apricot and very close to nectarine. promised changes in the crimewatch mechanics may have tremendous affects on suicide ganking. criminals will adapt. carebears will whine anew. it's a beautiful thing.i leave the final word victory to others,direnecessity"
"ccp suffered with incarna, another incarna won't happen. lesson learnt from trying to turn the game into carebear inc."
"no...bloodly hell no.sorry but while i get your intention...you should learn to program your overview propperly.suggest contacting help chat/channels/friends.not supporting.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"this. is. amazing.i have never seen a such a good idea.who would of thought? a troll thread! brilliant!brilliant."
"i like it :d"
"any other thoughts on this topic?"
"tl;dr but i agree with op"
"supported. +1"
"supported.get it done."
"no ****!? wow i really??? congratulations, you just won a wooden horse on the racetrack \o7also you'll have to tell me who your dealer is for interdiction nullified pods, i'd gladly pay 30mill for one of those."
"it is impressive the number of retards on here....but if it is worth anything mushroom i am behind you...to those saying that destroying ships is not an isk sink then you clearly never heard of mod drop rate... or understand the fact that insurance does not pay for 100% of the ship aaaaand you still have to pay to get the insurance..."
"wrong what really drives eve are new accounts who are unable to afford plex yet with isk only. they pay for eve online development, not the 10 15% who have the means and know how to play for free by trading their time for plex. a nullsec player can make enough isk in a month to pay for a whole year of plex. think any goon in the higher ranks pays for eve online? no, eve needs a constant influx of new \"throw away\" player accounts who actually pay the monthly price. the game is designed to play against casual players, they are not welcome in eve because eventually they too would stop paying thanks to better skills and understanding of the game mechanics. so it's important to keep a low percentage of players who play for free and are rewarded for their virtual bullying by the game developer, it's a corrupt system but hey that's eve."
"hint: every plex bought with isk was paid for with money by someone. ccp get the money either way."
"this is another thread i was avoiding posting in because i want it to go away.im not going to talk about how stupid this idea is, instead i am going to rant.every time i see a proposal like this up, i die a little bit inside. there are too many threads like this (ie, rediculous) up at the moment, and all they are doing is pushing the attention away from plausible, sensible and achievable ideas that deserve more discussion. people like you are making the assembly hall more useless than it already is.please, please, please, think about the reaction you will get when you post a thread. think about how likely you are to get support (and if you think you'l get no support, then dont post). also, understand the area you are posting about (most people flat out, dont). do some research. and above all, if you know hardly anything about ccp and eve online, dont post at all. the assembly hall is for proposing changes. if you dont understand the game, then you cant understand the implications of what you propose and therefore your proposal is moot.think before you post. every one of these stupid ideas knocks a good idea off the front page. im fed up of people doing this. use your damn brain. i think there should be more rules to post proposals in the assembly hall, or a better and more thorough guide to posting (which is in-built ino the website as mandatory before posting).\"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"the caldari merlin needs at least one more missile slot for a total of 3. and another low slot while you're at it. i am tired of flying caldari ships and finding out that half of the turret slots are not for missiles. wtf. i am caldari. i shoot missiles. give me more missile slots. and dont change the merlin into a hybrid gun boat. really. its not a gallente ship. stay true to the missiles."
"please explain the naga, rokh, harpy, raptor, moa, eagle, ferox and vulture if caldari are all missiles all the time?"
"that's the problem i'm talking about."
"what problem are you talking about?"
"there is no problem.you want to only fly missile ships, stick with the purely missile ships."
"caldari should be the drone race tbh, it fits the lore. so stop complaning"
"judging by the op, caldari are the stupid race more than the missile race."
"used correctly the merlin is an incredible pvp frigate. its doesn't need any changes. i would say its on par with the rifter, it doesn't need buffing.\"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"caldari have a missile frigate, it's called a kestrel. the merlin is great with turrets.i'm really not seeing a problem here."
"ah, this is an idea i like to see."
"supported.cruise missiles are pretty much useless as they are."
"i appreciate your consideration of the idea.let's consider what an fc could do with cruise missile battleships using the guided missile bomb.a) they'd have to get into position or be in position and stay on position until the bomb landed. that's 30-60 sec.b) the fc would have to determine how best to target. focus (call a target) or spread targets at random. as an area of effect weapon that detonates on reaching the targeted ship this is a consideration. (largely dependent on the damage and damage radius)c) alpha (ccp would control the damage and the radius and both should be smaller than an unguided bomb released by a stealth bomber at short range). consider the difference in effect between 20 guided missile bombs arriving time on target at 100% of damage in a 5km radius vs. 10% of damage in a 15km radius (as compared to the current bomb).d) how does the use of speed, signature (and mwd), affect the damage splash.the unique difference of the guided missile bomb (area of effect missile) makes a class of item and ship viable because of the many ways it could be used. currently the pvp long range missile battleship is dead, let's breathe some life in the right direction. it also provides for the possibility of an active defense that isn't seen anywhere else in eve. damp's, defender missiles, and long range ecm get another life. small frigate classes like the kestrel become fleet defence."
"i had a bit more of a think through of the idea. speaking as someone who flew only caldari and used only missiles for almost the whole of my first year of playing eve. i really like it.ccp is always talking about giving ships niches and specific roles. this would do it for the cruise missile platforms. plus, making sure that the ships have to stay on grid for the cruise missiles to be guided makes them vulnerable rather than just op. also, you couldn't use them too recklessly without putting your own fleet in danger from splash damage. i just think it adds something new and interesting. and i cant see any really down side.supported.\"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"i like this.now if they made defender missiles not need a turret slot but take cap, you could use them in drake fleets to mitigate (they would never fully stop) damage from these fleets but would compromise the cap stability of the ship if left on. risk v reward.might want to give the new cruises some \"imperfect\" tracking mechanic so that they can't home in onto small moving ships too easily or they'd hard counter light tackle. it'd be cool because this would make af fleets a viable potential counter to these things. not to mention the brawler battleships we'll undoubtedly see once micro jump drives are implemented."
"bump for awesome."
"the walking in corp offices was proposed some time ago. watch the latest ui teaser trailer, there is some footage of the ui from the walking in corporate offices stuff, and even a few glimpses of the mini games etc."
"\"3.you may not use macros or other stored rapid keystrokes or other patterns of play that facilitate acquisition of items, currency, objects, character attributes, rank or status at an accelerated rate when compared with ordinary game play. you may not rewrite or modify the user interface or otherwise manipulate data in any way to acquire items, currency, objects, character attributes or beneficial actions not actually acquired or achieved in the game. \"are you referring to this? if bots where not allowed why doesnt it say , \"no bots!\" ? i am confused . i have a life where i have a job and while i pay for 2 accounts i still struggle to find the eve riches that i see around me. i see miners with 3-4 and they are called bot 1, bot 2 , etc. really? i dont want to bot but i do want to compete and if every jo blow is running a bot than maybe its a bvb game instead of a pvp game?"
"definitely supported."
"hybrid weapons have a lot of ammo options but i find most of them to be worthless, i use antimatter, void and null for pvp. i took a look at the dps difference of the ammo types and found that the damage tails off quite significantly for the longer-ranged ammo types, causing them to do worthless dps for a ship in it's size class. on the other hand there is null ammo which does decent damage at range (for a blaster). so if you're a rookie player then until you get tech 2 guns you're basically stuck with antimatter for blasters until you can use void and null, since the other ammo types are awful. that's quite a big difference in the player experience of blaster use from t1 to t2, i suggest that there should be more consistency in how the damage scales between ammo types.compare:megathron dps with rack of neutron blaster cannons (my skills with two magnetic field stabilizers):void:915 dpsnavy antimatter: 820 dps (89% of void)antimatter: 713 dps (77% of void)null: 653 dps navy iron: 341 dps (52% of null)iron: 297 dps (45% of null)megathron with rack of 425mm railguns (my skills with two magnetic field stabilizers):javelin: 564 dpsnavy antimatter 556 (98% of javelin)antimatter: 483 (85% of javelin)spike: 322 dpsnavy iron 231 dps (71% of spike)iron: 201 dps (62% of spike)as you can see the damage of iron tapers off quite a bit more than antimatter compared to the t2 ammo.i think the damage scaling should be changed so that if antimatter is doing around 85% the damage of void then iron should do around 85% the damage of null and the rest of the ammo types between antimatter and iron should be based on that scale. this would give newer players something analogous to null ammo for blasters and also increase the viability of faction ammo.y/n?"
"i get what you're saying, because this is exactly what holds me from taking riks/having fun/pvping. butevery proposal like this is asking to make the game less complicated, more casual and this is not good.making games simple is what ruins them. eve is huge and as complicated as it gets in gaming world, and its why i absolutely love it.cant really vote yes or no on this matter. just wanted to add my 2 cents."
"i had personally always thought that there is a relatively simple fix for these kind of problems. gcc, if incurred in highsec, should last longer... and under gcc anywhere your pod should be vulnerable to podding without concord intervention. i also believe that people with very low security statuses (when they can be attacked in highsec) should have their pod's vulnerable as well.lets face it. with the new system ccp proposed (where you can't go below -5 sec status without killing pods in lowsec or suicide ganking), even normal lowsec pirates wouldn't have to worry about this change. only the suicide gankers etc would have to worry about it. it would make their choice (to suicide gank or kill a pod) much more meaningful. \"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"and just think of the isk sink and market warfare.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"even i seriously doubt your own words and so called claims.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"i like it +1"
"1. (2.) no, this happens a lot. the titan sits ina pos, the fleet sits outside it and waits for a bridge. for hours sometimes. the titan pilot might keep an eye on the client, but the rest of the fleet won't be.2. (3) then what is it about? the op talks about auto disconnects, we're discussing autop disconnects, not the topic is about something else?3. (5) why should they log off if they don't want to? what's the point in logging off when you're just going to log back in within an hour anyway? 4. (6) probably true, but fights in tidi aren't exactly quick.5. (7) how, exactly, is what i happen to be doing in notepad cheating if i have eve minimised? ccp cannot control what i do outside of eve, nor should they be able to. it is not cheating if it does not have anything whatsoever to do with eve."
"no one wants the op's two cents, so please keep the change. and while on that, please, stop letting your mind wander, it's far too little to be out on its own.delayed local like in whs, or just removed cloaked ships from local.solves the problem.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"no way. no problems solved. you solution just give more overpowered advantages for cloaking fags.and other thing the main problem it is, afk players terrorizing pilots who plays.this is a crap rule. someone just log in and went to work or sleeping etc when he is not at the computer but sitting in cloak, but the other pilot don't know he is active or not, so an afk player disturb and terrorize a player which want to play.no problem when a player go to enemy territory and playing but everyone know this is not truth, the story is not about this."
"an afk player cannot disturb or terrorize anyone. they are afk. they are not there. you cannot blame your own cowardice on other people."
"you lying again. the other players dont know, cloakers afk or not, thats why the afk cloakers can terrorizing players.who dont play, go and log off, dont waste server resources or ccp give them afk tag and he wont terrorizing other pilots who wants to play, because the other players will be see he is active or not and he cant terrorizing active players with afkcloaking anymore.play and terrorizing, or they are afk , ccp give them afk tag or remove riskfree afkcloaking.and finaly, you can do better insulting, because your cowardice words, just hit like a girl."
"no, you're projecting. an afk player literally cannot affect you in any way, shape or form."
"at first i thought you were going with something completely different. then i read on and became confused with the section i put in bold:if the cargo bays have signal supression and signla dispersion, then how are they generating additional aggro from customs officials?if you kept your idea to these cargo bays being designed to maks their contents, and therefore allowing them to be ideal for smuggling... you'd have my thumbs up!!i'd jump right into the black market, hauling contraband from one empire to the next. and back again."
"i expected objections, but i really didn't expect a rejection of the proposal based on the argument that local provides protection for suicide ganking. it's somewhat unrelated but i think all mining of any real value should occur outside of high sec anyway. perhaps keeping grav sites, but those need to be scanned down, and as anyone who's spent time in whs will tell you probes show up on dscan.more to the topic of the proposal your comments did get me thinking on some finer points not addressed in my op. particularly how those registered on local would display on those just entering the system. the way it reads would imply that once on a systems local you would show up instantly to those entering the system and i'm not sure if that would be the best option. if it was based not on the system, but the individual pilots it would mean those entering a system would not only have a delay on their own ships showing in local but also the ships of those already in the system. so if you're mining you won't show up on a newly arrived pilot's local for a minute and half. thus in some circumstances you'd be getting warning of their presence before they knew of yours, if they were in bcs and didn't scout you out first for example. just brainstorming here, thoughts? would this allay your objections davon?"
"i couldn't put it in better way.+1 for you sir"
"no.and we want to show on local the gcc-ed pilots instantly."
"running the belts in fountain one day. suddenly cormack. oh ****, an officer spawn.you're duking it out, he gets to half armor, then a lone guardian guard warps 10km off you, lights a cyno, gg.hotdropped by npc battleships.+1"
"1.0"
"support, why not. nullsec is a bit too safe and easy when it comes to rats.more stuff in nulll with bigger risk and rewards that is not so rare to find."
"i keep different clones for different purposes. example:training clone: +5 implants for all stats (never leaves space dock)"
"maybe op should bother to understand and learn that caldari are both rail-guns and missiles instead of being a noob idiot who thinks he knows all dat.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"patience, the merlin will become a hybride ship only (sad to see the multi platfrom go though), and when the tier system is dropped, the way is open to adjust the kestrell to a ship that has simular power, cpu, cap and fittings.problem solved"
"rail boats such as the ferox and rokh are pathetically weak, and yet rails still have higher fitting requirements than blasters making them unusable without extreme skills, and in most situations rails are useless anyways. i propose rail boats receive a boost in damage while rail guns receive a lowering in tracking speeds. if caldari are supposed to use rails and missiles it would help to make rail boats actually worth using.trade rail boat resistance bonuses for damage bonuses, and maybe increase natural resistances by a small amount.edit: can this be moved to ships and modules?"
"large railguns actually do decent dps. a naga provides great dps out to the 80-100km range. it's medium railguns that need a look at, they lack a role at present due to their low alpha, mediocre range and lacklustre dps. you can go to the bother of fitting 250mm railguns (with difficulty) on a cruiser but they don't do any significant damage compared to their fitting requirements. i believe they need another damage buff in this order:dual 150mm railguns 5% damage buff200mm railgun 10% damage buff250mm railgun 15% damage buffin combination with better damage scaling for ammo types as i discuss here,"
"today i was preparing a caracal in sisi, for checking the new impressive launchers, when i realized about something you've all probably encountered before.right now, when we use turrets, we can right-click on them -when fitted and loaded- for checking their modified stats in real time, i mean, their standard stats modified according to ship, skills, implants, modules, rigs, and even ammo. however, that's not that easy to see when using missiles, since most of the relevant attributes -flight time, maximun speed, damage, explosion radius and velocity- are inside the ammo info, not inside the launcher info. so when i right-click on my loaded launcher, i only get the launcher's info, so i can't see how my missiles are affected by ship, skills, etc (which is as important as knowing at which distance shoot them).my proposal is to be able to check that info in an easy way. for example:1) when right-clicking a launcher, and hovering above 'show info', a small list would appear, where you select 'launcher info' or 'ammo info'.2) when right-clicking a launcher, and select 'show info', you get a single list, where the attributes tab would be separated at half heigh, showing both launcher and ammo info in the same window.what are your thoughts about this?"
"i reject the whole notion that eve has \"end game\" content. what does that mean in an mmo that has no \"end\"?eve's strength as a game is based on the fact that our characters never stop evolving, never stop honing their skills, and never have a limit on what direction our characters can go in.\"end game\" is for those other mmos that are theme park, linear and quite honestly, too boring to play for more than six to eight months.as for the op and faction warfare. i think it is about time that the wars begin to wind down. it has been nine years now. at least break up the secondary alliances. minima tar can remain at war with amarr, but drop the standings hit vs. caldari. same goes for the other factions as well."
"after talking with saracena it would appear to be both rp/lp."
"lp on the market .. best not. what little lore eve has left would be lost if it was to be done, don't want people such as my self who are -10 with a couple of empire suddenly turning up in their naval loyalty stores to buy stuff .. rp on the market .. automatically generated, aka. free stuff, being sold off .. ugh. best not.refurbish sp .. err, no. we go over this every damn time something changes (ecm, nanos, neuts, rats, scs, etc.) and the choice to exploit a certain aspect of eve was yours and yours alone. what you should be asking for is for ccp to look at other ways in which the now less useful skillset can be made 'worthwhile' ... such as:timesink r&d mission: there have been rumours of :insert pirate faction: doing their own research in the xyz constellation. help me get what documents they have to facilitate my research and you can keep whatever else you find.- probe constellation in question until site is found. requires hacking, salvaging and combat to complete with possibility of datacores galore drops as well as an assortment of invention materials (basically a 'targeted' exploration task)."
"the regional limit idea is a good one i think. and assigning a number of public shares versus private corp only shares is also a good idea if that is what you were trying to say. but i don't think corporate shares belong on the regular market, but there could be a separate market for stock trading complete with its own stats like purchase history and graphs.with the public shares, the current system is good enough to enable such trading, but for the internal private corp shares, there needs to be an automatic buyback system for when members leave the corp or are kicked out. and the price of shares would depend on the corporations monthly income or expenses, the number shares owned and the number of shareholders, etc. and when a member leaves or gets kicked, their shares would automatically be bought from them at the value of the shares at that time.i think that sounds fair. and having a certain algorithm that determines share value without input from the corp ceo would be a way of limiting the ceo's ability to manipulate his/her corps shareholders.all of this is possible, in time, but the real question is: \"does ccp believe it's important enough to spend the time and resources implementing a new system?\""
"imagine indeed"
"anyone think this is a bad idea? anyone have any refinements?also, a word about command ships:command ships can already boost armor or shields for an entire fleet. but there is a maximum total of 3 that can have this effect at once on ships they are boosters for. they also require very high skill levels and are very expensive ships to fly. an aegis destroyer, on the other hand, would be something requiring comparatively low skills, and be comparatively cheap. they would be something a \"young\" player could get into. losing one would be an expected outcome of a fleet fight. they could be a new start on the path to logistics cruisers and command ships."
"afk cloaker just in your dream cannot affect to active palyers. their act is riskfree because they are unscanneable and uncatchable and others dont know, they are afk or not.nice trying, but your answer is untrue again. if someone go to afk and he do not terrorizing other pilots, dont care him, he should be receive afk tag or not and wont be trying to cheat against afk tag with macros."
"you lying again. the other players dont know, cloakers afk or not, thats why the afk cloakers can terrorizing players.who dont play, go and log off, dont waste server resources or ccp give them afk tag and he wont terrorizing other pilots who wants to play, because the other players will be see he is active or not and he cant terrorizing active players with afkcloaking anymore.play and terrorizing, or they are afk , ccp give them afk tag or remove riskfree afkcloaking.and finaly, you can do better insulting, because your cowardice words, just hit like a girl.[/quote]haha, afk tag.[sarcasm] great idea, that'll really work [/sarcasm]if this was in place, i would give it less than a week before you were back on the forums whining, because someone with an afk tag suddenly attacked you while you were carebearing in 0.0. afk tag will make no difference. cloakers will setup at a nice spot, wait for a tag to appear then wait for the zerosec bears to come creeping out of their stations to mine or rat..... only solution is delayed local, or remove cloakers from local (real cloaking)jint hikaru - miner / salvager / explorer / spacebum in the beginning the universe was created. this has made a lot of people very angry and been widely regarded as a bad move."
"bullsh*t.delaying local or removing cloakers from local just more help for cloaky fags and generate more problem and just solution for cloakers and generate more riskfree advantages for cloakers."
"sorry, i forgot that this topic was about making zero security space, more risk free!jint hikaru - miner / salvager / explorer / spacebum in the beginning the universe was created. this has made a lot of people very angry and been widely regarded as a bad move."
"sorry i forgot, you are riskfree coward cloaker."
"you know, i'd say the bigger coward is the one crying all over the forums about how a player who is not even at their keyboard is ruining things for them.show me a killmail, any killmail, from anyone, anywhere in eve, who was killed by an afk player."
"you know i'd say the bigger idiot the one who talking idiot things over the forum without experience like you.she didn't talk about afk killers, that's your ridiculous dream. she talked about afk players who terrorizing others without play.you are a moron if you dont understand that.tell to me. do you know who cloaking and waiting you at anomaly in cloak or just went to afk ? no, you don't know.if you are alone in system with a cloaker you will go farming ? if you have brain, you won't go. so, an afk cloaker can disturb and terrorize active players who want to play."
"let me get this straight, you are saying that someone who is not at the computer will stop you from playing?so once again, remove cloakers from local.if they are afk then they are no threat, you dont see them and they can't do anything because afk, you can go out into zero sec and carebear your hearts out.if they are at their computers then you should be taking precautions anyway.... its low/zero sec space ffs!!!!what this always boils down to is, the zero sec bears, dont want cloaks at all in 'their' systems. so they come up with ways to nerf the cloak using 'afk' as an excuse.jint hikaru - miner / salvager / explorer / spacebum in the beginning the universe was created. this has made a lot of people very angry and been widely regarded as a bad move."
"so once again. a cloaker alt hiding below this post :"
"do these threads never end? each time these \"kill afkers\" threads open they are kept alive by two or three people each time, and shot down continuously by everyone else that posts. if your not getting support you shouldn't keep posting the idea up. its a waste of people's time, and a waste of good space on the first page of the assembly hall. ccp are never going to want to place artificial restrictions on what you can and can not do like this. because its unrealistic to think (in the event that internet spaceships were real and existed, etc etc etc), that a person wouldn't do what afk cloakies do now in-game. its a perfectly valid form of warfare.and lets not delude ourselves here. this has nothing to do with macrominers, because ccp would have no way to tell if they were afk because their accounts are still doing stuff.\"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"up, just for you."
"your faith in game dev's ability to learn from past blunders is so cute. so too the blind optimism of some in the thread that ccps is happy that eve keeps failing to meet its potential, despite their attempts to increase its appeal to pave players who are not in love with spreadsheets.accountants in space, how the accountants adore thee."
"aw cute....a cowardly alt who wont post with main.get over yourself.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"aw, cute...a spineless, one-line meme-regurgitator who can't contribute anything to the discussion.play at the kiddies table until you learn how to comport yourself, sonny.op: i'm sorry, but i just can't agree with you. you're asking to take away some of the most basic things that make eve great. i can understand your reasoning and the thoughts behind it, but it's just not personally to my taste."
"umadbro?and full of contradictions as well.....might want to get your head examined and leave the ocd table.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"for the sake of clarity who exactly are you referring to when you say \"we\"?"
"who dont want this crap idea and who want to show the gcc-ed pilot on local and who dont want to spamming his dscanner button (ccp would be realy enjoy this, when 20000 pilots refreshing his dscanner during every two seconds), who dont want to safer traveling for enemy or neutral pilots at 0.0. you want more things to know ? the list is so long."
"i have no doubt the list of your objections is very long, but that wasn't what i asked. often posters try to give the impression they speak for the entire eve community or a very large part of it, but you've made it quite clear now you only speak for yourself and perhaps other afk cloak whiners. i just wanted to know who this \"we\" was, now i do.oh... since you like the effects of local intel, i think it's only fair that i tell you that throughout the day i'm going to keep this page open, i'll be away from my keyboard most of the time, but i could potentially come back any time and post. i hope this doesn't cause you too much discomfort or distress."
"have a care xorv....schizopherna (sp?) is not a joke. *troll/tease*================ stop the evemail spam!"
"while i really want a change to local, i find your proposal unbalanced...i believe there needs to be a balance between predator and prey: your proposal overwhelmingly unbalanced towards predators: a.) anyone living in a system is immediately known to the new members to system, while the new member remains invisible for several minutes. with gate cloak, an inty has 60s of complete invlunerability to find their target... which is an enormous amount of time!!! while you can limit the information in nullsec, you cannot limit the information in lowsec. with the timers you provided, any scan frigate can come into system, launch probes, cloak up, scan down a target, bring in tackle and punt them onto the unsuspecting player. there is no warning outside of spamming d-scan. and frankly, spamming d-scan is tedious and unpleasant... and should not be pushed on more people. b.) your proposal boosts cloaks into \"god mode\". why would anyone ever use an inty anymore. a stealth bomber can come into system, cloak up, and remain invisible to the prey until they decloak and tackle their opponent. i'm sorry,but get real.. --- while you can claim your proposed predator/prey balance is similar to whs, whs typically has much better rewards and much lower accessiblity than standard nullsec space. those two factors are huge... and i think plays a big role in what's reasonable on the risk/reward paradigm. imo, you need two big changes to bring this into balance: 1.) cloaked ships are not immune from your delayed local. 2.) rather than wh default, the default should show a list of pilots in local, but with an \"anonymous\" identity under each identity until: a.) appear on your overview (i.e. on grid with you). b.) appear via your intel system. ---- for extra kicks and giggles, you should allow fleet member's to automatically share their intel list with everyone in fleet. edit: this was my idea what to do with local: replace local with an intel tool"
"/me longs for the day that it's feasible (from a non-insane economic viewpoint) to buy a comet and fit it with a fed navy 1mn ab and fed navy guns/cries"
"so, i read this quote in another thread over at eve general discussion, and it got me thinking:well said. titan bridges, jump bridges, jump freighters, carriers, rorquals, cloaky haulers, warp to 0km, interdiction nullifiers, etc, etc, it all serves to do one thing - making eve a smaller game. not to mention the fact that null-sec is becoming so crowded with outposts and stations it is starting to look more and more like high-sec. my suggestions to fix this:make player built stations and outposts destructible.and i don't mean \"incapacitated\". i mean completely destructible, as in a big explosion and all that is left is a salvager's wet dream. the list of benefits of such a change is pretty long. it would make null-sec wars more meaningful. it would increase conflict in null-sec as alliances would seek to destroy each other's stations. it would reduce the current station clutter, and make null-sec more dangerous again. it would mean less hoarding of assets in one station, and therefore more travel between empire and null-sec. it would make for some epic explosions and even more epic drama. it would also open the way for some cool new features, such as manned turrets on stations, that can only be operated from a \"captains quarters\" like room, where you look out on the battle-field and shoot at ships in space, defensive and offensive station upgrades, a station self-destruct button that would be the epic culmination of a spy's career, etc. increase risk and fuel cost of titan bridging / jump bridges i know the poor titan pilots have been nerfed one time after another. i'm not out to get them with this. i swear. but as it is now, it is way too cheap and convenient, and with titans it can be done from safety inside a pos. i don't know what the exact number would be, but an increase in the titans fuel bay and a simultaneous increase in the amount of fuel required for each ship to jump would help null-sec alliances spend some of all that cash.with regards to risk, i think the titan jumpbridge should only work outside the pos shields. no more sneaky bridging of freighters and small gangs. the titan is a fleet ship and with this change it would require a proper fleet to support it when it is bridging.additionally, the pos anchored jump-bridges need to have their hp massively reduced. ccp introduced modules such as the cyno-jammer, jump-bridge and cyno-generator as a feature to encourage smaller pvp operations, but then gave them so much hp you still need a large fleet to take them down. reducing the amount of hp would benefit small-scale pvp in null-sec and would make it more dangerous for null-sec alliances to rely on their jumpbridges.stargate upgrades - no more warp to zerothis one is real simple. in the old days of eve you could only warp to within 15 km of any object in space. warp to 0 simply didn't exist. it was a way to avoid bumping into things and it made travel in low- and null-sec far more dangerous. i propose that not all stargates should be equal. some should accept warp to 0, other's warp to 5, 10 and 15.won't everyone immediately start making bookmarks then? yes, but not nearly as many as before. now that we have corp bookmarks, there's no need for every individual in a corporation to have insta-warp bookmarks. it would also open the way for a stargate upgrade feature for null-sec systems. alliances could upgrade their stargates so their own pilots can warp to 0, while enemy pilots would still have to warp to 5, 10, or 15.it's time to make the sandbox big again!"
"make player built stations and outposts destructible.agreed. however, only on the condition that the following are met. - stations gain some kind of automated defence like station guns.- it needs to be very very difficult and very very time consuming to destroy them. - at the moment nullsec alliances rely quite heavily on minerals, mods, ships etc being shipped in from empire. nullsec needs to be more independent before changes like this are made. increase risk and fuel cost of titan bridging / jump bridges agreed in its entirety.stargate upgrades - no more warp to zeroi've never had to live in eve without warp to 0. my initial thought is to not support this idea. although i need to think through the implications more thoroughly.\"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"supported, clone cost is too high. i like to fly frigs, a clone should not cost more than the ship.ungi ma<U+FFFD>urinn <U+FFFD>ekkir reglurnar, en gamli ma<U+FFFD>urinn <U+FFFD>ekkir undantekningarnar. the young man knows the rules, but the old man knows the exceptions."
"hint: goons are not paying money they are using isk. without money there is no eve online. get it?"
"shhh, you're ignorance is showing."
"you didn't actually read what i posted, did you.goons might be using isk, but the people they are buying the plex from are other players. for a plex to exist in game, someone somewhere must have paid the money for it. it doesn't matter if someone pays with money or isk, ccp get the cash either way."
"actually, doesn't a single plex cost slightly more than a single month of gametime if you pay for the gametime irl? so people buying plex are actually giving ccp a bit more cash than they'd receive per month otherwise."
"yes.if you want a server as you suggested, log onto the test server.now can we please let this stupid thread die?\"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"how about adding arena stations with simulators in them. this would allow players to build holographic ships with the same specifications and modules as real ships but with the restriction that these can only be flown inside the virtual arena. this would open up quick cheap pvp to those players who are interested without any effect on the actual game. arena matches would have entrance fees to cover use of the simulators additionally a portion of each participants entry fee will go to the winner of the match as a prize. you could also have betting windows where players can place bets on who will win the matches. but by taking the concept and placing it into special arena stations this will add the feature into the game without effecting the game for normal players.also a benefit of these arenas would be the 0% risk of being pk'ed no implant loss"
"please stop posting with your narrow minded vision. not everyone wants an isk market in this game.this thread is for those of us who have a life."
"not everyone wants hello kitty online.go find a different game.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"actually my definition of hello kitty online would be high sec populated by mining corporations. a pvp arena is not a bad idea but there is no need for a entirely separate server. additionally if an arena is added you do not have to use it. and how will an arena keep you from going to nul sec. the reason pvp players like the op want a pure pvp area is because lets face it null sec politics is the biggest game of hello kitty out there mostly consisting of aliance executives jacking each other off with bribes. there very little actual conflicts aside from gate camps which are really no fun for anyone. and when there are large scale wars they usually consist of balls of ships crashing into each other with the biggest ball winning. so to be honest there is really no true pvp in eve aside from small scale low sec piracy. it is all politics and gatecamps i know i was in null sec for a short time."
"ok you still don't get it, it's amazing. what good is isk if no one is buying or paying for subscriptions? do you get that concept? it's very simple. without cash isk is worthless, without new players paying for the game there is no plex. you do understand how money works right? virtual items have no value outside of eve online. do you grasp this simple concept?i can buy food, clothing etc with money , but isk in the real world is worthless, you can't trade isk for money, therefore what good is isk when you are completely dependent on people with money to play your game. does this simple concept compute for you?goons bring no value to eve other then taking money from those who actually pay to play. they are essentially the virtual bullies in eve online that take your lunch money."
"what you fail to understand is no one gives a #### about what you think because you are a minority....you think the sky is falling...and everyone around obviously disagrees.i pay for my accounts with cash.....some pay with isk....how does that factor into your thinking again?if you don't like this game..then quit...stop breaking it for everyone else...go carebear somewhere else.ps: oh and isk is monopoly money...it has no value other than in-game..stop making it gain value and coming across as an isk seller.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"um ... you still don't get it, lol. the cash still goes into the game even when people pay via plex, because someone paid ccp cash for the plex. if people don't pay for accounts via plex, ccp makes less and people who want to turn cash into isk end up turning to rmting.plex is the single best payment method for any video game i've ever seen. it both adds paying accounts to the game (because the money still goes to ccp for the account, regardless of the name on the credit card) and it helps curb rmting by giving people a way to 'buy' isk while still helping the game and the economy. it's freaking brilliant.oh, and the goons do add a lot to the game, they keep the rest of us on our toes, which is a very good thing for eve. it turns out that an utopian society, where everything is peaceful and no one is mean, is really really boring."
"i beg your pardon but clearly you don't pvp if you think that there is no thought involved when fitting ships or engaging in combat.there are hundreds if not thousands of variables that determine a fight. millions of combinations are possible and tq simply does not allow for a variety of trial and error. this is why tools like eve hq and eve fitting tool were invented, to simulate ship fittings etc. people use those tools all the time so your argument that a pure pvp style version of eve would somehow limit the game or make it easy is not only narrow minded but just plain wrong.the complexity of modules, fitting, skills, plugins, boosters etc gives an almost infinite amount of possibilites, plus add pilot skill on top of that and you suddenly have a dynamic arena style pvp game that is less about grinding, and missions and more about player vs player interactions. add a scoreboard and weekly tournaments and i'm hooked! i would even introduce new game styles like capture the flag, team deathmatch, team deathstar takedown etc etc."
"right, this is why eve online only has 25,000 people logged in at one time and \"carebear\" games like wow crush eve's numbers in terms of a four quadrant audience. here is a newsflash , more people are carebears and the minority are hardcore. your argument is not only weak it's arrogant. i would be willing to bet money that if eve had an arena style gladiatorial version more people would log into that server."
"comparing wow to eve is like comparing kindergarten to high school.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"yeah. a sharded, level capped game with instances, totally optional pvp and players who have their hands held by the devs is exactly the same as eve.more people might log in, but less people would actually pvp, so the game would suffer. less fights means less ships die, which means less ships are bought and sold, which means less money for industrialists and less demand for minerals.i really, really don't think you 'get' eve."
"the rokh is fine, shut your mouth.look if you want to be ******** on your own time thats fine, but toying with one of the best platforms in the game because you're completely ignorant of how to use it is fine by me.pl used to use abbadons, now we've switched to rokhs, almost exclusively, for a huge number of reasons, not the least of which is the 5 second reload times and multi ranged ammo that allow us to stay at peak dps no matter the range of the opponent.i have a better suggestion for you, perhaps you should learn about rails before crying about how they don't work."
"lol, what? what makes you think that that place is the right place for this?"
"buff the boats otherwise gallente ships would still be preferable to caldari in terms of damage"
"i am not sure exactly how customs fees for planetary import export are calculated but i am certain that they need re balancing. each unit exported or imported from a planet should be calculated based on the regional average of buy orders. additionally the customs tax should allow one export and one import on a unit without exceeding 50% of the units total value. currently when materials need to be imported the cost of the export plus the import usually totals much more than the materials or even the materials they produce are worth. this should never happen period."
"why?also, do your pi in lowsec/nullsec/wh then."
"recent events about ui restructuring got me thinking about a feature left forgotten by many, and usually used very scarcely:combat logpossible additions:better sorting: sort by type, subject, amount. better filtering: filter incoming damage, reverse filters (everything but one type), filter by ship type or weapon system. statistical data: dps, volley damage, hit/miss ratio, success rate for ecm and other modules. separate logs in one window: ....yes spreadsheets... graphical form: pie charts, bars...eye candy for new people to look at and pretend we aren't spreadsheet online. more sophisticated log save-file: to be used by 3rd party tools to recreate the engagement for extensive ar fleet command capabilities1. access to multiple ship stats for squad, wing, and fleet commanders: each having access to more ships, highest ranking commander defines access rights for lower commanders. basic stats: dps, incoming dps, ecm usage to see the activity level of each pilot.2. grantable access: new fleet position - statistician other options reasons and benefits:- easily accessible data for new players: doesnt have enough dps -> checks logs -> large glaring pie chart telling him he is missing 95% of the time -> more specialized search -> easier to obtain answer.- data accessibility: graphs online is much better than spreadsheets online for new players ,- data acquisition and processing speed: easier to read the graph in the heat of the moment, than a column of numbers- less ambiguity: no need to rely on eyeballing and eft-warfare - optimization using in-game situations.- future implementations bigger plethora of scripts and script like modifications to optimize the ship on the go for each case using advanced data of the log.- faster experience growth: with logs it would be easier to see your mistakes: new players will learn faster.- posibility of faster ship turnout: smarter pilots + optimized fights = more fights, better fights, memorable fights.- audience appeal many of us like numbers: math geeks, min-maxers, munchkins admit it you will love to see you numbers rise and a visual representation of that in eve adequate form and not flowing numbers.- more data for fc same as average player but a level higher: know what your fleet does and what it does not and why, know your mistakes, learn form your mistakes, and more importantly adapt to changing conditions faster,- less stress for the fc having pilots aware of their blunders, grantable fleet statistician role reduce necessary data for fleet commander to process in the middle of a fight.- optional: you want it - you turn it on.possible side effects to consider: too much information accessible to fc? another learning curve to understand controls: need to have new player-friendly default preset. precious ccp man-hours. n.b.: the suggestions are optional malleable and configurable. this is not final form but more of a suggestion what can be added. please concentrate on the overall usefulness of such overhaul than on the possible additions introduced by me. additional ideas and suggestions to enhance curent ones are greatly appreciated."
"is this before...or after the planned \"scoreboard\" for war decs.================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"thanks all for the positive feedback.i think what the developers would like to hear is if you had this tool available for your battleship how would you use and abuse the ships and tactics in nullsec?how would you defend against area of effect damage coming into you with 45 sec of forewarning?would you be willing to take small ships into your fleet to protect you battleship assets? (obviously giving newer players an important role i'd think.)i think the change would be entirely useful (or at least the option for change as in charge or module), but would this development be in any way gamebreaking?"
"well, the obvious defence against fits like these would be be to keep to close range ships, spread points and scrams etc, so that when the new cruise missiles platforms turned up they wouldn't be able to open fire without killing their own fleet in the heat of combat.you could even use fast disposable ships to burn towards enemy fleets so that the splash damage hit the enemy instead of your fleet.\"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"a cruse missile is a precision guided, low collateral, explosives delivery platform. it has no area of effect... a torpedo however is effectively an area of effect weapon in its native environment the water (sub surface).what im getting at here is that your idea is not relay that great. i would rather see them get a buff to explosion radius and speed, with a nerf to flight time to compensate for the extra speed.this would make it so that a cruse missile was fast and able to hit its target sooner and harder."
"i support the notion that there should be an easy way to check skill updated info on missiles.this is just a clunky ui issue after all. the should definitely get on the \"1000 paper cuts\" project.it is issues like these that should be getting the attention in the assembly hall. its a no brainer, and wouldn't take ccp too long to change. the ticks all the boxes for a good proposal.- its not a time/resource consuming change to make- obviously no drawbacks- its in-theme with changes ccp are already making.\"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"by end-game i mean to refer to how eve's whole militia population can 'break' the game. with an idea of a totally iterated faction warfare in-mind came about how that can be 'broken', and so it'd have to be fixed. the end-game i refer to is an auto-fix of player-influenced extraordinary feats: e.g. defeating the weakened enemy faction that cannot fight back anymore.big accomplishments in eve always happen.sorry for confusion."
"supported.and there is a some topics about wis whish can interest you:captains quarters... ideas, suggestions and enhancementsdiscussion thread about wis"
"they also specialize in tracking disruptors that shorten the optimal range and reduce tracking speed of weapon turrets. turrets their main enemy uses."
"i think the idea is a good one. it is the kind of defense that is a natural outgrowth of warfare. you want defense in depth, if you can't keep the enemy from shooting at you (ecm) then you prevent them from hitting you (this idea) and if you can't do that , you mitigate the damage (buffer tank) and if that is not enough, you repair (logistics).this idea is a good one for a niche that doesn't exist currently.implementation could be difficult. i am not sure that the game is built to do complex geometry for every weapon firing. that could get pretty messy.perhaps a different way to implement it would be to make some pretty graphics that make it look like it is defending the sh1t out of someone but on the backend all it is doing is providing a boost to defense against some specific weapons.i.e. when module \"anti laser thingy\" is active, a buff of \"25% less damage from laser based weapons\" is applied.if it needs to be positional, then the simplest way would be to have it calculate a quick ratio of distance to friend vs distance to foe and apply that ratio to some flat damage modification percent.then it would work better the greater your ratio.conversely, if you made it an absolute ratio then you would have best results being equidistant from each (the larger range is always the denominator so anything but equal results in a less than one ratio)this would also be murder on the server as every shooter has to be calculated for in order to mitigate damage. the other problem with this simplified approach is that i fear it will not provide the positional maneuver we are looking for since the complexity required to check if the destroyer is intervening in the line of fire would be even harder to accomplish. that means that the \"shield wall\" you envision would be difficult to make happen."
"wait i'm confused, so you're not afraid of the afk cloaker, you're afraid of the cloaky killer?oh i get it now, you allow someone who may or may not be afk to dictate your actions because that person may or may not be waiting for you to start ratting alone so they can kill you. so what all this is about is someone that may or may not try to kill you at any given moment, aka you're afraid to lose ships but refuse to work in groups because that would cut into your profit margin.seriously the miners getting ganked in highsec right now have more guts than the 0.0 ratters, and they aren't even in combat ships or are allowed to defend themselves (they usually die before they can). the ironic thing is that most nullbears won't even risk a drake to an afk cloaker/killer, because that is to big of a loss for them.mmos come and go, but eve remains. -garresh-"
"so, she is your other noob mindget alt, who hiding behind.oh you are expert, but wtf this ?"
"ok, i was not going to bother replying to this thread as i was hoping it would die, but seeing as it has been bumped back to the top, i will address your post......1. i dont understand how a killmail for a noncloaked battleship that i lost in a 0.4 sec system to a gang over 3 years ago makes me a 'cloaker alt'????2. this is my main, i always post with it. - unlike yourself... it's pretty obvious that you \"hun jakuza\" and \"tiger's spirit\" are the same person. i guess at least this way you have one person agreeing with yourself on the forum.3. why are you opposed to afk cloaking, call me a 'cloaker alt' and 'idiot pilot', yet you admit to being an afk cloaker???(for the record, i have never afk cloaked, i just believe that nerfing cloaks is not the solution to afk cloaking)anyway, enjoy supporting and high-fiving yourself on the forums.fly safe!jint hikaru - miner / salvager / explorer / spacebum in the beginning the universe was created. this has made a lot of people very angry and been widely regarded as a bad move."
"please refrain from personal attacks. spitfire"
"people that hate sandbox games, shouldn't play sandbox games."
"bahahahahahaha oh wow.you're a ******* idiot. then again as an utterly ignorant newbie, i wouldn't expect you to understand the complexities of what an utter disaster such a move would be for the game economy. but hey, on the other hand, sure! remove all suicide ganking against mining ships.(and move all asteroids to lowsec)now please allow me to direct you somewhere that will better fit your gaming needs."
"i agree that mining is one of the most important venues of income for new players, and that griefing miners in general poses a problem for the introduction of new players to the game.that said, new players rarely fly hulks. if you find a new player in a hulk, it's usually the alt of an older player. if a new player spends a plex getting into a hulk asap then he is making a mistake. you shouldn't get into a ship until you have the proper skills and experience to fly it well.at the core of all this is the dreadful mining mechanic in eve. it's been dull since 2003, and it mostly attracts players who play eve in the background while doing something else, which is why it's so easy to gank them.fix the dull mining mechanic, make it interesting, fun and involved, and the amount of high-sec miner ganks will drop very fast. hell, if it's cool enough you might even see some bored pvp'ers try their hand at it."
"why not instead of asking for new forms of protection from ccp you instead use the tools already in the game to protect your mining ops. get some logistics ships repping your mining ship and they'll suddenly be harder to suicide gank. in fact people won't even try to gank you if you have enough logi support (as there are much easier targets in another system somewhere). stop crying and learn how to solve your own problems. it's not that hard."
"there are a lot of people who play the game in npc corporations or small mining corporations. they might not have pilots who can fly logistics ships, and even if they do, it doesn't help much against alpha-damage suicide ganks.as those of you who don't know or understand the concept, alpha damage means you destroy the hulk with the first volley of shots, meaning there will be no time to engage rep cycles."
"ok, here's an option to protect the new players:supershield v1expands defenses of trial qualified ships to be more in line with the defenses enjoyed by capitals.very short term use, only available to accounts under 2 weeks in age.can't be traded, nor can it be used on another account. in other words, it's a complete account lock.it would work down to 0.4 sec status, but doesn't work any deeper then that. this would give the new pilot a chance to get back to 0.5+ space without the sudden and violent end of their ship due to a very simple to make mistake. do feel free to shoot, they will take damage. just don't expect to kill it.this shield would burn out by the end of a normal trial period and would start warning the pilot that it's about to expire and that they will become vulnerable to normal attack mechanics within 72 hours.this would protect the new players looking to get a taste of what eve is about, but would also leave them vulnerable to a well executed trap to catch them.this would effectively end the grief aimed towards the new players, while letting them get used to how the actual mechanics work.call it the new player protection act."
"hell no....eve's biggest thing is how quickly it seperates the kiddies from the men. (this has nothing to do with being a pvp'er...its how you deal with eve's nastier sides.)sorry..if you can't handle the heat...you have no business being here.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"for some people, ragequitting is just an inevitability. doesn't matter if it comes after 2 days or 2 weeks, some people just can't stomach eve."
"suicide ganking is a legiitmate form of playing....its only harassment if it is something done without purpose or motivation. in this case its to get a kill. prue and simple.don't like it...then walk away.people that take serious \"spaceship bizniz\" to a new low are no different than you \"raping\" an entire asteroid field in a pvp'ers eyes or overcharning for equipment in the name of profit. beuaty is in the eye of the beholder. in other words...get over yourself.insurance has already been changed and no longer given concord'd.not that it did a damn thing..used to be in that camp myself...but then i realized pvp'ers don't care about isk.truth be told...i'm sorry....and while i don't like ganking..i have yet to be a victim of such a thing...i've witntessed it..come close...and truth be told...you have to be pretty damn stupid to get suicide ganked unless your just a \"random\" target in jita...but those are the \"tards\" flying shuttles.the solution to your problem.common sense.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"well, any ship is gankable in high sec. 29 billion ship to your rookie ship. i remember losing my rookie ship transporting a few true sansha amps. life in eve is hard can't deal just quit. evidently a lot of people are still here. its just the few who ***** and ***** about it."
"thank you for your comments and criticisms gizznitt,aside from a few key points you made, which i'll get to in a moment, i do not believe your statement that the system is overwhelmingly unbalanced towards predators. first the whole analogy of predators and prey i find sets up an image which is somewhat unhelpful. when you say predators and prey, we think of wolves and sheep, and well unprotected the sheep are in fact hopelessly vulnerable to the wolves. but my issue with that is why are we automatically attributing sheepish qualities to players and then in the name of \"balance\" some like yourself want ccp through mechanics to act as shepherds for these players. fact of the matter is players don't have to be sheep or wolves, they could be mountain goats (pveers that are alert and take measures against wolves themselves) they can be sheep dogs (tamed wolves/predators) and protect the sheep in return for the bounties of their labor. in short if players choose to be sheep and forgo the protection of other players they should be vulnerable to predation, that is balance!you have a point about people in the system being immediately visible to new people entering the system is problematic. i addressed that in an earlier post in this thread. it could be done based on individual pilots rather than the system, so those timers start individually for every pilot that enters the system, both in terms of being seen and seeing those already in the system. in other words all those timers in my original post would apply to everyone, not just those entering the system.i don't follow why my proposal is ok for null but not low sec, yes frigate scouts become a real factor, but that's my goal. i want active scouting to be a part of the game and i want more reasons to fly smaller ship classes. as to dscan, the woes of using dscan are way overblown imo, but that said if you go to the link in the op it will take you to a larger post i made in features and ideas that covers broader issues of intel in eve, including dscan. there i suggested an improved dscan with some automated capabilities. in any respect saying dscan shouldn't be pushed on people is as meaningful as me saying local intel shouldn't be pushed on people...anyway take a look at the link and see if that removes your dscan concernsto say this system puts cloaks into \"god mode\" is ridiculous. in fact although it would finally allow cloaks to do what they're meant to do, it boosts stealth gameplay in such a way that ships with cloaks are not even required. under this system roaming gangs of frigates and destroyers could remain off local fairly easily and they don't need cloaks to do that. if you want to remain undetected for a prolonged time in a system under the enemies noses, or just have the extra edge in sneaking around and scouting that's when cloaks are useful. covops ships are going to be the best at evasion and ambush, as they should be. i don't see what the point in having covops would be if it were otherwise.i didn't claim it was similar to whs, because it isn't. there is always the new form of local intel in low and high sec, and in null there are multiple ways in enabling the new form of local intel. moreover the means of enabling local intel favors sovereignty holders, as the local intel is not available to everyone, only those that create it and those they choose to share it with. so wh space remains 100% local intel free, null does not. 1. cloaked ships aren't completely immune to the delayed local. if they remain visible to a pilot long enough to register on their local chat, they stay there until they either log out or leave the system regardless of being cloaked or not. i don't think they should be shown anymore than that. local intel as it is now has broken the core functionality of cloaks, why would i want to reintroduce anything like that? 2. this plays into the numbers game of \"lets make sure we have a bigger blob than they do\". further more all these suggestions diminish the need for actual active player scouts which is one of the main things i'm trying to improve."
"your intel system is problematic for nullsec and lowsec: in null, the hunters typically wont have access to the intel, because they typically won't have good standings with those that they hunt!!! this manifests as a major nullsec problem because it becomes very difficult for roaming gangs to find targets, and big battles become majorly biased to those with intel. in lowsec, the residents typically have no control over who has standings with the npcs. your notion that cloak ships are not immune is flat out wrong!!! any i-want-to-stay-hidden cloaker will just leave system and come back if they ever appear in local... hence they are effectively permantly hidden from local!!!! this is god mode!!!! it is impossible for any player to defend against a cloaky gang... they can't be scouted, nobody knows they're there, they have infinite time to safely find a target, they can insta-lock any target before it can react, and even if you create a tool to scan down cloakers, it won't do you any good becaue you don't know they are there!!!!!!!!!!! this is completely overpowered, and you have to be really, really naive to believe otherwise!! there are very different game play styles for pve vs pvp. this divergence makes it practical to separate players into the hunters vs the hunted, the predator vs prey, etc, etc, etc... talking about sheep with teeth, mountain goats, or whatever, won't change the fact that the typical player needs to switch ships and organize their response to an enemy attack, or else they will be slaughtered against most competent roaming gangs... i'm speaking from a position of experience... there are a few noteable exceptions to this rule (primarily incursions & sleepers), but typically that's because the locals are already organized into a combat fleet!!! your comment about mountain goats \"being alert\" is exactly what's wrong with your idea!!! you cant be constantly alert to a threat you don't know is there!!!!! showing the number of people in system has a huge impact on this game... have you ever been to nullsec??? it's sparsely populated.. you often travel 20 systems without a soul, and then enter someone's home system with 20+ pilots... now, imagine you can't quickly determine if there is another pilot in system!!!! do you know how much extra time will be wasted looking for targets? this is one of the major problems with your proposal. in order to facility clashes, it's important for people to find each other... this is why i highly recommend that every pilot in system appears on a local list, but as an anonymous pilot! then you don't know if the anonymous face is friend or foe until someone goes and gets intel on them!!! then you have a vaible role for scouts: they fly around and identify people as friend or foe. then you have a role for cloakies: they stay anonymous in local, as nobody can get intel on them. then you have the ability to find people to shoot... because you can tell there's people in system. then being alert has meaning: because you can tell when there is a potential threat before you're in a dire situtation. there is a huge amount of power in being an anonymous face. you only need to limit the ability to identify other players, not make it implausible!!!"
"some of your points here don't make sense in regard to the actual proposal. there's timers based on ship class to show up on local, so even in they are hunters in enemy territory with a local intel system in place they can still navigate it without showing up by using small ship classes. big ships will show up very quickly... i'm usually accused of not giving enough to sov holders with my proposals, this is a first where i've been told i'm giving too much. in practice what this ought to mean is larger forces will likely deploy skirmishers (primarily frigates and destroyers) ahead of the main fleet and covops ahead of them. skirmishing forces can take out an undefended scanner array if that's what's being used to create local, ahead of the main force. if it's an outpost that generates local, well that's a large investment and likely a home system for a large group of players their local advantage shouldn't be easy to remove there. sorry but that part of your argument just doesn't make sense in context to this proposal.you've misunderstood, how the proposal affects low sec i think. there everyone gets access to the new form of local intel, standings as a requirement were only mentioned for npc null sec. these comments and your instance on describing cloaked ships that don't show in local as \"god mode\" makes me very skeptical if we're remotely on the same page. take a step away from eve for a second and consider other similar games and how they handle stealth and detection. there's none that i've played that nullify the ability to be sneaky as much as eve does with local chat. darkfall which has no invisibility of any kind is a night and day better than eve for supporting the ability to use stealth to evade and ambush other players. covops ships are weak by comparison to their visible equivalents, and they can't remain hidden to actually make an attack on someone. further, all your criticisms could be applied to gate camps on the jump in side equally well, do you support changing that?all that said removing or radically changing the way local intel works is just the first necessary step, if you look again in the link to the larger post (see link in op) encompassing broader issues, there is ideas for cloak hunting and detection. however, that can only happen after local is changed. i'll also mention since many won't look at the link, that the detection idea lends itself to cat and mouse gameplay and is specifically intended to be largely useless on gates. if you're wondering why i didn't include it all in one proposal it's because it would be overwhelming and most would simply ignore it, plus some of the ideas just weren't ready to be posted in the assembly.i'd get to your comments on predators and prey, which as you might have guessed i disagree with, but it will have to wait as rl calls.anyway, i welcome suggestions and changes to the proposal and positively seek them in the long buried thread in features and ideas where this originally comes from. however, only if they're in keeping with the desire to empower stealth tactics (read not just cloaks), active scouting, and a much increased fog of war."
"i've read this thread and your f&i's link multiple times, and i don't see what you're trying to point me to... i see some additonal suggestions there, a lot of which i disagree with!! we both want local changed... but i don't think we are in the same book, let alone the same page. below is an elaboration of the inequalities i foresee in your implementation: for the roaming nullsec gang (i fc a lot of these!): i can send a frigate into local, and search for five minutes before appearing in local. five minutes is enough time for an interceptor to systematically warp to every celestial and anomaly in system until they find whom they are looking for. most good skirmishers can locate a target within 30-60s upon entering system. with your setup, the locals have no warning they are being hunted unless: a.) they spam dscan forever, or b.) the frigate lands on grid with them. this is further unbalanced with your covert cloakers, that will never show up on dscan, never show up in local, and noone knows they are there until they decloak on top of their target. why would you ever use an inty to snag a target, when a sb can do the same thing and has no real drawbacks. you basically reduce inties to nullsec gate camping, and boost cloaks to very, very potent tools. more on cloaking later! my gripe here is: if i'm taking a small gang out to gank ratters, your system makes it very hard on the ratters, because they wont know i'm there until i'm locking them!!! (note: nullsec ratting doesn't pay enough to support the losses this system will create!) to balance this, the roaming gang is completely oblivious to how many are in a system. to find targets, they have to waste a lot of time scanning mostly-empty systems, or they have to use slow-to-update map statistics and 3rd party apps like dotlan, just to find systems worth scanning down. this is not a good balance, because once dotlan updates the npc kills, a hornet gang can beeline to the system, avoiding local by traveling fast, gank a ratter, and easily gtfo before the locals can respond to their attack. the locals have little hope of chasing them because the hornets can power through systems without ever showing up in local!!! this is a really harsh change for the average joe nullbear, and is hugely unbalanced to the roamers. medium sized gangs (10-30 man gangs) when i'm taking a medium sized gang out, your system makes it very hard to find an opponent because i can't assess a system by the number of pilots. to get a good fight, i need a systems with a reasonable number of pilots so they can form up a gang appropriate for us to engage (note: pilots are typically docked where scouts cannot dscan them) . additionally, it's much harder for a scout to assess a medium sized roaming gang because their numbers are problematically obfuscated by your new \"local\". for large fleet battles: the home field advantage (i.e. in a system with a station), means the locals will know how many enemies are in system, while the enemies are much more oblivious. can attackers scan down a system? yes... can they pragmatically get a good count of the locals? not at all!!! especially when those locals are docked in a station. for exmaple, with your system, if i ever try to conquer vfk, i can't tell if the goons have a 200 man, or 2000 man gang in station, and this is very important for making the decision on committing my forces!! i.e. this is hugely unbalanced to the defenders. local is very simple and balanced in its current implementation, letting everyone know who is in system. this is not an entirely a bad thing, its just too much information for too little work. as you said, stealth does not exist in eve (except with hotdrops). imo, the information provided by local needs to be toned down, not completely fubared. knowing how many is a very good thing, knowing who is in system is also important, but such knowledge should be ascertained by scouts."
"please read and respond to this: i don't play other games so-much, so i'm oblivious to how cloaking works in other games. we seem to primarily disagree on what should be cloaked: i think cloaking should hide your identity, while you think cloaking should hide your pressence. currently, local chat makes hiding either of these impossible. you're trying to make cloaking hide your pressence, which i consider overpowered. the reason i consider this op, is there is no counter to it. mixing your \"delayed local\" with current game mechanics, by the time i become aware of your pressence, i typically have no time to react, leaving me sol. this system is inherently unbalanced towards the cloaker, which essentially has infinite time to setup and prepare, while their target has no time. this is why i keep suggesting cloaking (and your new local in general), should not hide your pressence, but only hide your identity. this allows everyone to be on a much more equal footing, because then we both have the same amount of time to react to the pressence of each other. hence, the intel system is starting off balanced to all parties. it is from this point, that we should create the game mechanics to identify each other. be it ship scanners, system scanners, or what not... it's ok to give some advantages to ship types, infrastructure, teamwork, etc... as long as both the defenders and attackers have tools available such that neither side gains an overwhelming advantage. i really don't understand how cloaking your presence is good for the game!??!?!?"
"this!!!enough for not supporting this crap idea."
"i really like this idea.if those little tv's in space had some actual relevant information, rather than just bounties, it'd make the game feel more like a comunity environment. +1 there is one thing i would like to bring up though. even if these adverts make it into the game, why would it stop people who already use cans to advertise? it would definitely cut it down, i know that, but the most optimal way of advertising would be to use all forms of advertising wouldn't it?"
"well its not something ive seen much debate about so i figured id make the topic.insurances for faction, t2, t3 just isnt worth dealing with. its better to insure to platinum but for the price in most cases of doing so could go to quick replacing during a large fight(for example).id like to see some sort of average % off the market value put into the insurances.since getting concordokened is no longer a way to get the claim of it, i can't see their being a reason to not change it.t3 bing a major hit on 3 fronts, (subsystem sp hit, insurances, isk) they dont come cheap, and losing them can be a pain and the isk for its platinum is like 1-2% of actual marketed hard-worked value."
"t2, t3, and faction ship insurance is supposed to be terrible. if you got back most of their isk value after losing them, why would you ever fly a non-faction t1 ship?and yeah... t3s do deserve to hurt more than the others. a ship that can cloak like a force recon, put out hac-like dps, warp through bubbles, and still have a sub-battleship tank does not deserve harsher penalties at all."
"true, but the amount you get back, to get into the fight that you lost your ship in, which if its a mission would mean you'd have to ask for isk or cancel the mission or sell something you really wanted to keep.non-t1 ships need a lil more then whats is provided from their platinum. 13mill insurance from a loss of a t3 lost in battle would only give enough to get a ship with poorest of fittings *(if u consider only having a low wallet att) it wouldnt be enough to return to battle of mission and would only marginally be effective in a large scale pvp."
"it's supposed to be that way. the insurance price is calculated based on market mineral prices... not the extra components that go into t2 and t3 ships. and faction ships are expensive for entirely different reasons.also... for t1 ships, insurance is supposed to cushion loss, not remove it. loss is supposed to hurt."
"perhaps, but it should still be higher, t1 included. otherwise insuring anything but t1 is just utterly pointless."
"why? i see no reason to give people \"free ships\"history lesson: there was a time when there was such a thing as \"free ships.\" insurance was set at a \"fixed\" payout which, whenever mineral prices dropped low enough, allowed people to buy t1 ships, insure them, and self-destruct. it got to a point where people were making a profit off of buying ships off the market and blowing them up.the devs eventually took action and \"nerfed\" the insurance system it to what it is now. rates are adjusted on a monthly(?) basis.i'm pretty certain that's the point."
"then, why not make the payout automaticly the default.and remove the insurance purposes.and of course fixed got abused, this aint a thread for fixed. its for market adjusted % based on the entirety of eve's average percentage used as a stick to give better payout to non-t1 ships. to actually give insurance its purpose that it was implemented for."
"well... faction ships are technically t1... again, their prices are dependent on factors [almost] completely unrelated to minerals.for t2, t3 ships? i really don't know why they keep the insurance option open for them. my guess is that it's some legacy back-end code that no one really wants to touch.why? losing a t2 or t3 ship should hurt.you mean as a game mechanic to allow more people to pvp in low-end ships without completely removing risk and screwing the market over? yeah... eve insurance =/= real insurance. not by a long shot."
"op is dense and everything is working as intended regarding faction t2,t3 insurance."
"no, it really isnt."
"yes it is...its called don't fly what you can't afford to lose.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"wow is that the only thing you have to say? you think i dont know that. the insurance is a broken function. like cspa."
"make built stations and outposts destructible.already in the works i believe.increase risk and fuel cost of titan bridging / jump bridges no problem with that.stargate upgrades - no more warp to zerono thanks, why would i want to waste even more time travelling (time i'm paying for) than i do already. i can do anywhere up to or over 30 jumps of an evening if the lowsec or hisec entry that allows me to access the wormspace i live in collapses and even in a fast ship thats a drag, try it in a freighter or orca. then let us not forget the 100 jump roams that i used to go on in 0.0, warp to 15 would i'm fairly sure drop numbers on such events."
"bringing back warp-to-zero is not pragmatic. in the past, people created huge sets of bookmarks that essentially enabled them to \"warp to zero\". they will do so again... and trying to remove bookmarks will cause many, many issues, especially given the dangers of traveling in nullsec (warp bubbles)."
"increasing titan bridge cost: what is your goal? to force people to use gate travel when flying freighters? to make hotdrops something expensive enough that people don't do it casually? i don't think either of these will be changed without a significant increase in titan bridge costs!!! it already costs 2ish mil to bridge an obelisk. do you really think you'll limit their bridging by increasing it to 20m? especially if it's carrying 10b in moongoo? even at 2m a bs, people will easily jp large gangs of bs's to a fight, becuase it saves time and is a much safer mode of travel. as for jump portals, pos cyno's, cyno jammers, etc... anything located at a (deathstar) pos is not something a small roaming gang can typically take on!!!! those are pretty much sov level upgrades, and as such, require sov-level ops to take on. rather than make them easily destructable, i'd double or quadruple their ehp... and move them to the ihub."
"the increased cost would function as an isk sink for larger alliances. i think it should cost a significant enough amount that you do not casually bridge people here and there, just to save a few jumps. especially with pos jump bridges, they should be tactical tools to move fast in pvp situations, not a cushion that allows null-sec residents to never have to face the risk of going near a stargate. again, the aim is to make bridging less of a convenience and more of a strategic tool. i can't say here what the exact cost should be. i agree that even if it costs 50m people would likely still bridge freighters, but they wouldn't do it as casually as it's done now. there'd have to be a real strategic need for that freighter to be moved in such a fashion.also, the increased risk of only being able to bridge from outside the pos shields would put an end to these bare low-sec towers with bridging titans moving freighters. people would as a minimum have to put up a proper pos, and would likely need to put some support together before attempting logistical bridges. finally, it would give the jump freighter a boost for its role in eve. currently it's being ignored by the alliances that have titan logistic capability, simply because it's more cost efficient to move a regular freighter that can hold twice as much in the cargo hold. the problem with that is that once jump bridges are no longer near a pos shield you will have much less use for them, considering the risk of jumping into a system without knowing what's on the other end. a reduction in hp would allow a relatively small fleet with range and logi support to successfully incapacitate the bridge, even if they're taking non-focused turret fire. the cyno-jammer can stay the way it is, it's the bridge and the generator that are making eve smaller ;-)"
"the last thing we need is fewer isk sinks. also, get podded less."
"a probe used by force recon ships that transmits live video feed to a special monitor added as 4th tab in scanner window.1) launcher must be able to launch only 1 probe and have long recharge (like a bomb launcher)2) probe should be effective only in same solar system3) probe should be easily destructible and should last <5mins4) probe should be able to enter wormhole, but sit immobile on the other side until destroyed/picked up/expired5) equipped launcher should disable recon ships ability to fit covert cynosural field generators (or/or)6) player should be able to rotate view on recon monitor and see only ship types on it (not player or corp/alliance)7) player should be able to share his monitor with fleet members in same system with a single click on button. if probe is lost, all transmissions end.8a) if 2 or more people share their monitor they should be either set as tabs (***) or 8b) number of transmissions should be restricted to 19) arazu, due to its ugliness, can not fit it until it gets new hull.summary: -this should be mainly wh mod, that gives people in wh (and people attacking them) more control on the battlefield. its tactical mod that should make recon ships usable in wh's as now they are not, and make recon ship next class of covops frigs. it is my strong belief that eve players should be given more \"range\" in their gameplay, and this is just one of my ideas how to implement that. what is common for all of them is that they are hard to implement, and this one might even be the easiest, so i'll go with it. but.....***although i don't like it cause it ruins my concept, corp mate just gave me an idea in case you like it, but can't implement it, and that is that it gives you a 20-100-grid range d-scan of landing side. this would make it easier to use also...."
"no."
"i like.....i drool....but i'm not sure if it will fly so well.i'm gonna sit on the fence for a bit on this one.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"i would appreciate if people would explain their all-descriptive \"no\" 's =] feedback of any kind is appreciated, ty."
"for the last few months i have been trying to get ccp to fix a simple bug that have been in eve for more than 4 years,the only reply i've gotten from a gm in post is have you bug reported it.i hope that csm can get some this utterly incompetent people at ccp to do something that will actually benefit a somewhat large group of people namingly the t2 bpo owners, the bug they introduce long ago is the rounding when building of blueprints where you need r.a.m. xxx in a example.i want to build the pvp'ers prefered ammunition, the veldspar mining crystal ii, and i'm gonna build 3000 of them now i need some r.a.m. - electronics wich i only need 45 of to build, cause this blueprint only need 1.5% of the r.a.m. - electronics pr run and times that with 3000 makes it 45 but wait i can't put this build over but i have everything i need all the minerals all the all the r.a.m. - electronics ohh wait it says i need 3000. it is utterly ****** that this fukin but havent been fix yet and yes it been bugreported multiple times if ccp can't find a bug report with it, it is because someone deleted it.ccpfails tmcsm go do your ****, go evil on ccp make them fix this fukin problem, when you have to have over 10.000 r.a.m.- each month just to build something you only need a 10th of or 50th is really stupid and annoying.ps \"the road to success is always under construction.\"when i die, i want to go peacefully like my grandfather did, in his sleep -- not screaming, like the passengers in his car. time is a great teacher, but unfortunately it kills all its pupils"
"is this one actually a bug? you need a ram for every run, they judt don't get destroyed in the process."
"read and let it swirl, and then think. don't just write stupid ****.the \"bug\" is it rounds up the ram to 100% before it takes the correct amount of r.a.m.s. - you cannot put in the only need amount and press build. it rounds all the numbers up to nears 1 and since r.a.m.s are a procentage of 1 it always rounds it up to 1 even if you only need 1.5% of 1 you still need 1 to amount of runs you building. so 3000 runs of veldspar crystall ii need 45 but you most have 3000 in hanger to click build. this is not how its suppose to work and it didnt work like this until +4 years when they changed how rounding was done in production, it is not rocket science."
"you misunderstood danika because you were too busy raging.the ram requirements don't round up to 1, they require a ram for each run, but don't use the entire thing up. this might not be what you're hoping for, but it is a perfectly valid way for it to be implemented. how you have decided it 'should' work and how the devs have decided that it will work are not required to overlap. also, confirming that calling people 'incompetent', saying they 'fail', and cursing at them is the best way to get them to do you a favor and change things to how you want them and if you think about it, it is rocket science after all"
"seriously ?. have you ever build any item that require r.a.m.s ?.ill make it very simple for you, about 4+ years ago for the better part of my recollection, ccp redid rounding in eve for production so it whould be rounded of better than before and cause it was some issues with the it. before that if you where gonna build something like 3000 veldspar mining crystall ii you only needed 45 rams in your hanger due to it only use 1.5% of the ram. it whould sorta say reuse the same ram unit intil it couldnt and it whould take rest of one ram and take what it need of the next ram. ? you follow. after the new rounding was introduced it then required you had 3000 in same hanger to click build even after you only needed 45. it still only takes 45 rams in your hanger and 2955 is left. you cannot click build if you only have the correct amount. you get it yet ????... now if then wanted to put another veldspar mining crystall ii blueprint over again for yet another 3000 run i can't why cause i only got 2955 rams even though i only need fukin 45 rams but because i dont have that can'tyou dont take 1.5% of 3000 rams and damage them induviduel, it takes one ram and uses it until it is destroyed. it's a bug ccp havent fixed for 4 fukin years. u sound like your intelligent enough to be working for ccp... it aint rocket science.. you see the picture.. do you get the picture. and no i'm not raging i'm laughing my ass off cause i find the stupidity hilarious and i dont mean you or the other guy, i mean ccp."
"okay my 2nd and 3rd post was to that you do not understand that it is a bug but i did not respond to what your trying to say to me other than reexplaining my self. so let me reply to the theori from 2nd post that it is the correct behavior that it need a ram for each run.the process is before clicking build you have to have all the correct amount of materials requiered, this windows shows the rounded fight based on amount of runs and it is here i say its bugged it whould let you click bug unless you have the amount of ram correspondig to amount of runs.okay here is your flaw in that theoriwhen build is pushed it takes the stack of r.a.m.s.- you need and unpackage them from the main stack of r.a.m.s.- with the true amount needed in this example of veldspar ii blueprint 45 r.a.m.s.- of 3000 run build, this is actually visible in your hanger when one click build you can see that it actually takes one r.a.m.s.- and unpackage it and then next until it has enough r.a.m.s.- unpackages that match the % of the amount times the amount of runs and thus leave the remaining stacked, it does not cycle each r.a.m.s.- and does not dmg each of the 3000 r.a.m.s.- that was there from the begining. so end result is you do not need 3000 r.a.m.s.- you only need 45 thus window that calcutate the amount of materials needed shows that you need 3000 r.a.m.s.- in order to be able to click build is incorrect hence its a bug. this clearly shows that its rounding bug with r.a.m.s.- that the window does not calculate the amount needed on the percentage it converts the r.a.m.s.- procentage to decimal number by \"round(1/1.5%)\" when this happens no mather what this number will always be less than 1 thus you must have according the build window the amount of r.a.m.s.- to equal the amount of runs cause this windows calculates that it uses 1 r.a.m.s.- for each run although this is not the case.and my second support for that this is a bug, before the rounding change you only needed the amount correct amount of r.a.m.s.- and r.a.m.s.- back then wasnt repackageable and if you had one r.a.m.s.- with 50% left and 45 and was building a off equal number as 3001 i whould be to click build, today if i have the same it will not click build cause will not calculate in the r.a.m.s.- 45 100% r.a.m.s.- with the 46 single r.a.m.s.- with 50% dmg even though it has enough to build it.so actual its kinda 2 bugs in one it doesnt calculate the amount of r.a.m.s.- \"runs\" you have available and the build window incorrectly rounds the percentage.i hope i have successfull convince you that this indeed is a bug (2)."
"i'm not sure i beleive this toon....his first post is like a drunk 12 year old screaming and can't talk worth crap.suddenly hes talking english and spitting walls of text like nothing else.emo rage much?not supporting until i see other people of credability state this is in-fact a bug.otherwise mister rage poster over there can calm the #### down.ps: and like it or not....you have to file bug reports to get things done...posting about it here is a waste of time. until such time i see droves of inventors making said claims of this bug. for all we know its an intentional random mechanic to do with invention.ps2: veldspar mining ii crystal is not ammo nor is it for pvp....cute play on words but seriously bad form.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"i've experienced your pain.... i'm just glad that the manufacturing script uses up partially used tools prior to using up a new tool. if they can quickly fix the manufacturing processes so it can ascertain the number of tools you need, this would be a welcome fix. however, i don't think its worth an extraordinary amount of time."
"learn from this man ^this is how you explain things out and talk about issues.but i still need a bit more than that.is this an actual bug or not? (not asking op)================ stop the evemail spam!"
"pretend we're manufacturing void l. each run requires a r.a.m. ammunition tech tool, and each run uses 65% of a tool. if you try to install a 10-run job, you would need 6.5 tools to complete it, and with the current system, the job will only use 6.5 r.a.m. tools. however, before you can install the job, the game does a \"do-you-have-the-materials-to-do-this-job\" check. in that check, it counts all tools as whole entities, meaning i need 10 tools to install the job, even though the job will only use 6.5 of them. this is typically a minor annoyance, as tools are not expensive items (typically < 100k each), they are not used en-massand (1-2 tools per run), and, in my experience, are only used in t2 production. since most t2 production is done from invented bpc's, which have a small number of max runs (<20), stock-piling 100 r.a.m. tech is no big deal (<10m isk)! if you are mass producing items off a t2 bpo (say 3000 \"220 vulcan autocannon ii\"'s), then you would need 3000 weapon tools even though the job will only use 1080 of them. for small items (ammo, crystals, etc), each run uses < 20% of the tool, and the discrpency between how many you need to install the job, vs how many you actually use is larger. again, i'd like to point out that this is a minor issue. if you can afford a t2 bpo, and all the other materials to do a 3000 run job, then it's absolutely ridiculous that you can't afford a stockpile of 3000 tools to run the job. and if you can't, then perhaps you should only do 300 runs at a time, rather than 3000!!!!"
"that's what i thought....i recall someone telling me about that partiuclar aspect of inventing when i was doing research.sounds like an mechanic that needs an overhaul but not literally a bug.and i have to agree...anyone in that kind of work can afford the excess materials.not supporting this as an issue...more like someting to add to 10000 papercuts stack.but even then....this shouold be reported to ccp....waste of time here.thanks grizz for making it clearer.o7================ stop the evemail spam!"
"the 10000 papercuts project is exactly where this proposal belongs!!!! it's a minor issue that should be fixed if it can be dones so in a minor amount of time..."
"you are an idiot.seriously what part of a window that shows build amount required and wich isnt correct is not a bug, let me put this in context lets say a module like a turret only takes 1500 pg but the ship have only 6500 pg and you only want to fit 4 and you have 6 highslots on the ship so you have to have 6x 1500pg cause there is 6 highslot,so in order to to get all guns online you must use pg giving modules and implants even though you have all pg you need then after the guns are onlined you can the out pg modules and implants. this is contextand the fact that i got 600b+ has no point in this debate and the fact that i feel strongly about it and have to constant explain it to idiots does not make me a emo rage. actually wanting a fix to this problem is me careing about this fukin game and me wanting to play it and use my **** without have to deal with stupid minor bug. is it really too fukin much to ask? when you afterall have played this fukin game for 9 years. i think it is not"
"i've had a similar issue before, when i produce imperial navy enams in a 5 run, i require 5 ram's to make it. but the thing is each run takes 20%, so it should only 1 full brand new ram to make a 5 run, but i need to have 5 in my hangar.imagine you are producing a whole bunch of stuff, and you have bunch of used ram that have varying amounts of damage on it.now when you manufacturing they have to figure out how much each ram has before starting the manufacturing process. i think this is part of ccp's laziness, they don't want to bother with coding whether you have a brand new ram or already used ram. it one of the many annoyances of half-baked stuff that ccp created. eventually they will get around to it, but they have mountains of unfinished stuff the have to take care of first.its a good thing incarna rage slapped them in the face now they are working to fix things instead of creating new and half baked content to attract subscribers. \"working on existing content does not attract more subscribers than new content.\" yeah great thinking ccp now you got a slap in your face with sub drop and crap for that way of thinking and treating eve like a cash cow."
"oh he/she/it gets it....just dosen't like it....and whats it changed so everyone else can be forced to play he/she/its version of the game.op:we can speak for ourselves thank you very much....go play hello kitty online....its much more suited to your style.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"ok how am i forcing anyone to do anything. tq would remain intact, nothing on tq would change the way it is now in fact the subscriptions now on tq would most likely not switch to a new server anyway.the people who don't play on tq, however would have another option to fight in a very different way. how exactly does this interfere with your game again? you would have an alternate choice and choose whichever level of difficulty you please. can you explain exactly how a separate server would ruin tq?"
"huh? did iq's just sharply start to drop off in here .... what are you talking about? in my proposal there are no industrialists. the separate server would have no isk at all plus it has absolutely nothing at all to do with tq or how that shard works.are you all bots auto-programmed with the same response? please read the entire post before you start spewing crap about what a bad idea this is ok?in my version of eve online you would actually pvp more not less, how can you be so blindly obtuse?"
"answer this question for me:provided that you are not fighting for sov out in 0.0 space... why would you ever risk your hard earned stuff in \"real\" pvp on tranquility when you can get your pvp chuckles on the \"casual\" server?the way i see it, you are basically discouraging \"pvp\" on tranquility because no one in their right mind would risk their isk when a \"risk free\" option is available. and they would never come to tq because... well... why would you want to make pvp \"hurt?\"stop seeing pvp so \"black and white.\" every time you go to the market to buy or sell stuff you are pvping with other players (by buying low and selling high). every time you run a deadspace, sleeper, or incursion plex you are pvping with other players (by getting there first). every time you mine you are pvping (because you mined the ore first). the list goes on.and yeah... ship to ship combat supposed to hurt. that's what makes it so awesome. if you fear the loss of your ship due to cost then you will fight that much harder, learn that much more, and employ that many more tactics in order to win. nothing else teaches a human more than fear and pain."
"actually you are wrong, again. why would you pay twice to play the same game? tq and the pvp server would have a completely separate subscription plan, if you play on tq you are not playing on pvp server, it's just that simple. no resources are shared, no isk on the pvp server completely different system from tq.tq would offer something that the pvp would not, capital fleet battles and all that stuff that the majority of the players can't use anyway, so no big difference there. why pay for features you can't use? just get rid of em!also, singularity or as you know it as sisi offers already cheap pvp, yet people still pvp on tq just as much. hmmmm so your argument fails again.also on tq you actually pvp less then you would on this alternate server simply because of isk management and cost of modules. fear has nothing to do with it. people are less likely to engage in combat on a server where the ships cost millions of isk. i know i flew lowsec for months without a single fight. i even left a ship by accident parked next to a gate for over an hour and when i came back i was still in my ship and not a pod. point being the pvp on tq is far from ideal. if you really believe that mining is a form of pvp you really need to get your head examined, mining is so far removed from pvp it's like watching grass grow.if you just saw this the way i see it i think you would change your mind. you would actually get a better breed of pilots from the pvp server, they would flock to tq after they had their training on the pvp server and really get good at pvp."
"hmmm... you're right. now why would i want to pvp on a server that punishes me for pvp when the other one is basically a 24/7 battle royale?not exactly.sisi is perfect if you are looking for \"risk free\" arranged 1v1s. however there are not that many people using it because:- it requires that you download another wholly separate client.- is subject to frequent updates, mechanics changes, and system wipes (i.e. it's \"unstable\").- there are \"strict\" rules for when and how you can engage in pvp. you can't just shoot at people willy nilly or assist someone randomly.- the gms and devs that roam around on sisi have no tolerance for bs. it's their server.- people don't like expending *effort* on any of the above.i don't know about you... but whenever i did something stupid and died, i remembered it. because the loss hurt. then i made mental notes to not repeat said stupidity until i figured why it was stupid.even today, with a whole lot of isk under my belt, i still wince whenever my ship dies because i dislike taking loss. so i take precautions to ensure my survival and bring the best \"tool\" to the job.(edit: interestingly, i barely remember my last loss. i had to actually look it up. and i found that it was just a \"cheapo\" cruiser that i casually threw into an engagement (i can buy a couple dozen more if i wished). however, i can clearly remember my first two or three deaths from 3 years ago... because at that time they hurt. and i learned from those deaths what not to do (ex. ships can't warp to you if you are less than 150km from them... big hulking battlecruisers can die horrible deaths against ships many times smaller than them... medium weapons have poor tracking against smaller ships... even if you don't see any war targets, don't run missions in the middle of a war dec... etc).)as for your \"issue\" with finding combat in low-sec... you have to go to places where people are. low-sec isn't the \"death trap\" everyone makes it out to be... especially in the back-end systems (those places are just infested with skittish industrialists). i hear huola is rather nice this time of year. i should also note that because of \"fear of loss,\" not every multi-year veteran uses t2 or faction ships all the time (it gets rather expensive if you make too many mistakes). this keeps relatively younger players competitive in the grand scheme of things. if this fear was removed, then t2 and faction ships would be the \"baseline\" for being competitive.as twisted as it seems, that was how it was designed. have a chat with the devs over a beer (or ten). you'll be shocked by many of the ideas and concepts they have and which ones have guided them over the years.the way i see it... you are imagining an fps game in space... a version of \"galatic counter-strike\"... you basically don't want eve to be eve. and you want devs to spent time, effort, and money creating something that will, in the end, take away from the comprehensive universe that they have created thus far and many of us [more or less] enjoy because it is the way it is.is it ideal? hardly. but it is evolving to become bigger while trying to stay true to its founding principles (conflict driven economy, greed versus risk, painful losses, etc)."
"ok i agree you with you on one point: eve has many features thanks to a very broad range of development. however, and really i want you to think about this one for a bit before slamming my comment, do you think all their ideas are good? after all ccp is run by people who make mistakes, and they correct those mistakes as well when people protest in jita etc etc.as a casual player i am giving them direct feedback that eve is bloated with too many features, some which are irrelevant. if the game play was more like their trailers and less of a grind fest i guarantee people would flock to this game but as it stands now there are many many useless features, like space barbie, wis, mining, bpo's so on and so on.yes i said bpo's are completely useless, can you guess why? think about that one and get back to me. if you played eve for 3 years or more you know what i am talking about."
"there are some things that interest me... and there are other things that bore me to tears.i like to pvp. i really like to pvp. however, i cannot pvp as much as i would like because well... stuff costs money and i despise running missions or spending time making isk (see: \"i'm lazy\"). as a result, i've had to find... ways... to get isk. i've done things. things i'm not proud of. things i'd rather not mention (don't release those pictures damn you!!). however, i don't see myself as enough of a \"special snowflake\" to think that the game should be changed to my specific whims. there are people out there who actually suck in ship on ship combat. however, give someone good with markets some isk and they will wreak economic havoc. some pilots can perform logistical feats that few can envision. others are very good at crunching numbers. and because some of these people suck at ship to ship combat, they look at me with either contempt or adoration (depending on which side of my guns they are on). likewise, i rely on my marketing, logistical, and number crunchers to give me the best equipment at the best prices at the best locations (or even help me get/do it all myself... i've learned a lot).and this is what makes the game fun for me (and others like me)... all those different professions and ways of engaging in conflict... all in conflict with each other.again... \"perspective.\" you may not like all of the features... but those features may appeal to others who don't see things exactly the way you do. with such features the game has broader appeal to many more people... provided they are willing to accept the other features they may not like (the same as you).also... i'm a \"casual player\" and generally log in... what? 3 or 4 nights of the week at most? and i pvp. and i usually get kills. seems like you are doing something wrong.errr... not seeing why. they are used to build ships... which requires minerals... which need to be mined by miners... which are collected and used by industrialists... shipped by haulers... sold by traders... bought by pvpers... who then blow up everyone at odds with his/her supplier at his/her level and all the way down the chain."
"pay your monthly fee and just log into sisi if you are that risk averse."
"no, this is eve online, you are playing the wrong game."
"sounds like someone's played too much world of tanks... or league of legends..."
"here you go.enjoy your free ships and stop spamming up the forum with the ignorant bile coming out of your mouth."
"op: one of the fundamental values within eve is your actions have consequences. losing a ship hurts, becuase you put time, energy, and/or money into ascertaining that ship. in your alternate shard, you are essentially removing the consequences from losing a ship. in a virtual arean, you are essnetially removing teh consequences from losing a ship... these losses are very important to eve online. it provides some meaning and value to the dangerous activities you engage in. if you don't want to deal with actual losses, then eve probably isn't for you!!!! p.s. most nullsec residents don't pay for the game with isk.... they pay with a subscription just like the noob. the difference is, they have played the game long enough that they know how to make isk to replace their losses."
"hello there!i've been thinking about new stuff we could enjoy to play with, when i came up with this idea. before starting, let me clarify that i'm not trying to troll anyone, or post stupid, op ideas. i write it here so we can discuss it, and see if you like it; if enough of us like the idea, perhaps ccp gives us a new toy in the future... feel free to comment, but please write constructive posts.that said, here we go:right now, the most 'unclean' -but funny- war tactics we have are warp bubbles (given by interdictors), bombs (by stealth bombers) and, in general, cloaked ships waiting for preys. well, that's my point of view. and as i also like to prepare traps, i came up with a new unclean tactic: mine fields.the mines themselves would be a cross between warp bubbles and bombs, but less powerful than the latter. they would be small objects deployed in the same way as bubbles -right where the deploying ship is in that moment- and would be stationary. once deployed, a short preparation timer would start (let's say, one minute): when it finishes, the mine is ready and active. as bubbles and bombs, they can be locked and shot at. as bombs, there would be one variety for each damage type. perhaps, there could even be ewar mines (pretty much like some bombs).the idea is that mines would automatically explode when an enemy ship (war-targets, agressors to the deploying ship or the mines themselves, etc.) enters their detection range. that range would be equal to the explosion radius. effects of the explosion could be the same as bombs: instant damage in all directions, but less powerful. of course, they can do friendly fire, so ensure none of your friends are inside the area! cloaked ships wouldn't activate them: this allows scouts to do their work, but they should be careful not to get too close to them, unless they want their cloaking device to deactivate and show themselves to the mines.once a mine explodes, any other mine affected by the explosion -inside explosion radius- would explode too, creating a chain reaction. as bombs, mines would be very resistant to the kind of damage they do, ensuring they're not destroyed -therefor, not exploding- by the previous mine. this allows deployers to prepare dense fields, where more than 1 bomb would be inside each mine's range. this also limits the variety of mines on a single field, just like a bomber squadron should shoot the same type of bomb for ensuring all of them will explode. if a mine is destroyed by enemy fire, it wouldn't detonate or make other mines explode. about the explosion-detection radius, i'm not sure about it. perhaps it should be smaller than a bomb's: for example, between 5 and 10 km.perhaps there could be mine sizes: small, medium and large (x-large too?), each one with a radius, a damage output and a volume (inside cargoholds). that would allow trappers to prepare custom fields for different ship sizes, while limiting the number of mines they can carry (because of volume).- where mine fields could be deployed? well, players shouldn't be able to deploy mines that would have an npc structure within their range, such as stargates, stations and sentry guns. they wouldn't be allowed in highsec, but i think we could allow them in lowsec. in nullsec and wh-space, all the time. -how much time should they be there floating? well, perhaps they should consume fuel from the deploying ships. like bubbles, but in less quantities (i think a drifting bomb would require less energy than an ewar device), allowing them to stay longer.- which ships should be allowed to fit mine launchers? i guess you've already though about interdictors. i'd vote them too. they're designed to deploy stuff, and their pilots would already be deploying experts, so letting them launch mines would fit into their role. unless ccp wants a new ship type...- how a mine field could be destroyed? area of effect weapons would be very effective against them, like big missile sizes and bombs. about drones... perhaps they could be used as kamikazes putting them inside mine range, unless they make drones 'invisible' to mines (excepting fighters and bombers).- what would this addition make to the game? it would provide a fresh new tactic for gankers and for alliances that want to keep their frontiers quiet, without making the surroundings of gates an impassable area (an attacking fleet could use some cloaked ships to go there, get outside the field and shoot it, or use heavily tanked ships to make it explode). also, i think many would like it.well, that was it. please feel free to comment. fly safe!"
"these used to exist, but ccp removed them because players would deploy them in lag-inducing quantities (or so i'm told - before my time)."
"not supporting.bother to do your research before you repeat ideas.thanks.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"i did search for old topics, but i couldn't find anything. sad to see there were, excuse me. consider ir topic resurrection then?"
"there were mines once upon a time. they were removed before i came into the game. the remaining mines and blueprints are collectibles (if any still exist, they were briefly purged from the game and i'm not sure if they were ever replaced).in other words, they were tried before and taken out. don't expect to see them again."
"i said research.....not search the forums.as in ask around.google it.bing it.search eve wiki even.talk to people.(people who are older than me game wise for crying out loud)ps: to add to floppie....as far as i know mines where removed because people would leave them around low sec/null sec and then get concord'd in high sec for killing someone....they also caused an inordiant amount of lag for various reasons i won't get into.in short ccp tossed the lot and moved on. never to return.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"hey, calm down; as i said, i didn't want to troll anyone. my first contact with eve was in the times of apocrypha, but i didn't get a full account until incarna, so i never knew about pre-existing mine fields.if it has been like you said, well then. it's sad, but i hope ccp will eventually find a better way to introduce them if they want. after all, eve gameplay has improved greatly since then (about the lag, we now have the time dilation). but if there's no way for now, ok then.i'm just curious about why they didn't work, apart from the lag issue you said..."
"this isn't me being upset...this is me being annoyed.you said you showed up when apoc was around.that means you knew there where older forum boards....likely didn't know they exsisted either. most people don't.big mistake these days is people are affraid to talk to people in eve due to scamming or some such....but you have nothing to lose in asking anyway.walking up to a pilot and asking them about mines isn't trolling....its asking a question.i do it all the time when i have questions before i show up here...subjects like pvp and such..i go find a pvp'er...one that has a reputation to boot...they give very useful information provided your polite and \"keeping it real\".i'm just saying....do a little research and you'll save yourself the trouble. :)ps: if i came across a little terse...thats just me in general...nothing personal...i'm just a \"grumpy goomba\" (search mario bros. goomba for context). :)ps2: if you want to keep digging....i'm sure someone who was around those days will give you all the info you want....but i don't have that handy at the moment....================ stop the evemail spam!"
"ccp in my opinion went too far with nerfing nosferatu as a result the module has greatly fallen out of use with faction heavy nos selling for only 9 million a piece. nos are really only practical for frigates, but very small use for any other classes of ships. i heard that there's been talk at ccp about unnerfing nosferatu. the inability to suck cap when target ship is below % of your ship is dumb. removing this limitation will opened up a whole bunch of variety fits and tactics again. this is also make active tanking more viable for pvp as well."
"came expecting a whine thread about how missions don't pay enough, left disappointed.good idea! +1"
"i think they would cover rather separate fields: combat log would be more important for separate engagements, while war-dec will poll entire data for the war. but the war-dec scoreboard can benefit greatly from the statistical data obtained from the improved combat log.for example during or after the engagement the combat log does a background check and if the target was from warring corporation or alliance - sends additional data to the scoreboard.this addition can be retroactive too so ccp finishes war-dec first then combat log comes after and adds additional info to the scoreboard.another benefit i could see - more information present for ar: depending on how it is implemented, perhaps preemptively selected before the large battle or interesting encounter that would allow saving additional data to separate file so pilots can access it later and effective;y reconstruct the engagements from that file alone using 3rd party tools. this might cause additional strain for weaker computers (dont think that it should be calculated on a server) so optionality must be present."
"maybe next year those agents get some ccp love."
"i had some of the same concerns but my speculation was that these calculations may already be taking place. transversal velocity is available in the overview, turret effectiveness tends to be greater when you are firing straight ahead or straight behind, which means angles are already being calculated. for the target, two angles to target, and two angles to defender together with distances to each would be enough to calculate the lines in question. but hamster stress is definitely a concern.i do like your breakdown of strategies for handling damage.disruption (prevent the shot) ecm tracking disruptor target breaker hardening (toughen the target) plates / shield extenders hardeners / resistance amplifiers / invulnerability fields resistance / buffer boosts from command ships repair (clean up the mess) local armor rep / shield booster remote armor rep / shield transfer interception (physically block part of the shot)(gap!)i think i'll add this breakdown to the top post in fact. thank you."
"it's just a standard and popular service feature for any mmo's older than 2-3 years out there. happy customers + constant stream of revenue = bigger budget for further development."
"everybody, stop being useless by stop complaining about afk cloakers. we do not care what you thinkthese are game mechanics and they work fine, as intended."
"you know whats far worse than a cloaky camping your system?knowing that there are possible awoxers in your system!you people make me ashamed to be a nullsec carebear. for the love of god, htfu, and work in teams. working with friends is more fun anyway. it might cut into your profits, but isn't the profit > basic precautions why we hate highsec miners so much?in conclusion, people afraid of afk cloakers are far worse than highsec miners who refuse to fit a tank on their hulk just because you went where you knew it was dangerous, but complain about it being dangerous anyway."
"and we dont care what do you think!!!the cloaking mechanics dont work fine, it's time to change with afk tag, with cloak cap/fuel usage, with unique \"seek and destroy\" type ship. enough for riskfree afk cloaking."
"by \"we\", you mean two or three serial complainers right?\"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"by \"we\", mean the real players who know the truth from cloaking, and not you and few noob just as like you?"
"you seem to be the only one who emo-rages at the site of an afk cloaker....if anyone needs to be seriously ignored its your prattling you keep throwing all over hell.at least the rest of us know how to rationally deal with the afk cloaker instead of emo-raging ####ing like a pathetic 4 year old crying for mama because he doesn't know how to deal with an guy whose away from keyboard cloaked in a ship.so your answer is always to change the game instead of coming up with tactics to take care of the problem directly with what you got.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"aren't you referring to the guy who lost his shuttle full of plexs? ================ stop the evemail spam!"
"your incessant whining gave us incarna, carebears. you almost killed eve.@ op: f*ck off and die."
"rather than enabling solo play, how about we did something about hi-sec ganking that encourages cooperation (multiplayer) like, say, aegis destroyers:"
"i agree on this statement. i read through your post, and it seems it can essentially be broken down to you disliking active intel gathering (dscan, probes, and scouting) and from your post bellow it shows you dislike stealth gameplay. well the goal of my proposal is to make active intel gathering important and stealth gameplay a viable option. so, obviously we don't won't remotely the same thing. the whole point of cloaks is to conceal your presence. however, in some games, darkfall for instance (a sandbox pvp mmo) concealed presence is the norm, no cloaks/invisibility required. if i hide behind a rock, you won't know i'm there unless you happen to look behind that rock while i'm still hiding there. yes, local chat in eve because it has everyone automatically visible in the chat regardless of whether they want to use it to talk makes this impossible. i'm trying to make cloaking hide the presence of the ship because that is the point of being cloaked. a whole wide field of gameplay typically found in mmos is nullified otherwise. in class based games this would be identified as the rogue archetype. the ability to ambush and evade is the legitimate benefits given to a ship/avatar that typically lacks in other respects such as tank or dps. it is not overpowered.cloaks that just hide your identity? i don't even see the point of that, especially considering you could be flying something else with more firepower, more tank, more speed, more group utility.i really don't understand why you think denying the ability of stealth, ambush, and evasion, that has been good gameplay in many other mmos, and is a reality of real world warfare would be good thing for eve?gizznitt you're no troll, but i'm genuinely surprised of your ignorance of what the expectation of cloaking mechanics would typically be from veteran mmo players. although you've come to this thread and made honest arguments which i appreciate, you're clearly very anti stealth (not just anti cloaks), and as a consequence i don't put much stock in what you consider balanced. it's also highly unlikely we'll agree on changes to these areas of the game."
"you keep referring to darkfall.... 1.) how easy is it to kill a veteran player? how often do you find non-combat capable characters? sure, they might have to equip a sickle to gather herbs, but does that mean they can't switch to a weapon if an enemy appears? do they have to remove their armor to pve?? many ships in eve are untanked and lack any combat and/or tanking ability. many of eve's activities require people to use non-combat vessels, or vessels with blatant vulnerabilities. my point is, combat in eve is centered around ship types, and not character level/class. as such, ambushing is far more potent here than in other games, because the ships you choose to ambush will be far less capable of defending themselves. 2.) cloaky vessels in eve are not combat neutered! any vessel can cloak... and those that are designed to cloak (recons, t3's, stealth bombers) are still potent. most of those ships can easily destroy most pve vessel's solo, and when in a group are extremely powerful!! by the way, from what i can read, darkfall has hiding, not cloaking. note: when i say, \"cloaks hide your identity\", i mean, \"cloaks hide your identity in system, but still hide your presence on grid.\" i want to make certain i'm understood, since i really didn't explicitly spell that out. with that in mind, you can still ambush and evade. the only difference is that a cautious player will take precautions when there is an unknown pilot in system. sure, this means that ambushers will miss out on the occasional kill, but this is a small price to pay for knowing there are other pilots in system. this is information both the attackers and defenders benefit from!!! if you've ever put up a random small drag bubble camp (1-3 pilots), you would realize that people warp gate-to-gate and do all sorts of other ambush-able behavior even when known enemies are in system. when your identity is unknown, you'll have plenty of targets!!! you don't need to hide your presence!! that's just overkill and overpowered!!! what \"wide field of gameplay\" are you trying to create?? do you not understand why knowing there are other pilots in system is very much to the benefit of this game? finding people to fight is a huge deal... and i don<U+FFFD>t mean finding people to gank, i mean finding people to fight!!!! if you can't find people to fight, then this game becomes really boring, really fast!!! in all seriousness, how does a 10-20 man gang find a good fight if you can<U+FFFD>t tell how many people are in system??"
"the reason i keep using darkfall as an example is partly because like eve it is a sandbox mmo built around player conflict with a skill based system (no classes), but mostly because it has no invisibility mechanics yet still provides stealth gameplay. a lot of people get caught up in the invisibility (in the case of eve the cloaks), but ultimately it's not about that. as such darkfall provides a great example.this is a bit off topic but since you brought it up... rarely did anyone in darkfall who's gathering resources do so in their best armor and weapons, yes they would be armed, but against well armed prepared opponents they had little chance other than to flee or hide. your point here doesn't make sense. ambushing is always potent (although so too are counter ambushes/traps), and almost all players in eve (even those claiming otherwise) aren't looking for a fight they'll likely lose. so yeah a cloaked ship isn't going to willing attack a ship that it doesn't think it can beat, what of it? when you're roaming with your gang of 30 do you say \"ok half of you wait here, this group only has 15 ships\"? do gate campers challenge solo ships that jump into their camp to a duel with the same ship class, and then let the pilot go on their way if they win?get real gizznitt! eve is not a sporting event, pvp isn't a boxing match with opponents that are of the same weight class and experience, fighting 1 vs 1 under strict rules and generally in the spirit of sportsmanship. eve is more of a simulation of warfare, albeit in a futuristic fantasy setting. in warfare it isn't about fair fights, resources to fuel the war are critical, and are therefore a legitimate target. armies attack the means of production, often including the workers themselves. those that lack the strength or means of direct confrontation resort to guerrilla warfare, which can be boiled down to saying hitting the enemy where they are weak and evading them where they are strong....stealth, ambush, evasion, surprise, fear, traps... do you get it yet? semantics. cloaking is a tool used to hide, darkfall just doesn't require that tool to hide. no, this just screams at me that you're looking to play a totally different game than i am. you want arena style pvp in an open world (as opposed to instances) where consensual pvp is easy to find. i want a warfare simulation where i can play cat and mouse style pvp (and pve it can be just as fun to be the mouse that gets the cheese and evades the cats) and engage in guerrilla style warfare."
"imagine if you could cloak up in darkfall. not just hide, but actually cloak, such that a player can not find you until you and your gang choose to be found. do you really think that would be good for the game?? because that's what your suggesting for eve. your suggestion doesn't lend itself to cat'n'mouse style pvp in any form!!! sure, you hide & sneak until you find a target completely oblivious to your pressence, and then you pounce. but in your version, the mouse has no way to know a cat is around, because it cannot be seen, it cannot be smelled, it cannot be heard, and guess what, it can't even run because you'll tackle it before it can react!!! finally, there is no chase, because you can destroy your target and completely hide again before the locals can respond!!! your suggestion is much closer to i want to be a kid with a magnifying glass vs an ant colony!!! i want informed pvp!!!! i want both consensual and non-consensual pvp!! i want scouts that can somewhat estimate enemy forces!! i want ambushes!! i want chases!!! i want gang compositions that utilize tactics beyond... decloak, tackle target, jam target, f1,f1,f1,f1, re-cloak. you don't need to be invisible to ambush people in this game!! i ambush people all the time, even with local as it is!! you send a portion of your 30-man gang through to get the other 15-man gang to engage, and then you come through with the rest. if they don't recon you, they are in a lot of trouble... if they do recon you, they can avoid trouble, or perhaps they'll suicide into you just for a fun fight, or suicide for a juicy target, or they will try to split up your forces and take you apart piece-wise, or they'll team up with another gang in the area to take you on. i've personally fc'd all of these scenarios, and guess what, i need to be able to recon an enemy force to make this happen. the good pilot of a freighter or slow ship sends a scout through to give recon on the other side of a gate. they bring the vulnerable ship through when there is no gate camp, or when they feel they have an adequate escort. in your scenario, you can't actually get reliable recon on the other side. you claim a goal is to \"make actively intel gatheriing important\", but you're removing the ability to get intel on cloakers, you're removing the ability to get intel on docked pilots, your making it implausable to get a realistic idea of ships in space, and your making it very difficult to ascertain which direction an enemy is fleeing."
"seriously though, ratting is too unintuitive and too repetitive.i'd like some more fun with my grind, please."
"it's a bit too far, i think.the core idea is solid though - make rats more interesting. i think rats that move between belts or systems are a cool idea. i think that the sleeper ai needs to be applied to all rats, even if they don't have the same offensive/defensive power as sleepers and sansha incursion rats.i would laugh at finding a serpentis mining op in fountain though. if you added t2 ships for rats, you expand the possibility of t2 salvage and change the price matrix for t2 rigs."
"ban riverini pleaseover and out"
"i'm splitting this up into a few parts to explain what, why, how as well as a counter. if you don't like the wall of text skip to the bottom for a rough explanation. (tldr at the bottom)what?currently local in null sec is like every where else in k-space. when someone enters system local updates to show them. this is partly a social aspect in most areas of k-space but in null sec and low sec it is an intelligence aspect.to explain this to some of you that have never been to null: people rat in a system in relative safety. when a hostile enters, they all warp to safety (pos, station, cloaked in a safe spot, etc). aside from removing part of the risk in null it does help bots. they can immediately react to a hostile entering and safe up. players do occasionally miss a hostile entering system. i'll be upfront and say while it would put a damper on botting this is not in my list of concerns.why?the game mechanic of local, as explained in the lore and a few dev/gm posts i'm too lazy to look up to link is that when people jump into a system the gate informs all players already in the system of this. gates are neutral so they don't belong to any corporation or alliance, they simply exist. they share intel with everyone.to a point this makes sense, but it would also make sense to be able to \"hack\" the gate and hide intel from your enemies when you own a system.this has been requested numerous times, but it seems no one can agree because it does favor the defending alliance if sharing the intel, which is why i propose a counter later in the post. if hiding intel from everyone people will argue it makes the risk too great.how?my suggestion is to add an ihub upgrade that will disable local for all except the alliance holder. standings would not apply so \"blues\" flying through the space would lack local as well. the upgrade should require a strategic index of 5.when enabled it would be like w-space for all but the holding alliance. names only displaying if someone talks, and then staying indefinitely. the holding alliance would see a delayed local, not an instant local. they can leave it alone and keep the instant local for all (no change).i chose to withhold the information from standings blues to discourage the upgrade from being installed in every system. all the major alliances have blues that travel through their space, if major routes get this upgrade they will be forced to travel nearly blind. this should help encourage alliances to only install the upgrade in strategically important systems.counter?in the ship tree rework where they are giving destroyers and battlecruisers their own racial skills. a dev mentioned that racial destroyer only unlocks 1 ship, where as all other racial skills unlock 3 or more. makes it kind of a waste. my suggestion is to add a new tier 2 destroyer, of which the tech 1 is a standard upgraded destroyer and the tech 2 is a black ops gate hacker.the blops gate hacking destroyer can interface with an enemy gate and obtain the current local list. the module used for this cycles automatically, as long as it is running the local list is updated at the start of each cycle. this information is shared with the entire fleet of the user. the skill required reduces cycle time to give a more real-time list.if the module is interrupted (canceled or the ship is destroyed) the local list simply stops updating for the fleet.this ship works for the alliance holding the system as well, so they can hack their own gate and get real time local.of course, it's \"just\" a destroyer so it's fairly fragile. you'll need a few if you want to actually make use of them long term. it's a low end ship and a(nother) reason for a new player to take racial destroyer to 5.seems to make ratting in null easier?yes and no. delayed local is enough time to find and destroy someone. sure you won't get multiple targets but intel channels still exist, when one dies the others will be informed anyway. it discourages \"afk cloaky alts\" that people seem to be into using lately as it would be more worthwhile to keep their presence out of system until they want to kill someone. i suspect all popular ratting systems will get this upgrade and that's the main reason for suggesting delayed local instead of real time.tl;dr / conclusionremove local from null via an ihub upgrade needing strategic index 5. only people in the alliance can see a delayed local, all others have no local including standings blues (discourages upgrading all systems). add a new ship (destroyer class) to counter it by targeting a gate and using a module, sharing the local list with his fleet as long as the module remains active.--i was bored and it was just a thought. not sure if it's a good one but thought i'd share."
"living in null sec for a while, i dunno about this, seems like a double edge sword.sometimes, just me and my buds hanging out scanning sites, mining or gate camping, then all of the sudden local goes from 10 players to 60 in 5 seconds, thats when we either safespot or jump, or wait till they jump.i do like wormholes with no local, i think if people actually used their directional scanner like they should, they would prefer this option, but i know some alliances that would cut you for even suggesting it.personally, im on the fence, in the end, doesnt matter, ccp makes the decision and w/e it is, gotta adapt."
"if people don't like local, live in wh's, problem solved. the amarr empire, is known for its omnipresent religion <U+FFFD>"
"keep in mind it's elective. the alliance decides where local is disabled/delayed. the default is no change, everything is as it is now. they install the upgrade to change it. so if an alliance doesn't like it -- don't use it. just another tool in the sandbox."
"+1 for effort and its not a mindless attempt to get the game changed in your favour.i would love an ihub upgrade that disables all information on the world map page creating complete dead zones where no one knows what is going on apart from the people liv"
"i'd be for it, but only if there is 'something', either a special type of probe, infra upgrade or deployable added, that allows you to also either detect cloaked ships, or someway of knowing that they're in system without them having to talk (of course, not without a little work, so a probe would be good for this. alliances could have designated scanners to periodically scan the system for any pests)"
"well, the defending alliance still gets delayed local in the upgraded systems. hostiles need only bring the new ship suggested or use probes to find out who's in system. and like w-space there's always d-scan."
"a common thought in these changing how local works threads is changing how d-scan works also, make it less annoying to use , any thoughts on that?"
"+1my point exactly!removing local is not gonna stops bots by anymeans.they will do it using othermeans like gate fire effect or sound of gate fire and i am sure there are many other ways. the only reason why they use local is cos its easier and not cos it"
"sounds like a pretty interesting idea. i like how it gives the possibility for the introduction of another ship type using destroyer hulls. +1 for offering something new."
"you'd have to be at the gate then... so you'd just, you know, see them on your overview?it is possible to make things impossible. if the data isn't there it's not there. you can't magically know. if the server chooses not to send it then neither you nor bots will know about it. period.d-scan helps but oh wait, bombers. get a bomber or a few with points, warp in cloaked, find target, uncloak, target, point. there you go. got him. no counter other than having a scout inline between systems that don't have the upgrade. that is countered by logging out and waiting, log in after a while and grab a random target. it becomes a lot easier to catch bots as well as normal ratters.but as i said, that is not the intended function, just a side effect. as for local and wormholes and everything. that's great if you wanna be fairly locked down to 1 system or want to be scanning all the time. my idea is about adding another feature, another tool, for alliances to play with. it's not forcing anything on anyone. the change is additive. an alliance need only use it if they wish to and a counter was provided for those wishing that alliance harm.this suggestion adds more dynamic to eve and gets away from every system is the same. null sec is null sec. you should have more control over systems you own -- within reason. i personally think it'd be cool to be able to use different tactics for different systems. this idea emphasizes scouting even more than it is now. it adds a new ship and role for people to aim for. and it keeps the sandbox fresh with another set of tools to bend the universe to your will. it's possible someone will come up with some crazy way to use this idea that had nothing to do with any of my original intentions, but that's what i love about eve."
"as a highly (un)productive member of this eve society i approve of said idea! i myself would love to see local removed in nullsec and this is a great way to go about it. the defenders should have an advantage when defending or flying in their own space. +1 i love this idea.edit: for editing."
"wait let me get this straight. a cfc publord wants to remove local? how will you know when to warp out of the belt in your drake when we come riding into town?"
"remove it in high sec and low sec as well.as it is now war-targets dock up when entering local.also, when a couple of -10 pirates enter local, the miner-bots tend to dock up."
"woops, i meant to include low in there as well, however i seemed to have forgotten to mention it. as for highsec it's a whole different monster entirely. it should be nerfed into the ground and be used as a noobs training ground. let them have their local.you do bring up a fair point dealing with miner bots and dealing sweet justice though. perhaps just leave it delayed in highsec due to concord influenced or some such."
"no. high-sec should remain highly secure. that means the local navies/concord monitor the gates even closer. local stays."
"exactly this is a constant drag upon eve that ccp cant get small bugs fixed insted of catering to goons & test and new costumers."
"supportedafter sifting through all the useless flame-warring in this topic, i think its worth saying that if this really isn't working as intended it needs to be fixed. as such a small issue it deserves some attention, because frankly, it makes sence for small easy to fix changes to get some attention (because they're more likely to get changes).also, all this flaming is daft and ridiculous. started by a rude oper, aggravating an easily aggravated troll (drake), who is further aggravated by the appearance of a troll who usually manages to disagree with everything without really making any sence (tiger).that is all.\"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"lol this still like this -.- fail ccp -.-anyway as this works currently 1 run finishes after another thus in my oppinion it should take x % of the first ram item then next run take x of the first item if it has enough etc if this is intended to work as it is right now why dont all the runs run simotaniously... e.g. lets say your makeing 10 cakes and you need half kg of wheat per cake.... meaning you need 5 kgobviously you dont need 10 kg of wheat and open every single one of them and use half of each but thats how the ram's work right nowwich is plain stupid -.-"
"ccp please fix this :("
"this thread just should die.it is painfull when i read op ahhhgr my brain, stupidity is hurting me."
"ok, i will try to explain in simple terms. a bpo fresh off the market, lets say for a battlecruiser, costs what again? a few hundred million. big sink right from the start. looking at eve central a drake bpo costs over 300 million. now, lets say you buy that bpo it is inefficient. ok now what? research the bpo? that will also take time and isk.by the time you are finished you could have bought a bpc for under 1 million, built your drake army and still have millions of isk to spend on fittings and other goods.it makes no sense for a noob to purchase any bpo because the majority of veterans who have invested time and money into bpo research have made it very lucrative to use bpc and not bpo and still be able to manufacture as many ships as possible without ever owning a bpo.unless you plan on playing eve online for the next 23 years then a bpo may actually pay for itself and you can start making a profit!"
"ok then, i'll do my research :) thanks for the info. i wrote the 'not trolling' thing because of much people starts to be annoyed by stupid topics (including me), nothing else. thanks again :)"
"no problem. o7welcome to eve online (hell)================ stop the evemail spam!"
"ccp do not change my merlin to a hybrid boat. add missiles. not guns. if the missiles are inadequate for pvp, then upgrade them. gallente are good with hybrid turrets. do not contaminate caldari ships with that trash."
"it's called a kestrel you moran."
"what trash? you mean the stuff they've had since the start?biomass yourself."
"quite the opposite. have you heard of the changes being made to capacitor batteries? they will now have a chance to mitigate nosferatu drain and \"reflect\" energy neutralizers back at the offending ship.edit: oh yeah... nosferatus might be altered to give a continual energy drain... but at a lower amount if the target ship's capacitor is lower than yours."
"this nerf you speak of....its always been like that as far as i can tell..yeah its changing...but that's not a nerf in my eyes....and even then...nos's are not that great in comparsion to a nuet anyway.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"the op is referring to an old nerf that happened. back in the day, both nos and neuts used to zap a portion of a target ship's capacitor... but the nos transferred that zapped cap into the host ship. ccp deemed this as op and nerfed the nos to what it is now (it only works when your capacitor level is below the target's)."
"must have been before my time then.op might want to put a little context into his post before confusing the hell out of everyone else. even then..i'd rather wait until new mods are out first.not supporting.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"yeah, old nos used to take cap from your target and give it to you at no cost to yourself. nos was a neut that cost no cap to run, and in fact gave you cap for running in. the result was everyone had nos fitted and nobody ever used neuts. this was self-evidently stupid. silly op wants to return to it.the current system, where neuts are offensive and nos is defensive, is far better. whether the mods are performing properly in those roles can be debated, but the principles of operation of the two module classes are excellent."
"not its not, nosferatu has only become useful for frigates, but for every other class, its useless."
"and eccm is never really useful on frigates but only on larger hulls .. so what is your point? we should strive for diversity in eve, the fact that some modules are less valuable on some hulls is a good thing. if nos were to become useful on say battleships, then additional mechanics need be put in place to guarantee that they will only ever be of use against ships of same or bigger size .."
"i'd better take this nos off my proteus then. your idea would make neuts useless. why would you think that was a good idea?"
"i wouldn't mind seeing a reversal of the nos nerf for ships with a bonus to them, amarr and blood raider, and leave them as is for all other ships types."
"with cap batteries being given an anti nos role, i would love to see nos buffed back to 2004. but, with more buff to cap batteries. or just a change to nos so that it gives you 50% cap if you are lower than them."
"actually if anything they should be based on the sell orders because i doubt people who do pi for profit just dump their stuff on buy orders.buy orders are for when you have some left over crap that you just want to dump somewhere and make a quick buck off of.also as someone who lives in lowsec i think the concord pi taxes should go up, especially for tier 0 and tier 1 products. as far as risk vs reward goes i think doing pi in lowsec is a little underwhelming.i honestly think poco based sov is a good idea"
"also, imagine the tears if it got ganked and a large majority of the ships dropped.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"yes."
"yup, exactly the grown up, mature attitude developers want to be dealing with. that will make them listen!"
"i agree with t2 ships been insured better. as a miner i think we need a ship to have a tank but can mine too like hulks but that's not going to work as it will be to easy to make isk! and the market will be out of whack , so if we need to have more tank then we need a cost to yield and cargo space to balance things out."
"i though op pointed that with delaying of local there would come mechanics of finding cloaks ( requiring effort )"
"in the other thread, they mention a little about scanning down cloakers.... however, cloaked pilots typically wont appear in local, meaning you have no reason to scan for them. additionally, with his mechanics, a cloaker can come into local any time (logging in or by gates or wh's), and there is no indication of the new arrival... for a scanning mechanic to really make sense, don't you think you need some indication that you should scan??"
"well if they jump through gates or wormholes you can spot them and even kill them.i agree though logging in system could somehow be tweaked.not really."
"yeah i hope ccp will do something with 0.0 soon the game really stagnates in there"
"i'm not sure what people's obsession with going backwards is. all you really seem to be suggesting is slow eve down to a crawl so that i can shoot more people at gate camps."
"instant force projection is a bit of a problem as i understand it. i'm not against the ability to sling your ships across the region at a moment's notice, but i agree it's too cheap/easy and needs to be made more challenging. as it stands, surprise has very little value in warfare when the enemy can respond in a matter of minutes, assuming their pilots are online.taking away warp-to-zero will just make nullsec less navigable and more tedious than it is today. you won't be making eve \"bigger\", you'll just be slowing down transit and making it easier for people to lose ships to mindless smash-everything gate camps."
"i was under the impression titans already couldn't use their jump bridges inside a pos shield. as far as i know they just stick their head out of the shield to activate the module, but they're still vulnerable during that time as the ship is not considered inside the shield.perhaps make it impossible to activate the bridge module within a certain number of kilometers from a nearby pos shield, if possible."
"titans can and typically do bridge people from inside the pos shields...."
"this is preventable by just pulling people out of warp 15 km from the gate, as if there was a bubble around the gate (but not one that would prevent warping-off from inside it)."
"why not do the job properly by removing all jumpdrives, titan bridges and jumpbridges, and make all ships require fuel to drive their engines? voila, eve is bigger."
"to be honest, now that there is only one jb allowed per system, i find the jb network much less problematic. this, tied in with the fact a warp bubble can pull a ship 500+ kms away from their warp destination (i.e. out of pos gun range), makes them vulnerable enough that i'm alright with their current use. i wouldn't mind altering cyno generators, such that they can be easily disabled by a small gang. i think this would allow the disruption of logistics chains by guerilla entities feasible... and could severely hinder force projection! the problem is, engaging anything on a deathstar pos is not easily accomplished by a \"small\" (<10) gang. perhaps if you increased the pos lock times by about 20%, it would be much more reasonable. in my experience, while the lock times of a pos are slow, they aren't consistent, and that's problematic. titan bridging is pretty much the main use of a titan unless you have many of them. forcing titan's to bridge from outside of the pos shields is pretty much a nerf to smaller alliances, which cannot truly protect a titan. encouraging titan's to be a large-alliance tool only might sound good, but then you're pretty much solidifying powerblocs, and making it unncessarily harder on the smaller entities which are already disadvataged. a much more balanced solution would be to change the hotdrop mechanics, and i don't think cost is quite the right approach (although its not a bad idea, per se). other hot drop alterations might include: cyno spool-up timers -- such that people have time to react and attack a cyno ship. death to all ships en route if the destination cyno is destroyed before you load grid. special bridging cynos -- new modules needed for bridging, which can only be fit to certain classes of ships. reduced bridge range -- reduce the range of bridging from 7 ly to 3 ly's or some such nonsense. really, significantly reducing the range and creating a longer -- time to load grid -- period is all that's really needed."
"nah. jbs are well-known for allowing large alliances to project power over vast distances within 30 minutes, so might as well do the job properly and remove them altogether. same goes for titan bridges and jump drives, way too easy to project power and haul goods, it's time we got ccp to make the universe feel big again."
"ccp supports griefing so much now, if it removed local the game would see fewer industrialists than ever, griefers get it all (including pathetically tanked hulks as targets) industrialists have practically nothin. tl;dr keep local. the amarr empire, is known for its omnipresent religion <U+FFFD>"
"not if they're all as weak willed as you, no, they don't, but i know that they aren't all like you so that's a moot point.this idea has some potential, i can see some will oppose it even though they wouldn't have to put it to use and would have some counter to give themselves the ability to use local despite a sov holding alliance removing it in some systems. would certainly make things interesting."
"i have a better idea.what if only blues showed up fully in local, and neutrals just showed up as an unknown? unless they talked.so you'd see a blank portrait with a question mark, and an unknown instead of a name. everybody wins."
"it also makes at least as much sense that you'd be able to \"hack\" the gate and prevent your enemies from using it at all, let alone for intel.the gate and local systems really seem to stand apart from sovereignty."
"local in player sov null sec is not realistic.where concord or the npc nullsec owners are present it might make sense that they impose everybody to be publicly detectable. a sov 0.0 should require a specific structure that requires sov to be levelled up enough to be anchored.this way the developed systems would really \"earn\" an higher sec status (higher sec as in, by knowing all who enter and leave they are safer to live into). undeveloped, borderline systems would really be the \"nobody's lands\". this would foster new playstyles: nomadic \"ninjas\", brigants, smugglers and other juicy shady things that can prosper when things are kept quiet."
"here's how you do it:1. open eve source code2. find section of code regarding local in whs3. select it, hit crtl+c4. find section of code regarding local in nullsec5. select it, hit ctrl+v6. ???7. celebrate making nullsec pvp interesting.local turns 95% of pvp into blobbing, station games and posing up. stuck in here with me:"
"this is why it is an addition and not a change. it adds the option for an alliance to remove local where they choose. again, i point out that it is elective. you can do nothing and leave it as it is (live local), or an alliance can install the ihub upgrade and remove local for their enemies and delay it for themselves as a byproduct of their hack.as for \"blocking access to the gate entirely\" it's a lot easier to block a signal. the game lore can explain the gate hacking in many ways.try this way for example:the ihub upgrade transmits a pattern that creates interference and prevents ships from receiving the local list. the upgrade then transmits the list on a different frequency only allied ships know about.the ship gate hacking is simply asking the gate for something it normally shares freely so it's actually not hacking it (this is a list normally given without asking for it). the difference is once the ship has the list it transmits it to everyone fleeted in the solar system.blocking access to a gate via hacking would be much more difficult than blocking a simple signal.to add: it could be like cyno jamming and be a pos mod (and therefore be destructible)"
"nah, as the search for an \"i win\" button continues, they will soon be requesting to have the overview removed, too."
"just make local truely delayed ( not wh delay)if your in system for more then 2 minutes you appear in local. when u jump in you have 2 minutes to hunt for bots, ratting players, people in anoms before they know you are there..when you jump in you also do not have local for 2 minutes. so you might be in an empty system ( d-scan away works) or there can be 100 reds in system.the i-hub upgrade thing can be in it also, but for the purpose of alliance members are instantly on d-scan, maybe blues as well...."
"in 2 minutes, i can manually fly to every \"high value\" anomalie in system while scanning for complexes."
"sorry look below for my other post. my comp had a fart."
"yes and no. it is very easy to put an alt at 300km facing gate, watch or listen for the jump effect and notify the bot to save up.most bots are in dead end system or systems with very little transit so it wont work.the things that drives me most to not liking this change is that its a half fast job at best and it does not fixes the problem and possibly breaks another part of eve. have you taken into concideration how \"op\" its gonna be not to be able to see you cos there is no local, not to be able to dscan you cos you got a cloak and not to be able to probe you cos you got a cloak. it makes cloak way too powerfull. now add to this black ops and its really really op, specially if you are really good with them like be. hi be o7 also the idea of upgrading the system to get local, i belive is probably one of the worst. have you forgotten what ccp did regarding system upgrades in the past? well alliances spend billions in upgrades and then ccp decided to nerf it to death with no refunds. people cried and did warn that a huge percentage of eve players will leave 0.0 space. goons were among the advocate for the nerf and were deniying that people would leave 0.0 space. now look at us, i would estimate that at least 30% of eve left 0.0 space and it all happened in days. people including goons now days are screaming that 0.0 is empty. whats worst, is people stopped logging in also. as you can imagine i do not want to see this happen all over again.also i like local. i like to smack talk in local to both, allies and enemies. i do not want this feature to be removed cos then how am i gonna talk to alies then?"
"you upgrade the system to remove local, not to add it. the default is nothing changes, it adds the option to remove local if you choose to, not the other way around. the counter was added so it could be made to not be op for the defender. if whatever you are doing requires local, get someone in a blops destroyer to target the gate and give you local. you cover him and there you go. the counter to the counter is just blow up the ship. the counter to that is bring more ships.yes you can use a scout, but this requires 2 accounts for something 1 used to be able to do. more than likely bots will just move to less profitable systems that would not be upgraded. i never said it would stop bots and this was not even on the intentions of it, just a possible side effect. the intention of it is to give alliances another tool to use how they see fit.the idea is alliances choose to remove local from a system, not choose to add local to systems. the goal behind it is they only remove local from important systems. the more i think about it the more i think it should be like a cyno jammer, requiring an upgrade and a pos module. this lets it be destructible without dealing with reinforcement timers. destroy the module and regain real time local for everyone."
"i'm not sure how this change would benefit pve players at all in nullsec. seems more like a recon/bomber/t3 gank improvement."
"change was not proposed to benefit anyone directly. it helps both sides.if you enable it in your pve systems you most definitely will get more people killed. at the same time enabling it in your pve systems discourages afk cloakers as they give away they are in system if they stay -- they benefit a lot more staying out of system until they are ready to gank. you could gank all day by just cloaking next door instead.you can enable it in your staging system to deny your enemy a list of who is there to defend. if your enemy doesn't know your numbers that's gonna suck for them. if you are in a system that is wider than the dscan range you can keep a reinforcement fleet out of that range and your enemy will not know it's there unless they are spying or hacking the gate.there's a lot of ways to use it, like anything in eve, i'm not intending it for any one thing. i just want the tool to be there and let the players/alliances figure out what they want to do with it."
"okay, while we're at it we might as well removegatesjump drivesstatic beltsand require probing to do anything meaningful in nullsecbecause if you want wormhole style local, why not move to a wormhole?"
"i agree sorta. i'm actually for removing static belts from every part of eve. but that's another thread altogether.i don't think removing local from null entirely is a good idea, which is why i didn't suggest that. it's a stupid idea and makes no sense. i think that doing this would just make most people leave null and/or make blobbing worse (travel in blobs to stay safe?)."
"if you want to remove local, put it behind another channel/minimize it and disable flashing. problem solved. besides people bot with friendlies in local also. a few months ago someone did it in our alliance. he got caught, blown up and his pod was still warping from belt to belt. he got reported, the end! removing local does nothing for bots. besides goons have said it before - if you spot a friendly boting, dont report them, dont shoot them, we are not here to do ccp work for them, from mouth of th horse himself the mittani.i want to talk to both friendlies and enemies in local and this is a dumb (no offence ) way to fix stuff.you want to remove reinforce timers on pos stations etc? emmm. sorry mate, but this is very bad for the game."
"you know removing local just means not automatically giving you the full local user list. you still get the local window and can talk in it. you just don't know who is there unless it's your alliance that holds it or you are hacking the gate (or they talk)."
"we have no way of knowing who reported a botter, fyiwe have that rule because we just don't want to deal with ratting drama, because we have better things to do"
"i thought it was more policy/a guideline than a rule."
"so i am gonna be talking to myself or perhaps even talking to a ship that was left on a pos? how fun is that? why dont you move to a wh? you got plenty of that boring nonsence there."
"the policy is \"don't petition blues\"as we have no way of knowing who made a petition, anybody who understands things and doesn't wear a tinfoil hat would realize why that rule exists"
"terribletroll.gif"
"my point is, if you are never gonna enforce no botting within your organization, why would you support a change thats not gonna fix the issue specially when your own alliance refuses to take matters in their own hand! its ridiculous."
"because changing game mechanics in some hamfisted attempt to fix botting is stupidbanning bots fixes botting"
"while i am for bans, 2 times = permaban so now its ok to ban other people but not \"your\" people. double standards anyone??"
"we discourage botting and anybody who talks about botting, encourages botting or anything of the sort gets banned from our servicesallowing people to report/shoot bots opens a can of worms of stupid ratting drama that we simply don't want to put up in a 4000 man alliance surrounded by a significantly larger coalition"
"i hate to say this cos i detest bots but did you ever stopped and thinked that the same thing that you just said above also applies to other alliances? how can you even think that this is not ok with the rest but its ok with your alliance? so how can you still call for baning and not enforce it in your own alliance? stop the hypocracy (again, no offence)"
"because the task of enforcing the eula comes with a paycheck, not a monthly subscription, and the people who find bots and mete out the appropriate punishments are actually equipped to do so"
"halfway through the original post my first thought was \"what a terrible ******* idea?\". soon after that my second thought was, \"oh, the op is from test. why am i not surprised?\"."
"you're from \"school of applied knowledge\" lol"
"again, the same thing can be said for your alliance! we are going in circles. you cant enforce something that \"your\" alliance is happy to do so. you are exaclty like them the only difference is you want them banned and not yours!its double standards which ever way you look at it."
"wow it's almost like you don't get the pointwe can't stop anybody from reporting bots, but if they choose to beat their chests about it they're gonehint: we don't care if idiots get banned for botting, goons or otherwise"
"clever retort, chap, but it doesn't change the fact that the op's idea is ******* terrible."
"excuse me but you just said your alliance did care a few posts ago cos otherwise the whole drama thing with 4000 people and your enemies next door.as i said, you cant enforce something when you dont enforce it yourselves like we did and blew up the guy boting in our own alliance followed by a kick and report. i guess you guys are not so keen about removing bots just other peoples bots! all bots dead. no exceptions"
"i must admit the op's suggestion is a balanced take on the question and deserves further scruntiny."
"no, you selectively drew whatever conclusion best suits your argumentwhen i said \"allowing people to report/shoot bots opens a can of worms of stupid ratting drama that we simply don't want to put up in a 4000 man alliance surrounded by a significantly larger coalition\" i meant that we don't want to deal with situations where it's one person's word versus another'sbelieve it or not, not everybody that rats in 0.0 is botting"
"ofcource not. i was not selective at all. i read exactly what it says. its not my fault you did not word it right. but once again, somebody in another alliance does not wants to \"deal with situations where it's one person's word versus another's\" as you just mentioned, so again how can you still argue for ban for boting and not enforce it within your alliance?"
"we don't pay to enforce ccp's rulessimple as that"
"the rest of eve dont pay to enforce ccp's rules either but they also understand, wrong is wrong and right is right.the rest of eve also dont pay to have your views imposed to them specially when it does not apply to your alliance simply cos you dont want to. it is simple as that!"
"you seem to think that bots need to be reported for ccp to do anything about them"
"you seem to think that removing local will get rid of bots. news flash. anything can be hacked. anything. all you need is but an interest to do so and a camera or an alt, or direct memory adressing or any other method out there.you simply will regretfully never get rid or botters and therefore removing local does not solve the issue.think about it, how long did that pl hack existed before it got reported. if it wasnt cos it got reporte by pl, ccp would never know. anythign can be hacked"
"i do live in a wh.the reason i do so is local makes nullsec useless.it needs to be at the very least 5-10min delayed. stuck in here with me:"
"no it does notif somebody takes a ton of enjoyment from spamming dscan they'll just move to wormholesthe only people who care about local in nullsec are those who want to move 30 dudes around somebody's space absolutely undetected because they failed at the spaceholding game and went ~wulfpax~"
"what kind of a ridiculous game would eve become without local, 45,000 players all clicking dscan every 2 seconds 23.5/7 rofl a laughing stock of the mmo world. the amarr empire, is known for its omnipresent religion <U+FFFD>"
"terrible, no one will want to play it specially new players. not to mention the uncesary traffic in every system.i would have to hot key dscan...gosh, terrible idea!all this super computers we got at home these days and 99% of the time we would spend dscaning."
"good explanation. also support this proposal and ccp needs to fix it..ccp is too busy nerfing and breaking various things in game for long time to bother with actually fixing something easy.also drake draconis is only troll, ignore him."
"fix this **** ccp, also nerf tracking dreads"
"sooooo... your beef is with older players then? because that's not a problem with \"feature bloat.\"it depends on what you intend to do. if you find a general location where the local market is anemic and can gain a steady stream of cheap minerals you can turn a tidy little profit off an unresearched bpo (ex. solitude region as it is a patch of high-sec surrounded by low and null-sec space... residents of that place either have to make their own stuff or buy it at high prices).now... if you want to do things the hard way, yes... it takes time. just like everything else in the game. you don't become a \"good\" pvper without putting in time, effort, and isk... do you?"
"wow you really are a ******* idiot."
"ugh. why. respond. to. the. troll."
"then why would anyone use neuts? this whole thread is :facepalm: the op wants to make a class of modules (nos) more useful, but is oblivious to the fact that his proposal would make another class (neuts) even less useful."
"anyone else have any suggestions? let's keep this thing going.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"monthbump."
"i was about to open a new thread but the search engine came up with this one, and it's actual enough.was it ever discussed by ccp? do we know why on earth they turned precious corpses into worthless items? i don't think that corpse names should be too stressing for the system, seeing as ships get named and renamed by thousands every day without ccp doing anything about it.i only discovered this yesterday, after taking the body of a clumsy moron that never stops babbling in local...only to find out i can't link him his corpse.also, my collection of corpses in jita is now worth zero. some of them were acquired after good fights and there were anecdotes related to many of them.all those moments will be lost, like tears in rain, ffs ccp!"
"1.0"
"+1now i just have a hangar full of nameless corpses. this isn't the holocaust. they must be remembered for who they were [while i touch them] for their family's sake!"
"could you imagine what the famous guiding hand social club heist would have been without a named corpse to tell the tale?did ccp realize that amazing playerdriven storytelling has been completely annihilated by this? no more paying/getting money for hits with the named corpse as the proof. kms aren't the same as delivering the body!no more corpse collecting to remember your epic battles.no more stories like that capsuleer space graveyard.no more knowing you have the real, ultimate proof of your enemy's demise on your cargo/station after a good, dirty fight.no more trading of named corpses. there was a real market for this, with famous capsuleers being worth more than commoners.at the very least, i would like to hear a convincing explanation from ccp. i don't doubt it's justified (although ccp does fix what is not broken, occasionally), but so far i haven't heard or read why.this just made eve a little bit less interesting and a little bit more bland."
"i don't think name changes will ever be appropriate for a game like eve. trust is hard-earned, and your name is your reputation. being a thief in eve isn't some arbitrary choice you make at the beginning of the game that dictates what skills you are given when you level up. thief is a title that is placed upon you by the community because of your larcenous activities. titles like this are irrevocably tied to your name. if you could just change your name on a whim, that entire dynamic goes out the window."
"just because other mmos do it, does not mean that it would be good for eve.as for your happy customer maths... nobody is going to quit playing eve because they cant change their name.jint hikaru - miner / salvager / explorer / spacebum in the beginning the universe was created. this has made a lot of people very angry and been widely regarded as a bad move."
"i would only support this if heavy restrictions were placed upon it's usage, such as; changing the name of a character will permanently lock it to that account."
"i still like this.also we can now have three word names, this wasn't an option for many of us."
"i also agree with t2 insurance, but only to a degree.the rest of the op really does seem to lean towards wanting the game to be more of a terraria, where you can't be killed unless pvp is switched on."
"and yet, without the kiddies this game won't grow. have you seen what happens to new players one jump outside of the starter systems? i have, and was a victim of a notorious corp that gets it's kicks off killing newbs. unless you've got a solid background in pvp in other games, it's a very nasty surprise and has caused more then one very capable person i know irl to quit eve and never look back. just about every mmo out there has a protection feature for the new player. usually it's aimed at the trials, sometimes it's a level restricted benefit.you came back with how it separates the wheat from the chaff. you don't address the real issue. \"i had to deal with newb grief, so you should too\" doesn't hold water with me. it's the majority of the reason why i babysit the new players my corp picks up from the starter systems. that way the greifers don't get the easy kills they seem to be looking to get. quite frankly, it gets *boring* having to do that.i'm sorry that you think others just arriving should go through the hell we did. i'd rather explain to them that their first two weeks in game had massive protection and that people can and will kill them just for kicks now that it's expired. at least then we can properly educate them in how to defend themselves against a potential newb killer.that said, make a suggestion on how to bring something like the supershield in line with protecting the new player, while not being able to be abused horribly.don't know if you actually read what i'd posted or not, but there were some very strict restrictions placed on that protection module. i.e. it can't be used in low/null at all with the exception of 0.4 space as a precaution. we want to keep the new players, not drive them into oblivion."
"you're completely correct on this, however let's at least give them the chance to make a full decision on their own. not force the decision on them by letting them get killed all the time. a ragequit seems to be the ultimate goal of most high-end players. go ahead, try to get someone to do so. just don't do to the people who are still just learning the dynamics of this game.people are taking this game *way* too seriously, that they're becoming short-sighted to the ultimate goal of keeping new blood in this game. without the new players that some people take great pleasure in killing on sight, this game will die.if you don't like the idea as i've laid it out, please feel free to make suggestions to modifying it to bring it in line with the rest of the game without completely gutting it."
"i'm going to call it by its real name: i'm a giant pussy and i need extra coddling act."
"wow, a troll, how cute.where exactly did i state that it couldn't be modified?"
"unlike eve, darkfall has lots of terrain and structures that can be used to naturally conceal yourself. in eve due to both local and the overview, there's no point hiding behind an asteroid, you'll be seen regardless, it doesn't even impede people from shooting at you. so in this sense eve is a much more simplistic game, and it requires invisibility for hiding to function at all.you said you read my post linked in the op, so you know i've suggested a form of cloak hunting. so, yes i do think it would be good for eve in the context i have framed. i'm not making a proposal here on cloak hunting until we can get past the first hurdle which is local chat. what with gate camps and cyno bait ships? stealth, ambush, and evasion should be a tool that's usable by the few against the many, not just for the many to blob the few. by making intel hard to get, you make active intel gathering more important. if it were easy you wouldn't need players as scouts making a real effort to get intel. it's true that with just this proposal and not the other ideas from the larger thread linked in the op covops ships would be very hard to scout out at all, but once local is dealt with i support new cloak detection methods so long as they require effort, are in the spirit of cat and mouse, and are largely useless at gate camps. no i didn't remove the ability to get intel on docked pilots. there's always a means for showing them in the new local system, albeit not always easily. they show instantly in low and high sec, and via either the scanner array or titan in hostile sov null, and also by standings in npc null. failing that you can get general estimates on numbers from map stats.also making active intel gathering more important is just one goal, i also said i want to take away free flawless intel on a silver platter, and boost stealth/guerrilla warfare type gameplay."
"you understand that \"boosting stealth/guerrilla warfare type gameplay\" will come at the expense of finding targets in the first place, right? you want more ratter kms, but you won't get many because the ratters won't be there when it's obvious that some bomber pilot that can fly around almost completely free of any risk of detection, let alone interception, can tackle you the moment he decloaks."
"do a lot of goonswarm ratters get killed by solo bombers already? i would have thought the mighty cfc would be able to protect their own space from ships that blow up from someone sneezing at them?"
"a bomber can get a point on you even if you're aligned - this is how you kill the idiots who think that ratting is fine with hostiles in local ~as long as they're aligned~also, stop trying to deflect - discuss the points i've made, not your little grudge against goonswarm or whatever."
"a bomber can die to a flight of unbonused drones. i'm not saying a bomber cannot kill a ratter, i think it should be able to, but it's not like the ratters are defenseless against them.as for targets, there aren't many anyway. there's lots of things to fix in eve, and another is risk vs reward balance, nullsec without current local intel deserves to have much more reward than high sec with its concord protection. however, if people choose less reward for less risk, so be it.that was no deflection, it was a point related to your comments. you have 1000s of allies, as an alliance loads of isk, and good organization, and you're posting how solo bombers are going to force the most powerful alliance in eve from ratting in their own space with the removal of the current local chat. do you not see the silliness of that? ..and i have nothing against goons in eve, i consider you as a group an asset to eve's sandbox."
"local chat does not provide any sort of safety in and of itself. it requires constant vigilance to work. you have to keep your eye on intel channels, local, dscan if you're particularly paranoid. unlike in hisec where you still have the chance of being bailed out by concord, once you're caught, you're dead.you can also observe a ratter's habits - does he always warp to the station when hostiles show up in local? does he warp to a pos? does he rat aligned? nothing stops you from getting a pull bubble on the station or the safe pos. if he's too slippery, well, he's just prepared. removing local when you have static celestials that you can warp to without probing and static routes through nullsec is beyond dumb."
"thats i somewhat true but i still miss a point why normal warfare and teamwork should suffer(due to local ) for sake so people can solo rat in peace.whats more important in this game warfare and teamwork or solo ratting ??"
"wtf ? teamwork and delayed local is incoherent things.this topic nothing else just crying about how give an idiot idea to god mode for cloaking fags."
"what's the matter? tell us how you really feel."
"last time i visited goons, a small fleet of mine put a drag bubble up between a station and a jump bridge and caught lots of good targets warping between them. we were outnumbered 20-to-1 in system, and they eventually formed up to kill us, at which point we scattered... that's guerilla warfare!!!i often put bubbles up on gates, and camp it in a solo frigate or a small group, where we often kill the scouts of bigger gangs (and other people that land in the bubble). when done in an overwhelming hostile region, that's guerilla warfare. i've done the afk-sb in a ratting system (although i find this tactic boring and pathetic). it's a form of guerilla warfare. i've used cloaky tacklers in agile gangs to catch and destroy straggling ships of larger gangs. this is especially fun to do to bs's returning from a sov op. that's guerilla warfare. none of these scenarios required us to be completely invisible to the enemy.... there are lots of tactics to take on bigger fleets, too. druka bss, bombing runs with sb's, cloaky dictors to split up enemies into bitsized meals, flyby snipers, etc. i can provide you with many examples where agony's been signficantly outnumbered and outgunned, and used tactics and surprise to take on superior numbers. we don't need easy-mode ambush and evade, not when we have a fairly balanced version of it now!!!!! stealth does not equal invisibility. anonymity can easily provide you with the ability to hide (aka stealth). have you ever tried to find waldo? if a stranger comes into system, they might be friend or foe. if friendly strangers are the norm, then unfriendly strangers can often sneak by!! why isn't this enough for you?? it really sounds like you're asking for easy-mode stealth, where there is very little chance of being found!! stealth should be about avoiding detection, not removing all ability to be detected!!! additionally, a good mechanic for stealth should require much more skill than putting a covert cloak on your ship!!!! first of all, when your proposal unbalances cloaks, you really need to include the \"extra's\" that bring them back into balance!! secondly, your \"extra's\" do nothing to make hunting an aware cloaker in system even remotely viable. have you ever tried probing down a ship that knows you're probing them? it's tedious, as the ship warps whenever probes appear on scan. usually, for probing to work, your target needs to be slow and/or oblivious to the probes. the only thing you'll catch with your anti-cloak technology are afk cloakers!!! overall, this proposal has several huge problems, which you seem to gloss over as intended design, or unimportant. reason's why this proposal will never happen: a.) in your design, there is no way a target in space can evade being caught by a covert gang. the only defense they have is to prevent the cloakys coming into system (unrealistic) or hope the cloakers never come (unrealistic). (i.e. covert cloakers == god mode)b.) intel in sov-null becomes extremely one-sided. you give it to the owners of a system on a silver platter because they built an outpost, which are easy to build and prevelant in today's eve economy!!! their opponents have to frieghter in an easy-to-destroy scanner array or bridge in a titan (lol). by the way, none of these things involve actively gaining intel!!!!! c.) finding targets to shoot is exceedingly difficult in your design, especially for a medium sized gang. in order for pvp to happen, you have to be able to find a target. d.) you come across as exceedingly ignorant of current in-game tactics, and your proposal wreaks of \"give me easy-mode ambushing, easy-mode evasion, and other obnoxious imbalances to ensure one-sided pvp!!\" one sided mechanics typically ruin good gameplay, not make it better!!!"
"he just needs his meds....he'll start having seizures here in a minute.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"it's not like there's many people doing anything out in nullsec outside of fleets anyways, so might as well just get it over with and remove local altogether so people'll stop whining about how local is such a powerful intel tool."
"because most people believe having an intel tool (local) that provides us with too much information is far better than only having a blatantly inadequate intel tool (dscan). i understand that wh dwellers get by alright with only dscan, but they also have much better rewards, sleepers that switch targets, and limited outsider traffic due to wh mechanics."
"due to recent changes with regards to the orca / rorquals corporate hangers i would propose a small change - make the right click open to access the orca / rorqual ore hold for all members of fleet. this way the industrial command ships and capital industrial ship can be used by the fleet as intended .mining barges (redheaded step children to the exhumers)please for the love of god either add a module - gas cloud strip harvester designed for us with mining barges / exhumers or remove the turret fitting requirement for the gas cloud harvesters. and give the procurer a +300% bonus to gas harvest yield so that it has a purpose (much like the skiff with mercoxit) as right now it has pretty much none as the training time difference between it and a retriever is your log-off f time for the night."
"i've often supported better insurance payouts for t2 ships, but lately i've begun to see the opposite side of the coin. flying t2, t3 & faction ships should be risky in regard to insurance. it comes down to the most basic rule of eve, don't fly what you can't afford to replace. i know it sounds harsh, but eve is a harsh game.not supporting."
"if you want free ships then maybe you should do a better job at managing your finances.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"i think you are confusing force projection with a feeling of \"it's a small world.\" the eve universe is actually a very very big place if you wander off the main trade routes and go exploring systems. most of your suggestions seem geared towards slowing down the ability to project power and not to increase the perceived size of the universe.i completely agree that if it can be built it should be able to be destroyed.i have actually advocated for cyno spool up in the past and i do still feel it is a very necessary tool to not make hot dropping a less immediate thing. i'm also not particularly opposed to modifying the use of jump bridges - maybe adding a mass dependent spool up time on these as well. increasing the cost of jumping ships via jump bridge/titan bridge will just be passed onto the consumer of all moon goo products as the price to fight for and hold the good moons just got more expensive.removing warp to 0 will just make things slower and probably lead to more jb networks in null sec not less as the time to mobilize a force, basically autopilot to the target system, engage the target, and return will be prohibitvly time consuming for the casual player. most sov grinds already take hours of being on grid not counting the time it takes to actually form the fleet and transit. i think it will just lead to a more stagnant null sec tbh (which is what the op seems most concerned about)."
"eve is a harsh game"
"it's called consequence...why didn't you stop training at some point if you knew you would fly small stuff all the time, for example at a 5mil clone price ?you can easily do smallscale pvp with that amount of skillpoints."
"no, because you picked on the arazu."
"i'm going to go ahead and say no on this. but i'm not going to be and asshat and make fun of your idea for the simple reason that i like the fact that you at lease had an idea, and weren't afraid to post it.now, the reasoning behind the no:- force reconnaissance cruisers already have the capability to fit a covert ops cloaking device, and can warp cloaked, thus precluding their need for a further means of covert surveillance. you can move around pretty much undetected (unless you happen to **** up and warp to zero)- programming this would be an overwhelming pain in the **** for ccp, and as a result, would probably get swept under a rug somewhere, or forgotten about for a few years, as other major issues that have come up are just now being addressed.- server strain that would be produced by hundreds of people using at a time would get ridiculous, because you know that people would abuse them when they first came out (especially if you're trying to share the view from the probe amongst several other players or hundreds of players in larger fleets)but, i at least give you credit for having an idea, and putting it up on here for everyone to see. don't get discouraged, and keep them coming. this is how the sandbox gets improved. well, that and if draconis would stop ****posting and actually play the game. mr. i don't want to be a pet but am suddenly one of cfc's pets. hilarious.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"i don't really see the point. i just sit on grid and watch stuff. oh,wait...is that too much risk for you?"
"i have to admit the probe\"cam\" idea has merit....just that bit.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"90% of the arguments against my idea didn't even read the proposal, just the title.i'm going to say this one more time then start ignoring everyone that obviously did not read it:the proposal is not to have the default be no local.the proposal leaves everything as it is now, but adds an ihub upgrade that, when installed, makes the holding alliance have delayed local and everyone else have no local in the system which it is installed.here's how i looked at it:some people think there should be no local in null sec. some people think local in null sec is a must have.i think eve is a sandbox and everyone wants different things. so i came up with something in the middle. why?remove local from null sec entirely and most people will leave null sec.add an upgrade to add local back and almost every system will get it.add an upgrade that simply removes local and it will see little to no use.add an upgrade that removes local only for enemies straight up and every system will have it.i tried to think of something in the middle. instead of just being \"install this in every system\", it's \"what systems would this be useful in?\"it has pros (your enemies can't see local) and cons (your allies cannot see local either and your alliance gets delayed local). it has a counter (a ship which can hack the gate and give your fleet a live local list) and it adds a new ship type to the game in a class that even ccp says really needs more ship types."
"so basically you want this ihub upgrade to take a system from being as it is now, to a delayed local for the alliance which owns the system, just to remove local from everyone else?good luck with that, it'll be one of those upgrades which are never used because the delay scares them. remove local and be done with it."
"i do not feel this is a good idea.i personally wouldnt like that someone could shoot the upgrade and now i am left without local.there are far more things that need fixing like sov, pos and faction warfare. not to mention that this makes the attacker always have the upper hand. this is specially true when your enemy is far more bigger than your alliance. we have enough upgrades to worry about to add more."
"we don't need solutions to removing local, removing local is the solution!remove it already damn it, every where!no, not delay, remove!! [u]malice redeemer[/u] - \"post if you are unsubing over the new inventory\" posted: 2012.05.23 01:39"
"maybe make 'local' an upgradeable asset.a system thats held by sov wont have local channel, at first.allow alliances to upgrade systems, (at a cost), to implement an 'active transmitter relay network'or better yet, make it a costly pos module, like an entire pos to run the thing.therefor it will become a developable asset, but will also be vulnerable to destruction.pop the atrn module at an enemies pos, covert-cyno in a fleet later while local is down=profit!!!!"
"didn't read the proposal. then every system would just be upgraded and that's boring."
"andrea - go to whs.that is what he wants. *for the most part*end of dsicussion..remove thy head from thy @$$ for once.utterly ridiuclous...you talk such passion about bots and stuff but your blind/dense as a bloody brick.anyone can use or talk in local..doing so reveals your presense and thats that.and to be quite honest...nobdy in null sec really chats it up in local..its done in alliance chat (derp derp duh!)if they do talk..its selective...smack talking..taunting..etc...even a noob can figure that out.if you want to be a social butterfly then go right on ahead....no one said you couldn't flap your gums.the whole point is an alliance getting an distinct hard earned advantage...in reallity its not much.if you've lived in whs (i seriously doubt you have) you'd understand just because you don't see it..doesn't mean its not there.mechanics are still the same..rules are still the same...just no more free intel.wonder where tiger spirt is at? usually goes emo-rage seizure full on mode here.cant say i support op's idea fully...but i like what i see. :)================ stop the evemail spam!"
"this.i get what the op is saying, but i neither agree with the proposed change nor how he decided to attempt to get his point across."
"well i get now that my sarcasm doesnt always get understood, but its also frustrating that a bug like this exist after so many years and i know that can be cut 'n dry sorta say but ya i can only say that i do have aspergers and add, although thats not an excuse its a explaination but it doesnt change that some people choose to focus on verbal expression of my writing without actually thinking about the bug and my explaination on it, they choose to make it about me cause of the way i delivered it, when simple they could have choosen to ignore me and my post completely, but instead choose to derial my post and point because of it.maybe i'm a idiot for thinking that people actually want a better game, but the facts stands clearly the build window quote shows an incorrect amount of ram's need for any blueprints that need rams at a x amount of runs' and it is clearly to me that cause for this must lie in the way that window round up or down the build cost and since ram's arent an integer but a percentage of 1 it must be converted to a number and for veldspar ii mining crystalls its 1.5% of 1 but thats 0.015 of ram and that whould be rounded to 0 so none whould be used thus i must conclude that its being rounded up to 1 and then timed with with amount of runs. this is very logical for me and the way i think and i have had alot annoyences over this cause i have several t2 blueprints and i have to build some of them in a correct order if i dont ill have to build less and less and this is because i build for cycle of days and i wont be able to do that when i dont have the incorrect amount of ram's and its really alot of ram's i need every month and its alot of extra build time we are talking well over 10.000 ram's and ram's take more time and is really big congestion in my production cause of one single little big bug.so yes i apologize my for undetected sarcasm and ask people to show support for getting ccp to spend <U+FFFD> and hour to repair a simple math bug that prevents me for clicking build even though everything i have is correct.thank you all, and even you drake. i truely did laugh from the start when i wrote the post and to this one, cause i do realize not everybody can understand the thoughts of different think but highly intelligent person disclaimer : the last 2 paraphrase may or may not have included sarcasm."
"hint: the plex they purchase with isk was still bought by someone with real money. by proxy, paying to play with isk is still supporting ccp.if people didn't buy plex with isk, no one would buy plex with money. if no one bought plex with money, people that may not have the financial means to play would no longer play. ccp would then lose money. get it?as to the main subject of the op... not supporting."
"your doing it wrong...i suggest you talk to people who use bpo's before you spout more crap.================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"lol i love these quick responses. prove that i'm wrong, show me the math if you're so smart."
"as i'm sure you are aware now, they were once in the game but no longer are..... blah blah...but as to your idea, lets say you were at war and you seeded these somewhere, all a war target would have to do is sacrifice himself in the mine field, but also have a say 5 non corped alts in pods fly in at the same time.bam, instant -10 sec status.jint hikaru - miner / salvager / explorer / spacebum in the beginning the universe was created. this has made a lot of people very angry and been widely regarded as a bad move."
"quit sucking up to people.it's disgusting and degrading, even for you.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"if you can't stand the heat, feel free to biomass and spare us your drivel.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"wow jack....got some serious troll vibe going on.... get up on the wrong side of the bed? get podded recently?================ stop the evemail spam!"
"shamless bump"
"it's not your merlin.looks like this thread has run it's course due to op not providing reasonable opinions on the matter & going with the \"me me me, i want\" format."
"the rokh can project dps out over 300km away if needed. it isn't meant to be doing huge dps. that's why it doesn't get the hybrid damage bonus. honestly, if you want the 25% damage bonus of the hyperion, then fly the f'king hyperion. don't cry on the forums until ccp homogenizes their game a little more. if ccp bent over every time someone bled on the forums, there would just be 1 race and 1 weapon system."
"need more support for this venture.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"i am for this change 110% bounty hunting is a joke*edit i would like to add that this is one of the best suggestions i have ever seen in this forum and have supported similar proposals in the past. +1 for op"
"overall i like your idea of bounties, and you get a +1 from me.i do think it's possible to make some kind of system that would allow corporations to respond to corp theft / scamming via bounty contracts. one way would be that, if you do not have current killrights, you could only call a bounty contract on someone who is currently in or has recently been in your corporation / alliance, and only through a corporate vote where the usual share-holders get a say.this would allow you to respond to corp theft with a bounty. of course there'd have to be a significant bribe to concord to facilitate the creation of kill rights, which means it's not something you do lightly. maybe 25% of the bounty payout or something to that effect, meaning that even if nobody takes out the target you lose 25% of the isk.another type of contract i would love to see is a \"hitman\" sort of contract, where you can be hired to kill and pod a pilot. it would be different from bounty contracts in that it pays out a set amount of isk upon the termination of the pod, does not transfer any kill rights, would incur sec loss if completed in high-sec and is only assignable to an individual pilot. in essence you'd create a contract with a spaceship hitman to kill your target and if he does this he gets the isk. you could specify a minimum isk value loss to your target for the payout to be triggered, so he can't just convo the target and agree to kill his ibis and implant free clone.these \"hitman\" contracts could then cover all the criminal activities that aren't corp theft or provide killrights. obviously these contracts are illegal, and so you can only set them up in low-sec and null-sec stations, and once the target is killed there could be a probability that the author of the contract is discovered by concord and given a sec-loss.also, such hitman contracts would only be visible to the author and the hitman, the target should not be notified that someone has been hired to kill them."
"naw then his buddies kill the offender to keep the bounty money in the corp/fleet/etc. so maybe they aren't making isk hand over fist like now. but they are able to quickly neutralize inconvenient bounties before going out on nightly rampage as long as bounty paid is close to value destroyed.i think the idea of being able to limiting the bounty collectors to a list of certain approval corps or people is essential to preserving most of the punch for your bounty isk. or failing that, make most people feel better about the effort."
"imho bounty hunting branches off and modifies reactions to crimes for which concord would already approve some sort of action.lol - i can even theoretically see \"instant\" bounty hunting off stealing and gcc (probably special system bulletin board and lots of player preset choices under a single ui button to post it in timely manner).but vengeance for other crimes (or simple competitive advantage) that are too complex for concord to rubberstamp should be covered by mercenary contracts and maybe some sort of new wardec by corps against individuals. wardeccing individual toons to expedite mercenary vengeance should be expensive (100m per week?) and grow rapidly more expensive after some initial period of time - say 3 weeks. only corps should be able to do it. maybe only certain merc corps with licenses (purchase plus other requirements) and good concord and faction area standings. repeat wardecs within 6 months against the same individual by the same corp should be counted as a single cumulative wardec for fee purposes. because opening new corps is easy, the total non-overlapping wardec time against a given individual should gathered from corps in the past 6 months employment histories of the declaring ceo or directors. that said, its the individual problem if they manage to offend multiple corps in rapid succession. corp, fleet and and alliance mates may want a flashing signal (green?) alternating with normal status to quickly alert them that its an individual wardec matter. however since you wouldn't see individual corpmate as gcc nor mercs aggression flagged to corp, alliance, fleet -- things should work out automatically in a natural manner. that is you can rr your friendly and enter the fight or be stupid and shoot someone not gcc or wardec flagged to you and see concord same as normal.to keep things simple merc corps probably should be responsible for posting wardec fees against an individual --- its a business expense & gamble on their part. they can of course simply opt to gank in high sec or wait for victim to leave high sec. the same if a corp decides to pursue vengeance themselves.of course all the same victory/fractional reward conditions and calculation can apply to actual merc vengeance contract as to concord backed bounty contracts.*note: individuals with beef against another individual should normally be able to get ceo to post wardec against an individual."
"yeah, and nobody will be able to pay real money or whatever the price to use the service when the company fail to develop it.it's not about you, not about eve, it's about the customers unhappy with their name for nine frakking years. it's about time we get to access this service without disrupting your lazy countermeasure against scum & villany. and i do think the original poster suggested more than enough restrictions; or perhaps you could debunk it."
"troll plus 1 dawn"
"(proposal) cloaky reds in system, how to make life harder for them.afk cloaked ships need a timer. when timer runs, they get kicked. simple as that.now, go complain your cloaky griefing ship should be able to sit shiva for 2+ hours not moving, and explain why?if cloaky griefer wants to play, all he needs to do is find a target in a reasonable time and kill it. how hard is that?oh, wai... cloaky griefer is afraid to die and hiding in a ship with no guns. why support that?cheers!~bb"
"or, you know, you can set traps?we mine in peace with proper pvp support and cloakyfags in a system. maybe you should come take some notes the next time i deploy my full mining support duders."
"as a total noob, i had no idea you can locate an afk cloaked ship. [i have only been playing for 4-5 years, you know.]oh, maybe you think the pvp guys should run fleets in system with your ratters and miners to support pve. great idea!?!but, why pay for sov if you can't control your own space against this afk cloaked grief without calling on a bunch of your friends to come sit shiva with you and boring a lot of players to search for or protect against griefers?anyways, thanks to csm for finally acknowledging and briefly talking about this today for the very first time at today's town meeting on eve-radio! cloaky grieft has been a topic of concern among the player base for many, many years. i wa\s interested also to hear most of the csm representatives appear to be satisfied with ccp's explanation that the simple solution i mentioned above is \"too hard\" to implement.cheers!"
"*sigh*i'll explain this for you, since i would hate for a fellow member of my alliance to fail as badly as you are showing.you set traps, you create situations to pull him in to attack, yes, you even get your pvp bros or alt to sit in the belt with you in a cloaky recon waiting for them to attack.if all this fails, you just find out where his corp/alliance does their carebearing and return the favor by shutting down their systems.its not like fa has not dealt with this before, and its not like we won't deal with it again. don't whine on the forums, just deal with it. cloaky afk can't hurt you, and when they come back from afk, they can only find your miners with probes which you can see coming before they can get a lock and warp(you are riding dscan, right?)if you need help dealing with this, go to the alliance forums and ask someone for help. just stop shiptoasting about it in public."
"dawn, you are making this sound like this game mechanic thing is an alliance issue. it's not. we joined fa for the pvp, and we are having a lot of fun fighting.i used this account for a lot of industry in my first few years, and i'm very much aware of this afk cloaky griefer issue from those past experiences. i'm not doing pve in eve for a few months, because i am actually favoring a couple of facebook games for pve (more fun). eve still kicks ass with pvp, but not so much for pve due to issues like this one.anyways, this is a game mechanics issue, not an alliance issue at all."
"its not an issue, tho. they can't affect you(beyond making you switch systems) unless you let them do so.work with your mates if they are in your way, do some intel work, and deal with it. we get those guys often enough that their contracts to grief us usually don't get renewed, and the few times the have been good enough to actually become a real problem, we took the fight to them."
"well said, bluebear8 !dawn is an effing troll, and probably never wore her industrial diapers.probably someone took a shortcut when coding the cloak module, and now we're paying the price! smooth move, ex lax."
"while i agree with your post, that cloakies should not shut an industria op down. the truth is they do. that is why cloakies do what they do. its a game play tactic of finding an alliances industrial systems and placing a cloaky in it to disrupt the industrial players. you can't argue that point.keep in mind the indi ops we are refering to, are not the full 20 man fleets with pvp cover. its the smaller miners taking advantage of some down time between fleet opps.but that's just me."
"they do, in fact, shut down small, unprepared ops.but only if the miners in question let their fear overwhelm their common sense.my corp maintains unlisted belt bookmarks across several good mining system in out of the way corners of our space, just so that those very small 2-3 man ops have options if the pvpers can't/won't help for whatever reason. its a pvpers job to maintain those(pvpers tend to have better probing skills).you have to be organized, and support each other. letting a cloaky shut you down is your failure tho, not a failure of the mechanic.edit: oh, and i maintain my pvp main in fairly close proximity to said miners so i can rapid response to help them in a pinch, with carrier hotdrops or recon cruiser support(usually the latter, carrier hotdrops are pretty much suicide) so i have a fair grasp of both sides of the coin."
"my apologies, dawn. i thought all fa was pvpers. had no idea you were the indy toon.[ i didn't look at your history because i didn't think any indy player would like cloaky afk griefers.]sorry, for the industrial diaper comment. maybe you are wearing them, after all. <-- another troll detected.i still agree with bluebear that afk cloakers are not good for the game. maybe you are having fun setting traps if it's the first few times you've done traps. you might just discover it is impossible to catch a truly afk dude, tho. i kinda doubt you'll enjoy doing that for very long if the cloaker is truly afk. that's why they call it a griefer, i think. he's not looking for a fun fight, or an easy gank, he's just looking to give some grief while he's off afk watching the cartoon channel. or, waiting to drop a cyno to invite his friends to the party on the 3rd day of being afk in system if some pve activity picks back up. best way to get some action for ccp to fix this issue is to find out where the csm dudes are working their industrial accounts, and go park an afk cloaky ship in system with their ratter/miner/trader hauler account. 24/7? truly! if it's not a bug, it's a feature."
"fa is a pvp alliance, but alot of us have indy alts. dawn happens to be my indy alt, who is posting while my main is sadly forum banned(yeah, i totally fess up to being a troll, but i have found the best troll is the truth)considering eve was originally designed by a couple dudes pissed they were not allowed to grief in other mmos, i am inclined to think most griefing tactics are a feature. the game has moved past that, and some actions are actually bannable as griefing, but not many(only confirmed one i have found is bumping a freighter for hours, preventing its warp, just for the lulz) but in the end, assume any grief potential is supposed to be there, and is accepted by ccp.i don't like cloakyfags, but i accept their right to do their thing, and see it as a legit tactic in a war against other large entities where you need to impair their ability to make isk. the other thing about nerfing them is the fact that doing so is a direct buff to bots, since a standard tactic to deal with them is to cloak in their botting system for a week or 2, til the bot whitelists you(meaning they will do their thing and ignore you being in system) while allows you to kill them with impunity.all in all, they should stay, even if it causes me a little inconvenience."
"[quote=dawn flare]i don't like cloakyfags, okay, but next time say it like you really mean it."
"it is totally unaccetable that hulkageddon lasts a month, and there are more than one hulkageddon pr. year.events like this must not be allowed to last more than a week, pr. year, and there must not be more than one event that targets \"same targets / in-game profession\".it is dissatisfactory to pay but not being able to play !maybe it is time to make hisec bigger - a lot bigger, since it is here some 70% of the playerbase lives."
"at best, all you'd do is postpone the shock of losing a ship by a few weeks. it's a non-solution, in fact it's an anti-solution because it'll give newbies the sense that they are, indeed, invincible in hisec, which'll make the shock of getting ganked even worse.."
"*bump* 23 views and no comments? this seem like a feasible change?"
"edit: proposal is in 2nd post, discussion is in this post.yes this is another thread about mining. while i will be including my propositions in the discussion as well as discussing other player<U+FFFD>s ideas i want you to know, that this is more of a [research] than a [proposition]. i simply want to summarize the facts whether eve related, or real life. and then elaborate on current design i think fits most.let me start by figuring out the asteroid belt behavior in real life: asteroid belts usually form not around the planets but around the star, whether it is due to the destruction of the planet, removal of the planet embryos, or lack of accretion from nearby plants. here is the solar asteroid belt from nasa. as visible from the picture the asteroid belts are usually very scarce by our standards. as such it is possible to <U+FFFD>be<U+FFFD> inside the asteroid belt and not see a single asteroid in sight. asteroids themselves have separate classes that are defined by their brightness (albedo number) derived from their composition, which usually varies little as far as i remember. there are also very few asteroids with a significant mass. as such main problem in current world astronomy lies in ability to find them. in eve we have vast abundance of asteroids that come with our own problems in game-play. main problems in current mining are: boredom, bots, and fairly low reward ceiling. many people also complain about safety compared to ratting. as such proper direction of mining should be:- elaborate enough to filter bots at least to some extent - not more boring towards the real miners. preferably even more interesting the actual reward ceiling should be handled separately from this discussion since it will fluctuate after mining rebalance and preemptive adjusting will be moot.many people proposed specific modifications to asteroids: sweet spots, calibrations that increase yield etc. i personally have few problems about such solutions to this problem.- these solutions force players to concentrate on single asteroid itself, while i think it is more viable to shift the concentration on how large the space can be. - pilots are flying huge specialized ships that are capable of mining huge amounts of minerals, i think it is petty to try to mine most lucrative chunk of a single asteroid, much more reasonable to find a better asteroid.- many of such ideas are unfortunately extremely <U+FFFD>bot-friendly<U+FFFD> while turning miner experience into something like <U+FFFD>mass effect 2 mining<U+FFFD>- overconcentration on the asteroids might force miners to pay even less attention to their safety. imagine trying to increase your yield, while checking scanner for probes or local for enemies.as such most viable solution to the mining problem would be modification of the warp destinations of the belt similarly to the current gravimetric sites.another reason why i included gravimetric sites is scanning. botting programs usually work in binary patterns ( <U+FFFD>=<U+FFFD> in local (1/0) asteroid presence etc) while having much harder time at pattern recognition. that is the way captcha<U+FFFD>s work. i know that adding simple captcha to the mining will ruin it, but scanning by itself is very viable alternative. especially it will be hard to code for recognition of spheres\circles\dots. i know that bots would possibly emerge but for long time they would operate on random sampling while player is afk which would make them less effective, than real players.main problem with this approach lies in the longevity of the site. if the scanned location will feed a single miner for significant amount of time bots would simply proliferate again. as such i think most viable solution for this approach would be to add lifetime of the site. and it should be short <U+FFFD> preferably around 1 hour.many people would complain, that it would be too cumbersome to mine and as such i think at this point it would be necessary to modify ore output so that amount mined in this approach would be equal or more to the amount mined using standard mining, so players will spend some time scanning (more actions from player) but increased yield will cover the time <U+FFFD>lost<U+FFFD> not mining.i would also like to mention shultz 2006, that this set up will result in better reward pattern formation, since the players will be more subjected to contiguous cycle of work (scanning) and reward (mining with ridiculous yield for few minutes) thus theoretically resulting in higher dopamine output inside miners brains. and happy eve miners = awesome. new players should be fine with this setup since there are pretty decent tutorial missions about scanning.and at the same time <U+FFFD> most major factor: specialization! want even more output per player? create a fleet with dedicated scanners haulers miners and boosters, and roam the constellation. with proper spawn system similar to the wh generation it would be much more viable to have roaming mining fleets that would yield a lot of resources but require constant movement from one system to the other. i think this approach is the best fit for something so essential in eve.makes eve feel bigger.planetary rings could then be utilised for ring mining some developers already mentioned."
"as such here is my actual proposal. introduce large asteroid belts across entire systems that spawn scannable locations mentioned above, but keep few static areas, that produce fewer yields than current mining. that way even if player does not have scanning ability yet he can mine with ease. these asteroid fields should be large enough to provide additional problems to bots (if interested i would elaborate) while introducing the majesty of large universe to new and old miners alike. the asteroid field should have a personal background effect that overlaps current background. that way player within that belt would actually feel inside the belt and not just near 15 rocks. but that can wait.something like this?the asteroid field could also house the agent missions, since where would be best place for enemies to hide in controlled space, than behind some asteroids."
"as michael jackson would say...\"make that change\""
"i do, and i don't. you are right that my proposals have major force projection impacts, but it's neither \"small world\" or force projection that motivated my suggestions, but rather that i think eve is getting too easy. more and more tools are being introduced that allows for faster travel, remote interaction with and management of assets and overall more safety for your internet spaceships. as a result pvp is becoming this organized event that mostly happens when two sides have assembled fleets and meet on some field of battle (or the occasional gank at a gate camp), rather than a constant threat of living in outlaw space.i would like to see more dynamic and random pvp, more conflict in eve in general, and i think the way to achieve some of those could be restricting the tools of risk free travel. i'd love to see people assembling fleets to actually escort their freighters in and out of null-sec, rather than just a quick push of a button. i'd like to see the main traffic pipes to null-sec hot spots being constantly contested by roaming gangs, while the main alliances attempt to police them.i'm not saying that warp to 0 or higher jump bridge costs are the only solutions. these are merely some of my suggestions. as you will note i didn't say that all gates should be warp to 15, but a more dynamic system. i imagine in empire the gates would all be modern and well tended to, so they'd mostly be warp to 0, while in low-sec and null-sec it would be up to the player alliances to make sure that they have warp to 0 capability. when you get outside the main pipes that are upgraded by players, stargates in less populated areas might have warp to 5, 10 or 15.the benefit of that would be that you would have \"more dangerous\" areas in space where dynamic pvp could evolve."
"supported. rats are boring.i also want to cloaky camp npcs so they can't mine. :)"
"hello guys,i will be talking about making one of my favorite hq sites abit more interesting. my plan is to get the station that you must blow up at the end have a small chance of droping faction loot at a price. as many people go afk durning the site i'm gonna have a good reason why you should stay in gate. for a small chance of a good rare faction drop there will be a grid wide smartbomb if the tower drops loot it will pulse every minute or so doing about 5 thou damage. i think this can be a great idea and please feel free to post any more ideas in the comments.spread the word to make incursions the best thing in eve!!!!!"
"please stop poasting"
"please don't make any more suggestions"
"now for everyone who is gonna start complaning please post what you want maybe just make it drop faction loot or more spaws or more payout or something"
"i'd like the tower to **** my name in stars but we can't all have what we want."
"\"\"remove it from hi-sec and you will accomplish this goal."
"another incursionbear who feels jilted after the nerf. nerf incurions harder i say. or remove them completely.oh and stop ****posting.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"why make it so complicated?i agree the present wardec costs are way to low but all this nonsense about costing more to wardec bigger corps or alliances is beyond stupid.my simple version of wardec mechanics would be -50 million for wardeccing a corp and 200 million for wardeccing an alliance. no stacking of fees, upto 3 wardecs running at a time. war decced corp/alliance gets to call in two 'allies' for free, any more they pay for a wardec.any newly formed corp or alliance is immune to any wardecs for the first three months of it's existance.any rr become wartargets for the duration of a war. all wars last for 1 week per payment. nobody can be recruited into a warring corp until hostilities end.under this arrangement say for example a small griefer corp between 3-5 members wardecs 3 'carebear' corps for 150 million. i'm pretty sure there will be small merc corps willing to offer services on new merc contract system so said griefers have the potential of 6 merc corps hunting them down, perhaps even taking the carebears under their wing and teaching them the basics of pvp to help hunt their griefer enemy. small scale high sec pvp could blossom!"
"yea, i see the problems. but i do not agree with\"- force reconnaissance cruisers already have the capability to fit a covert ops cloaking device, and can warp cloaked, thus precluding their need for a further means of covert surveillance.\"because that's same as covops frigs and t3 cruisers if fitted to do so, so they do not have a unique cloaking capabilities usable in wh and most fleets. but not even that, sharing the view with fc and fleet would really make the experience unique. and i would personally drop it mainly because\"- programming this would be an overwhelming pain in the **** for ccp, and as a result, would probably get swept under a rug somewhere, or forgotten about for a few years, as other major issues that have come up are just now being addressed.\"but i at least see that people like the \"cam\" idea, which was actually the whole point of this idea, to do something truly remote, so i will see to think of something more useful using that tech. and i don't care if it would take them 5 years to build it if people like it :)thank you all for comments, but keep them coming, they will all be read and replied to if they require it."
"yes i have what it says exactly. also the comment above was more directed to the \"goon guy ideas\" rather than you as you clearly went missing for a while and the conversation continues with the other guy.the above clearly say that you intend to remove local. my point is simple and remains the same. it is too easy for a much bigger alliance to move in, reinforce or destroy the upgrade and move out. i understand cos you are in test that this does not happen to you that much but imagine this on a small entity......a small entity would never have a hope in hell. now you got no local until 5/6 weeks down the line and thats provided that it doesnt get attacked meanwhile or destroyed again. having soverently lvl 1, it should be more than enough to have local if anything. but having a sov module for local is still pushing it! and i think we got way to many modules atm and more may come when sov gets changed and i really do not want more modules. there are simply too many and ocupy too much cargo space atm.blues not been able to see local as you mentioned its even worst of an idea, i think. you are comptelly removing the standings mechanic and saying no cos you dont want to. this is incredibly disabling cos it remove intel across a huge span of systems and puts the ball compeltelly on the invader side. there is a reason and an advantage after all to be \"trenched in\" in your system and this removes that.people still get caugh and dont warp out when others enter the system. so as far as i am concerned, you lost cos you didnt watch local. so this works as intended."
"it's almost as if you believe having local would stop a \"much bigger alliance\" from moving in, reinforce/destroy anything/something/everything and move out.this is a fallacy."
"the intel. is the key here. now you got no local until another upgrade lvl 5 in 5/6 weeks down the line. its totally ridiculous! you should have a \"home advantage\" and intel across blues! otherwise, whats the use?"
"what do you think you'd be able to do with \"guys, 400 reds are in our system, what do we do?\" with a few seconds more of warning?"
"you are missing the point. its not about the seconds. its about intel. seeing you, saying where you are going. picking up one or two straglers using intel. all that good stuff which has made eve, eve."
"good scouts would do this, too."
"i could also say the same for you. keep local and a good interceptor with dscan skills can trap anyone.the difference is, you got to have home advantage. a module for local removes that compltelly for over a month minimum, if you are lucky!"
"so if a good interceptor with good dscan skills can trap anyone, then you don't need any other crutches. vov"
"we see all the time frigates and other ships catching anything from a frigate to a freighter to a super capital. this should be nothing new to you."
"yes, and this isn't dependent on local."
"yes it is. you dont hunt someone if he is not in local. unless you happen to se himn log off, in which case you hope he logged agressed."
"sounds like you're not blessed with interceptor pilots with good dscan skills. vov"
"i dont se how you put that and the rest in context together.if you think thats a hit under the belt, then you are sadly mistaken."
"hey, you're the one who seems to think you need local to catch stragglers off of a fleet. vov"
"and you are the on that seems to think that you need to make sure noone can see you in local in order for you to catch someone and win the day . not to mention that you failed at the argument so now you lower yourself to scounduring the person behind the counter argument. which in itself is a sign of weakness behind the personality."
"why would i need no local to catch anyone, or \"scounduring\" (whatever that means) anyone because i'm pointing out the fact that what you're \"counterarguing\" with, isn't dependent on local? setup a proper scout network and you'll see where who are going."
"we have good covert ops scouts, thank you very much."
"what do you need local for, then?"
"cos i am a social guy and i want to smack talk to the enemy. i also want to see all the blues in local.you can still catch anyone even when they see you in local. so working as intended."
"if you want local to be a social arena, then i guess we can make it a regional thing, this way you can smacktalk him long after he's left your system, and you can see the sea of blues you've surrounded yourself with. win-win."
"no its not a win win. its a win win for you maybe, not for me. there should be a home system advantage. your idea, removes that."
"so you have a good scout network which keeps track of enemy fleets so you can catch stragglers, you can smacktalk them for as long as they're in your region, you can see all your blues to get that social bond thing going, and this is still not enough?"
"you can still catch anyone with local with the present system. i like it just the way it is and i like it even more now with the improvemnts of the ui and compact mode. i see my friends where they are rather than they are \"somewhere\" and i have home advantage, i am happy. and it works as intended."
"in other words, even though you have a \"good scout network\" and \"good covops pilots\", you still need local to track enemy fleets who are going for your space?"
"even thought you can catch anyone if they see you in local, you still need to remove local for everyone including blues?even thought you got good interceptor pilots and scouts you still need have local removed?even thought you still get good fights, you still need to have local removed?even thought you rarelly get out of a region without a kill, you still need for local to be removed?even thought you got spies can tell you where is what, you still need for someone not to see you in local?even thought everything is working as intended and nothing stops you from doing what you want to do, you still need for local to be removed ?we are going in circles."
"what's this about \"catching anyone\" or \"not see you in local\"?"
"shush, you are getting in the way of me watching the romania renegades promo video!"
"that's okay, i'll wait. i mean, i assume there's a point there, somewhere."
"well the point is self explnetory. you dont want to be seen in local as if this prevents you from getting kills.i must continue this discussion later. i got to get ready for squash. will be back in 3 hours or so.gl hf"
"i don't get it, you're the one that's been talking about how not having local prevents you from getting kills, i haven't talked about the opposite. you seem to be projecting something. vov"
"ccp has stated they do not want local to be used as an intel gathering tool. right now it is.currently they are trying to figure out how to do that without pissing everyone off.my proposal lets the alliances decide where they do not want local to be an intel gathering tool. it's not a complete fix, but it's at least something more than we have now. if ccp removed local entirely it'd make a lot of people leave null.this is really the only way i've seen that would keep things sane. if ccp was ok with removing local in null it would have been done already so saying \"omg just remove local altogether\" is pointless.as i said before if you remove local from every system and add a mod to add it back alliances will just put the mod in every system, you changed nothing and just added more boring stuff to do. if you add a mod that removes local entirely it will see little to no use (at most it'll be used during actual war time, at most). my proposal would actually see some use, granted not widespread, but some use. it gives the holding alliance an advantage by denying intel from its enemies, it ends afk cloaking by giving the holding alliance delayed local (afk cloaking is now counter productive in systems with the upgrade) and it gives the attackers a chance to find targets before they have a chance to run to safety.saying \"omg this ruins my game because i can't talk to people\" is literally ********. you can still talk in local. if it's your system you see all your friends. if it's not your system then why the hell are you trying to talk to your friends in local and giving away your position? talk in fleet you idiot. if you want to taunt your enemy then go ahead, do it, you can't see them in local but you can on dscan. they can see the local list so you can bet they still have it in its own window just like now."
"your lack of comprehension of something that was broken down to simpler terms and explained to you is nothing short of ****ing astounding. but, of course you were to busy emo-raging to actually notice the fact that people were explaining things to you in a simplistic manner. pull your head out of your *** and actually read before you post again. on second thought, shove your head further up your *** so that you can see **** more clearly, and just don't post anymore.and draconis, the ****post from someone who doesn't even play eve is unnecessary, unwanted, and pointless. we don't need a critique on everything from your point of view. so do us all a favor, and just unsub. even your own alliance doesn't want you, but then again, you should be used to that.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"and let all of these environments be graced with the bounce."
"i love this, ccp do this"
"very good idea.+ 1"
"this needs to happen !+1"
"technically if you had both the contracts and the normal system for bounties it wouldn't really be a problem anyway. im glad this topic has been revitalised. it could really use as much attention as possible.\"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"ccp has already everything needed after inferno. costs of the whole kill (pod and ship). in fact the fw lp payout mechanic already works analogous to my bounty proposal (link below).contracts could be added on top of that once core mechanics are fixed. thats fine since contracts are controled by players, so if a player makes a mistake and contracts the wrong guy it can be \"exploited\". however the bounty system itself should be un-exploitable. the same way as insurances are not exploitable. (more details in the link below)"
"if the cloaker is afk, why are you afraid of him? most people continue doing whatever it is you do in 0.0 all day without letting an afk cloaker ruin it for them."
"man u r realy an idiot. do you understand what is mean, cloakers terrorizing players, who dont know the cloaker ship is afk or not ?this is why crying the cloaker faqs, if someone open a topic from afk tag or cap useage cloak modules.if you dont play go and log off, and dont disturb those players who want to play."
"i support cloaking for long durations as a tactic of disrupting gameplay.however, to me it would seem that true afk cloaking is in effect unattended gameplay as there is intent with the action of afk cloaking and unattended gameplay breaks some rules i hope.so with that viewpoint in mind maybe we can agree that cloaking under some circumstances is being abused, and if we can agree on this then we can agree that something needs to be done about it. first we need a problem and maybe that problem can be unattended gameplay.a solution can only follow once we agree on a problem!fly safe. o7"
"if someone is worried about an afk cloaker, they should move back to hs.afk cloakers cannot harm anyone. they cannot do anything except maybe fly in a direction really slowly.if you are in a system and hiding from someone who may or may not be afk, you are the only one responsible for your own cowardice.also, the op mentions macros.an afk timer will have zero effect on macro bots. bots can easily simulate realistic mouse and keystrokes. otherwise they would be so easy to fins and ban."
"another cloaker expert alt with 1 kill and 18 losses.where you flying ? let's check what will be happening when i go there with a cloaker alt. checking you cowardice when you cant go to make isk.just when i was in khanid low sec (three lvl4 agents was there). in the first day, the local was 38. i just got some kills and two weeks later the local decreased to 12.four weeks later the local decreased to 3. most of time i was there in afk. sometimes i just dropped out some cheap scanner probes, but i didn't scan and mission runners docked up instantly. probes in space :pthis is the real afk terror. enemy players dont know the status of afk player, they dont know ambush when starting. not all pilots playing in same time. sometimes easy to catch one or two peoples there, who do a mistake. sometimes they want to make a trap or something to kill cloakers, but against smart pilots who has intel or using a spies, that's useless thing and experienced afk cloaked player uncatchable.but the afk terror is working, i used this tactic many times with successful. everytime where i was in afk cloak, activities on local drastically decreased after few days.so, dont tell me, afk cloakers does not have effect on active players."
"was in j132 most last month (april). you could come visit. i don't care if you come and cloak in \"my\" system.of course... i wouldn't know you were there, nor would i care.i also spend some time in low sec, usually in domain since my home hangers are there. though most of my time recently is in amarr, listening to local and sometimes seeing if anyone will shoot at me when i loot their wreck. been busy with school so haven't had the time to go raid whs.and the only kill i have is a corpie. i can't remember why though... but anyway, i don't kill people much. however, i also don't hide like a child from someone who may or may not be at the computer, or even at their house. i just don't fly what i can't afford/am not willing to lose.oh and this is my main, though not my first character. didn't like the others..."
"with all the chitchat surrounding this subject i decided to peruse old posts about the subject, the main reason being to see if ccp had ever communicated their stance on this subject. this is what i found:csm december summit <U+FFFD> meeting minutes are out - links to a devblog.pdf document (containing the minutes of the meeting) linked in the devblog.i draw your attention to the 'game balance' section (page 22) where it says:so it would appear that ccp are open to a counter of some sort to cloaked ships. as the previous csm were not against the idea, i hope the current csm panel can maintain some continuity in relation to this topic.hopefully this can lead to a more definitive answer to this whole cloaky business and ultimately a much clearer idea as to what ccp's stance is.have a good one. o7"
"guys,why don't you stop pretending you made this game yourselves.taking out all stupid and bot miners you still have a big number of pilots that are just new or are simply enjoying other parts of the game and don't want to pvp/pve.who exactly are you to say that the game is only for pvpeers? where did you read that?if some aspects of the game were stopped or even changed thanks to the intervention of the csm there is no reason to believe that if a portion of eve is requesting something to be modified that the csm will simply not consider it. even if its about changes that help miners or industrialist to have a different gaming experience.you simply are not in control. so if one day ccp ends up with changes in this direction...live with it.and please don't stop trying to kill bot miners, they are the real distortion here...not newbies running missions.rolds"
"so tell me oh brilliant evelopediapoddie psychophant the answer to this:1. eve used to be one world with no differential in what you could do, where.2. a selection of actions that are fine in most of eve are now bannable under the eula if done in new player starting systems. guess what, since i last played, and now, ccp has introduced safe zones into eve. i didn't, they did. logically the next thing is for those to get bigger, if the subscriptions targets are not met.to those who attack the poster not the ideas: you pitiful creatures. use your brain, god did give you one too. i don't know you, you don't know me, you can't possibly know how much i know about this game, this industry, or simple business reality from the age of the toon. oh and to the nice poster who said plex is money in the bank. no, it's money that was in the bank. ccp had to let some people go last year due to the financial downturn, you can infer they have no huge pile of cash from past plex sitting about. what they have is a debt to players on thier financials. times have been hard, they need new players to join, pay, and stay, paying with real money. ccp have already \"carebeared it up\" in various areas of the game over the past few years. guess what the cold, hard business reality is likely to push them to do next. so give ccp better ideas to achieve the goal of increasing new player retention past the 3 month point, or bite your fingers rather than type.for my part: add highsec ganker 24 hour cooldown flag, which makes them attackable by anyone, and poddable by anyone, and which pays bounties on them 50% to someone who kills thier ship (where the ship must be value >20% of the bountry to be a qualifying kill), and 50% to whoever kills thier pod. ganking should also have higher security and npc faction hits.as drawn out by the discussion above, the real issue is not that hulks are unsafe, but that the concord mechanics mean that people with bounties on them are safe. spaceship barbie with her huge bounty, horrible security status, can and does undock in her navy megathron, complete with superb tank. and concord protect her from all random attacks, in a 1.0 system, even though she is one of the highest bounty players most players will ever actually see in the same system. gankers should not be safer than miners in highsec: that is simply broken."
"touche!great post."
"i really like that idea, although i can't help but think it would be promptly abused horribly by vets. vets do so many ... lamentable .. things, like trying to get new players in newbie help channels to re-roll as a friend invite account, so that the vet gets a free plex and the newbie gets a shiny pittance. and ccp's aim of the invite a friend programe gets totally undermined, as someone ccp has attracted to the game suddently gives them yet another $15 debt on the books, all due to unscrupulous vets."
"sorry gizznitt for taking ages to reply, rl and all that.as i often find with these long back and forth debates/discussions, the real message gets lost in ever branching and diverging discussion. so, i returned to your first post to read again what you said. now correct me if i'm wrong , but really you object to the idea of players preying on other players doing pve. you came up with a great list of things you do in game, but all but one involved attacking others that are looking for pvp or in the process of traveling. the one that might be used to attack pveers \"afk cloaking\" you described as \"pathetic\" which shows you have a pretty strong emotional hostility to the activity. you don't like players that target pveers. your comments about different fits also suggests that you really think pvp and pve should be separated. am i correct?i believe that fundamentally eve has the points of vulnerability backwards atm. at present you're pretty safe when pveing in null or you can forgo what risks there are in null and go to high sec and risk even less. however, travel is dangerous. it should be that travel is safer (weaker gate camp mechanics), and that whenever you access resources (pve) you're more at risk. pve should be thought of as fully part of the pvp dynamic, it fuels the machines of war and those harvesting it should be vulnerable to machines of war.so, where does this fit in with the local/cloaking issue. i don't just think that cloaked ships should be less vulnerable flying about, i think they all should be, but especially smaller classes. conflict and risk should come with interactions that can gain you something, so when mining or shooting rats you should be vulnerable to an attacker, and those attackers should they come should be vulnerable to traps and counter ambushes. rats should change so that there isn't pve and pvp fits, just ship fits, (not that it's impossible now to pve in pvp fits, it's just less efficient). now with all this in mind the covops ship while still the master of surprise, is like all others vulnerable at the point of interaction, because aside from travel and gathering intel they can't do anything cloaked, and the price for those advantages is gimped stats compared to non covops ships. yes i've been telling you stealth does not have to equal invisibility (see my earlier dfo examples), i'm glad you accept that now. however, in eve it does, due particularly to local and overview mechanics. i'm sorry but really gizznitt you know this is bs, organized players (which you would expect from those in null that aren't renters) are going to be able to figure out pretty quickly if one of the anonymous pilots in system are not one of them. in fact i'm fairly certain some metagame method will be engineered to make it rather effortless for them to do so. at this point, we're back to broken cloaks, and not in a situation where cloak hunting can be introduced without being completely unbalanced. friendly strangers, seriously? how much of null is controlled by nrds alliances? have you noticed how many different aspects of the game we have touched on in our back and forth arguing? if i included all the \"extras\" my proposal would be so damn long no one would even read it. i linked the other thread, and people are more than welcome as they have to bring up issues in relation to other aspects of the game and for us to discuss those, but to include every possible thing changing local and all the surrounding arguments touch on in my op is completely unreasonable. had you considered that in my proposal and accompanying ideas a covops ship is stripped of current local intel as well? that in the cloak hunting idea, the ship used to hunt cloaked ships is itself covops? i would say in this system covops ships are more vulnerable than near unprobable booster ships are currently. ..and of course when/if a covops ship actually uncloaks and engages a target it's extremely vulnerable."
"i think the main problem is the amount of isk per hour harvested.i can't vouch for booster clouds but fullerene clouds are quite lucrative. with such bonuses achieving 500+ million per hour would be viable. what is worse it is also makes it more safer singe the cloud is harvested much faster."
"i'm appealing to the csm to please get the word to ccp that the new inventory system in it's current state on sisi is not functional for release. please you of the csm could just check to make sure these concerns are a priority for inferno? i don't expect my ideas to be put into the release, i do however hope that ccp see's the broken nature with the current sisi inventory system. 1.if you could just take a moment to read through the first post of this thread in the test server feedback section. i've tried hard to summarize the issues while weeding out the white noise of random complaints and put constructive ideas to solve the issues surrounding the new inventory system. it has turned into a mini threadnaught, but the unified opinion is that it's just not finished and breaks too many things to release. 2. please watch this video tippia made as well as checking out his blog on the subject. he does a very good job of encapsulating all the issues with the inventory that show how plain broken it is. 3. this is a response ccp has given us in concerns with the new inventory:ccp rubberband seems to get it and wants to help where ccp goliath seems to take the $1000 jeans approach. ccp goliath#96#111he totally missed the ball on this one... the reoccurring theme wasn't that people didn't want change, if anything, people are for the change. just not in it's current state. #116 #117ccp rubberband#129#163dual pane idea: click!"
"wonder if goliath realizes that people only use windows still because of directx."
"you're not being paranoid enough. what if the stupid huge window is actually intended to keep you from looting, thus decrease material faucet?"
"the only thing that isn't working right with insurance imo is you still get payed if you sd.also... not sure about if you get killed by the faction police. imo it should be removed there too.but for t2/3/faction, its fine. its based on minerals, not on market averages."
"based on minerals? lol, not it isnt. thats why its broken."
"it's true"
"estimated csm,i understand that the majority of pilots will probably not care about the following topics im bringing to the table.i have been around since 2008 and haven't seen improvements in some of the areas im interested in and which are the reasons i play eve.you may say that trading, manufacturing and mining are just secondary aspects of this game but there is a significant number of players that enjoy it a lot and find pvp/pve a secondary source of entertainment.market mechanics have not changed much since the beginning of the game and there are a lot of things that are just not right.war has always been the fuel of eve and im happy that it remains the same and csm has always helped to find creative ways to bring extra dynamism to the game with hulkaggedons and other annoying herbs. but the market has always been protected and intervened by ccp.i really think that all industrial corps are somehow on the same page, it is not common sense in having higher yields by doing incursions or null sec ratting than manufacturing or trading.im sure that less intervention on prices through npc traders will also help prices go a little bit higher and improve manufacturing margins.on a separate note: when are we having some better mining equipment?could we have a bigger ship than hulk?...even if its more expensive and weaker versus gankers....imagine a module that lets you attach a hulk to an orca! with a reduced tanking overall to make it appealing to gankers as well. (goons im expecting you to support this). or at least give better mining specs to ore mining lasers not just improved distance.well, hope to have contributed with something different and not always the same stuff being discussed.rolds"
"since i've spent some time around mining i could tell you right now bigger mining ships will not be a solution - with bots the mineral price will crash even lower than it was before drone region nerf. resulting in about similar isk yield for top end miners while crippling new miners severely.about other aspects i do not think the market and industry are as broken as some other aspects of eve and ccp is always trying to move more and more items to be manufactured by players and not npc's"
"i agree, that is why i was suggesting to have weaker tanks for that sake, or even not being able to move the ship.otherwise the solution is taking out the hulk and leaving covs or retrievers...which makes no sense.if you crunch some numbers you will understand my point.i maxed out all my trading and industrial skills + standing improvements, believe when i say that incursions and null sec ratting continues to have better yields. that is simply ridiculous.take for example capital ships manufacturing...how is it that the best margin you can get there is never beyond 15%.the npc item spawn is for trading as if you had high sec rats being able to kill battlecruisers in 2 volleys. as crazy as that.rolds"
"problem comes not from highsec - although now it is the major source of minerals. with advent of bigger miners the 0.0 sec will regain quite a lot of botters too - there is is much easier to protect your ship no matter how weak your tank is.even if it wont severely crash the market price - it will substantially lower it. as such problem with new player miners still persists.check my submission for csm summit topic i know it is wordy but essentially i was trying to come up with idea of increasing yields in a different way while at same time reducing ability of bots to mine effectively - something that should increase mineral prices as well making new players more eager to mine than to mission"
"very good approach!"
"what do you mean by this?"
"csm,im sure you are also concerned about ccp keeping sustainable and not having this beautiful game disappear.there are certain moves that could potentially undermine eve continuity and you know them by heart, but i believe also that you have to spend some time thinking about how to make eve revenues go up.i<U+FFFD>ve been part of some innovation forums in rl and im sure that you have a tough task reviewing all the posts in the assambly hall to materialize colorful and meaningful things for eve community.my 5 cents.agree with ccp that some of the enhancements requested by players will placed in polls and then request a small contribution from players (real currency) to fund the project.changes or improvements = developers time = costslets not be naive and think that the big community of isk buying plex pilots will keep the ball rolling. providing a player base to keep the game alive is just not enough, that won't pay for the servers or the developers.keep it civilized.rolds"
"everyone should be paying game with real money and not isk paid plex....that helps to provide a big player base but might undermine eve sustainability in the long run.keep that in mind.i personally decided to pay for 4 accounts.using my isk generation to help some new players step up and don't drop the game.csm, there is a quite big community doing this, and be sure that this is not coming from pvpeers, industrialist.industrialists also help the game...not only pvpeers fueling markets with new ship purchases.have you ever wondered who are the ones paying the accounts? im sure ccp knows that profile.rolds"
"you do know that plex must be bought by someone? and it costs more than a regular sub amount.so, ccp makes more money if people buy plex. just a bit."
"is this guy for real or is he high on space crack?================ stop the evemail spam!"
"agreed, sov fees should be paid for in cash."
"i wonder where the money is going then ? not for servers, not for developers - whats left, advertising ??<<insert some waste of screen space here>>"
"sorry, it's too much for any small scale merc/griefer action.paying a wardec fee that is almost the cost of a small pos ? it sounds wrong to me.ahahaha !that's a ******* huge immunity to wardecs.tell me how gsf (or any other big entity) is supposed to recruit.no.first, the real mercs are mostly the ones wardeccing people, not defending people from a wardec. it will dramatically increase their prices (and mines), reducing the numbers of contracts. it has nothing to do with \"taking carebears under their wing\". and i really don't see the link between this and an increase in the wardec fees.i highly doubt it."
"people will cancel subs for their scout alts. ccp won't allow this."
"im posting the same things since 2008. nobody seems to care.im developing an external app for this, once i have it done il contact you to give you some help there.add me as contact inside game.rolds"
"can't resist so here i go: first world problems!!!!!!!!!seriously, if that is the only problem you have in this game ccp is doing better than all other mmos combined (caps for you to know i am serious)."
"absolutely agree.nevertheless, i would like to have this tackled.i am able to pay plex with isk although i don't do it because im trying to support ccp to keep it moving.although small that is my contribution.rolds"
"meanwhile !xobilal has been starving to death for the last 6 months after 'freedom fighters' broke in to his hut & murdered his entire family in front of him."
"odd"
"um... using isk on plex (and then subbing with it) supports ccp just as much as buying a sub. someone has to buy that plex with rl money."
"what a silly game we would be. half of the mmos would laugh at us and the other half wont event want to try eve since we are gonna spent 99% of the time dscaning. peoples are gonna rename \"eve\" to \"dscan\". ridiculous. whats worst is this probably is gonna encourage another riot. something i really dont want to see. i want to see ccp still gathering more and more mommentum. there are countless of issues far more important at the momment to be even speaking about this.oh **** i forgot to dscan in the last 2 seconds.....and now i need to dscan again after i type this new line.edit: i had to correct spelling. so i had to dscan again"
"im sure he is drunk.dude, i understand your frustration but you are simply not going anywhere this way. if this was they way the original petition was placed no wonder why they didn't fix it."
"there are a plethora of reasons this should be implemented. so with that, let's get some more support and exposure to csm/devs. i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"you people do realise that this would copletly destroy all effort that has been done for fw right now."
"lol"
"then just jam something in the keyboard & afk cloaky's can continue business as usual!"
"3rd page? hell no."
"1.0"
"i would also like to mention a post by ccp rubberband (picking what's relevant):so basically \"the way we want to use the ui is proper, regardless of what the customer wants\", and \"it works for me, if it doesn't work for you, htfu\".then later:...as long as we stick to using it \"properly\", i assume?this is reminding me of incarnarage way too much. but this time there is no checkbox to disable."
"new inventory releasing tomorrowfrom: zagdulsent: 2012.05.21 12:05to: abdiel kavash, dovinian, elise randolph, greene lee, hans jagerblitzen, issler dainze, kelduum revaan, meissa anunthiel, seleene, tippia, trebor daehdoow, two step, uaxdeath, it appears the new inventory system will be introduced tomorrow. i'm appealing to the csm to please use your influence to make this a priority of iteration and draw ccp's attention to a thread i've created in the test server feedback section of the forums. there is a second thread in jita park.there is a video which tippia has created and a blog which outlines the very visible and obvious flaws with the new system that will make player's lives miserable. i would like to state that i personally, and the general feedback from the thread seems to be that people do want an inventory change, however the ccp developers are fixated on the negative responses and focused on the people who are opposed to change. there is constructive feedback and suggestions to improve on it's forward development. i'm predicting that this is going to cause a huge uproar similar to the whole greed is good and $1k pants debacle of last year. i am requesting that if it's a priority to any of you that you please post in support. regards,zagduldual pane idea: click!"
"im glad you braught this up. i have been hugely excited about the new unified inventory. watching the video was enlightening. i have to say though, the only problems i see were the refreshing on the windows. the windows dissapearing on undock is also a problem. i have to say though, that the chap who made that video kind of missed the point of a unified inventory, but nevermind.so long as the window refresh is fixed i dont see any reason to delay the release. from the video i see far more pros than cons for introducing the new system. as a disclaimer though i've not been using sisi, so i only see the problems people show on videos.\"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"agreed, i'm all for 'a' new system.the problem is that it's not ready and there's not much we can do about it now. so, i'd rather just try to make it a focus for ccp to look at the flaws that most of eve will find frustrating with it. old functionality which worked shouldn't be pushed aside.other issues include pos's with multiple silos or corporate hangars which cannot be renamed. all that is included in the test server feedback thread. dual pane idea: click!"
"i can see how many, even most eve players, would have none or very few issues with the new inventory. if all your item-manipulating work consists of looting wrecks and dumping the loot in a station to later sell, maybe occasionally fitting a ship or two, then the new window is just fine (and by that i mean no offense.)however for people who have to regularly manage corporation and alliance assets, poses, doing heavy duty logistics, and so on, the new system is basically unusable. many csm representatives have a background in 0.0 or other major alliances, i am sure they would understand if they tried to use the new ui. and i believe that we spreadsheet masters have as much right to have a functional ui as anyone else."
"there will be a flurry of patches in the coming week to iron out bugs and flaws once the masses get hold of it. i expect it will be working almost as intended by the weekend.we'll see how it fares from there."
"here is one very specific example how the new ui makes life hard for people maintaining a pos. very common usage scenario: transfer pos reaction products from silo a to silo b.old interface:- open the pos management window.- right-click silo a in the pos mgmt window, select access storage. silo a inventory opens.- right-click silo b in the pos mgmt window, access storage. silo b opens in a new window.- transfer stuff from a to b by a single drag.new interface:- the ui index only shows ten items labeled \"silo\". there is no way to see which silo is which by merely looking at the index. (note, some of you may notice the \"name item\" option. it doesn't do anything.) the index also shows every single gun anchored at the pos as a separate entry, which adds dozens of completely irrelevant entries to look through.- so you have to open the pos mgmt window again.- right-click silo a, click access storage. silo a opens in the window.- right-click silo b, click access storage. silo b opens in the window again. whoops, now you can't get back to silo a. and there is no way to use the window to find out which one out of the ten available silos it is.- you can not shift-click the \"access storage\" option to open silo b in a new window. shift-click only works from the index (where you can't tell which silo is which).i have found only one possible workaround. after you open silo a, its entry in the index highlights. you can shift-click that to open a in a new window. then you can open b through the pos management window to do the move."
"what i am afraid is that the way ccp intends the inventory window to work is simply unusable for the kind of large-scale operations i am talking about. i don't blame ccp for not seeing that, it's not their job to run an alliance's logistics or poses, their job is to develop a piece of software. however what i am blaming them for is ignoring the feedback provided by people who do deal with this every day, and who are now forced to use a single hammer to hammer in nails, staples, and screws."
"there are also issues with looting wrecks. since window position and size is not maintained, the old trick where you'd open a ton of wrecks and they'd stack up allowing you to spam the \"loot-all\" button no longer exists. dual pane idea: click!"
"you do realzie that your discussing things on a test server right?this doesn't necessarily mean or preclude what you see there is what will be on tranq when time comes.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"i believe that the issue is that the patch is rolling out in <24h and there have been no indications that it will be on tq in any form other than the patch, especially since devs seem less than willing to actually listen to the feedback about usability issues (hint: \"you'll get used to it\" isn't a good response to valid concerns being voiced).i too hope that whatever shows up on tq works well and causes no issues. however, all indications are to the contrary and the dev communication has been less than satisfactory. i think most people want to be optimistic about it, but what he have seen to date has not been encouraging."
"i see you are not familiar withb the ccp test server.numbers might change, but major issues like these never do. they are always put on the test server before going live(or nothing is touched at all, giving no warning whatsoever that there will be a change)"
"i see you are unfamilar with history.they have put and removed features on the test server days before release.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"new inventory system works fine, everyone needs to stop their bitching. once i familiarized myself with the new system (a grand five minutes total) it has been working amazingly well. i hope to see this on tq soon."
"just so you guys get the picture.... i'm not saying theres a problem...or theres no problem.i'm saying this is a test server....that means its not concrete....don't assume everything on sisi will carry over.even then...typically no ones going to really raise a ruckus until its gone live...and sometimes...you just can't win any arguments with the dev's until the larger audience picks up.keep in mind....sisi is a beta test server....so take everything you see there with a bit of salt.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"you sir, need to watch the video.i am quoting you as i will come back to this post in a week and ask you to please restate this claim with a straight face.yes, the new inventory system is the right idea. however, it's current state is not going to make people happy. at all. dual pane idea: click!"
"with a patch hours away and the response from the dev team. i'm going to imagine that it is how it is since they haven't had a chance to test any additional changes to modifications in the inventory code. it would be a very bad idea, hours before a major patch launch to add core code to a system that hasn't been tested. see: boot.inidual pane idea: click!"
"um, yes its based on mineral prices (give or take a few weeks for adjustment). thats why t2/3/faction insurance is crap. their mineral cost is low compared to other factors."
"not very bright are you.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"t2 requires in most cases their t1 counter part, t3 requires materials are mostly in wormholes dropped or found via sleepers and their salvage and materials arent cheap,faction sometimes requires other sources of items (t2 also in that reguard),and when actually building them they use more minerals then their t1 counterparts. therfore is still far out of their insurance value.so i say again how is it based on mineral?t1 is a cushion on insurance, but thats mostly crusier -to- some capitolships.faction,t2,t3 dont have a effecient use of insurance to do so. so we go back to my point that it is broken. the funciton should be removed set loses of t1 ship to default a platinum pay out. instead of sinking further isk just to get a slightly higher amount back. when your default of non-t1 ships cant even pay a proper portion of its counterpart towards it actual platinum payout.@ drake draconis, apparently neither are you - atleast i know what im talking about."
"tbh i say get rid of insurance altogether."
"no... you you obviously don't. this post pretty much proves it."
"agreed....not sure where hes getting his data either...too many assumptions. but we kinda knew that from the start.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"my data comes from experiance as i can & do produce t1, t2, t3 & faction ships.& rico thats what ive been trying to say man."
"industry does not orbit around your ego.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"i was just wondering if the op knew that ccp had assigned each and every item a base value, (which is not directly market related, but does influence the market) which in turn is one of the ways that ccp developed the loot drop system and insurance pay outs and the like. however, because minerals no longer (and they once upon a time did) have npc buy orders, and other items are not seeded by npcs on to the market, these base costs have become player driven. the base values help decide how often they are available, and to a certain extent how plentiful they are. when you have a uneven distribution of materials you get huge market forces that drive up costs. technium is an r32 moon, it has a base cost of 64 isk per unit. it is my reasoning, although not confirmed, that t2 and t3 insurance pay outs are based on these numbers and not player driven market numbers. t2 which use a t1 ship in construction, have that factored in as well, the t1 ship being player mineral index prices."
"kusum could you possible further elaborate?@draco- my ego? who keeps coming back to the topic with out any information."
"i don't provide informaiton that has already been provided....nor do i give information that smells of bitter-emo-rage over losing tech 3 ships because he couldn't insure his expensive shiny toys cause he didn't know how to fly them.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"bahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahaha!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!11111oneoneelevenseriously, you're not the one that should be talking about ships he lost because he didn't know how to fly them. need i remind you of the incidence of you losing your mission ship (pve fit) by engaging a ninja-salvager (pvp fit) and crying about it for weeks? or the fact you need a 20+ man fleet to kill anything other than yourself? or you being responsible for losing a freighter you were escorting? note to everyone: anything draconis says in reference to anything remotely associated with combat is irrelevant.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"uh..yeah..thanks for agreeing with my sentiments....i never complained about it here on the forums.so yeah...nice job jack *thumbs up*and everyone throws a fit about losing expensive ships in private. so i'm not sure wtf your going on about jack..but then your always going off on people without regard for personal sense of rationality.ps: who gives a flying #### what we lose in-game....thats not the point of discusison since your so eager to kick dirt up. get over yourself jack.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"alright, first off, put the thumb that you always have firmly lodged up your *** back up there before any more of your ****posting escapes. secondly, why do you pay for eve? you don't play, you pay to post on forums, as always, mr. keyboard warrior. thirdly, it's obvious that anything you have done is a massive fail (see: failcascade of shadow confederation). and finally, it is severely obvious that you lack the cajones to actually do anything yourself (see: failcascade of shadow cadre after drake removed 3.7 billion isk from the corp wallet to settle a vendetta against one person because he was too much of a chicken**** to do it himself).but, i'm sure you'll enjoy paying your $14.99 a month to continue to post on the forums, not play eve, and be one of goonswarm federation's pets. do us all a favor, quit talking about things that you have no idea about how they work, or how they should work. i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"fixed that for you.as for rationality, how rational is it to not consult your corpmates about removing 3.7 billion isk that they worked to earn, because everyone knows you never did a ****ing thing to help anyone, from your corp wallet to settle a personal vendetta? oh wait, it's not, no wonder you're a pet.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"i'm sorry what are you talking about? this is a discussion about ship insurance.not about your petty stupid disagreements over something no one is going to give a crap about...except you.yes..i've lost ships..likely cried about it..who wouldn't the first couple of times....i learned its a waste of time and i don't.i sure as hell didn't whine about it like some emo-raging idiot on the forums.i guess you have nothing better to do....ok....whatever floats your holed boat.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"ok so, lets get this sorted out real quick:1) the insurance system is currently broken as it doesn't even cover the cost of tech 1 ships any more due (varies a bit by region, but typically max insurance only covers about 70% of ship hull, it used to cover the cost of the hull).2) this thread is solid proof that draconis has a leaky ******* cause he can't stop shitposting. really, get some medicine for that."
"shah flutters has said it very clearly whats going on.you people can go on spouting your trash talk all you want....but ignoring obvious isn't going to make you look anymore l33t as you think you are.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"i think insurance needs to serve a specific function, which it currently serves well - new player cushion. it is there to protect your most basic (t1) assets, usually because these are literally \"bottom of the food chain\"as such i think it would be viable to keep insurance only for newbie friendly ships:t1 frigates, destroyers, cruisers, battlecruisers, and battleships.cut insurance for any t2 t3 as well as capitals (concord should not pamper you if you can afford them)that way new players would have less painful losses, while older and richer players would go for more bang at more risk."
"1) general readership, insurance does need to be fixed, it is a mechanic of the game that is currently broken. ccp seems to be pretty good at handling that lately, so i expect to see changes soon enough now that it's getting some forum attention.2) drake and jack: please don't let your antics give ccp an excuse to lock this thread. they may have renewed some of my faith, but i don't want to risk it."
"shah has stated how it works as it is now, but, as more than one person has stated, it is currently broken. hopefully ccp will keep up this good idea streak going and fix this. i am just fine with insurance covering the hull of ship alone, that makes sense. covering less than hull makes it not worth it and covering more than hull is just dumb. so, lets sit and watch the fire burn shall we?"
"thanks to those whom understand that insurance is indeed broken.for those that continue to come back and \"lack of explain\" how it is not. let me point that unless you can break the process down on to how it aint, just stop.ive already broken it down to \"how to understand loses to dummies\" degree of reading.and draco stop you dont know enough to complain. if t1 platinum payout cannot be included into a loss of t2/faction ship then it is \"broken\",infact newbies tend to get into t3 hulls pretty early (it only takes 4 months @ best) to fly and fit minimal t2 on them.@anitic-ist, see x on top right most of browser, hit that -thank you.@ csm & ccp, please lock this thread if it continues to heat-up and fall from topic, -thank you."
"i would really like to see more cruiser, bc, and frig rats scramming. hell, while we at it...rat dictors."
"no, it ~was~ bought by someone. but it must be used at a greater rate than it is bought, or it simply becomes a debt around ccp's neck.the op is correct: plex does not pay the bills. ccp gets money when plex enters the game due to someone buying it. but that is not the only way: you can get 10 free simply by working the friends invite system. that is happening in the newbie help channel, and while i am sure ccp are not happy about it, there is little they can do. every free plex they give away is yet more future revenue lost to them.the nex store was intended to help reduce the amount of plex in the game, so too the character transfer payment with plex. the bottom line is that it is new / returning players who buy plex to use on thier characters, ships and skills. veterans who are half decent can easily make the isk to buy plex in-game and use it, should they choose to. but hulkageddon and other anti-new-player anti-carebear-playstyles have been driving new people away from the game.simple case in point: a friend finally got a covetor. her husband helped set it all up, they went out to mine together in a safe highsec system. no warning indicators of gankers, no nearby lowsec, no war decs, no problem, right? wrong, she was suicide ganked the first night out. i have not seen her mine with her husband in-game since. do you think that couple, who love sci-fi games and are fairly new to eve, will stay if she cannot enjoy quietly mining with her husband here? if she goes, he will follow, like many thousands of players before them. like some of my other friends, who cancelled out of eve to play tera - why? he loved eve, she didn't, but he loved her far more than eve, so together they chose a game they both enjoyed.face facts boys and girls: this game is only as strong as its carebears, erm, social orientated players. they really do pay the bills. and yes, i did spend more on my clothing when i returned than on ships ... did you?"
"except that they merely provide 1 plex as an incentive to bring in more paying customers, even if those new accounts use plex, that increases demand meaning that those purchasing gtc's or plex from ccp have a larger market and are thus increasing future revenue. so you're working on a false premise there."
"i dont think you understand how plex works mate. go look it up then come back. im not trolling."
"i am not really going to believe you. anecdotal evidence is jus tthat. in eve, very few non exhumers/barges get ganked, no one ganks mining frigates or cruisers and that is what she would haev been flying. plex: they are paid for as soon as they are created, so ccp has the money early. early money is invested = interest. get a plex for buddy system? that plex is only delivered when teh new guy pays for his account, not before. so the 'free' plex does exist but only if ccp get a paying customer, mayb ethey will stay, maybe they wont. some will = profit.gankings do make people quit, that is a fact. but these people would have quit at some point anyway because that is what eve is. risk averse people dont want to play a game like eve, and eve needs to stay as it is because if it wasnt the harsh place it is, other people would leave. it is a niche game, it always will be and as long as ccp are making enough money then it will be safe. coming up to 10 years.. if it was going to fail, i think it would have by now."
"yeah, because that wouldn't be abused. i suspect this would be a nightmare for coding and would be very hard to balance. if i give reps to your wartarget and i'm suddenly \"in\" the war, then i *must* be given the rights to shoot at you. otherwise you would get the opportunity to shoot at me for potentially weeks, while i would not have the ability to attack you until you chose to engage.so according to your idea, if i give reps to someone i can shoot all their war targets. imagine the hilarity when a neutral gang lands on grid, reps both sides of a battle, and then proceeds to kill all of them.mercenary corporations would no longer be able to recruit.just killing dec scraping will make it blossom.allowing infinite allies only to the defenders could make it wither. we'll see."
"1) if you are wardec'd, and you join an alliance, the alliance must accept your war before you can join. if you then leave, that alliance remains a wartarget for the rest of the week. if the war is renewed, it is renewed against you and any alliance you may happen to be in when it is renewed, not your former alliance.2) if you are a corp in an alliance that is wardec'd, and you leave, you are still a wartarget for the rest of the week. if the war is renewed, it is renewed against the target alliance only.3) if you are a player in a corp/alliance that is at war, and you leave the corp to join a non-npc corp, the corp must accept your war before you can join. if you then leave, the corp remains a wartarget for the rest of the week.4) if you are a player in a corp/alliance that is at war, and you leave the corp to join an npc corp, you remain a war target for the rest of the week. if the war is renewed, it is renewed against your former corp, not against you, and not against your new corp.5) if you are at war, and you invite someone to your fleet, that person must accept your war before joining. once that person joins, he or she is a wartarget until downtime. this addresses fleet boosters.6) you cannot invite someone to your fleet if that person is involved in a war you are not involved in. join that person's fleet instead and agree to participate in his or her war.7) no per-person costs if the target corp/alliance has more members than you. there is a base cost for all declarations, plus a cost for corps/alliances considered \"more powerful\" to declare on \"lesser powerful\" corps/alliance: the cost is related to the total sp costs of both parties. mutual/accepted wardec's refund the full cost of the initial wardec, if any. mutual wars last until both sides agree to cancel. if one side cancels but the other does not, the other side begins paying wardec fees to continue the war.8) there is a fee, based on total sp, for each person or entity that joins the war outside of the original wardec. if you invite a non-wartarget to your fleet, you must pay for that person's entrance into the war for the day. if you join a corp, that corp must pay to enter the war. if your corp joins an alliance, that alliance must pay to enter the war. the only free ride is to join the npc corp (and you're still a wartarget anyway). you can still conduct business as usual during wartime, but with an added cost.9) leave the ally system in place, but add a cost per #8.neutral rr: neutral rr is a little different, in that it applies during wartime and due to various circumstances.10a) no neutral rr. you pay wardec fees so that concord will let you wage war, or you have been awarded kill rights exclusively. a neutral entity has not paid those fees or received any rights, so the neutral is not allowed to participate. if you want to participate, join one of the warring corps if it is wartime. if you try to participate as a \"neutral\", you meet the business end of concord.10b) alternatively, you are neutral rr and you help one side. that other side of that particular battle then receives kill rights on you. each person present. they have 30 days (or however kill rights last now) to exact their vengeance.this provides penalties for both sides during wars. if you try to evade the war, you're going to carry it with you for a time. this throws the hisec griefers a bone. it also ensures that everyone who participates in some way with the parties at war becomes involved in the war, at least for a time. and participating in the war is not free, beyond being the corp/alliance who is wardec'd initially, because you're paying/bribing concord and they have doughnut fees they need to cover.the costs also make it possible for each side to determine just how much they want to invest in the war, a little at a time. you'll probably find that the total payouts for the war are much higher than if you charged a huge up-front cost. it's the way that (true) microtransaction systems work.whatever solution is chosen for neutral rr, there must be a penalty for it, and it must be more than \"oh, you can shoot me for the next 15 minutes\". you can see how well that has worked out. neutral rr must weigh the benefits of providing that service against the potential risks. right now, there are no risks. personally, i'm leaning toward 10b, as it invites more fighting and sounds easier to implement.these are just rules for waging war in hisec. concord polices hisec, not players. the empires rule hisec, not nullsec alliances. when in hisec, you play by concord and empire rules, regardless of who you are. if it is too expensive or annoying or whatever for nullsec alliances to make a formal war declaration in hisec, then don't do it.also, if you are a big fish, you should expect a lot of little fish to try to nip at your fins. it's the cost of being a big fish.thoughts? what have i missed? some of these things exist already, but i wanted to present a complete package."
"this is convoluted and sounds difficult to manage/track. a 24-hour cooldown with penalties for leaving while at war (like not being able to rejoin for an extended period) is sufficient. wars should follow the original target and if they join and drop an alliance, that alliance should get the customary 24 hours of war. there's not reason to extend it and make things more complicated.simply being in a fleet with someone is not aggression that should justify war. just give fleet boosters the same aggression transfer as logi. problem solved.this makes no sense.infinite allies (as was suggested by the dev blog post) should not be implemented. it's grossly imbalanced in favor of the defender.both terrible ideas. the current model of aggression during battle is fine, except that logis escape too easily. this is being fixed by transferring them true aggression, preventing them from docking or jumping. also, you aren't accounting for the use of neutral rr in situations like can flipping."
"in favor with everything what op said i will like to add one more thing - the cost to open the corp is ridiculous low. correct me if i'm wrong but i think the price is around 1.5-2m. so with new changes in war mechanics will not change most of the tactics of highsec corporation used to avoid the war.we all know most of the macro/cheat/bot/whatever corporations and many others have a ceo and all other members with no roles. what that means - if you declare war now you will end up with 50+ mil to pay for the war with a corporation what doesnt exist the same sec war is ready to start. all what they have to do:- members leave the corp (no roles no waiting)- ceo resign- open new corp- ?????- profitall job done in less then a minute.ccp seriously think they care for not be able to joinn back the same corp for 7 days? no ofc, they dont want and they dont care for the old corporation. why should they, the new one is so cheap there is no point to go back, just make new one. ofc on other side the guys who declare the war will remain with $hitty taste in the mouth thanks to another fail solution from fail ccp factory.lets be honest... the price for the alliance is 1 bil. so why not make the price for the corp 100 mil.? frankly 100 mil. right now is not too much for the corporation and for anyone who will complain how new players will not be able to create corporations after 7 days in eve - yeah, that is the point. join some existing and after x amount of time if you want get out and make your own corporation.at least the guys who will declare the war can have some sort of satisfaction - they pay 50+ mil for the war and if other one run away they must pay 100 mil. for the new one. is not too much for people who run missions 24/7 but at least is not f@*ing 2 mil."
"this one hit the spot.it costs relatively real amount of isk to declare a war and laughable 2 mil to create a new corporation. as long as this is the case, the wardec mechanics will be broken."
"no matter what solution gets picked, it's convoluted and difficult to track. you're exchanging one method to enforce wardec \"victim\" status for another. i'd even go so far as to say that sticking with the original war deadlines is much simpler to understand and maybe easier to implement. you are even invoking arbitrary restrictions that have little reason for existing except to satisfy some convoluted and difficult-to-track system :)there should be no restrictions to corp membership. in no way should we tell someone they can't leave or join a corporation at any time whatsoever. instead, there should be actions and consequences. they should be able to do so, but they should not be able to escape their \"obligations\" by doing so. whoever shelters the individual/corp also assumes those obligations.the goal is to make people consider whether it is worth accepting the new member while the war is ongoing, or to wait for the war to end. at any given time, either possibility may exist. and if you read the whole post as one unified document, you'll notice that accepting the warring member into your corp/alliance will come at a monetary cost. you will pay to enter that war; it's not a free ally.the first part i disagree with. if you fleet up with someone, you are specifically agreeing to work in coordination with that person or group. if that group is at war, you're implicitly contributing to that war and have chosen sides. in a war with usa vs ussr, if i ran fleet \"neutral\" maneuvers with ussr, the usa would not take very kindly to it and would consider it an act of war, and vice versa.i agree with the second part, though we disagree on just what should get transferred :)this is in reference to the proposed group war transfer mechanics. i should not be able to add someone to my fleet and thus force a war on everyone else without their consent, nor should everyone be required to consent to a group member addition. requiring the warring member to do the inviting changes the dynamic of the \"yes, i agree\" consent to the war. if that mechanic is not chosen for implementation, this paragraph is meaningless.honestly, the way ccp described it shouldn't have even made it to a dev blog. but it's not the first time they've had an idea that fell flat :)look back at what i wrote about costs in #8 and then read #9 about the allies. you pay for each addition to the war, much like you pay for mercs now. it also implies the possibility for the aggressor to add allies as well; again, at a cost. this benefits both sides equally, draws more people into the war for the potential of destroyed assets, and liquidates excess isk flooding the economy.this is also a companion to the above points where people might want to involve others in the war (with consent) by corp/alliance hopping. instead of forcing some obnoxious employment history dance, just let them involve others outright. for a price. each week.first, it absolutely does include neutral rr in non-wartime situations, if you'll re-read what i wrote. the person you are neutral-ganking will gain killrights on you. if i canflip bob in my pvp hac and have you as my neutral rr backup, and bob decides to retaliate with his mining osprey, the moment your neutral rr cycle begins, bob gains killrights on you. i didn't include before, but you should have to agree to accept the consequences of your neutral rr actions (you should be able to toggle this warning).we may disagree on this, but neutral rr is a stain on hisec pvp. my personal opinion is that it is the domain of cowards to employ this when many times they don't even need it because they're attacking industrials or mission-runners anyway. it removes the risk from pvp.if you and i have declared war against one another, we are fighting a concord-sanctioned war. any participating neutrals are interfering in what concord has approved. there should be a cost, and thus a formal entry into the war, or there should be stiff penalties in order to remain neutral. i disagree that the current model is \"fine\" :)but again, like everything else, neutral rr can and should be a possibility. you can spring it on your targets at any time, without warning, much like suicide ganking. if that mining osprey does manage to get that pvp hac into structure, neutral rr should be able to save it. but there should be a risk and there should be consequences."
"(apologies for a second post, but \"you can only quote five times in one post\". bah)if the war follows the member/corp/alliance no matter where they go for the duration of the original wardec, then your botters (or targets) can't retreat to a new corp, or even to npc corps. those bots are out of commission for the duration of the wardec period, unless they want to take a chance of dying. at the end of the wardec period, if the corp no longer exists, the war can't be renewed."
"wouldn't this create a lot of database stress if applied to some large alliance in the process of disbanding (happens all the time)? you'll definitely have a lot corp-to-player aggressions to calculate."
"dont take me wrong i dont want grief tactics but at least some sort of ballance. doesnt make sense to pay 50+ mil. for war and then have wasted all that money for nothing and in mean time the guys who were wdeced are laughing in the new corp. they lost is only 2 mil. the fact is war mechanics are broken even with new changes. at the end i dont have any problem if the guys run away from the corp and open new one if that new one will cost 100+ mil."
"bump cause i remember this taking off..... how long ago? lol hopefully ccp sees that is refusing to go down"
"this idea was spawned in november of last year, and was posted in features and ideas first, and after the overwhelming feedback and support it received there, i brought it to assembly hall in january of this year. once again, it was met with overwhelming support and feedback. this idea came to me as an idea of something that would prove to be extremely useful to just about anyone on all fronts for actual logistical applications. it would revolutionize the transport of warships across space (high/low/null) and would create a new sub-career path for those interested in mass transit.as a result of the massive response i have gotten to this idea, i was given the suggestion of forwarding this to the csm.i was met with a less than promising response at first, however, the member of the csm who i spoke with then said that they would look it over, and upon looking it over said that this was indeed an interesting idea and that they would keep it handy.i still haven't gotten a chance to sketch what my vision of how the envoy-class vessels would look, but that's due to real life constraints. but, given the chance, i'll get them done eventually, and will post links to where the pictures are hosted as soon as i get them done.so thank you all for your support, and no, i am not giving up, and not letting this idea go quietly into the night. keep the posts coming, and let's turn this thing into a threadnaught of epic proportions.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"i am surprised i have yet to support this, but yeah.do it! do it nao!"
"this ^^. all that needs to be said has been said. all the potential problems the a new bounty system like this could experience have been pretty much sorted. all it needs now is some dev support."
"first of all, if you use a scout and/or bookmarks, travling in nullsec is very safe. i'm red to almost every nullsec alliance in-game, and i've been to every region of the game (often solo'ing in ab fit frigates). sure, you can construct really potent and viscous gatecamps, but they are few and far between (except for certain areas), and easily avoidable if you know how to play. in theory, i'm ok with making gate camps a little less effective and making nullsec pve a little more risky. however, i don't think making gate camps completely ineffective, nor making pve insanely risky is appropriate. to give numbers, currently, i think you have a 2% chance of dying to a roaming gang while ratting. with your proposal, i think you have a 90% chance of dying to a roaming gang, especially if you rat long enough for your system to register the npc kills!! this is a ridiculous swing of the scale!! 1.) smaller vessels and cloaky vessels are already hard to catch and much, much less vulnerable to enemies than bigger ships!!! 2.) when mining or shoting rats, you are already vulnerable to an attacker. typically, the only viable defense is to avoid being attacked. 3.) changing rats is a nice idea, but until that happens, pve fits are different than pvp fits. (note: i typically rat in pvp capable ships.. but i can't effectively engage a gang... all it means i can sometimes take some of them down with me!)4.) covert ships are not combat incompetent. stealth bombers insta-lock targets and do good dps, recon's have very potent ewar bonuses that can shut down any opponent! covert hotdrops can't be prevented... and ships that warp while cloaked are extremely hard to catch as is... so, why do you need to significantly boost these ships by making them invulnerable to reconnasaince!!?!??!?? most of nullsec is in a huge bluefests with their neighboring alliances. this means most of the traffic that comes through their system is friendly, and with my local suggestion, they would typically be anonymous (hence, they are friendly strangers). many, many nullsec residents have alts, in alt corps, that wont necessarily appear as a known local member. if you're just hanging out in a system, sure the more organized locals can do some math and realize the unknown is probably hostile, but so what!!! i don't see any good reason to make camping a system for killmails easier... yes, they are stripped of intel. however, you're proposal gives them infinite time to hunt a system for targets. they can safely monitor stations or gates, and take action when a target of opportunity presents itself. the locals have no real defense, except to do random scans of a system... and why do you consider covert ops ships \"extremely\" vulnerable? especially in your proposal. i currently use stealth bombers and covert ops ships to tackle targets long enough for backup to arrive, and rarely lose them. i often solo jaguars, wolf's, and enyos in a helios. with your proposal, falcons and rapiers won't appear in local, allowing a covert gang to not only instalock a target with a stealth bomber, but they can then jam and immobilize most ships, leaving very little risk to a covert gang!!!!"
"incorrect. i target pve'ers all the time, especially when soloing or small gang roaming. i don't do it by endlessly lurking in their system until they get careless, i do it by actually hunting them down. i enter a system, use the dscanner to quickly locate targets, and i attempt to catch them (something that requires at least a little skill!!!) i think making it mindlessly easy to hunt and gank pve'ers is not healthy for nullsec, and that's exactly what your proposal enables. as for pve vs pvp fits... my opinion is irrelevant, because pve and pvp fits are separate (note: i'd like more sleeper/incursion types of nullsec pve, because those pve gangs can easily be transformed into pvp gangs). much of eve's pve activities should take into account risk vs reward. currently, nullsec income for average joe is not very high, especially when you consider the risks associated with it in comparison to wh's, incursions, and high-sec missioning. yes, nullsec ratting is fairly safe, but its a little balanced with the rewards. your suggestion destroys any safety a nullsec ratter has, essentially turning nullsec pve into extremely high risk without touching the rewards. i find that extremely problematic!!! correct me if i'm wrong, but it really sounds like you want to camp a system while being undetected, so you can mindlessly gank vulnerable pilots. i think nullsec hunting should involve roaming from system to system, and actually hunting targets before they realize you're a threat. while i consider camping a valid form of gameplay, it requires so little skill as is that i really i do not think it should be made easier!!!!!"
"i love all these ideas! this would make mining more interesting and a bit more skilled as well as defeat most botting. i would probably extend the length of the site time from 1 hour to 4 hours as i believe this is the most time a miner spends on a site with or without assistance. eve residents: 5% wh; 8% lowsec; 15% nullsec; 72% highsec. csm 7: 1 highsec resident out of 14. csm demographics vs eve demographics, nothing to worry about..."
"well, it wouldn't get rid of people advertising that way completely, but if you give people a respectable looking alternative, it will make the cans look more pathetic or desperate in comparison. who's going to put an ad can next to a massive shiny billboard?"
"alternatively these contracts could work by commission.you could put up a contact that would be \"megathron by commission\", which would have a price on it. you could set a percentage that the corp would keep when the item sold and then when people added the ore it could even show how much isk ore contributors will get out of the mega when it has sold. that way the contact would have to be accepted by the person wanting the mega, and ore would have to be added to it in another way. the people looking to purchase the mega could even be able to see how close the mega is to being done when they decide whether they want to accept the contract. this feels like its a difficult idea to convey in words over the forums. if i had the time or the enthusiasm, i should probably make example ui pictures to post up."
"cool variation of contracting. another bonus of this could be that players working on commission do not require a ranking corporate member to set up a business contract because anyone would be capable of setting up a commission contract on behalf of their corporation. this alone would regulate corporate business activity with added bonus of tax-free.(contribution) personal contracts: (what we have already). business contracts: (issued by a qualifying corp member) commission contracts: (issued by anyone within corp, tax-free) confliction: tax-free commissions are subject to fidelity of a sub-sequent setup of a business contract which are not tax-free. where there's an already-existing commission contract in the likeness of the business contract you wish to create, this commission contract may be adopted into a business contract at any time."
"lets get this up a bit so devs might respond on it"
"i don't really see the point. but then i've never fallen for a scam or bought 20 battleships when i meant to buy 2. it's actually rather hard to make mistakes like that if you are deliberate and don't play with a chemically-altered brain."
"we used to ask for personal hanger divisions like the corp hangers have, we got unified inventory. i wonder how they will make personal wallet tabs terrible?"
"good point.don't touch the wallets."
"its not just the scamslets say you put market order for sell and server is laggy, you think you inputted 1 million per item, when in fact you did 10 million. and you just hit enter and there we go, instead of 10000 isk tax per item, you are paying 100000 isk tax per item, if you have 50+ items that's like 5 million just there, now lets say you wanted to sell for 10 million and you put in 100 million by mistake... well you get the point...and yea, there is warning that you are selling above or below some % of regional average, but lets face it, when you do trading you do that a lot and you just press enter ..."
"and your solution is to...what? put jut enough into an account to cover your order and then place the order? you're talking about adding several steps to the process because you aren't waiting a couple of seconds to be sure you got the right number in your order."
"your not gonna have much say in the matter and posting about it here since its not even live yet won't get you anywhere either.and sorry to say...i'd rather see for myself before i'm sold i'm \"petitioning\". (on live not sisi)so we shall wait and see then. ================ stop the evemail spam!"
"if it was deployed into tq as it is right now, i don't think too many people would have a serious issue with this. i've managed to use it just fine, and next week, i will probably post here saying the same damn thing. i think the issue you're having here is a personal issue that gamedevs can't fix, sorry bud."
"it's all speculation right now. my prediction is rage. dual pane idea: click!"
"do you run a pos?"
"i've used the new ui and frankly (with the exception of the terrible refresh rate) i don't see anything wrong with it.i run a corporation, which means lots of windows. i also do alot of salvaging. watching the video i cant help but say \"he's doing it wrong\", because i had no problems what-so-ever. its called a \"unified inventory\" for a reason.also drake is right about the whole \"its on the test server\" thing. it wont be very long at all now until its released on tq. if its still bad, rant away. im sure that even i will eventually find reasons to complain."
"what ? every player got those problems. maybe you need to open your eyes.this unified inventory system is a semi-developed inventory system in alpha state.the opened windows dissapear when someone docking out or up. same thing happen when the pilot change solar systems.the system dont remember the windows positions and size and need to open and set again and again every time. difficult to handling in many situations, (in pvp, for pos manager, for capitalship pilots,looting etc)but you talking about, you had no problems. lol"
"this is ridicilous.players have been asking for the ability to name pos mods forever and we still don't have it.now they introduce a inventory window that looks super neat, works really fast but is not yet ready for release.if you live at a pos you'll see your inventory cluttered with all the guns, all the smas, hangars without the ability to sort or filter of any kind. which is a waste of my screen space, i don't want to see all my guns that i can't even access because they're 40k away.and not even the search funtion is working properly :/ check this out.i mean come'on, this is ye olde ccp.not listening to players and just ******* their own game.and check out the damn video goliath."
"sup?have you seen general discussion in the past 5 minutes?dual pane idea: click!"
"tippia's video is clear, precise and illustrates places where functionality is lost or the new ui can be improved upon. ccp rubberband is responding to that, promising that while the old ui isn't coming back, your concerns will be addressed.how is that a problem? i realize the new inventory might not be perfect in this release, but give it a few patches and some time to have actual tq feedback, before signing off and reaching for the monument shooting lasers."
"people have a strange sense of entitlement these days. ccp is one of the few gaming companies that will go into a dialogue with it's player base, but thousand of eve online players seem to think that means they can have their specific pet peeve addressed... immediately... with a personal apology from the company ceo... you get to give them feedback. if it's constructive and well presented, they will likely listen to you and improve in future iterations. if you instead come off as an angry child, you're likely to be dismissed as such."
"no they where given lots of good feedback as to why the new ui sucked and warned not to go live with the current system. they ignored all the advise and reservations, bought in a system which is less functional and less intuitive and now they get to listen to the complaints.tal"
"yup that is horribe. ccp didn't listen to playerbase.lot of players tell to ccp at least 1 month ago what is the problem with their new inventory system, some member created videos from mistakes, but ccp answer was this :ccp arrow wrote:\"in the sessions the whole team observed the live feed and took notes on everything the participants did. we don't do user tests because we don't believe you when you say there is a problem, we want to address it correctly and by seeing it in action with our own eyes, we can more easily find a solution to the problems you have found.\"so, where is the csm when the playerbase need them ?why need moving to jita or amarr to shot monuments if the playerbase need attention ???just 1 year passed and ccp make same mistake again. they want lose in every years 20k players and they want fixing their mistakes in every year to bring them back ?this is the smartest solution ?"
"i must admit that i didn't check it out on sisi. i should have done, because what i see on tq, is simply bad. the people who came up with the concept for unified inventory obviously do not play eve.draging stuff back and forth from/to that very minimalistic tree view is a pain. delivering stuff to corp member hangars is almost impossible because only half of the hangars appear and the list isn't even sorted. overall performance of anything related to corp hangars (still) sucks."
"i work in software engineering - if i gave a response to customer feedback like ccp goliath did to my clients i'd be out on my arse!short and sweet is - the inventory is sh!t!!!"
"with the amount of negative feedback it's a suprise they didn't hold of with releasing the new inventory management screen till it was actually usable.ccp dropped the ball big time here, they should release it when it's ready not when it's barely out of alpha.but it seems they wanted it out now regardless."
"here is a clear indication that its a fail feature...there is currently a flurry of mails in a corp on possible work around or possible tactics to avoid using it... good god, who is the \"business analyst \" on the project? do you not consult with the users? ccp it also illustrates how out of touch some of your staff are with the customers needs. seriously - w t f"
"admitedly i have yet to see this system.....but considering the hemoraging blood coming from various threanaughts...fair enough....i concede...this does not bode well.usually test servers are indicators of testing in progress...but it seems i have a little to much faith in ccp. ================ stop the evemail spam!"
"insurance was never intended to cover t2/3/faction ships.it is currently based on the mineral market value (not sure if average over region or as a while). it comes to about 70% of the t1 cost, which is what ccp intended. it covers only the mineral value. not value of salvage not value of tags. not value of lp. not value of moon goo. not value of industrialist markup. only the mineral value.this is how ccp fixed it to be, and intended it to be. therefore it cannot be broken.just because it isn't how you want it doesn't make it broken.there, that simplified enough?"
"simple yes, broken yes. your point also makes mine."
"no my point specifically refutes yours.it is as it is designed and intended, therefore it is not broken. you just don't like the way ccp wants it. oh well, deal with it."
"agreed.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"yeh, that not my problem. i fully understand."
"of course you understand yourself....you wrote the bloody post. derp derp!how about the rest of us? eh?================ stop the evemail spam!"
"proposing a new \"service\" section in eve marketplace board. services for hire (jump clone, standing grind, merc, etc) has little to do with selling goods. they are currently buried in the overcrowded sell section of the forum, rendering them unfindable. sell board is filled with short-lived but spamtastic merchandise-hawking threads. seekers of services often had to resort to google, which often gave ancient results of defunct corps whose owner have since died irl.mercs for hire threads have since moved to c&p where they hang out with the discussion/whine threads. standing grind threads used to be in pve section, but got moved to sell section by mods, where they may die. jump clone threads are out of luck from the beginning.eve economy has a service sector. now that wardec mechanics have be changed to favor more merc work, it might be a good time for a minor addition to the forums to facilitate buying and selling of services."
"yes, supported.null sec / low sec players are bored. so spice things up - and if you don't like the op's suggestions, offer better ones. saying \"i don't like it\" with no ~because added gives the csm and ccp nothing to go on at all. if you think the changes should not happen, why not? i think they ought to as they would add to the game. the longer rats are left unattended, the more mischief they should get up to ... inculding building thier own pos complete with guns, attacking soviergnty structures, and claiming soverignty if no-one defends."
"this would be a cool thing too add.+1 :>"
"this thread is a sting by ccp to identify bot herders flocking in to object to horrible idea."
"this idea came to me while avoiding writing an essay for uni, and is intended to spice thing up a little and to provide a positive altrenative to the suicide ganker playstyle.arise, sir ratany player account who has achieved 25+ unique pvp kills in eve should unlock a speical 4th character slot, which is a mechanical device not a true character slot. visually, it could be just an empire icon next to the usual 3.picking the \"rat\" option, the player should then be given a choice - which faction(s) to fight for, which should be changable once per two months. once a sanshas or other pirate faction the player is randomly allocated a ship they quality for, in space. the ship should not be able to be docked, but otherwise should operate normally. if the player leaves the ship, by dc or ejecting, the npc pilot resumes command. the player can then go do thier worst against other players, as a super-smart rat.as a player collects combat rat points on thier rat toon, by blowing things up, they should advance in what ships & contexts they qualify for, starting at:mining belt rat, highsec mining belt rat, any complex basic rat complex medium rat complex advanced rat complex commander rat incursion rat (b/m/a/c) incursion logistics ship all your rats belong to us rat admiral by invitation only: jovian highsec incursion rat.all your rats belong to usthe rat player can jump at will from rat ship to rat ship in the system, effectively flying the whole rat squadron. player is not removed from scene until the last rat is destroyed. mechanically using the \"get in ship\" command, with range = 200 km. rat admiralthe rat player can call other rat pilots to join their rat fleet, setting requirements as preferred. the random allocation then streams qualifying pilots to that encouter, enabling a rat admiral to potentially have a complete incursion fleet under rat player control. arise, lady catany player who has achieved 5,000,000,000 units of metals mined in eve should unlock a speical 4th character slot, which is a mechanical device not a true character slot. visually, it could be just an empire icon next to the usual 3.again unlocking a new \"character slot\", but for empire factions or concord. if qualifying for both, the player must choose cat or rat.cats get to prowl their empire space, or highsec for concord, looking for wanted criminals. may engage on locating anyone who is wanted, and can fly to asteroid belts (etc) looking for thieves. hard coded to not be able to do anything that would trigger a criminal flag (your lawful crew politely refuses to open that can or fire on the gate guns). also randomly allocated, with the allocation preferrentially directing the cat player to any qualifying system where two or more rat players are. cat admirals may issue or accept invites from players with good standing towards their played faction. yes, this would mean that potentially a rat player incursion would end up fighting a cat player fleet + normal players. sounds like a recipie for carnage :)checks and balancesrandom allocation. this is essential, or the system would be abused (duh). the rat pilot needs to appear \"somewhere\", without any power to choose where. but (this is important) - the idea is fun, so the rat should be added into a location where a player currently is active. it's no fun if you are a rat in an asteroid belt in a system no-one is mining.to the victor, the spoils. a rat admiral incursion fleet should give higher rewards: fighting players is, after all, significantly harder than fighting npcs with their predictable tactics. the more rat players in the fleet, the higher the reward should be: personally i would have a random plex drop chance added in (everyone in the fleet has a low % chance of a plex dropping in the station where thier medical clone is, if they defeat a rat admiral fleet with 3 or more rat players in it).both rats and cats would be able to loot things normally ... so a long lived cat or rat would potentially have very tasty loot anyway. perhaps the wrecks of cat/rat ships should be automatically blue.the player pilot gets ejected if the ship does not fire before taking 50% of its defences if in range (with the rat crew mutinying against their cowardly captain), -10 rat points. pilot may eject at will, which after 20 seconds logs them out. the ship instantly reverting to npc control, and if in a strange place like a concord battleship at an asteroid belt, will despawn according to the usual npc despawn rules.maps: the rat pilot should have no starmap, waypoint or autopilot options, they are where they are. they should be given wh entrances / exits.the intent of having high entry level criteria is that rats in particular are only flown by players who know what they are doing, and have been in eve for a significant time. while any system is open to abuse (as hulkageddon shows) it is not too bold to expect that someone who works long and hard to command an incursion rat fleet will use it for fun carnage and mayhem (as intended), not simply suicide it for isk and risk being banned from ever playing a rat again.let the flaming begin"
"sup."
"lolclassic.so yeah... op is completely loony. (thats my subtle way of saying not supporting)op should go post in the rp board.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"i qualify for both positions there, as does my alt. i can get free plex by killing my alts?"
"no, you can't get free plex by killing your alts under the proposal above.although you probably did get free plex already, by inviting your alts as friends, right? you currently get free plex by killing your alt if your alt gets huge bounties on him, and then you pod him and buy plex with the iskies. that already happens now, so don't tell me that this game can never have such a system as above because it could potentially be abused. everything you add into a sandbox could potentially be abused, that does not mean that it should not be added. it simply means it needs appropriate limitations, and rules around it to permit censure if it does get abused."
"so you wish to launder isk.got it.not supporting and i'm likely to report you for attempting to create an exploit.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"you're an idiot. not for not supporting the op, just in general. you should post less."
"the only idiot here is the one who derails threads.feel free to argue why its not what i seem to think it is and be a little helpful and less.....stupid?unless you can tell me theres a better way to define what it is he/she/it is trying to propose eh?================ stop the evemail spam!"
"i've been reading up on the new mods and it looks like some of them can only found in game as bpcs... i can understand ccp trying out a new way to introduce items and if this were tech 2 stuff, it'd be fine until the players had a chance to invent it, but for tech 1 and as a copy only i feel like there needs to be a better way to add new modules into a game. this seems like it's going against the grain of the game and the current manufacturing system."
"in what way? it seems like a good way to limit the supply to me. seeding bpos means the market will be flooded by this time tomorrow."
"i love all these ideas here! this would make mining more interesting and a bit more skilled as well as defeat most botting. i would probably extend the length of the site time from 1 hour to 4 hours as i believe this is the most time a miner spends on a site with or without assistance. i also like the idea of being more genuine. eve residents: 5% wh; 8% lowsec; 15% nullsec; 72% highsec. csm 7: 1 highsec resident out of 14. csm demographics vs eve demographics, nothing to worry about..."
"oh hey, look, another carebear trying to threaten ccp with the \"hulkageddon is costing you money!\" argument. i can play that game, too. i have paid over a decade's worth of subscription fees, and i would cancel both of my accounts if ccp tries to stop hulkageddon again (ie, more nerfs to suicide ganking).honestly, if you want farmville in space, then go play something else. we have something special here, and just because it doesn't appeal to everyone doesn't mean it should be changed until it does for the sake of increasing sales. ccp isn't this faceless corporation that sees nothing but the bottom line (aka blizzard)."
"pretty much this.... but then anything lady flute says these days if screaming bittercarebeartroll as it is.you want carebearing? go play hello kitty online.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"really would like to know how plex is a debt around ccp's neck. if there is plex sitting in game ccp shouldnt care considering the cash used to put that plex in game is now in their pockets...can i get some of whatever your smoking please!"
"i think hes talking about plex game time as liability , the service is already paid for and yet to be redeemed. however, someone also hasnt read the eula very closely. ccp can discontinue their service in total or partially without warning for any reason. its listed in the liabilities but it has a clause for pure profit. edit: i forgot to mention that the op is also wrong about how plex are introduced to the game. and what sort of effect they have on ccp finances."
"thats not the only thing the op is wrong about.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"in other words, it's a debt that may not be repaid. ccp can invalidate those plex you've stocked up one day when they feel like making you pay cash subscription instead. isn't that nice?"
"what is this debt? (previous post is a sarcastic quip so i'm overlooking)there is no debt.plex don't come down from the heavens out of shiny unicorns rear ends out of thin air...exception there of being as prizes or awards for getting buddies to join. (got one for my wife for example).what is this debt crap you speak of?================ stop the evemail spam!"
"would love to get a unicorn that crapped out plexes!"
"yes however what people are forgetting to mention is that the people buying the plex's are still spending more money than one person would on a monthly subscription (34.99 vs 30 or whatever it comes out to), i wont even compare the numbers of the 3, 6, and 12, month subscription plans. plex are working as intended as long as ccp doesn't go and spend all the money from plex purchases at once. i see that as some sort of project fund that the money is put into and if sh!t hits the fan they can just take it out of that fund or use the fund as intended. makes sense to me."
"i know of one that craps out freaking rainbow laser beams that destroys buildings and things!(don't ask me how i found that out....just look up mr. toots or something? my \"bosses boss\" knew about it....red faction armageddon would be the source of this nefarious creeature)================ stop the evemail spam!"
"i would love to see the assets merged into the new item hangar and then just be able to filter it to the current system, region, ect. plus with this i wouldn't have to open up two windows.edit: you could also possibly merge the wallet into this too, although that might be stretching it a bit."
"how about if they fix the massive screw up that the unified inventory was first? before trying to tack more stuff on to it, they should fix what they already did first."
"sorry i'm not aware of any problems currently, what is wrong with it?"
"the main issue is that is breaks the old functionality of being able to have multiple inventory windows open to work with (you can shift+click to add in new windows, but they vanish and everything resets after session changes).it also seems to be loading much slower due to having to index everything for the file tree on the left and pos users are having issues because it's literally showing every hanger, silo, array, and gun in that list and none of them are able to be labeled. the biggest issue i have is that ccp knew about the issues with it. there's a 18 page thread in the test server forum where people have been providing well explained and reasoned feedback on the issues for over a month and ccp has just brushed it under the rug (the same as they did the players' warnings about incarna). that thread is a good read if you're looking to understand the issues people have with the new inventory."
"just be lucky that only vg's got nerfed and hq's are still the same(not sure if they changed anything)."
"no. that is all."
"there is no griefing in eve unless specified by the devs. declaring war on someone is not \"griefing\", its a legitimate pvp player interaction. whoever came up with the term griefing needs to be shot.oh well theres always dust 514, corp infilitration and killing and suicide ganking. i suggest people turn to those methods in the future instead of using the war declaration system."
"when i say grief tactics i was referring to the post of meytal.maybe one of the solution can be to raise up the cost for the corp in alliance to 10 mil. and introduce the cost of 500k for the corp per member. so if someone left the corp during the war the money what corp pay for that member during the war will go to the attacker. for example if someone leave the corp after 3 weeks that corp was in war the attacker will get 1.5 mil. same go if the corporation left the alliance.prices i put are only for example but i think good way to finally bring some sort of ballance in war mechanics.if anyone want to go for suicide ganking up to him to decide how will play eve. if we have war mechanics why not use them in proper way."
"0.0"
"let's keep this idea fresh in the eyes of the masses. everyone needs simplified logistical assets.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"+1 i remember reading up on a freighter and seeing that no, you can't lug around fitted ships which is ridiculous.forgive me if it's already been suggested, but an alternative implementation could be to add low slots to freighters. pilots would then have "
"the initial sketch of the bedouin-class is complete. will post a link once i add more shading and get it scanned.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"request for comments: please critique and/or support."
"make defender missiles worth using./thread"
"i am not completely opposed to this, however do have a suggestion. aegis cruisers of modern navies utilize point defense weapons (usually in the format of a 20-millimetersuggestion gatling gun linked to radar and acoustical detection). so with that i would say give these new ships \"point defense batteries\" that require you to target the aggressing missile boat and when missiles come in these batteries open up with an extremely lightweight ammunition in 4-shots per point defense battery. let the aegis detroyer fit 4 of them and give it a percentile chance to destroy the incoming missiles and you reduce incoming damage. also make it so said batteries are purely defensive so that they cannot be utilized to engage other ships and you're golden.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"+1 can't weakly to sit back lift my two fingers, and say engage at the computer screen"
"just noticed something as i was watching the realtime gamelogs in the client looking for funny stuff after patch....05:32:54 svc::gameui notice i am now afk after being idle for 601 seconds.05:35:11 svc::gameui notice i am no longer afk after being idle for 736 seconds.game already knows when you are afk, and isn't telling us out of a conscious choice."
"do you see this notice on other players as well or just yourselfalso cloaking is fine"
"agreed."
"only noticed it myself, and only in the client log(through ctrl-alt-shift-m), how ever, it indicates that the do track this, and have a state for it that they are deliberately not sharing.and yes, cloaking is fine."
"isn't it a better idea to have maybe a destroyer (or something) class ship that is capable, with training, to seek out the general location of a cloaked pilot, not necessarily exact but close enough to use something like flack charges to de-cloak once the subject is found? so that your buddies can come in and kill the threat once it is uncloaked?this would bring a positive defense aspect to the game of 00 camped systems and also bring a new class of ship or utilize a under utilized ship class, training, and would make the afk cloak-er have to pay attention to their afk cloaked toon, making them have to move around once the saw that there was a threat to their afk-ness, thus they would no longer be afk but active in system.this could also have a positive effect on bringing mre fights, as well as bringing care bearing toons to a level of home defense rather than just \"oh crap we have a cloaked red in system safe up and sit\" for the rest of the day."
"1. if you are worried about ''server load'' or ''system load'' then why aren't you worried about ccp's web servers having to serve your digital crap threads that don't even look like they are composed by someone competent enough to play eve let alone ***** about what is wrong with it.2. ccp can't get rid of macros, botters, whatever you want to call it. someone will always do it, someone will always write another program or find some sort of exploit --- but to think that somewhere in your little head lies the answer to a problem that has plagued eve online and ccp for years... that is a bit ******** when you consider they probably have hundreds of people working on every part of the game, including security and how to stop current macros and bots and be ready to spot new ways people are doing it. what, you thought they don't employ these kinds of people?3. you aren't going to get rid of botters/macros/hackers/cheaters or whatever else you want to call them. it isn't happening. why? there is always another proxy server, there is always a new exploit every time you update your purdy lil game, and there are always young and eager coders out there waiting to see what they can achieve with their skills and even worse, those who will pay to get a working program to have that extra edge in game. also, you can't prove someone is botting in the first place if all this is nothing more than ''oh you did action a, b, c, and d. you must be a bot.''. people have schedules and sometimes play at the same times every day, some don't want anything to do with anyone else in the game and just want to be left alone and have their fun doing whatever, and no they don't feel the need to speak to you in local, private, or mail. and the same actions a bot or a macro would take if engaged by a player would probably be the same **** a person would do, i.e. warp off to a station and dock up to safety, warp somewhere else, or log off. if you were a miner wouldn't you save your **** too? thought so.sure you can do whatever, ban people, spy on their accounts, track them, look through all their stuff. in the end you are probably going to alienate more users who are actually not using bots than actually reducing the bot population. team that with all of these crap ''expansions'' that continually need patch after patch after patch and this could end up a pretty hollow community. wow and eve won't be the only half-way decent mmo's forever, there will be others."
"and yet, the proposal was setup to prevent that kind of abuse. it may not have gone quite far enough, imo, but that isn't for me to determine. the proposed shield would be part of any trial account, regardless of source, and would have the fixed 2 week time frame. an account lock would make absolutely certain that it can't get used by an unscrupulous veteran. the other restrictions can be adjusted as needed. the need for something like this is there, and the 'internet spaceships is serious business' crowd won't admit it. without the 'new blood' that most of them feel completely free to abuse, the rest of us lose an awesome game.people, make suggestions on how to bring this in line with protecting the new player while not destroying anything you hold dear. the account lock part is absolutely non-negotiable. the time limit does have some wiggle room, but should not exceed the normal trial length as far as i'm concerned.things like the capital defenses can be brought more in line with other types of ships, but should not be removed. by delaying the first ship loss by a week or more, you give that new player a chance to come to grips with how things actually do work based on mechanics. the new alts usually won't even notice the module as they usually spend the first couple of months locked in a station with a whole bunch of skill books.something has to be done, if you don't like the original suggestion please make suggestions. don't just flame away because it's different then how we started. like it or not, the people who are joining now are going to quit when they get killed over a stupid mistake that an experienced player wouldn't normally make. this is a fact that all of us already know as the 'ragequit' phenomenon. either we protect them somehow, or this game dies a slow and horrible death when someone else gets it right."
"oh? where did i state that they'd be invulnerable? where have i ever stated that this couldn't be modified? are you going to post tripe and crap about how it's just a bad thing, or are you going to make an actual suggestion to make it better, or at least workable, from your point of view?until you make a constructive post of some kind, versus this type of flamebait, i'm going to classify you as a latent troll until proven otherwise and ignore anything further from you."
"i'm sorry...everyone was under the impression your idea was a troll in the first place.maybe you should try again yes?================ stop the evemail spam!"
"classify me as a troll all you want, it doesn't negate the fact that newbies don't need special protection, in fact what they need to do is to learn the mantra \"don't fly what you can't afford to lose\" and \"don't be dumb about making yourself into a too juicy target\". newbies shouldn't be supercoddled, that just creates newbies which turn into even bigger whiners when they finally do get ganked. eve is harsh, and the quicker newbies learn that and adapt, the better."
"wow people are so short sighted sometimes.everyone seems to think that a new player doesn't deserve some kind of protection from the asshats who deliberately target them. make suggestions that are better, rather then repeating that eve is a dark and cruel place. there are more mmos that are geared towards pvp/conflict that provide some kind of basic protection for the new player. the pvp servers for runes of magic have a block on pvp against low level players, for instance.i'll ask again, why is doing something to protect the new player a bad thing? back lash from the first loss is inevitable, its going to happen regardless of when that loss happens. a sense of invulnerability in highsec? isn't that the case already?if no one else is willing to suggest something to modify this, then it's a dead issue. too bad that the typical lack of reading comprehension is killing a possible discussion with short sighted ideas on how the player base should continue to abuse the new players.on that note, i'm done with this topic.people failing to see the potential in something, simply because it's not how they started playing. congrats, it's attitudes like this that cost us other games that had a lot of potential./finished"
"my quote still stands.to a certain degree, yes it is. just look at how much some people whine the first time they get ganked. that's because they've thought themselves invincible in hisec, a place where the developers themselves have said should be safer, not safe.it's not a \"lack of reading comprehension\", it's you being just like one of those parents who whine about how something or other has to be changed to protect the children because god forbid they might scrub their knee or break a nail while playing or something.eve is a harsh place, the sooner they learn this, the sooner they can adapt their mentality and start playing more cautiously, and the less they'll whine in the long run."
"rather than being given an utterly arbitrary invulnerability for their first however long of playing, they need to learn asap what is possibly the #1 rule of eve:don't fly what you can't afford to lose.it's an absolutely foolproof way of making sure you never take a crippling loss."
"new players need volunteers who will mentor and help players understand eve in its truest form.none of this bs invonerability crap.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"indeed. new toons make excellent bait. :d"
"i was refering to those who won't exploit them...at least at first. ================ stop the evemail spam!"
"am i missing the forum thread started by our august csm members trying to address our concerns about the inventory rage storm?apparently everyone on the csm loves the new inventory interface and wants it exactly how ccp implemented it. but if people are expressing concerns about how it negatively affects their game play isn't it the job of the csm to facilitate our concerns to ccp?do we even need the csm? i mean if we have to go directly to ccp with our concerns, doesn't that simply mean we wasted our time electing several useless people who only want to fly for a free vacation to iceland?\"the best argument against democracy is a five-minute conversation with the average goon.\" - the mittani"
"when is the angry mob going to actually \"engage brain\" and start to realize the csm is nothing more than a mouth piece....they have no power...no influence..no sway.ccp can tell them to \"step off\" anytime they want.oh sure it might help if csm actaully bothered to \"participate\" (theres a concept) in day to day posts and assembly hall.but lets be honest here....your expecations of what csm can and can't do are seriously out of this solar system...never mind the world.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"they don't pretend to care unless it screws their alliance. the new and improved inventory screws everyone equally, so they're okay with that."
"hell, if they'd post in assembly hall once a week that'd be awesome, and i think more ideas could be collated and run through the system to be processed for actually applying them to eve. but as it seems, you want to get a response from the csm, send them an eve mail. although chances are, of the entire lot of them, you'll only get one response.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"or they will spam the #### out of you.csm (majority of) are more interested in their free trip to iceland and getting fame more so than actually helping us out. not that they could do much in hte first place.*damnit floppie...you dang will better run for next terms csm!!!*================ stop the evemail spam!"
"the only ones that actually care about communicating with players didn't get elected, so don't expect much."
"draconis, wrong as usual. i actually had some communications with the csm lately, and of the entire lot, got one reply. and for the love of god get off of everyone's ****.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"uh..yeah...sure....just keep right on going.eve mail means nothing....private convos mean nothing.we need a public face on the csm.and right now that public face is a crock.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"welp - it's out there and a bunch of folk unhappy about it.so, csm ... care to respond?i seem to remember listening to you on everadio talking this up like it was really cool and useful?it is obvious that none of you have even looked at it.you all probably only log into eve once a month or so and even then only sit on comms to issue orders to your minions."
"the csm is pretty quiet. i don't think they understand they are supposed to help the player base. what's the point in having a csm if they aren't going to help us? maybe they are waiting for the mittani to tell them what to do? seems like they really are nothing but goonie pets.\"the best argument against democracy is a five-minute conversation with the average goon.\" - the mittani"
"completely agree with the op. the new inventory system is broken."
"a lot of pissed off people on this issue.you guys should point out to ccp that no one was complaining about the old system."
"you know there is an issue when jita scammers take time away from scamming to spam about the issue. on a more serious note, this system is unusable in it's current iteration."
"i disagree.inventory and assets is definitely a priority and does need upgrading and change. this current release was just not ready for a production copy of eve. ccp needs to put more devs on it and get it iterated to hell. it should function properly and more in line to what we're used to while implementing new and forward thinking design. dual pane idea: click!"
"with the new unified inventory i havn't needed more than one window open, so alot of the problems described arn't problems at all for me. and i've had no problem with windows refreshing (again) because i only need one window open.i sympathise however, with the people trying to use it in more complex ways having problems. supported. get the bugs fixed. (even though they dont really affect me).i just hate every post you make. his opinion was just as (probably more valuable than) yours. he is obviously using the system the way it was intended to be used. the guy in the video has opened up and set up loads of differant windows because he seems to think its more effective somehow, which is retarted. because all the things he was doing were just as easily done from one window. if you only have one window open, it doesn't close going through gates and there are no problems with it refreshing.i appreciate that people should be able to use the inventory system any way they want, but the fact that the unified inventory works in the vast majority of cases if you use it the way it was intended to be used, shows that it was fine to be released. now that it has been released we can talk about fixing the bugs.you are such a massive troll, and i hate your posts. all of them. often i see you say something so stupid, i just have to comment on it.ps: topic still supported, fix the bugs.\"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"not to be insulting, but you seemed to miss the entire point of the video. he wasn't trying to see one container (ship, corp hangar, ect.) at a time. he wanted an overview of the items in his possession. with the current overview system this is, as you saw in the video, impossible. so we go back to the point of this thread, the update breaks some of the basic functionality of the inventory."
"majority of players pissed off about ccp 'fixing' something that wasn't broken and ccp either trying to convince us that it's great or ignoring us completely. why does this sound familiar? oh, right. we're just back to the ccp of 2 years ago when player account numbers were dropping and they had to do a 180 and grovel to the player base to get them back. no wonder this road looks familiar."
"this does feel a lot like cq again, only this time it's effects have reached us all the way in the wh's!"
"shift and click????ok, i got it now. once i have opened and then minimized the inventory to a button on the left side menu, then, i can open containers in their own window by using shift and click. i got it ok, but how is this better when this whole process was previously completed with just 1 click?don't give me that....... just don't!"
"just in case tiger gets into an seizure again and misses the key point.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"go back to page 1. btw you do production often?"
"the best is when a fitted t3 value is 2 billions, but the platinum insurance payback 20 million for you :p"
"so i read the whole thread, but i still dont get what is broken about t1 insurances. afaik the insurance is calculated by the avaerage mineral price.can someone please dump this down for me?as for faction, t2 and t3 insurances, that's a matter of opinion."
"t2 is produced with t1 ship hulls.faction uses the t1 hull as trade with the lp storet3 has subsystems that should be accounted for into the insurance of the hull (its not), cause it cant be flown with out them.few others seem to be understanding just fine corin, @ l0rd carlos- nothing is broken with t1 insurance just insurance in general.buy an omen of the market you pay for insurance, you get platinum. now you spent more isk to get around 70% of it back. so you paid total of 12mill, for an 8 mill ship to get only 70% of that 8 mill? and if you instead of selling it later, put it into t2 version of it that insurance becomes null. ^-> i do this often."
"you still haven't explained why it is broken, rather than working as intended.you just keep spouting your own opinion, mixed with facts that are meaningless."
"im sorry you dont understand what ive said on the breakdown of it. but i remain correct that it is broken. t2 should reflect the t1's insurance payout."
"i'm also against having to **** around with upgrading your clone. +1 to removing (or at least reducing) clone upgrade etc costs"
"i think we should reduce clone costs significantly.... but increase pod align times from instant warp to about 4s (~2.5s with skills). this will have signicant impacts on the game: 1.) outlaws trying to travel through hisec no have to worry about zealous interceptor pilots camping them into lowsec. 2.) losing your pod in lowsec pvp will become far more prevelant. 3.) the added risks to clones makes implants more risky to use..."
"hey...an idea i could get behind.more poddings for cheaper clones.sounds like balance to me!================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"ugh, been here before with these dumb moves via incarna's shown \"the door\" mindset. i hate the new interface in station. i use to love to use station containers to sort my gear (, name it shield ore ect ect. ) open it and look at the pictures. drag what i needed out of it then on to the ship. now holy crap it is like an old fortran logic script. give eve a kiss ( keep it simple stupid. ) no way is this faster or easier . i am hoping maybe bugs will be worked out but i am afraid dust 514 changes will prevent it. oh well eve was fun why it lasted."
"you changed your subject matter 3 times (incarna, inventory, dust 514) and became unintelligible.mind speaking english please?================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"yes you are correct drake i stand corrected. i rambled too much. i am just so cheesed about the new interface when doing inventory. i just want my old drag down station inventory system back again. ( items to staion containers labled ect ect.) i am so darn tired of eve fixing things that do not need to be fixed."
"oh, inventory needed to be fixed. when i consolidated all my crap to sell it off in jita i realized just how poor inventory management is in eve. it's just that the new inventory doesn't really make it any better. if they'll work out the bugs and make some improvements, it'll get better."
"kinda figured that...but you need to be consistent or your not gonna get very far. :)but yeah...eve is kinda turning into windows anymore.================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"if you really want to protest something, maybe you should do it on the thread already available in this very forum.here"
"laundering isk? you can't complain about derailing a thread when you say something so stupid."
"how else do you call earning \"tons of plex's\" eh?are you trying to crash the market? are you just that blind or you just bitter over not being able to carebear the way you want too?================ stop the evemail spam!"
"don't support the idea, mostly because it's completely bonkers. i like the idea that you can team up with a faction - guristas / serp / sansha etc. but that's all i like. having players roam around griefing with trollfaces on, attacking unsuspecting newbies with terrible skills in missions already happens - giving players a way to do it without being concorded is just ludacris.if, in your scenario, you've got a newbie drake trying to take on three npc battleships. his tank is slowly being whittled down, he can't sustain it. griefer-player-rat warps in, warp jams him and newbie dies. (all pvp revolves around warp jamming or doing enough alpha damage so they pop before they can warp. if player rats can't warp jam, there's actually no reason to this idea because the player can and will escape. so which is it that griefer-player-rats will have. extreme high dps or jamming capabilites?)griefer-player-rat sits there in all his glory after annihilating a newbie, looting his ship and leaving the guy with nothing. griefer-player-rat doesn't get concorded because he's a rat. also, what about all the people who just want to \"rat in peace.\" highsec mission runners with ships worth excess of tens of billions, the people who want to just fight computer artificial intelligence instead of being suprised by some griefer who's come to destroy months of effort? if i i recall you were complaining about hulkageddon and how it targetted people who just wanted to do their own thing. kind of hypocrital to suggest this.this completely goes against eve's \"sandbox\" principle. if people can meet whatever criteria to become a rat, they should be allowed to do whatever the hell they want when they're a rat. which is exactly why we have hulkageddon, because that's an example of people doing whatever the hell they want.the bounty system is also, as stated before, a loophole to launder isk. you want to know why bounties in eve don't work? because people just pod themselves and claim their own bounty. it's free isk from everybody who adds to the bounty. same thing can just happen in this. you lost me at \"lady cat\". i really don't know how to interpret this other than some odd way of roleplaying, but whatever rocks your boat is up to you, this is a sandbox game after all. what is 5 billion units of metal? so the industrialists/miners of eve get to play for concord/empire factions? in what logical way do those two connect at all.what is a \"thief\" or \"wanted\" person? in my experience in highsec, you've got a billion people who've stolen at one point in time or another, but you can't kill them unless they're flashing red. so what exactly are you proposing, here. that these super-miners-who-suddenly-became-pvp'ers can just waltz around jita killing everybody whos got a skull next to their name because they killed somebody sometime ages ago? that's just.. stupid.concord is in the game as a \"god's judgement\" for when players really break the rules, like trying to attack a station in highsec, or killing other players for no reason at all. i don't understand any reason or use for having players partake in that - as there is no use for them.also please don't call them cats. this is actually not hello kitty online.then you talk about how rats vs cats can fight.. sounds like a broken, flawed version of fleet warfare?anyway. thats why i think myself, and everybody else in this game don't support this idea. before posting topics in the assembly hall, try to post them in \"features & idea's discussion\" board, first. don't give the csm more work to sort through threads that are not going to get the go-ahead."
"improvements to the mercenary marketplace:okay guys before you tart reading i just want to let you know that there might be some spelling errors or grammar mistakes, but anyway do read this.the merc marketplace in inferno was a good idea, mercenary corps can make isk easy in empire by helping carebears who have been war decked, or alliances that have been decked and want protection for logistics.but i have a idea on how we can improve on this good idea, and ccp are good at improving or adding to features.basically we help null sec and low sec mercanerys by doing two things:in the nerocom there could be a separate market button for the mercenary market do people can contact/look for mercs easily.the next thing is adding contracts to this marketplace that describe the job that needs doing and it could have some of the following in it:sytem links: this could show the mercs what system they need to be in (or systems depending if they need to be in more than one for a job)title: title of the contract, \"hey guys i need this pos killed\"issuer: this part of the contract shows who issued the contract weather it be allience/corp/player.although there could be a anonymous option if the employer does not wish to be known. preferred ship types/type.: this section could say if the merc/merc corp needs to bring a certen type of ship (there should also be a \"any\" option)target/targets: this section could have the linked name or names of the allience/corp/guy/gang/convoy ambush/structure that the mercanerys/merc needs to take out or harass.time of job: this section could show what time the contract needs to happen at (example: \"camp this gate at 21:00 eve time, a logistics ship should be jumping in with escort at this time, destroy it and take the cargo for me. make sure to link the kill report.) there could also be a \"no specific time\" option. there could also be a countdown untill the specific time, as well as the words \"now\" for when the timer is donedate: same as the time part but says what date the required job is needed to be done, there could also be a countdown for the month/week/day until the job. if it is on the day that the job is on then it could say \"today\" in this section. there could also be a \"any\" and \"from ___ to ___\" option in this part of the contract.description of job: this part of the explains what the mercenarys/merc must do, as this a text box it could be anything from the employer asking for a gate camp or a hit. for example let's say someone ordered a hit on a target it could read out like this: \"hey guys i'm looking for a corp or lone contractor who could kill this guy, his name is horrorgun (linked name) i keep ganking him and he sent me this eve mail [i don't know who you are. i don't know what you want. if you are looking for ransom, i can tell you i don't have money. but what i do have are a very particular set of skills; skills i have acquired over a very long career. skills that make me a nightmare for people like you. if you stop ganking me now, that'll be the end of it. i will not look for you, i will not pursue you. but if you don't, i will look for you, i will find you, and i will kill you.]if possible i would like the target to be killed and forced to move to anouther system, 100m isk will be your reward\"target danger level: this section has three tick boxes that show how dangerous this contract is \"safe[ ] dangerous [ ] suicidal [x]\" there could also be a option that says \"unknown\" if the employer does not know how hard the job will bekill mails apon completion: this part only applies if the contract was a hit, convoy ambush or structure kill. or checked then this means that the mercenary/merc must link a ingame killmail/killmails to prove the job is done, this option can be unchecked if the employer trusts the mercs.payout: this part shows what is the reward for the job. it could be a ship, item or isk.thats the idea for the merc contracts but i have one more idea, if it is going to be a real marketplace then a merc corp could have the option of advertising themselves on the market with information on what jobs they can do.tl;dr: make a real merc marketplace that works like contracts but also allows merc corps to advertise themselves"
"ccp tries to buff exploration, but ends up nerfing everyone else. well, mostly just droneboats, actually."
"they havn't nerfed anything. they have just buffed them less than you like.this proposal is stupid. its refreshing to see ccp seeding mods in other ways. next?\"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"i'm not against seeding mods in this manner, just seeding t1 m1 mods. if they were at least bpos, i'd be happy."
"i think it's a good idea, at least until we can see if these positive resistance modules are not too op for armor hacs. rejoice amarr, and enjoy them while ye can! as for the others, the drone damage module is avail. as bpo."
"still a bad ass idea and i support it 100%"
"a ship specially designed for this role isn't the worst idea in the world, but at the same time, there are two ships that cover some of the bases.supercarriers (aka motherships)titans.titan bridges can be used for quick redeployment and even be set up as a ferry system that people can use to move ships very quickly. the titan has a 5 million m3 ship maintenance array. super carrier has a 2,5 million m3 ship maintenance array.at the same time, there is a need for something that doesn't require that much resources for such logistics. then again, how tanked would this tug be, and how viable would it be to actually use in hostile space?"
"well the issue is with those ships, is they can only be effectively utilized in low and nullsec. that leaves high sec shorted, but then again, you being a member of one of the nullsec blocs, i can't expect you to want anything to help high sec. i am putting forth this idea as something that will directly help everyone in new eden, and not favor any one group. sure, in low sec and null sec, supercarriers and titans are effective.but in high sec, the orca is inadequate, as it is an industrial command ship. it is not meant to haul ships around, and contracting involves having someone else accepting and then failing a contract, only to trade the item to you. a ship that could be utilized to actually haul these around rigged is ideal.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"still supported..."
"in one of the posts in the thread somewhere i suggested something along the lines of a singularity projector. when activated it would pull in some are all of the incoming shot, be it hybrid weapons fire, laser fire, projectiles, or missiles.if targeting the aggressor were required and you activate a module on the aggressor, how would you prevent an alpha from a blob?in the tactics post i mention a change to fleet battles where these aegis destroyers are an initial shell that must be cracked before the main fleet may be effectively engaged. taking phalanx ciws as an analogue, the system automatically targets the incoming fire. that's why i proposed that it be a module (or it could certainly be a weapons system) that you activate on a friendly. while the module is active, it would provide interception for all incoming fire of a certain type aimed at that friendly, with effectiveness determined by position, skill, and equipment quality.i guess i should spell out what these modules are and how you'd use them. high-slot modules:coherence disruptor prevents or shifts laser fire on a friendly target (skills: laser decoherence, close-in weapon upgrades)projectile shunt alters the course of a projectile fired at a friendly to turn it into a glancing blow or a miss (skills: projectile deflection, close-in weapon upgrades)plasma decelerator cools a hybrid shot out of its plasma state while slowing it down reducing or eliminating the damage done to a friendly target(skills: hybrid degeneration, close-in weapon upgrades)phalanx cannonsfires micrometeorite fragments in the path of incoming missiles, deflecting or prematurely detonating them as they home in on a friendly(skills: phalanx coordination, close-in weapon upgrades)mid-slot modules:close-in weapons linkincreases the effectiveness of ciws defense on a given friendly by linking sensors with the friendly's threat computer (skill: close-in weapon upgrades, sensor linking)combat tractor beamactively pulls a live target. interceptor-only, or possible new role for t1 frigate. same range as a webifier.(skill: propulsion jamming?)i'm a little ambivalent over whether these modules should actually use charges are not. it could be awesome to see them firing their hearts out at incoming fire and exhausting their stores of ammunition requiring a reload. the trick would be that you activate the module without it having to consume ammo until there is actual incoming fire. i'd prefer that a destroyer be able to hold enough ammo to engage for at least 10 minutes before exhausting said ammo. i thought it might just be easier to imagine these modules creating tiny subspace distortions or something like that and only using cap.thoughts?"
"well, of course it wouldn't actually utilize ammunition until there were incoming fire, thus not blowing its wad prematurely so to speak. furthermore, i'd say that it would be a sub-ammunition type, such as the defender missile, but would only take up a very small volume in the cargohold, the weapon systems themselves able to hold a significant amount of said ammunition, and having an obscene rate of fire (such as the phalanx ciws/c-ram system). that would also be good for the market, as it would create new bpos to be seeded throughout the market (not just for the modules, but the ammunition), and would make for a nice mineral/isk sink. so in essence, everyone wins.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"there is not much of a point to these kinds of systems in a game like eve. the reason for it being that if it were to be useful at all, then it would have to have a considerable effect, but being able to reduce greatly or negate the damage of 150 maelstrums firing in unison would break game logic. nothing would die as both sides would field so many protection ships that nothing would ever get hit. defender missiles already exist, and you're forgetting one crucial thing: how the game mechanics currently work. everything except for missiles and drones deal instant damage, and do not actually have a physical form or shape in the game from a design standpoint. all you see are the effects, there is never an actual round generated in space to be countered, as doing this would create horrible amounts of lag and doing calculations to counter these items would only help increase the load.this would also be devistating on the market, as whilst new bpos give the manufacturings more things to produce, the reduced damage taken and by default, ships destroyed, there would be fewer ships to replace and fewer people would need to buy ships. the entierty of the eve market is dependant on a single thing occuring: things being blown up. adding more ways to prevent that from happening is shooting the market in the foot, that and guess what effect this would have on caps :3"
"if you take a look at the post on tactics and countering (toward the top of this page) you'll note that the intention was to make it so that it would be fruitless to go after the main targets first. you'd now have to break the defense. yet these destroyers would be highly vulnerable to frigates, sniping destroyers, and drones. in essence, there should be a sharp increase in the number of ships and modules destroyed.the point is to change the combat mechanics to require some preliminary tactics before a battle reduces to a focus-fire exercise. it also means throwing lots of small, low-skill ships into the fray making an even larger role for newer players for both attack and defense. at the same time, you'd get gank-by-alpha protection in hi-sec through cooperative play (not resorting to solo hulk buffs, for example) and within concord rules."
"just fyi, there are 3 people on the security team. ccp sreegs, stillman, and someone else who i can't remember. thats it.the company has around 500 total people working on everything, eve, dust, and wod, as well as community teams, gms, executives who come up with stupid ideas to try and make sure their jobs are safe, etc.and the rest of your post sounds like you are trying to justify botting. you wouldn't be trying to justify botting, would you?"
"sorry zim, she's right. you are trolling, and the real issue is that for some playstyles the mantra \"don't fly what you can't afford to lose\" translates to \"other players can prevent you from playing for weeks at a time\". they quit eve instead.that is abysmal design. and it has implicitly been recognised as well: go see the dev blog on ship skill design, and note the training times for exhumers. to make good isk as a miner you need an exhumer, and to train that you need to wait 2 months (47 days). at that point you get your first exhumer: which typically the player will not be able to afford to replace. because the ships all come into range in a relativey short space the new players go for the most expensive ship they can get, because they need the ore income stream, especially if they hope to pay past 3 months with plex.you gank such players in their first exhumer (typically covetor / hulk), the chances are excellent that they will not renew thier sub at month 3, which we know is critical to new player retention. so yes, hulkageddon really can directly cost ccp revenue. if ccp were brave, they would plot exhumer training, loss, and player retention data and present it to the community: i know annecdotally of people who have got their very first exhumer, spending everything they have, and lost it within hours of getting it: and who stopped playing because of that.it is all well and good for the hardcore to say \"you need to learn to only fly what you can afford to lose\"; but that is overlooking the issue that ccp have not, which is that there simply is nothing else worth flying for this playstyle. mining frigates being scrapped in the latest patch is a stark admission of that, and it is expected meaningful sub-exhumer ships will be added soon.if someone tries eve, spends 2 months to get a ship, takes it out and loses it to a bored suicide ganker nearly instantly, then guess what, they typically won't be able to replace the ship (given the insurance issues), and there being no suitable smaller ship option they will simply quit the game, because all thier work proved the folly of eve's advertising saying new players have a chance against veterans. they don't. no matter how well you tank a hulk or even orca, or who you fly with, veterans can and do suicide kill them in highsec. unless the vets are stupid, they will never fail to kill it: and \"always wins\" is as flawed in game design terms as \"can never die\". the first is in-game currently, the latter is the natural counter (new player protection act, with suitable balances).and if you keep saying \"you need to learn to fly something you can afford to lose\" ... do the math and logic. how much money per hour can you make with a 40 million isk battlecruiser? or a 300 million isk battleship? it's more than a solo covetor or hulk with t1 strip miners that has to can mine (which is where most newer players are at in month 2 of a mining career). and if you lose your shiny combat ship, unless you bizarrely sold off all your old ships, you will have a hangar full of cruisers, frigates, and other ships to earn up a replacement. if a 2 month old player loses their first exhumer, guess what new players learn:\"ccp design effort is focused on veteran vocal combat players, and the only thing you can fly that is worth flying you will not be able to afford to lose until you are a veteran. so sorry your experience of eve has been 2 months of waiting to be able to really play, then bored vets robbing you of your gameplay, and that you're quitting. we would love to fix the design flaws by making a credible sub-exhumer mining ship, but to be honest we've been too busy making missle launcher graphics to make combat even prettier to appease the vocal combat players. you're the quiet social players who pay for this game, but we forgot about you. oops, hugs and kisses, please please please tell a friend how wonderful eve is and get them to play too, even though you think it's **** because you can spend months to get nowhere because you foolishly believed mining and industry was viable for new players like we told you in the tutorial when we set you up for getting obliterated with bad ship balance, insurance that isn't enough to get you into a credible smaller version of the ship you lost to keep playing, and no-lose pvp kills for all but the most stupid vet teams.\" i really am pleased that ccp has admitted they have a problem with mining ship design. but that's not going to stop them bleeding subscriptions over this, they need to step up thier game, fast. the quickest temporary fix ould be to make hulk basic insurance x% higher payout so that a player losing a hulk can afford to buy and fit a covetor to keep mining. but better balance between ever-increasing cheap firepower for gankers and static wafer thin exhumers is silly: maybe hotfix hulk and co ships hull's up 10,000 points or more, to make them something that actually requires some effort and thought to gank. all you need atm is three destroyers and to not screw up.bottom line: stop pretending there is no problem here. there is, because the ship progression is screwed up, and the playtyle is badly neglected. the \"mining cruiser\" has a hold of 420 m^3 ... which can hold nothing isk worth of ore? where is the gas mining ship again? get real. if they wanted a real mining cruiser, it would have an ore hold of 2,000 m^3, be able to fit 1 strip miner, and add refine ore (poorly) sub-cap ships that are not exhumers (converted battleship mining ship)."
"you offering up goonswarm to help mentor new players? oh wait, they already do that: they teach them how to greif other new players out of eve, and how to pay for subs with plex rather than pay ccp actual us$. sorry, it's not happening. miner playstyle players are the most inherently social, because you sit in an asteroid belt/field for hours shifting ore from hold a to can b to hold c, so they talk a lot while doing it. the new interface sucks for that, by the way, well done ccp ... you need an option to make a can a separate window still. anyway, those are the people who are most chatty in help, and who are going to be happy to mentor. the ones pvping and scanning the latest new player iteron at the highsec suicide gate camp do not have time to mentor or chat in help, they have only seconds to decide if they are going to obliterate yet another new player for no reason other than they have an item that might be worth something but probably isn't. any excuse to gank is a good excuse, right? so what if the newbie quits over it ... that's what you all say. go play wow. oh wait ... 12 million people are playing that one, and eve is on a hardcore recruitment drive because ... it has failed to keep its new player base and achieve growth targets.wake up, step up, and post suggestions. eve already has invulnerability added in, with the new player systems rules. the new players start with huge skill pools compared to the old days, and loads fo freebies from the tutorials. guess what kiddies, you can see the writing on the wall. if we don't give eve good ideas about how to increase new player retention by addressing issues such as hulkageddon greifers driving new players away, then eve's devs are going to keep on coding in changes that \"carebear\" up the game. i would not be at all surpirsed to see invulnerability from pvp added for new players, or no-ganking rules added to 0.9 and 1.0 systems. if we don't give eve's devs qualtiy options for subtle systems, they will be left with the unsubtle ones: and guess what, keeping 10 new players is worth more real money than losing 1 veteran's ganker alt. it a numbers game, and if ccp wants eve to keep growing, the new players will always have more."
"excuse me?you think i'm in goonswarm?hahahahahahahaahaahahahahahahahahahahahalord zim - she thinks i'm in goonswarm! hahahahahayou really are a dumbass.i have no authority or right to offer up goonswarm so i'm not sure how the hell you figured that.and there are hundreds of corps who do the same thing.get over yourself.waste of time...go cry in your corner.... i'm sure there will be plenty of people to show you what eve is about.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"i'm used to seeing ****posts, but not entire ****threads.new eden is a harsh, unforgiving, cold environment.htfu or gtfo. it's as simple as that.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"the gas mining ship: feroxgas clouds do damage, a lot of damage, and you need to tank that damage, espcially if you're running five t2 gas harvesters and your three buddies are doing the same. sorry, what was that? you want an exhumer with strip gas harvesters and a rock hard tank to supply the market with cheap gas? guess what: there is no need for it.gas is used in two things as far as i know: t3 production and boosters. t3 can only be properly done in wormhole, wormholes get ladar sites so they can often stay self sustained. drugs are illegal in highsec, and can only be reliably made in null. guess where the largest usage of boosters are? null. guess where the good gas clouds are? null. guess where you have to be for it to be a decent sort of income? null. new players have a chance against veterans, but that is in a certain context. no veteran has a chance in a hulk against 5 sucide gank destroyers, nor does a new toon. a new player on the other hand can fly a rifter with a point and microwarpdrive, and keep that 80 million skillpoint maelstrom pilot locked down whilst the rest of the fleet blows his ship up.also, giving a larger insurence payout would only make the economic situation worse, it's an isk faucet after all."
"no, it doesn't. people just think it does, for reasons i can't really fathom. want to mine during hulkageddon? use a battleship, or downgrade to a t1 barge, or go somewhere really out of the way and watch local carefully, or mine aligned and just warp out when the gankers come in, or go do some missions for a while and mine the rocks that spawn in those...the real issue is that people don't know how to avoid dangers, and choose not to even try."
"no, she's not right. you may think that eve should be some cuddly huggy place. it's not. it's supposed to be a place which is safer than lowsec or nullsec, but it's not supposed to be safe. just look for what ccp themselves have said, look at their reaction to burn jita, and tell me eve (and hisec) is supposed to be a huggy cuddly carebear place where everyone just loves eachother."
"official ccp response:ccp response to crybears."
"simply set a standard time of max acceleration to some number (5-15 seconds) and this number be from the slowest to the fastest. if i'm not mistaken, then that's what the entire issue is about.10 seconds for a ship to reach 3 au/s10 seconds for an interceptor to reach 13.5 au/setc"
"wow, never thought about the implementation. this would be a very radical change in system and even sector mobility. i am actually curious about this now. nice idea."
"gas cloud harvesting is supposed to be done by combat ships due to the hostile nature of the gas clouds themselves and their general location."
"fun fact, gas clouds can be found in all secs (even hs though extremely rare), as can normal roids. if barges can mine roids which are everywhere, why can't they mine gas which is everywhere."
"it depends on if you're looking for gas sites or not. if your not looking for them, they seem to show up about every third system -_-and i think that the reason that there's no strip gas miner is, as already mentioned, it would provide crazy isk/h on certain gasses and let you be in and out of the site much quicker."
"it wouldn't hurt to have a dedicated gas mining ship at least....drawbacks and what not...but i get the idea at least.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"i'd support dropping the turret slot requirement for gas miners. they're already limited to max 5 miners by skill.also, making the procurer worth something isn't a bad idea."
"thank you, although i presume i've made it too wordy since something controversial as mining have not sparked a discussion as usual.i've edited my first post to guide people to the second part for \"tl;dr\" section"
"ccp is already looking into making something similar to this... but with the rock belts around planets. look up some of the fanfest 2012 videos on youtube. it looks promising."
"if i am not mistaken the planetary rings will be about moon goo and not exactly mining.besides i do think that now might be the last chance for discussions like these, since if ccp is in initial phases of the development cycle all these things can be accommodated. but if ccp is already well into the cycle then this topic might be useful for csm: since they can compare threads like mine to the ccp design and perhaps achieve best solution.moreover i do not think rock belts and ring mining will be realistic in term of harvesting large amounts of solid stuff: space stuff is very spread out and most of the time there is simply nothing around you. in stellar asteroid belts there is a decent amount of asteroids that would be big enough to be mined.in planetary belts it is usually space dust or moons. mostly because medium asteroids usually never survive accretion process to be plentiful around a planet: ones that are around are usually captured fly-by's or shrapnel from large impacts. either way rare even by space standards.yet ring mining would be more accommodating for gas harvesting or more realistically dust harvesting, but to make it churn out minerals like hulks do atm one would need immense dust traps to capture sufficient amount of it.that is why i think stellar asteroid belts = bulk harvesting of large basic minerals that provide ship mass (current minerals)while ring harvesting = specialized low yield\high price dust that is used scarcely in building (moon goo for example)"
"you act like that is a new thing. the whole thing is a crock as only the major power blocs are ever represented and those candidates who seek to represent the high or low sec crowds typically gets roflstomped in votes and then all 10058 of those get wasted when the public face of those meant to represent the players turns out to be a drunken prick who doesn't even play, and promotes not only violation of eula but the various laws in place against cyberbullying.with that i say abolish the csm and come up with a better representative system that doesn't include a free vacation to iceland and actually promotes more of an actual player driven system than a politically driven system that can be tainted by hundreds of alt accounts set in place in time so that they can vote only to vanish again after elections.my vote is zero confidence in the csm. i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"i'd agree with that for about 95% of it...give or take.and no its not new.its just worse than it was before.i didn't even vote because no one was fit to be voted for in the first place. not that it matters a damn.abolishment of the csm accomplishes nothing because it can still be made to be a good thing.like i said...csm needs to be more public here at the forums...to participate actively.... its not perfect..but its a good start.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"i am on a very slippery slope. it all started when i found myself agreeing with mxzf on bad threads. then i found myself agreeing with a goonand now most recently , with drake draconis. i do not agree with the way they convey themselves, but the core message is often the right one. what exactly does csm do if it isn't moderate the forum talking to players and collecting ideas to present to ccp? where were the csm responses in the ui threads?other then hans, talking about fw (of which i am not qualified to speak on) i haven't seen a csm tag on anything that is currently important. ...... shoot, or on things that aren't. there is a conspicuous absence of csm responses and yet i still get spam mail from them about voting. i hear more from my city councilman then from the csm."
"i personally voted for roc wieler because i liked the majority of his ideas, as well as the ideals that he represented.here's the thing, the only member of the csm i have heard **** from or about is trebor daehdoow, and that was in response to an eve mail i sent the entire csm. he took the time to reply, for which i can give him credit, unlike the rest of the council.i actually did hear from other members of the former csm, but that was only around election time when they were scratching for votes. i will always support the people with the ideas and ideals which align most with the things that will be in the best interests of new eden, eve online, and the players. but honestly, with the current csm, i am less than ****ing thrilled, because they haven't said a damned thing to anyone about what the hell is going on, or if anything is even being done. and that is just wrong.they are supposed to be the voice of the players. not those who say their piece, do things to benefit their alliances, and pass it off as for the good of all. i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"in fairness the csm has little ability to influence which way things are going until you are in the room in person. you can make all the pretty arguments on forums you want but nothing actually ended up happening until we were able to face to face say that somebody's idea was dumb. also just cause they aren't posting doesn't mean they aren't reading and making up their own minds based on your input. if you want a personalized response i recommend you mail a csm member directly. it's much much more effective."
"pretty much this.and trebor daehdoow is a ####ing joke.he's a political shovinast (sp?) who will stop at nothing to get an extra vote.he only shows up and says a few things when it makes him look good in the spotlight.i have seen little to nothing in the way of results as far as csm is concerned.in any rate... i don't expect csm to ever produce results in a direct sense.what i do expect is for them to do their ####ing job in representing the community as a whole and actually show up and participate on a level that makes it seem like they are at least trying.none of this eve mail bullcrap.no private convos behind closed doors.actual public participation in assembly hall and feedback threads so the general population knows they exist...knows they can be approached and talked to.the only time i ever see them show up in frequency is voting time.and that frankly... is an insult and makes me wonder how the hell they get anywhere in the first place.abolish csm? no.light a fire under their asses and get them to do their ####ing job and make an effort at it?hell yes.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"i have absolutely no idea who the current csms are nor what they're up to. i don't know what issues they're working with ccp on nor have i seen anything from then regarding.... well anything really.do we even have csm members this time around? i honestly don't know.summary of eves last four expansions:"
"exactly.as soon as fanfest was over...aside from the mitanni-gate incident....there's been nothing but silence from the csm.oh i know they are there.but that's all i know.that's pathetic.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"advocating my support of removing the new inventory system and restoring the working version. insert veiled threats/wishes of bodily harm upon those that created the unified inventory here."
"awesome, this topic is not about removing the new inventory. rather, how it can be improved.ccp will not be removing it so you can get that idea out of your head or un-sub about it.dual pane idea: click!"
"umm. removing it is the best way to improve it. much like a bullet in your gut. it's only going to give you an infection (and poison you) if you leave it in."
"fyi: opinion does not equate to fact.support your point eith cold, hard facts or just stop.t2s payout covers the t1 hull that is necessary to build a t2. not the research, the technical upgrades or the additional materials. sure, it sucks, but it keeps the market going.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"as jack said, your opinion isn't a fact.the fact is that ccp has made it the way they currently intend it, so by definition it is not broken."
"ive not seen anything convincing me otherwise.the fact is that ccp has made it the way they currantly intend it? can you prove that?"
"from evelopedia."
"so the t2 component, the t1 hull is not being calculated into the t2 insurance. someone tell me where this ship multiplier they speak of can be found?"
"notice the value assigned index. typically the more valuable the ship, the lower the index and that the insurance is only meant to cover the percentage of coverage multiplied by said index. so, with that, naturally more valuable ships will have lesser payouts. way to link something that further damns your cause because you are trying to apply it out of context so that it applies to you.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"i still dont see how it can be so usefull at the rates it gives. by denying its not broken your aware that their is no point to ever really insure anything outside of t1?and that capitolships as they are are getting the proper amounts even tho their process of production is the same as t2, t3 & faction?"
"christ. you're still going on about that? non-t1 ships are supposed to have bad insurance rates (i.e. you're not really supposed to insure them). that's what keeps t1 ships viable.capitols should get insurance rates similar to t2, t3, and faction ships imo."
"ok so im sorry its taken me so long to get back to this,now ccp has given every thing a base price. isogen 128megacyte 8,192mexallon 32morphite 32,768noxcium 512pyerite 8tritanium 2zydrine 2,048etc, and as you can see, these are not the market prices. a long long time ago, there were npc buy orders for minerals. and a great many other things. to stabilize the market some, prices couldnt fall too far. they were removed due to being an isk faucet, ccp wanteed the minerals mined by players to actually do somethign in the game instead of disappearing into the void of npc land. also with minerals disappearing into npc stations, there was little reason to move vast quantities of the stuff and thus less travel by freighter or industrial, and less risky behavior. modules were also priced this way, meta 1-4 and even -15 are priced out. again though priced out in minearal value, not any other factor. but the prices were good for something, they helped people (namely ccp programers, decide how much was to be dropped in wrecks and what the average prices of the market ought to look like. when it strayed too far, they were supposed to take new looks at the drop tables. although i believe that the price was only gently used for the meta 0-4 drop tables, of this i have no confirmation. but looking at insurance payouts, this makes a lot of sense. t1 for a long time had standard payouts, regardless of market prices. and so insurance fraud was viable. when the mienral prices got below the listed ccp price, it became profitable to self distruct. take a look at the t2 material prices, the goo prices and the composites, you will see a vastly under stated price for what it is in comparison to in game. ie base price of crystalline carbonide is 10 isk. were i to only find that kind of deal in game. calculated out for a t2 ship, the composite prices for a me0 manufacture run should total something just above the t2 insurance payout at platinum. adding in of course, the platinum insurance payout of a t1 hull."
"capitol construction is not the same as t2 or t3. they do not require moon goo/salvage to be built. because their insurance rates are dictated by market forces on the minerals they give \"proper\" insurance payouts. the only t2 capitol the jf, does not give \"proper cost %\" insurance pay outs, it gives proper t2 insurance payouts. which are a far cry from the market price of those materials.edit: oh yes, and about faction, they too are calculated by mineral values, nothing else. if you look at the bpc's which are also seeded in the lp stores, you can see what they need to be built and see about what the insurance is going to be. difficulty in obtaining an object is a hard thing to quantify into an insurance payout in this game. so ccp made that value 0 for their calculations."
"hmm, i see. kusum thanks for actually breaking things down, but it is still broken.insurance system should be removed in general. and just make the default payouts platinum."
"why? insurance is a choice that one is supposed to make, they do not force you to buy it, but often people do. and if you cannot afford the full, you can buy a lesser plan that will net you more then without. i often go without insurance on my ships, on occasion i have found my wallet empty. more often i forget. what does the removal of this insurance choice do for the game?"
"it removes a isk sink for one."
"why is this good?"
"why wouldnt it be?"
"because isk sinks help control the amount of isk in teh eve economy, with the faucets like missions, and most notably incursions, there needs to be some way to control that flow, the rate of inflation. there are many small isk sinks and a few big ones. skill books are a sink, clone costs are a sink, market fees are a sink. ways to remove isk from ingame circulation. cspa charges are a sink. ship purchases are not. in fact moon mining to a degree has both sinks involved, and spigots, though technium is a faucet for the alliance holding it, its not an isk generator int eh same way that say, missions are, thats a different lecture though. however, insurance is not a sink. its actually a faucet. when your ship explodes you are given isk by pend insurance company. which is npc run. that isk is not taken from players. and the isk you paid for aht ship is nto taken back from the person who sold you that ship. while you have lost an asset, you have gained isk that was not currently in circulation before hand. it is the same as if you had sold your ship and some of the fittings to a npc buyer. not buying insurance means taht you are reducing the amount of isk introduced into the game. mandating platinum insurance means you are always opening a larger faucet. i support more choices in game, if you forget, or it is your particular mantra to do it a particular way that is fine, but why force everyone else to also play that way, it also trains people to keep up to date with what is going on in their game. not always a bad thing, not always good. its still a choice."
"alright, i submit kusum. thanks at least your made an effort to making sense of things instead of trolling on."
"simple economics mate. too much money in an economy creates inflation, or in the case of how incursionbears were blitzing vanguard sites, hyperinflation, which is bad for everyone. isk sinks are good, as they provide stability and balance to the economy. anyone who would disagree with this is foolish. furthermore, a ship being destroyed is simply an opportunity for an industrialist to put their skills to work, and keep themselves gainfully employed. if you make the decision not to insure your ship, that's your problem. if you make the decision to insure a t2, t3 or faction ship, also your problem.because if you think about it in the following terms:tech 2 ships:- produced from t1 hulls- research and advanced technology implemented in themtech 3 ships: - produced from technology gleaned from sleepers- research and advanced technology implemented in themnaval faction ships:- produced by naval factions to be acquired through loyalty points gained by working for said faction- not really meant for the general populous consumptionpirate faction ships:- produced by pirate factions to be acquired through loyalty points gained by working for said faction- not really meant for the general populous consumptionall of those above listed ships are not meant to be easily acquired or built. and they for the most part are still built from basic materials which have set values. and for t2 and t3 especially, you can't put a price on research or development going into the production of said equipment, only tangible goods. modern day insurance companies will only insure tangible (physical) goods, not research (conceptual goods or intellectual properties).therefore, as everyone has been trying to tell you:insurance is clearly working as intended, implemented, and designed by ccp, which is the final decision in anything that occurs within the eve universe.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"so you belive it to be broken simply because you think that it should be higher? then here's another thought for you: let's just remove all the bpos from the game and eliminate production, that way people only rat and do plexes for isk that they buy from ccp and eve thus creating a large isk faucet. because the ships will have a set price, insurences can then be applied in a proper manner. sounds like a great idea!sorry about this meaning that you can no longer produce though.also, a game mechanic of eve is that every loss is supposed to be meaningful, which is one of the reasons it actually is this screwed up and the payouts for t2 ships is horrible.so yes, it may be broken, but if it were way too broken, then ccp would have already fixed it, they either don't think it's a problem as it premotes emotion and investment in the game, or they simply have other more important things to do.if it were truely broken, then they'd already know about it. quite a few of the ccp staff do play this game after all in their spare time."
"touche'."
"locked upon op request."
"you may find this thread of some interest;"
"isk sinks are methods of which isk is removed from the game by purchase of goods from npcs and payment of taxes to npcs.you can only have one jump bridge in any system at any given time, period.to keep a jump bridge in one of the two systems working, you pay 300 million a month. want to disrupt their jump bridges? camp their bridges and wait for their fueling ships to come, then blow them up. longer distances with less protection will result in increased costs for all things produced in low and null sec, simply because they want to be compensated for any loses they might suffer, or for the protection money they need to pay to get an escort. these dynamic fights you speak of will become more frequent, perhaps, but you will mostly have fights of the following nature. 1 vs 10 gatecamps1 vs 20 gatecampsetchow is this making better and more dynamic pvp? if anything, you'll start seeing more blobs."
"hell yes i want more ganks on gates and less reasons to live in 0.0."
"i fully agree. the fleet advert is still illogical."
"in the name of change for the sake of change, i propose the following lock changes to the game:to lock enemy ships, you must use the standard cntrl+click to lock. radial menu locking being no longer an option. the only exception being minmatar haulers, which must be locked with ~+click keys. if you lock someone new an chance exists for you to lose lock on your previous target.the overview will be can be sorted by avatar hair color, standing to guristas pirates, number of times the pilot has said 'u mad' in the last 10 minutes, but not by anything combat pilots would consider remotely useful.your overview settings will not save from one session change to another. maximum lock range shall be 80k and you shall like it.these changes should probably go into effect on sisi quite soon and then the rabbling they received being soundly ignored, shortly thereafter onto tranquility."
"something like this needs to happen. currently things are way too predictable. sleeper ai is a good start, more scrams also (officers that let you warp out? wtf is this stupidity?). i would also like to see some variation so they aren't so easy to tank, for example coming across angel rats raiding sansha space."
"bedouin sketch removed because it looks like ****.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"do you all know why the current bounty system in eve doesn't work and is a joke? it is actually quite simple. there are no real *consequences* or *penalty* for being one( a pirate or having a bounty). even if you do run up a -10. security rating you can hang in null sec and never worry about it. even if some idiot post a 1bil bounty on you it can easily be exploited - just have a friend pop you in game and split the reward.no, you want this system to work, you'll have to add a real threat of *consequences* and a real threat of *penalty* for choosing the life of an outlaw.that means when you are killed(by anyone to collect the reward - even if it is a friend or your own alt) you are captured by concorde. for the next 10 days you cannot do anything - nothing - you cannot log the toon in and you cannot train that toon. it is in stasis. your character is in stasis(prison) awaiting trial. after 10 days, your character goes to trial. depending on how low your security rating is and the crimes you have committed to get that rating will determine how much it will cost to set you free from prison. if you cannot pay immediately. you must stay in prison another day. each day you spend in prison it cost you a % of the total amount due - raising your fee to get free higher and higher. cost to be set free from prison depends on your security rating at the time and crimes committed. this can all be worked out by people involved in actually setting up this system - but it cannot be something that doesn't sting. it should sting. so unless your pirate buddies are willing to put forth the isk to set you free or you yourself are willing to spend isk to set you free, you'll sit in jail and incur more expenses costing you more isk to be set free. after 30 days of being in jail, if you cannot pay, you are automatically set free. however, you are released with no isk and lose all items you once had in your possession no matter where they were. you start at 0 security rating and a starter ship.if you continue to wish to be a pirate and incur the penalty of someone placing a bounty on you, again, each time you are caught the consequences get steeper and steeper. the game keeps track of each time you are placed in stasis. first time in prison it is ten days. next is 12. next time is 14. next time is 16. eventually you'll be spending more time in prison than playing.and that is how you make a real bounty system in game work. this mamby pamby, no consequences for ones actions is why the current system and the one proposed will never work. it can be too easily manipulated and exploited. this way, even having a friend pop you will cost you dearly. in fact you'd want to avoid getting popped at all if you can help it. then, the only people who will truly be wanting to pop you are real bounty hunter type players. they will go out of their way to pop you. they'll want to collect the reward and watch your tears flow as your character becomes a prisoner of concorde. in fact they'll want to pop you whenever there is a bounty placed on you - almost strictly for the tears.then the real pirates and their pirate gangs will become notorious outlaws that should be feared if they can escape being popped. those are truly the pirates to fear. with out real consequences and penalties - the bounty system in this game will always be a joke. add consequences and real penalties and the bounty system will be something to fear - as it should be."
"your proposal is harsh enough to satisfy my wish to see all griefers rot in hell, but precisely because it would drive griefers out of the game, nobody is going to buy it, ever. having proposed it myself, i obviously think that the proposal that the bounty is only a fraction of the actual cost of whatever has been destoyed would \"sting\" enough to prevent abuse. nobody is gonna blow 1 billion isk to be paid back 500 million (or 400, or 300...) unless those billion isk are somebody else's billion isk.where my sistem becomes tough is in the target being actively tracked by every npc sesion changing structure and the local chat, leaving breadcrumbs that anyone skilled enough can track until give the target an unpleasant surprise upon undocking/logging in to a safespot."
"the gist of your post is something that i utterly and irrevocably oppose. it completely contradicts the entire point of having a working bounty system which is player consequences for player acts, and would in fact gut the whole system. if you want to argue that ccp should take sides in player disputes and punish people you don't like for being mean to you, then make your own terrible proposal thread and confine your terrible ideas to that thread instead of trying to contaminate mine with them."
"in fact i'm going to pay the wardec fee for goons to dec you, just for making that post.that's how bad it is."
"okay, first this goes against game law. you can't detain a capsuleer. they will just kill themselves and wake up in a new clone where ever they want. secondly, bounties are put on capsuleers by other capsuleers and have nothing to do with concord. thirdly, this would be very very prone to exploiting. a new player fresh out of the tutorials could put a 1 isk bounty on every member of goonsawm and the next time any of them died they would end up not being able to do anything whilst they awaited \"trial\". you could cripple an entire alliance practically for free... fourthly, its only broken because the method of payout and ability to choose who takes the bounty is broken. no other reasons. fithly, nothing in a game should ever have consequences that harsh, because it might as well not be a game after that point. nothing in eve is that harsh, nothing. and eve is the harshest game i can think of off the top of my head.i could keep going. there are seemingly infinite problems with your suggestion. in future, dont bother posting unless you understand what your implicating. if you really do understand what your implicating, then you want ccp to lose all its customers andjust be a generally terrible game. in which case, you should find another game.\"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"let's stop crapping up the thread with further discussion of the worst idea in eve history (no overstatement), and get back to the awesome ideas of giving bounty hunters a reason to exist.edit: in fact, i think we've mostly discussed the idea out - so perhaps the op could be edited down to the summary of the concepts - broken down to the two parts we've compartmentalised it into ( 1st step - bounties = % of loss, 2nd step - detailed bounty contracts ) - for easy reading - followed by the existing detailed description of the reasons behind it."
"yes, lets totally ignore that no bounty system you come up with that is ran completely by players can be circumvented easily - and when i mean easily - your system is no better than ccp's current system because it doesn't stop anyone with a bounty on their head from being taken out by a friend in game. also, this was merely a proposal, a proposal to actually add a layer by which players could not circumvent. i didn't work out the fine details and make a mega post about how all it would work and how much it might cost a player in the end if they pursued being a pirate. btw who said it would cost a billion isk to get of or staisis? oh and about a noob placing a 1isk bounty on a goon. rules - the bounty system would have, you know...rules about how it would work. a good bounty system would have rules so that people couldn't use it as a means of griefing. it would actually require a player to break one of games tenants in game before someone can just slap a bounty on you willy nilly, and also require a certain level of security rating. rules regarding the bounty system would need written up.also, you people are always saying how *hardcore* and harsh this game is, but when someone actually submits an ideal that has a harsh undertone to it you toss it aside and scream - that's too mean. for a bounty system to work - there has to be consequences and penalties - otherwise you're just pissing in the wind. malcanis i am sorry you think someone discussing the bounty system in a thread about the bounty system is a bad thing(even if you created it - when you posted in this forum - it opens it up to all for discussion. i was pointing out, and you said it yourself that even your system can be exploited, so that people can circumvent anyone other than someone close to you collecting the bounty and splitting it. i think it is silly to sit and type up a huge thing about reworking the bounty system, then say...oh yeah there is still loopholes that you can fly a titan through...but hey, at least we have a new system - even if it is no better than the previous one. come up with a serious bounty system and stop coddling players."
"nothing can totally stop that; you can only make it as difficult and uneconomic as possible, which is what the large majority of the propsal is concerned with.as it stands with my proposal, you have to somehow get an alt into the specific corp which gets the bounty contract or be an individual who can socially engineer the aggrieved party to somehow assign the bounty contract to your \"bounty hunter\" alt. as i said back around page 2, if you're smart and lucky enough to pull this off, then you probably deserve to be able to remove the bounty at ~50% of the cost to yourself. mark that - even in the best (or, from your point of view, worst) case, the perp will at best be able to lose no more 50% of the isk. and bounty hunting corps will have a very strong incentive to root out alts insinuated into their ranks for this purpose, since their reputation will be their primary asset."
"btw i'd be interested to see you post 2 of these \"loopholes you can fly a titan through\" (there must be at least 2 if you can speak of them in the plural)detail them for us, please."
"i think i know what kind of system you are describing now. you want an in game system of bounty contracts. you wish to be able to write up a bounty contract between yourself and a player or a corp to take someone out. in essence you just want to be able to pay someone of your choice to make a hit someone - you being able to transfer kill rights to that induvidual and or corp. you're right....there is not much wiggle room with your system.it's just a matter of putting the mechanics in place to trasnfer kill rights to a particular player or corp of players. this is the basis for your system - right?sorry, i was thinking of a built in game system that allowed anyone to pop a wanted person. my bad. a friend had to set me straight - she smacked me upside the head. :(my bad...had this big ******* tree in front of my face."
"in that case i retract my offer of a free wardec."
"plus - the idea of making it so anyone can pop them is not a bad idea as an in-game alternative.if you put a 1b bounty on your target and they destroy 1b of their own stuff, and get a 500m (bounty + insurance) back - they still lost 500m isk. that is not a cheap option. the fact that they blew it up with an alt is funny, and will look bad on a killboard.fact is, simply adjusting the payment ratio would change the likelyhood this would happen regularly.if the ratio was 75% - 95% of the (real) loss value, then yes - this might be a good idea. but if it's at 50% of the (real) loss value, then it becomes quite harsh. lower still, 33% would be stupid to self-destruct away - but would still be a valuable boon to a genuine enemy.this is why i think that *both* options should be available. if you want to hurt someone and don't care too much how it happens, then an open bounty is just great.(perhaps the payout ratio could be adjustable, so that players themselves could police it - but then it gets complicated and the chance that ccp doesn't bother or screws it up increase)"
"i would like to mention how happy i am, now that corpses retain (again) the name of the soul formerly dwelling inside.not only that: the nameless corpses have regained their original identities.hooray for stored, labelled and now identified virtual corpses."
"be that as it may, dawn, i am pretty sure that those working on all of these projects, where relevant, keep in mind security and making it more difficult to use macros/bots if possible so long as it doesn't mean compromising the game itself to where it is no longer enjoyable to play i.e. captchas every 30 minutes in game or else you get logged out, etc..this is the same as any other business ensuring that its employees understand the importance of customers not being allowed to simply ''walk off'' with product and not pay for it --- like people who bot. unless they practice business entirely different then they do in most places modern places in the world then it would make complete sense for one to assume that memorandums are sent out as reminders and as new information is collectively gathered as well as meetings etc, etc..you would be very narrow-minded to think that an international company wouldn't be concerned about this to some extent and do the same things small family run businesses do right on up to top businesses. are you saying something about ccp in that merely 3 people are the only force that even thinks or tries to help security in eve online in relation to botting/macros? someone had to put those 3 people you mentioned in their position did they not? which leads me to believe there is at least a 4th person who does something to try to ensure that bots and macros are not used in the game. you would be a fool to think that if upper or middle management was so concerned about this that only 3 people in the entire company worry about this or try to help in this matter actively as part of their normal day-to-day job - just because 3 individuals are specifically given a specific positions to solely work on this or have it listed that this is part of their duties among other things is in a way to show us the consumer that something is being done about it instead of saying nothing. or did they mess up and it would have been better if they never said they had anyone appointed in any capacity to address this?and last time i checked they had 600 +/- employees and that was years ago. now they have dust, wod, and eve on top of those two little pet projects that simply dwarfs them entirely. plus all of the related **** that goes without saying and keeps most of this spinning - the gms, it techs, customer support, etc..if i wanted to justify botting i would do so. what i was saying in the post, clearly, is that you cannot stop it, you will only delay it, period. let me make it simple for you - ccp can't even manage to release an expansion that works how it should, let alone fix bugs and improve small things most other games don't let get released because they actually fix the **** or make sure it is done correctly the first time with the end result being what they want put out on the market. and you think that they can handle botting or macro users? well i don't, and i spoke my mind whilst considering the aforementioned and many other things.in fact, it completely eludes me why they don't stop putting new stuff into the game and start fixing everything that is wrong with the game, broke, etc. stop adding new ****, start fixing **** that has been around for years.think of it this way - if you stack **** on top of ****, what do you have? a big pile of ****. stop stacking **** ccp. you can't tell me there are errors in the game that haven't been fixed or are solely related to the newest expansion and not a previous one where the bug, exploit, or whatever is screwed up and was simply forgotten or wasn't more important than a new ship in the game with its own sets of problems it could potentially create considering every time you release something new its always frakked up and you have to release multiple patches to fix it because you don't test it or don't test it extensively enough period."
"they have an effect on them. who says something else it lies."
"simple:a ship that can destroy a 250mil ship should cost 250mil or damn close.5mil v250mil is bullsh*t"
"you fail horribly at eve.leave now and turn in your pod.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"i dont often agree qith drake, often just on principle, butthis time i feel he sums it up very well.it must always be possible to take down expensive ships in cheap ones because otherwise eve becomes fattest wallet wins. and a mining vessel is not a combat vessel (wow, really? i mean who'du thunk right?) so they must be easy to kill with combat vessels. what you should be doing is guarding your vulnerable vessels. it isnt hard."
"so by that measure i should only be able to kill a titan with another titan, or a blackops ship should only be killable by another blackops or some other ship which for some reason is valued at roughly the same price value.this is wrong on oh so many levels, and you should be ashamed for suggesting this."
"your logic is a horrible indictment of the education system.by your logic, the only way to keep the game balanced then is to prevent that 250mil ship from ever killing a 5mil ship under any circumstances. all of combat will devolve into fleets of every hull in the game and 1v1 fights with no one coming out a winner.your logic is pointless and just plain idiotic.all of this crying about getting your ships blown up is simply aggravating as hell to those of us that took the time to learn how not to die. you're typical of the occupy morons who demand society give them everything or dumb it down so they can function. screw that. improvise, adapt, and overcome or die. that's life, that's eve. neither is fair and neither is going to be made easier to accommodate your laziness or stupidity."
"i dont want to start a trend, and i dont want to say too much. but there is a very viable way of stopping suicide gankers... its not been there long. use your head."
"it's that common........common.....what was that again?oh yeah!common sense!!!!================ stop the evemail spam!"
"here is a prime example of proportionality. saying a ship that can destroy a 250m isk ship should cost close to 250m isk is ****tarded as in real life a 750 dollar rocket propelled grenade launcher can take down a multi-million dollar airplane or helicopter.just remember, it is never too late to give me your stuff and biomass.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"i don't get your argument anymore gizznitt.you're claiming it's easy to avoid the majority of gatecamps, which we can assume at a minimum means bubbles fast locking tacklers and some dps, but killing ratters is somehow easy, and i'm assuming we're still talking null here not wormholes. this despite that the ratter will know the instant you enter their system by having local chat window visible and will instantly know you're not a friendly (because you wont show up as a blue). who are these pve people you're killing? they must be either afk and not botting, very careless and stupid, or newbies ignorant of basic game mechanics. it's pretty obvious how what you are saying doesn't add up. i don't doubt your eve knowledge, i doubt the sincerity of your arguments. i think you're just pulling anything you can in hope to justify your position, which is largely to keep the status quo. i mean really, using stealth bombers and covops to get tackle until your gang arrives... right you have a gang of ships (likely not even covops) backing you up that's not an indication of how tough covops ships are, could have been an industrial ship. and the helios comment... really? how is it covops if you don't even fit a cloak? ...or are you killing people in a helios with one gun?no, in regards to pveers in null, the end result should be that a reasonably competent player who is not afk should still have a reasonable degree of vulnerability to another solo pilot while they are engaging in pve. not what you're effectively stating, that a solo newbie or dumb person should be vulnerable to an entire gang, and any other circumstances pveers are safe.there's a lot of stuff you say which i agree with, i just don't see any of it leading to the same conclusions on local and cloaking as you."
"somewhere there is a very big communication mishap... let me explain: imo, with the current game mechanics: 1.) avoiding a gatecamp is fairly easy. you just need a prepared scout to guide you along your path. if there is a gate camp you simply avoid it. getting through a gate camp is quite a bit harder, as it requires the ability to kite off the camp (speedy ships), the ability to avoid being tackled (covert ships), or the ability to fight through the camp... in a covert ship, it's mildly risky, but typically not to hard. in big ship, its almost impossible to get through a gate camp... 2.) hunting ratters is not easy... killing ratters is very easy. most ratters have blatant weaknesses in their setup which can be exploited by any competent pvper. i can point to many examples of pve ships solo'd be frigates. the only difficulty in hunting ratters, is tackling them!!! 3.) my helios and sb examples are there for two reasons: a.) to brag about my combat helios... and b.) to emphasize that these ships can easily perfrom a tackling role, and are not \"extremely\" vulnerable. just because the majority of time these ships are not fit for combat, does not mean they are completely combat neutered. if people fit them for cloaky tackling, they are very effective! with your changes: 1.) hunting ratters becomes extremely easy. by making ratters easy to catch, you're removing the only hard part about hunting a pve ship. once caught, they're easily killed. especially since your mechanic allows you to bring an entire cloaky gang on-grid with them before you decloak and aggress. 1.) if a pveer in nullsec is vulnerable to a solo covert ship, the are even more vulnerable to a gang of those ships. you might want to solo cloaky camp a system in a covert ship, and kill targets of opportunity with maybe a little risk to yourself... however, most people will use your mechanics, bring out entirely covert gangs, and gank targets with virtually no risk to themselves. 2.) what is a reasonable degree of vulnerability? in my mind, a reasonable degree of vulnerability is that for every 40 scout pilots coming through system looking for targets, i get snagged once. with your setup, for every 40 covert scout pilots that come through system, i get caught 39 times or more!! in eve, once you are tackled (especially in a belt), you rarely get free... considering the rewards of ratting need to be balanced with the risks of ratting, how can you possibly think your system is appropriate?"
"^^"
"csm has stated that there is no way that the game's pre-inferno inventory system can be re-introduced, because of the coding issues.i call bullshit on that one.surely ccp saved a pre-inferno complete build of the eve code.so my poll question.would you:a. prefer ccp to retain the existing code, and have ccp try to fix it on the fly.b. have ccp rollback to pre-inferno. this may include a worst case scenario of all players having to wipe their eve folders clean, and having to download a 5 gig set of files and do a complete rebuild of the game on your computers. clearly, this would mean the loss of all features of inferno, including the ui."
"you are wasting your time and your not paying attention.csm has nothing to do with it.....they are a representive body of players...period..no special access...no powers....very little influence.it's ccp who said that they are not going back.they did not say they can't go back.making an opinion poll is like starting a flame...and i ought to report you for inciting such a thing.go simmer down or go yell in feedback thread where this belongs.we don't need \"yet an another inventory whine thread\" wrong or right. (and yes i agree its messed up but for cryin out loud...knock it off people)================ stop the evemail spam!"
"i see, so as an analogy, if the people hold a plebiscite, the elected representatives just ignore the results because the government is too powerful, and will just ignore the elected representatives? if so, in the world of eve, if the players masses speak loudly about an idea, in this case a complete rollback, is it not the csm's mandate to present the results to ccp?"
"oh for f*ck sake. give it a rest."
"ok if you want to go ahead and make 100 threads about the same damn problem then go right on ahead.don't you think the csm would have already snapped their fingers and reversed everything?oh hell why not ccp at that rate.surely you could use your head eh?================ stop the evemail spam!"
"as a wh inhabitant i do a lot of scanning. one of the things that continually frustrates my scanning is when i'm trying to click on a handle to drag a scan probe to a new location but instead the mouse grabs the perimeter of the probe radius and i end up resizing the scan range by mistake.ccp should be able to fairly easily create some way for you to disable the ability to click-and-drag on the probe spheres to resize them and let you do it on the probes in space panel of your scanner only.i'm not suggesting it be removed entirely because no doubt there are some out there who like to change the scan range of their probes by clicking and dragging on the bubble itself but for the majority of people (i suspect) who use the solar system map window to move the probes it would save us some frustration.here's an older thread with the same issue:"
"absolutely yes. been wanting this since i starting messing around with scanning. just a toggle would be nice - \"allow click-drag scan radius\" or something. so irritating."
"well, as someone who uses the map to both change size and move probes, i wouldn't care for that at all. i wouldn't object if there's a box you could tic to turn off resizing on the map, but they shouldn't change the defaults, just add an option (see probing filters for one reason why changing defaults is bad)."
"o/ new eden this is reddy with another idea i have in mindafter reading nearly every article in eve's lore i came up with an idea that is kinda stupid but i like it.the plani want to make a separate server like singularity and in no way connected to tranquility that has a new game play element in it. i came up with the idea that if aliens or terrans or some highly advanced civilization found our little corner of our universe and decided to burn us from it can we survive? if every null low and high sec system comes under attack and every faction in new eden has to fight it do we stand a chance?issuesone is the concept of more servers as ccp said when they created eve that it will be single shard or 1 universe only if this comes out and everyone loves this invasion server and play's it what will happen to tranquility?possible solution is to make it that you need a paying account in tranquility and be active in it for you to access this server.so if you have not played tranquility in like 20 days it will block you from the server.to wrap things up i know this is very stupid to attempt and will prob make eve not fun to play anymore so maybe ccp can just release a chronicle etc saying what will happen.well that does it if anyone has questions please comment and thank you for taking your time to read thisfly safe guys,reddy"
"no.stop bringing this bloody idea back from the dead.it's bad enough we had to shoot this one down to death -> fail idea================ stop the evemail spam!"
"why do you hate eve?"
"i stopped reading there. no."
"hate to say it, but i miss anhk's csm.at least then we knew what was going on, even if it was pointless spoons."
"*shudders* i remember those days.... not quite desperate to say that at least.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"becasue they totally lack any decisive leadership or guiudance? funny that."
"csm is being csm... just worse this round"
"csm get of your flabby arse and get to work, this is turning into incarna 2.0 ffs communicate , a large amount to the community hates the new inventory. ccp needs to move on this."
"you know, if me or chribbra, or tippia were your csm we'd be talking and arguing about change all the time! why do you not elect forum warriors, and then surprised when they don't post?"
"because they got free tickets to island ?+ ai give to you a wise advice, forget draconis idiot he is just a sick troll."
"burn the csm with fire"
"uh, wtf do you want us to say here? the new inventory system has some really sucky parts and some pretty nice parts. from what i have seen on the forums, you guys are doing a pretty good job of bitching to ccp all on your own. csm 7 secretary csm 6 alternate delegate @two_step_eve on twitter my blog"
"try reading again.this has nothing to do with the invetory system...as far as what i was getting at.if anything you just proved my point.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"what is the pretty nice part of this inventory ? the bugfest ? the mess ? the unusable and really hard handling part ?dont forget you guys , you are here not for the ccp a**l*ck*ng, you are here for the protections of players.use your job,that's why you are elected to csm."
"mostly we are not raging (in public) because it doesn't help. those days are past now because ccp isn't dropping the ball on things the day after they put them in the game. that's why soundwave pushed his update blog out - to prove that they aren't going to just walk away from this. as for the calls to 'revert' back to the old system, that's not going to happen. it can only evolve forward from here. if you think that the changes to the inventory system involve a \"couple of lines in the client\" then you have no idea of the complete and utter mess that is the 10 year old server code implemented by dozens of previous employees, many of whom no longer work at ccp.speaking for myself, i'm not disagreeing with anyone that the inventory system was released far too early and needs to work better. the \"unified inventory\" has removed a boatload of previous inventory functionality and replaced it with a laggy click fest which is downright painful to use. i almost stabbed my monitor last night trying to find a couple mods to re-fit a ship before a fight.right now i'm not raging, but i am annoyed, as my gameplay has been unecessarily made much harder and, for now, i am biting my tongue and giving ccp the opportunity to demonstrate that they will get this crap fixed quickly. just because the csm is not writing a ton of ~words~ about it constantly doesn't mean we don't understand what is going on or isn't going on. we have spent quite a lot of time this past couple weeks talking to the specific devs doing the unified inventory stuff, linking threads / posts and trying to help prioritize what needs fixing / iteration first. several of the csm members have blogs & twitter accounts and have been on several podcasts and eve radio. we have published the schedule for the first summit next week well in advance and have asked for feedback on the schedule in jita park as well. here is the thread specifically about the u.i. team. i'm pretty sure that the unified inventory changes will be front and center in that session and after hours as well. feel free to continue bashing the csm; we're going to keep fighting for you anyway."
"good words seleenedo you think part of the reason the unified inventory system went live:: war against bots?"
"yay a step in the right direction"
"seleene, i think there would be less rage directed at the csm if the handful of you who were on the town hall had said a bit more than \"it's fine\" in response to the suggestion that it was a ragestorm waiting to happen.i'm glad to see they're not dropping the ball on it post-release, but in my eyes - and those of many others - several members of the csm dropped their own ball when they gave that response to the issue in a public venue.it's pretty disheartening, especially for those of us who voted for those csm members in particular. :("
"thank you for the encouraging words seleene.i think the point that the technically savvy amongst us are trying to make is that in a client-server system such as eve there is a strong distinction between data (what's in the hangar) and presentation (how it's displayed).we are trying to make the point that regardless of the reasons of the underlying data changes, the presentation should not have changed, and it can indeed be reverted in isolation.no, it's not \"a couple of lines\" but neither does it require re-work on the server (i am making the assumption here that ccp are using industry standard best-practice here - something along the lines of the controller-model-view paradigm).the current presentation is a thin veneer over the underlying data structures - that much is obvious to anyone who writes these things for a living (me included). players do not need this - they need an immersive, contextual and convenient interface. the fact is that for most of us, the old visual interface was far superior. i think all we are asking for is that the new one is made to look and feel like the old one, and we can start adding improvements from there.does this make sense?"
"i just love it when csm show up and do a song and dance only to completely miss the point.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"i fully appreciate that and, in hindsight, you're not wrong. i can only really explain my own feelings on this which is that because we're talking to ccp pretty much every day, we see that they aren't ignoring what's going on. the people directly responsible for this mess are, understandably, pretty stressed out. they should have paid more attention to the sisi feedback before release but, at this point, they can't wave a magic wand and change things no matter how ~easy~ some self-appointed expert thinks it is. perhaps it's due to being a bit jaded after nearly 10 years and almost 'expecting' something to go wrong with ever major release that allows some of us to just shake our heads and hope for the best. the difference today compared to last year though is that ccp isn't just dropping a broken feature on us and walking away - they are going to fix this and (hopefully) the finished, final product will be something we all might come to appreciate.have no doubt though that the csm doesn't have special game clients which are somehow different than everyone else's - some of us are pretty mad too, we're just spending our time trying to be constructive with the devs and help them filter through all of the communities righteous ang-... ummm... quality feedback."
"i understand exactly what you mean and it's certainly something i want to get clarification on next week at the summit. perhaps there is a middle-ground that can be achieved until the presentation side is better developed? i honestly don't know until we do a bit of face to face but i will be relaying every non-nda bit of info i can get on this onto twitter as it happens and then blogging it later on.ofc it makes sense. it should be intuitive and easy to grasp. i can say with confidence that this particular point has been hammered home like a rusty nail in the skull to the people working on it. striking the line between \"omfg where the **** is that module this sucks?!\" and \"guys, if you would do this and move that there i could find my module!\" is a daily struggle."
"there's a great reason for this - its entirely inefficient to have every single one of us reply to every single mail we get. we save time that we can be using to work with the developers by having a single person take the lead usually on each mail. we could spend all our time raging on the forums, posting every day, and having every single csm member reply to every single individual mail, but that would also mean we'd accomplish very little actual work. remember we see a lot of what ccp is working on for subsequent releases, whether or not we can speak to them publicly, and so naturally our level of rage at ccp will be lower than the publics, because just like with the inventory we were aware of not only the community's concerns, we were aware that ccp was already working on a set of fixes for the common complaints. i know how frustrating this can be for some players, (remember it was only a month ago i was on the other side of the looking glass), but one of the realities of working on the csm is that communication we share with ccp happens over skype and in private forums. out priority simply has to be taking the time to write extensive notes and suggestions in those channels, where they will be most effective.one last thing i've learned since taking office - players should know that developers don't respond well to raging jerks that call them names and accuse them of not doing anything, that kind of behavior is a quick ticket to having your posts ignored. that reaction is expected of every single change to the game, so you'll have to bring something more to the table if you want to make a difference. they respond much better to calm, constructive, respectful criticism, and frankly so will the csm."
"yep... and anything you just said doesn't still justify the fact that this junk remains in tranq until it is fixed. this might take weeks as the fundamental core of it is broken (persistent windows will be pretty hard to implement to something what wasn't built to handle those).this should have remained in sisi. warning bells were hammered with cannons. however now when it still got released and crap hit the fan, least they could do is to take it back down and fix it somewhere where it doesn't annoy us. in other words take it back to sisi and give me the old inventory system which allows me to play the game. when new system is closer to actual prime time, try it on live server again.tranq is for serious business - current version of unified inventory certainly is not."
"once again seleene, thank you for taking the time to respond. well, i would argue that the middle ground is to move the presentation layer to where we were, and then introduce small incremental improvements from there.please argue strongly for this on our behalf."
"i'm not trying to justify it; i think it's a mess and have to live with it too so i'm pretty motivated to push for something that works. cripes, have you tried running several dozen industry jobs with this?"
"it is not about the bitching. it is about the fact that the thing remains in tranq. if they can't fix it in few days as the newest dev blog indicates, it should be taken down asap for further development.think it this way.your new car breaks down and needs few weeks of repairs. will you be happy if they come to repair it to your yard every day so you can still use your broken car to do nothing - or will you be happy if you get replacement for the time it takes to get your own car back?this is not rocket science."
"yes. when we reported feedbacks back to ccp and we told to everyone, why so sucks this ui. csm what did ?i tell to you, they are just told gushy words to everyone in the eve radio, what a successful thing is the new inventory system. echo of ccp.but the new inventory system on sisi wasn't really fine. we tested every day and we instantly realized, it is not true what the csm said."
"in matter of fact i did try and haven't touched my any other characters than this since. i don't even want to go pvp or do missions because buying and fitting one ship made me burn my nerves with this improved usability already.at the moment i just want the persistent windows so i can open all the extra windows what i need daily in stations with my characters. then i can close the nice side bar and drag and drop items back and forth like before, without all the extra scrolling up and down in a menu which is lagged and a mess of random entries. i don't usually even read what windows say. i know where them are and what is in them.simple tasks have turned to be nightmares. everything takes longer and takes more clicks. there is no fun using folder menu. i rarely touch it in my operating system either as there are faster and more convenient methods to handle files. i have short cuts for all the most commonly used directories in my desktop. opening 2 windows with those is much more smooth action than opening one and browsing it back and forth to find targets and cycling between them or opening new windows through those. you can think those as \"ships\" and \"items\"-buttons in old system. current unified inventory doesn't provide any short cuts what so ever. always when you start, you have to start from point 0.there is plenty of more stuff which i would like to say \"what i think\" about this and the neocom for instance, but to be honest i'm so fed up already, that the patience to write nice constructive stuff has run very slim. it is better i stop here."
"if it wasn't for the fact i have the inability to travel at the will of a corporation based on my lack of a passport, and my contractual obligation to the us military, i'd run for csm my damned self. and if i could, you better ****ing believe i'd be rolling in with a fistful of player concerns.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"so you are saying that you would roll in with fist fulls of player rage like the monk in diablo 3 and round house kick the dev mobs so they go flying and then teleport in to lightning punch them to the face?"
"except the cooldown timer would probably be close to a year."
"so the csm missed the mark on this one. it happens.do a mae culpa, and get working on it.mocking the people who elected you while trying to say you didn't miss the mark... well that's probably not going to go over well."
"1.0"
"its scary.....and i realize this may shock you...but i might actually vote for you.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"pretty sure we're already working on it, pretty sure jack didnt elect either of us, pretty sure no one in this thread even knows what the point is in the first place.but do continue to increase your post counts. i'll be over here doing real work to address real problems from players who just want their sandbox experience to be as seamless, rich, and enjoyable as possible, communicate when that isnt happening in a clear, reasonable way, and listen when the target of those communications respond.impossible to please whiners and trolling alts will be largely ignored. outstanding ones will be made targets of ridicule for my amusement, and the amusement of voters at large. have a great day!"
"yeah..sure..go ahead and run off to your little club houses and back rooms and twiters and facebooks and blogs and ignore the people who actually \"live\" here at eve gate/forums trying to better the game and hash things out.again..missing hte point and \"doing your own thing\" works great don't it? keep that up.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"the only thing we missed the mark on was explaining to the players what we'd been up to, its not like we hadn't already been writing up feedback in the forums and referring the devs to all the relevant threads on the issue. that was my earlier point. communication with the players is important and there's of course room for improvement, but our priority will always be making sure ccp has everything in detail first whether or not we than re-post all the same complaints in a public forum.we're also allowed to have a sense of humor, especially when players come at us like we have a magic wand to revert the ui into its old system or charm ccp into obeying our very whim. it's important that players understand that the righteous fury often exhibited in forum threads just isn't a tool the csm has at their disposal, especially when leveled at developers who are already addressing the problems as we speak. it's obnoxious to be yelled at to go do something you're already doing, and it would quickly get the csm ignored as much as it does players who abuse the same tactics. does it make for a quiet or boring csm sometimes? absolutely. but we're not here to entertain, inspire, march in protests or lead crusades, we're here to calmly, clearly, and effectively communicate player concerns to ccp in a manner that gets results. as you can already see by the most recent dev blog, the first batch of results is on the way."
"maybe if you spent a little time just \"hanging around\" here and various areas of the forums you'd find us a little bit more receptive.because right now you only show up when the #### hits the fan.i don't epxect you to snap your fingers and get things done.i expect you to partiicpate actively and at least look the part of doing something....thats not much to ask for for all things considered.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"for some rl reasons i haven't had much chance to spend time with it and form and \"official\" position. what little i've seen of it i have to admit i found it confusing at best. as to how to untangle it and make it a net improvement from the old system, not sure at this point but i intend to spend some time with it this weekend and see if i could come up with anything as well as look for ideas from the players as to possible fixes.remember, the csm is only advisory, its not like we have access to the source code and could make changes ourselves or we can order ccp to change things. this looks to be one of those \"waffle\" features where the first attempt was less than ideal, but we need think about how to make the second \"waffle\" the one we wanted in the first place because in the current mess there are some good ideas (filters for example).issler"
"this whole matter is hugely exaggerated. i see a problem, but not one worth opening extra threads in the assembly hall for.calm the f*ck down and carry on."
"\"the council of stellar management (csm) is a player-elected council who represent the views of the members of the eve online community to ccp. \"now, csm guys just go to testserver feedback and go to"
"i'd be tempted to give you a pass on this particular issue, i know you where heavily focused on the war dec changes (for which there are other love/hate threads), but your attitude frankly sucks.stop trying to be mitanni. its not helping."
"we have already seen those threads and pointed them out to the developers. like i said, this thread is predominantly angry individuals ordering us to do what we've already been doing. you can link the threads again one more time if you'd like, or start even more threads linking old threads, but its neither necessary nor helpful. the dev's are quite aware of these issues and are working to address many of them. yelling at the csm (who by the way have nothing to do with bug fixes and customer service - we work with development, not the gm's) won't make this process go any faster. there is a difference between saying \"everything is fine\" meaning that there are zero problems with the ui, and saying \"everything is fine\" meaning that there are known problems but that they are actively being addressed. you can make the assumption all you want that we are somehow brown-nosing ccp and telling them it smells like roses, but you've heard plain and simple how we feel about the ui, it clearly needs further iteration before its the really cool feature it could be. \"everything is not fine\" would mean that not only are problems, but ccp doesn't appear to be doing anything about them either. this would be major cause for alarm, but this does not appear to be the case. we should have clarified this more during our radio talks, lesson learned."
"seleene- hardly, as i would review the ones that had obvious merits and dismiss the ones that stunk of blatant emo-rage. but mocking those who vote to keep you in office is hardly a way to inspire confidence. you are a representative of the players, but are doing a fantastic job to lose respect, which is what wins votes and thus elections.drake- as shocking as that is, at least i listen to people and take advice or suggestions under advisement. i don't usually agree with you, but here i fully agree.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"it happens. there was a lot to keep on top of in inferno that looked like it might turn out poorly. wardecs, fw, first steps at ship balancing.my main point at this juncture is that being mocking and dismissive of folks that have legitimate concerns and criticisms is not constructive. it only serves to alienate you from the playerbase. their anger is feedback to be passed on and learn from, not something that needs to be repressed.people (by and large) don't expect you to run ccp, they do expect you to listen to and represent them. they get understandably angry if they feel that is not happening.is that being unreasonable and worthy of mockery?"
"we may not see eye to eye...but we share the same passion for the game.its funny..people who hate each other or consider each other enemies will all have one comon factor....this game is the best thing since sliced bread...and we'll be damned if we let **** ruin it.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"blue harrier wrote:last night (uk time), i was playing skyrim and had a sudden thought, are we being used as labrats to test this new ui because it is designed for use with a consoles joypad?think about it a bit, this design of ui would work excellently with a joypad and is in a way something like the tree view, container driven menu system that many console games have. so are we in fact testing the ui interface that will be used in dust?is this the <U+FFFD>unifying<U+FFFD> interface on both eve the game and dust so both players will see a similar ui and that eventually eve the game might be able to run on the next generation consoles? - snip -blue:an excellent hypothesis. i postulated that they were trying to make life miserable for botters and macroers at the expense of a bad human player experience.i think we both agree : this new system defies logic and thus points to a hidden agenda.to ccp:maybe my comments like \"failure to handle object inheritance\" are not considered specific enough to warrant consideration. sorry if i was thinking like a programmer, but object inheritance and drawing windows are programming 101. ignoring professional standards and stating things more in generic terms of player feedback, i don't see anyone saying that this is wanted, or a great idea, or an improvement. in fact, players are saying it is bad, and not really usable in its current form, but may well have potential.now add in all the very specific complaints and i must say that i can't believe this is about to happen.the real question is : are you really listening to the players as stated within the \"new and improved\" player based change concept? or, what level of player dissatisfaction needs to be expressed before you will listen and react accordingly?kk - i'll stfu now."
"just read this:#957 posted: 2012.05.25 22:49 | ccp punkturis wrote:i was working on war dec and kill reports this release - hope you like that stuff!answer from wolfschwarzmond bsc legion\"this was on the 1st page of the eve online: inferno - feedback thread. post number 10. this tells me that ccp knew we'd hate this new inventory. there a is dev going \"don't blame me. i was working on something else.!\"so after 25 pages here and 50 pages in the feedback thread, 90% of them saying this thing is \"crap\" or \"junk\" or \"stupid\" or that is just \"sux\" the question is simple. why can't ccp learn from it's own mistakes? we've been here before......]\"red flags raised by very smart people both at ccp and in the community went unheeded because of my stubborn refusal to allow adversity to gain purchase on our plans.\" -hilmar veigar p<U+FFFD>tursson, ceoand so ccp have repeated the same mistake. making a change, testing it, getting feeback from players that said \"this sucks\" then ramming it down the player's collective throats anyway.\"the greatest lesson for me is the realization that eve belongs to you, and we at ccp are just the hosts of your experience.\" -hilmar veigar p<U+FFFD>tursson, ceowell sir, this was a lesson you didn't learn. you are proving it. the new inventory has made looting from wrecks, player owned station operations, jetcan mining, corporate hanger ops, and dealing with large amounts of items into a tedious, time wasting, torture sessions. the new system lags. it in some cases makes it harder to find things. it makes you repeat the same actions over and over and over where before it was once. your people were told time and again during sisi testing that this change was not a good idea, but you did it anyway. again....i would humbly suggest that you either rollback this change or make it optional as you did with the whole captain's quarters fiasco. let us not take this latest lack of good judgement and turn it into international news.prove to us you can learn from your mistakes. and stop repeating them.quotes taken from here"
"jack carrigan wrote:seleene- hardly, as i would review the ones that had obvious merits and dismiss the ones that stunk of blatant emo-rage. but mocking those who vote to keep you in office is hardly a way to inspire confidence. you are a representative of the players, but are doing a fantastic job to lose respect, which is what wins votes and thus elections.mate... maaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaate.... if you can't handle some light-hearted joking and take everything this serious, you probably wouldn't want to actually run for csm, much less deal with some of the ~good times~ trolling and hilarity that goes on when dealing with ccp directly. i don't 'respect' the fact that so many seem ready to burn the csm at the stake because we are not somehow magically getting ccp to turn back time / revert the changes now now now or take remote control of the development servers and turn them over to people that can 'do it better'. as has been pointed out by no less than four csms in this thread, we are not sitting on our hands and we are doing what we can to help alleviate the problem that we are all suffering from atm. your post, which i 'mocked', seemed to ignore that we are already doing exactly as you say you would do if you were able, just without the seeming ~outrage~ that so many seem to be baffled the csm is not righteously displaying. it was also completely dismissive of replies that had already been given in this thread, links to other threads and the content of the same. insinuating that you would somehow be able to do more, without so much as acknowledging the aforementioned efforts already being made, marked your post in my eyes as a blatant 'come at me bro' troll. i actually read your post and my reply to it reflected my mood - you were ignoring the replies i'd made in this thread so i wasn't really moved to take what you said seriously either. if your post was serious, then it certainly didn't come across as such.here is what i see happening as of right now: ccp isn't going to roll back the changes. they will keep working to evolve the current feature as quickly as possible. not much is going to happen in the next 48 hours because it's the weekend. i could be wrong and the dudes responsible may work all weekend to iterate on the united inventory feature (doubt it). the csm will be in iceland next week and this subject will obviously be front and center. i will be sending out non-nda updates from the summit as much as i can as we talk to the various teams.at this point there is quite literally nothing else the csm can do that we've not already done over the past few weeks, especially since inferno went live. the onus is on ccp to now act on how the csm and the community has reacted to their decisions."
"seleene wrote:jack carrigan wrote:seleene- hardly, as i would review the ones that had obvious merits and dismiss the ones that stunk of blatant emo-rage. but mocking those who vote to keep you in office is hardly a way to inspire confidence. you are a representative of the players, but are doing a fantastic job to lose respect, which is what wins votes and thus elections.mate... maaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaate.... if you can't handle some light-hearted joking and take everything this serious, you probably wouldn't want to actually run for csm, much less deal with some of the ~good times~ trolling and hilarity that goes on when dealing with ccp directly. i don't 'respect' the fact that so many seem ready to burn the csm at the stake because we are not somehow magically getting ccp to turn back time / revert the changes now now now or take remote control of the development servers and turn them over to people that can 'do it better'. as has been pointed out by no less than four csms in this thread, we are not sitting on our hands and we are doing what we can to help alleviate the problem that we are all suffering from atm. your post, which i 'mocked', seemed to ignore that we are already doing exactly as you say you would do if you were able, just without the seeming ~outrage~ that so many seem to be baffled the csm is not righteously displaying. it was also completely dismissive of replies that had already been given in this thread, links to other threads and the content of the same. insinuating that you would somehow be able to do more, without so much as acknowledging the aforementioned efforts already being made, marked your post in my eyes as a blatant 'come at me bro' troll. i actually read your post and my reply to it reflected my mood - you were ignoring the replies i'd made in this thread so i wasn't really moved to take what you said seriously either. if your post was serious, then it certainly didn't come across as such.here is what i see happening as of right now: ccp isn't going to roll back the changes. they will keep working to evolve the current feature as quickly as possible. not much is going to happen in the next 48 hours because it's the weekend. i could be wrong and the dudes responsible may work all weekend to iterate on the united inventory feature (doubt it). the csm will be in iceland next week and this subject will obviously be front and center. i will be sending out non-nda updates from the summit as much as i can as we talk to the various teams.at this point there is quite literally nothing else the csm can do that we've not already done over the past few weeks, especially since inferno went live. the onus is on ccp to now act on how the csm and the community has reacted to their decisions.just for you again:"
"i think this would be neat.basically, when you have a single ship and get kills with it it keeps tracks. so you will see the ships veterancy, such as \"you got 21 kills with this drake, the most kills you've ever gotten with a single drake is 25.\"could create a veterancy tab somewhere and give a lot of stats like this. other than info it shouldn't do anything. just some neat statistics.a kill should be anything not a pod/shuttle/rookie ship that you got on the kill mail for. pod kills could be tracked separately, though."
"i honestly don't see this happening. it would require that the server pull info each time a ship enter grid... and thus would consume large resources whe you have large 100+ man fights.... all for a bit o fluff."
"there is no csm as far as i know. he was banned and removed from the game last i heard. other than that, i do know our word has not been heard. no matter what we say, inventory will not be fixed. i posted a topic on how to fix it and keep the same system in the suggestions board but no one is bothering to look or support."
"can i get some input on this design? i plan on working the monolith next, then the pelican and finally the pillar.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"first thought was \" an overweight imperial shuttle\"but this has some potential, right now seems like a modified fenrir so this seems something more like a tech 2 ship. but keep the ideas rolling and maybe we can see these on sisi by the next time it snows :d"
"thanks angry. like i said, next will be the monolith when i get a chance to draw it. hopefully i get a shot to do it sometime this week.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"well, here's a surprise for you. i finished the design for the monolith last night, however, seem to be having some technical difficulties with my scanner. so as soon as i get that **** sorted out, i'll link it here.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"mal, would you be able to update the op to include that you think the bounty payout system needs fixing first and keeping seperate from the contract system? it would be much easier to rally support if thats clear in the op. lets face it, this thread is huge now. no one is going to read it from start to finnish just to get an idea of what we're talking about. \"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"i know i should but i have some other projects competing for my limited time, and also i'm no longer confident that posting in here is a good return on invested effort."
"i agree with lady flute... vocal isk elites and super nerds are ruining the game. game is slanted away from new subs for sure. if another player friendly sci-fi indy game is developed by another corp, ccp will be ganked, and ccp will be qqing, and will quit eve like hitler did and play dust instead... real life gaming developing = null sec in the same way....:d<U+FFFD>you see, in this world there's two kinds of people, my friend: those with loaded guns and those who dig. i dig.<U+FFFD> - clint eastwood, misquote."
"so, in effect, a tengu fleet should be completely invulnerable to other subcaps, right?and a cap fleet should only ever die to a supercap fleet?and supercaps should only die to other, bigger supercap fleets?and hell, rifters shouldn't even be able to kill stealth bombers?do you even play this game?"
"you're an idiot."
"i don't have a lot of isk, but what i do have, i've earned every penny. as far as being slanted away from new subs, it's always been that way. even when i started, new players were targeted because older players were smart enough to not fall for stupid shenanigans. we all started blissfully ignorant of what eve is. you have to either accept it and get smart and learn how to keep yourself alive, or quit. those are your options. there is no, \"make the game easier\" way out. one thing i see all the time is new players banding together in corps. you're never going to learn anything that way. you're just compounding your ignorance. join an experienced corp that will actually teach you something. eve university or agony unleashed are another way to go if you want to learn how to stay alive.another thing i learned a long time ago: 0.0 is way safer than empire. if you're a miner, join a 0.0 alliance and go mine abc ores deep in your alliance space. you'll rarely have to worry about getting jumped because the intel channels tell you when there's a hostile coming your way long before he's in your system. even if he does manage to get to your system unnoticed, he still has to scan down the grav site, giving you plenty of time to get to safety. i only died once in a mining ship on my indy alt and that was because some jack-hole gave me the wrong intel channel when i first moved out there and i was dumb enough to mine in a belt.this thread is just a bunch of people complaining that they want eve to be 'easier' so they don't have to put in the time and effort to learn it. ccp has already made being a new player easier by leaps and bounds in the last year and a half, so quit 'cher bitchin' and grow a pair."
"why is it that good ideas are so difficult to keep in the first page of the assembly hall? it seems to me like they are just drowned out by bad and controversial threads. there is something wrong with a system where bad and controversial ideas spend all their time in the spot light, and everything else is just ignored. \"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"sounds like a good idea.perhaps have extra screens or holograms at stations with variable costs, so a market hub system would be much more expensive than a 0.5 backwater"
"supported.also, maybe price can be dictated by average number of peeps in system a day diviided by some funky other math?"
"one more can't hurt. +1"
"i don't see why all the hate for the new system. yes it has issues, and those can be fixed. but it isn't the end of the world."
"no, those cannot be fixed. revert to the old inventory."
"revert. bandwith is free, my time mucking about because ccp can't code for crap is not."
"bif this inventory nightmare purged from eve i dont care the other changes, such as ugly amarrian ship changes, frigate cosmetics etc."
"the old system was crap. the new system is crap in differant ways, but the new system is crap in ways that can be fixed.if you dont like change, play an mmo where the developers create it, asign a skeleton crew and then abondon it. \"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"it's can be disableable, so it's will not be annoying when not needed.or for what else do we have so detailed models of those missiles? we are not seing them anywhere except a preview :)"
"i like this idea alot. im not sure im going to update the op yet to include it, just because it is a complicated idea to describe and i think it turns a much simpler system into a potential ui and programming nightmare. but i may update the op at some point to include this, i just need to think it through more thoroughly.\"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"your idea is sound but the suggested implementation is built upon a broken system. what we need is a complete rewrite of the industry system. a new industry system that is designed from ground up that has player cooperation at a corp level at its core is what is needed. ccp needs to learn to not be afraid to throw away code and just redo things."
"likewise."
"get out."
"not empty quoting."
"go play star trek online.if pvp is the heart of eve, then the concept of a single, unsharded universe is the spine and brain of the whole thing.please keep any brilliant ideas that require a complete restructuring of the game you may have in the future to yourself"
"time and time again i've come and gone from eve, simply because i get bored with missions. i believe there are many of us that do not have the skill or the gall to risk jumping into a .4 system or below only to be destroyed minutes later. as it stands, though we're in a vast galaxy of space, there are \"roads\" into and out of null-sec. increasing the likelihood of running into a pirate almost to 100%. in my humble opinion, this is unacceptable and not a risk worth taking. any \"road\" into null-sec is packed with pirates just waiting for the unsuspecting or overly curious/brave soul to pass through. this i believe is very stifling and severely prohibits travel into the unknown and more profitable regions of the galaxy. most players are sitting in high sec space because it is the only safe place to be. if we leave high sec space, we are going to die. there needs to be a chance of at least sneaking past the pirates guarding null-sec. deep space needs to be more accessable. therefore i propose a solution.jump drives - more ships with jump capabilities. ships able to jump from system to system, or even farther. - jump drives fairly deep in skill progression. 20m sp or so. - plot coordinates on the map, the farther it is, the more fuel/bigger jump drive it takes. - refueling stations to supply players jump drives.deep space combat(pvp) - redefine how pirates acquire there targets. - hubs will form in deep space, they must be protected by players from pirate players. - have ships \"hackable\". pirates can hack into other ships that are not properly protected to discover bookmarks and/or waypoints for travel. have skills required to hack into ships, as well as skills to create firewalls and counter measures to protect ships from being hacked. - make pirates explore. they have to find pve combat zones through scanning. if they find them, they can ambush unsuspecting players. - allow pirates to hack into station computer systems and chat channels (with required skills) to gather information about players meeting to exchange goods, form parties, etc etc. the only sure fire way to have a private secure conversation is to meet in person on a station.make local chat a decision - join it if you want, don't if you don't want your presence known. - instead, allow system wide scans. if your corp owns a particular system, allow them to set up and array that will alert them to a players presence in their system.keep jump gates - they will be the road most traveled. pirates can still camp them. - allow players to choose their entry point into a system. a particular planet/station/belt etc.open space up."
"this already exists, and there are already enough ships with jump drives. no to more jump drives unless new shiptypes are created.people already scan down people doing pve and blow them up.this has been discussed many many times. no.if you want to get deap into nullsec or lowsec without taking the common travel routes, then scan down a wh, go into that wh and see where it leads. if it doesn't lead to lowsec or null then scan down another wh in that wh and you will eventually find a route deap into empty null sec space. that, is a simple solution to your problem.as for gate camps, you can check your map to see how many people are in space in lowsec systems and even see how many people have died there over the last hour. so you can see gatecamps coming. just avoid them, or take a fast enough ship to get through. basically, learn more about pvp before you start proposing to change the game for your inadequacies.\"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"how to break gate camps permanently.not supported.================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"breaking gate camp mechanics is exactly what's needed. those chockpoints are making certain inner sov null farmers' heavens way too safe. oh yeah, also, camp duty is boring."
"seleene wrote:jack carrigan wrote:seleene- hardly, as i would review the ones that had obvious merits and dismiss the ones that stunk of blatant emo-rage. but mocking those who vote to keep you in office is hardly a way to inspire confidence. you are a representative of the players, but are doing a fantastic job to lose respect, which is what wins votes and thus elections.mate... maaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaate.... if you can't handle some light-hearted joking and take everything this serious, you probably wouldn't want to actually run for csm, much less deal with some of the ~good times~ trolling and hilarity that goes on when dealing with ccp directly. i don't 'respect' the fact that so many seem ready to burn the csm at the stake because we are not somehow magically getting ccp to turn back time / revert the changes now now now or take remote control of the development servers and turn them over to people that can 'do it better'. as has been pointed out by no less than four csms in this thread, we are not sitting on our hands and we are doing what we can to help alleviate the problem that we are all suffering from atm. your post, which i 'mocked', seemed to ignore that we are already doing exactly as you say you would do if you were able, just without the seeming ~outrage~ that so many seem to be baffled the csm is not righteously displaying. it was also completely dismissive of replies that had already been given in this thread, links to other threads and the content of the same. insinuating that you would somehow be able to do more, without so much as acknowledging the aforementioned efforts already being made, marked your post in my eyes as a blatant 'come at me bro' troll. i actually read your post and my reply to it reflected my mood - you were ignoring the replies i'd made in this thread so i wasn't really moved to take what you said seriously either. if your post was serious, then it certainly didn't come across as such.here is what i see happening as of right now: ccp isn't going to roll back the changes. they will keep working to evolve the current feature as quickly as possible. not much is going to happen in the next 48 hours because it's the weekend. i could be wrong and the dudes responsible may work all weekend to iterate on the united inventory feature (doubt it). the csm will be in iceland next week and this subject will obviously be front and center. i will be sending out non-nda updates from the summit as much as i can as we talk to the various teams.at this point there is quite literally nothing else the csm can do that we've not already done over the past few weeks, especially since inferno went live. the onus is on ccp to now act on how the csm and the community has reacted to their decisions.thanks for the good response.i think it's still fairly valid to wonder why there was little more than \"it'll be great\" in the townhall. i do seem to remember some acknowledgment of concern there too, to your credit. the forums where exploding with little or no acknowledgement from the csm. and two step was right to an extent, the people angry about this where doing a fine job of getting the point across, but still in the middle of these issues is where i think we expect to see the csm. i do think there might be something to learn here about at least acknowledging concerns a bit earlier. if you guys where working hard behind the scenes, great. still a dialog with the players might be good.for example, this point: is it seriously impossible to revert the inventory and run the unified version as an optional secondary way to look at this until the performance and other issues are resolved? as a software engineer i think this should be possible, but it depends on good version control and how it was implemented. it may or may not be feasible, but one wonders if the devs are just being stubborn on this point.we were told something similar about the orca corp hanger, but that got fixed one way or the other in reasonably short order.anyway, thanks for hanging in there and weathering the slings and arrows."
"wow, look at all that support from our elected leaders.bought out for the price of a ticket to iceland and you all turn in to lap-dogs.real edit: i posted that prior to reading selene's postings as 2-step's response blows.thanks to selene for the rational follow up."
"careful with that light-hearted humor seleene , didn't work out so well for your predecessor.is there somewhere that shows what exactly csm's position is on the ui? what changes are you advocating? i mean there are a lot ideas out there so which do you think should be on ccp's hit-list? wouldn't mind actually seeing each members position.thanks"
"as the player who asked the inventory question which the csm answered unsatisfactorily, i'm disappointed that people are using it to attack the csm process. at the time of the town hall broadcast, i was irritated by the csm response to my question, as i felt it showed a general lack of awareness of the inventory issue. to a degree i still believe this, however i appreciate with the impending summit there is undoubtedly a host of other issues which also demand their time and attention.i think the more militant and vocal players should remember that no csm member is being paid for their time - any and all effort they put into their role is entirely voluntary. the commitment they have made is on our behalf and there's absolutely no point in finger-pointing and name-calling.it's at times like these, with issues impacting so many subscribers, that players should be supporting and empowering the csm."
"all i see in the reaction from the csm here is a knee-jerk reaction to them as a whole being put up on blast for their lack of interaction. quite sad really.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"ditto...whole lot of backpedaling and excuses and not so much participation.gonna take a lot more than some scattered words of confidence to put any faith back into it.again...i know you guys can't do squat as far as taking action...but you sure as hell could be doing a lot more than sitting there in silence.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"->create thread about lack of csm participation and forum posts->gets csm to post in thread->talk about issue with csm members, learn how they are dealing with issue-> have csm members completely miss point of threadit really is a art,"
"indeed it is.point, still missed.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"do you know why ?they didn't communicate with players, they didn't communicate with ccp and they didn't read the ui topic for information. check seleene answer to jack carrigan from weekend.now read ccp soundwave answer from fixing:\"we should have another round of fixes/changes coming this tuesday (monday is a public holiday in iceland)\"the testers made enough feedback for easy fix, the testers pointed out the problems to ccp and for csm too, but csm did nothing."
"i like the fact that the csm are putting some effort into this thread.that said i think the whole point of it is that the csm is not communicating their efforts effectively enough.there doesn't seem to be a \"presence\" in the player threads that are either a) trying to make sensible constructive criticism or b) b!tchslapping ccp for such a massive fail.the ui sucks and we all know it - i just think that the csm needs to be louder, not quieter and working in the background.(also - csm tags should be clickable so we can see posts by them - they should show on the forum)tl;dr - more communicative csm please - we were spoiled before and you seem a bit....toothless."
"i thank the csm for looking into this and putting it at the top of the list."
"which major powerblocks do issler and trebor represent?oh wait, you're making **** up to excuse your lack of involvement"
"hey,i dont post much, and not sure if this is in the right part of the site. just a suggestion to ccp.with the new patch, much of the war decs has changed, all for the good it seems. i like the new war menus, they are great. it would be great to see and new tab though, the same as the old war menu. just to let you know what are active for you atm, a start and finish date, this menu is very simple, but also very effective. for the corps/alliance's that are in alot of , this is a great way to see who exactly you are at war with at any given time. cheers, tas"
"you must be doing something wrong....because usually you get things called notifications...and you have to be joking that your not able to see your current active war-decs.================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"you must be doing something wrong....because usually you get things called notifications...and you have to be joking that your not able to see your current active war-decs.im not saying i cant see my active , what i am saying is that the old war menu was so much easier to read, it was simple, it said who you were at war with, and if you could fight yet. i dont want to get rid of the new menu, i think its great, what i think would be nice, is to have another tab, with the old menu.. just as reference. cheers tas"
"\"heavy missile fired by your drake scratched 21 ships, which are then killed by maelstrom 1400mm artillery.\"it's like kms, useful for epeen purposes/self deception."
"get a pad of paper or an excel spreadsheet and you can do this yourself. no need to waste dev time or server power on something that doesn't help the game at all when you can do it all yourself."
"yes...unnecessary...go program your own damn killboard and go hog wild with statistics to your wildest dreams and leave the dev's out of this tripe. they already have enough to deal with.you got the api library's....stop being lazy and get off your @$$.don't know how to program? well get busy...no one got anywhere doing nothing.================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"i have always loved the idea of stats being kept on ships. ie, who manufactured it, number of final blows, age of ship, etc etc.but due to some rather unavoidable programming issues this will probably never be a good idea.\"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"still having tech difficulties with my scanner, so let's discuss the bedouin for a biti am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"i know you've posted the pic, but for minmatar, it would've been very cool to have exposed ship docks instead of internal bays. \"look at that! that thing's lugging two machs! get it!\""
"bollocks. they can implement a record, something along the lines of \"previously known as\", \"alias\" etc. if a recruiter is stupid enough not to vet them properly then its his fault if he gets scammed. one can currently just buy an alt and do the same damage if they really wanted too.i do not see any downside to allowing a once a year change or some such. it is not game breaking and it keeps the game fresh for those that perhaps are unhappy with there name choice. i would happily pay rl money or plex for this opportunity so i back it 100% eve since incarna seems to be about identity, so who cares what my avatar looks like if you are not happy with your name."
"now you have 100 likes, courtesy moi."
"actually, it is hard. you tell me how to stop a hulk from getting suicide ganked by 4 destoyers. it's not possible, especailly for newer players. concord protects gankers, and people with wanted bounties on them. broken system is broken.eve is about largest wallet wins. happens all the time, and that's ok. it inspires people to make more isk. but there is no credible defence to suicide ganking at the moment, and that's broken. pvp should never be certain kill, any more than having a big shiny warship should never guarantee victory without skill."
"... except ...ccp has made this game tons easier than it used to be. know what that tells me? they want the subs. they need the new players to stay, so they have been changing the rules over and over (and over) to keep them. if players can't come up with good ideas to retain new players in face of gankers and greifers running amok, then ccp will hardcode changes. they have done it before, and will do it again if things don't improve."
"it's called start paying attention to the f'ing game and stop being so stupid about it.get the message now?anyone who mines and doesn't pay attention to local/intel channels and everything deserves to be ganked.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"and now for some numbers on how risky space should be.if you are going to live in a space you need to get more resources out of it than you lose in it.let's say i buy a belt ratting bc that with today's market prices costs 100 mil. and we say, \"anyone living in null should get 20% back on whatever they put into it\" so that belt ratting bc should survive long enough to make 120 mil in bounties before exploding. a 200 mil haven running battleship should be able to make 240 mil in bounties before exploding. and a 400 mil hulk should be able to mine 480 mil worth of minerals before exploding.so back to our 200 mil haven running bs example. i think 240 mil worth of havens is about 8 havens or so. so if someone is really trying to catch ratters they should be able to catch 1 in 8 people running a haven. that's about a 12.5% mortality rate in havens. you could even say something like \"havens should have enough scramming frigates to keep someone warp scrambled 12.5% of the time.\"the problem with both of your arguments is that they both result in two extremes of safety and mortality while trying to pve in null.with local in place and nobody cloaked in local you have plenty of warning when someone enters system between them having to scan down your site (10 seconds) and then the time it takes to warp to you. basically you just have to be paying attention and warp out as soon as you see someone in local.with no local null becomes a cloaky hot droppers paradise. every system has a cyno alt in it looking for wrecks on d scan. every site becomes a death trap.if you are going to remove local (which does feel a bit to meta-gamey) then you need to replace it with an intel tool that feels safe enough for the ratters, and risky enough for the gankers.personally i'd like to see something that has more to do with game mechanics and less to do with a chat program. something that cares more about the scan resolution of my ship and not weather i pop into local.i honestly think poco based sov is a good idea"
"hah... no.you still haven't learned anything about how they do things have you? even after the ship-spinning removal. ccp don't keep old code, they save over it.."
"if you look at every race, they each have two main frigates. more importantly they all have the same number of low, medium, and high slots - 10. gallente has the incursus - (4 low, 3 med, 3 high) and the tristan - (3 low, 3 med, 4 high). minmatar has the rifter - (3 low, 3 med, 4 high) and the vigil which is one short as well but still better balanced than the kestrel at - (3 low, 3 med, 3 high). amarr has the punisher - (4 low, 2 med, 4 high) and the tormentor - (4 low, 3 med, 3 high). and finally caldari has the merlin - (3 low, 4 med, 3 high) and the kestrel at - (2 low, 3 med, 4 high). the kestrel is hard to fit and make effective since it does not have 10 slots. it has only 9. i believe this causes it to suffer in pvp and pve. i propose that it be given another medium slot to aid in pvp/pve since all shield and tackling modules are medium slots.what do you think ccp spitfire?"
"amarr has the punisher and inquisitor. the tormentor cannot be used for any comparisons because it is part of the new, unfinished balancing.on that topic, ccp is rebalancing everything."
"you mean like the new unified inventory? that went down well, after all.don't get me wrong, i agree whole heartedly. i just think that, because of all the recent whining and bitching, ccp wont be in a rush to rebuild a system from the ground up again (even though i think they should)."
"that wasn't a rewrite of the inventory system just a new ui. what i mean is take all the crappy code and ideas in the current industry system (*cough* blueprints *cough*) and start over. i don't want a face lift or bandaid as it will turn out like the unified inventory."
"that wasn't a rewrite of the inventory system just a new ui. what i mean is take all the crappy code and ideas in the current industry system (*cough* blueprints *cough*) throw it out and start over. i don't want a face lift or bandaid as it will turn out like the unified inventory."
"i'm aware we have player owned starbases already. i'm a big fan of immersion, and would really dig a small/medium/large player built and anchored \"home\" that i can dock my ship at and get out to stretch my legs. all the while checking up on all the latest bounties/trade routes/incursions, with a room much like the cq's. but then i also want a trophy room. a room where i can put trophies/ribbons/medals up on display, for any whom i invite into my little abode.player \"cities\" anyone? have player homes grouped up in deadspace complete with our own starbases and refineries. corporate buildings and item malls linked directly into the market. bars with craps tables, slot machines, drugs, alcohol and hookers. a pool table wouldn't be bad either. another profession choice? the gambler. i want to sit down at a table with corp members and play some ******* poker.this idea is solely to appeal to those that want a realistic and immersive environment. an eve that brings much more to the table than is currently."
"plans for that died with incarna..."
"pretty much this. after 4 to 6 years of development, only being given one little room with no content, and ignoring many glaring issues with the existing game incarna took away almost any hope people have for a \"total immersion\" aspect.the whole thing will be revisited in the future, of that i'm sure. just don't hold your breath."
"i couldn't have said it better myself."
"i can't imagine what this might say about you."
"being able to sneak your way through a wormhole into nullsec is unpredictable and a risk many simply will not take. having a single road into any null-sec region is not realistic. it's seriously like walking a path to school, the only path you can take, and having every ******* bully in the city waiting for you at regular intervals to beat your ass. it's nonsense. the way it is we can either be willing to have a 100% chance to lose considering there is not a cap to skills and many players have years more skill training time under their belts. there is no way to win. there is no way to organize a null-sec endeavor without serious losses. it's stifling at best.it takes an open mind to realize the possibilities of what i'm proposing.we need ships that don't take years to train for that can equip jump drives."
"nullsec is as safe as the sov holders make it. if it's impossible to keep hostiles out, which is what you want, it pretty quickly becomes impossible to rat for more than about ten minutes."
"but there is always more than one way in..."
"remember elite 2 ? hyperdrives generated scannable jumpportals, where the ships jumped.the ship not landed directly to station, they jumped to randomly position and they needed to moving toward them without warp."
"csm please point out to ccp the growing **** storm in regards to the player base. i can't say the new ui is universally despised, there are at least two people that like it. probably ones that don't have towers or corp hangers or manufacture anything.this is growing into a major firestorm, and seriously it is not going away. please before we drop another 5k subs, please point out to ccp the sense of rage regarding this diseased barely funtional, laggy ui 'improvement'.i'm not sure there are words strong enough to describe how important that is. it is enraging people, it just feels like incarna again."
"csm before the s**t storm: \"go ccp! go ccp!\"after: \"hmm, we are aware there may be some problems, but ccp it's working on it; not in weekend ofc, but they are really, really stressed about it; it will be fixed in severall weks, or several months cose you know, they are really working hard on it...\"csm, what a joke...you even succed in making me regret the mitani, and let me tell you ladds that was a thing i never ever imagined..."
"i do all of those things. and i still don't find the new ui a problem. also, most of my corp think the following of the ui - \"meh\". get the occasional comment about the estimated prices and filters being cool. one or two odd comments about \"its going to take some time to get used to\". even the corp my alt is in doesn't have any problems with it. i don't understand how all the forum trolls have such a problem with it.yes, there are problems. no, they are not a big deal. where do you get your stats from? having talked to so few people in game who have a problem with the ui, and having not seen anyone rage \"-1 sub ccp!!!\" on the forums i cant see that anyone has left over this.this is just such a massive over-reaction over practically nothing as far as i can tell."
"happy to be wrong about ccp not working on a weekend. today, on an icelandic holiday sunday no less, ccp soundwave has released another dev blog:this week in the unified inventorythe money lines of this blog are:\"as a remedy, we<U+FFFD>re going to try and provide you with weekly changes to it, until we get it into a state where you<U+FFFD>re happy with it.\"\"again, you guys have my deepest apologies for this situation. we<U+FFFD>ll do whatever we can to rectify it. we're going to continue to take your valuable feedback and add it to the list of changes we want to make.\"i don't think i've ever read anything by ccp where they publicly commit to weekly changes on a feature. one thing i know is that ccp's management is not taking this lightly at all. on friday night i spoke with ccp unifex (jon lander), eve's senior producer about this issue specifically. while i cannot detail the whole conversation, i can say that this is something which is getting a lot of attention internally at ccp and will be front and center in our discussions at the summit this week."
"i have been quite vocal about it and have said many negative things about ccp to the point of damaging my relationship with them. the fact that they quite obviously dont care that they have made the game much more tedious for most of us is obvious. it doesnt seem to phase them that the system sucks and they are much more worried about their public image than the players well being. i have asked for an optional system where we can choose if we want the new or old system and i doubt they will listen. they didnt seem to care before releasing the crap system that virtually everyone said it was crap, why should they listen now? they think we will \"get used to it\" and are oblivious to how much more difficult it is on the people who actually play the game."
"from other topic:\"again, you guys have my deepest apologies for this situation.\"from devblog. this is lol and ridiculous.we dont want apologies. we reported all problems from new ui.anyone listen from ccp our feedbacks ??? we created video etc. but we got the answer from developer.can read everyone:\"\"ccp arrow wrote:in the sessions the whole team observed the live feed and took notes on everything the participants did. we don't do user tests because we don't believe you when you say there is a problem\"who enabled this crap \"unfinished-inventory\" to put tq ? who is the responsibility for this ?we hate this inventory. unusable,it is a torture for players, a nightmare.we dont want apologies, we dont want this ui. and we never asked this crap ui.do you know what we want ? we want eve client without unfinished inventory. put back to sisi, fix it there. we are subscribers not alpha/beta testers. beta testing is a job, and they get payments for test, but we paying for game and we want play, not testing crap unfinised works.chop down this horrible treepanel, we dont want win 3.1 file explorer in eve.we want a handly tools, what the old inventory was."
"ribikoka, i think everyone knows that you are mad but you are not going to get what you want. they are not going to revert it no matter how much you ***** about it. they will evolve what they have on a weekly basis. that is the commitment they have made. they made a big mistake. now they have to fix it and they have said they are going to. you can why why why all you want, but this is still night and day different than what happened with incarna where they actually tried to defend that bullshit for months on end."
"saying a csm member who was voted to csm with mandatory alliance letter.a pet of ccp, who did nothing to arrest this ccp mistake just put his hand for free tickets for enjoying journey to iceland.do you think an old mc video enough for csm membership ? no, brown-noiser.do you think wont be happen nothing, but the mmo portals started to write from this fiasco again.players started to left the game, because you csm guys dont save player's interests, and did nothing when free testers from sisi reported the unfinished inventory feedbacks for everyone.\"different than what happened with incarna\"different than what happened with incarna ? this is same, they didn't listen their playerbase and testers when they said \"we tried on sisi, but this is bad\". just you say on ui topic hurray this is our flawless,perfect ui without try. after 6 minutes when ccp created their devblogs from ui.but this is worsen than incarna, the players dont have choice, they must to use this crap inventory, they cant turning off the \"door\" to windows, because they dont have option for this."
"minimizing windows, and then shift-clicking on the ones i want does the trick. close enough, but was really painful until somebody told me about the shift-click option."
"pl's candidate was elise randolph, who also got booshed by rdn and ncdot. no alliance mails got me onto the csm."
"yea, i'm too working in a weekend, cose i'm writing on a forum, it's a hard work indeed...and one more thing:we all know that when ccp make a promise, they will keep it no matter what... like they did one hundred times before... oh wait! like they did when the ceo of ccp sayd they won't ever bring content that we, players don't want; yea, i'm sure they won't just patch 2-3 things till the player rage go down a bit and then forget about this problem for years, no, ccp won't do that ever..."
"well, we can agree on a couple things here:- the unified inventory blows donkeys.- people are going to continue raging about it until it is fixed.well, ccp said they're going to make weekly changes, and hey, look, the entire point of this thread has been achieved, as the csm is actually updating us on **** that they are allowed to tell us (non-nda information), and what's being done to fix our concerns.i think we can chalk this one up as a win, and now see if the inventory gets un****ed.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"i'm only frustrated with the inventory lag.haven't found any other reason to rage."
",,, public raging thread, got what it wanted. interesting. though, as a forum warrior, i do want to say that a thread like this four weeks ago, would have been much more useful. and part of the point of the continuation of this thread. public csm support or condemnation of changes that are going to go live before they go live * are important. * and after they are actually available to be tested rather then the ui thread which csm posted before it was actually available to be tested.i understand that you may have blogs, twitters and whatnot, but the lack of csm posts on the official eve forums is just.. what? you posted feeling about this everywhere but here? really?"
"this.... and getting tired of being forced to use their **** when i'm content to have the eve online forums themselves.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"are you tiger's alt? you have a very similar debating style. you just repeat yourself over and over without listening to anything anyone is saying. you look like some nut, randomly ranting. \"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"they should try the wizard in diablo 3 hes got a pretty nifty wand...there are no stupid questions... just stupid people... ccp goliath wrote:"
"so basically this: i cannot believe this topic hasn't been brought up before (maybe it has but im relatively new to eve), but wow, what an idea. imagine if a hisec mining corp was forced to dec another mining corp due to competition over a particular systems belts. hisec war would suddenly make sense. imagine a null sec moon gets mined out, and its resources appear in another part of space. suddenly that alliance you were somewhat friendly with has a resource that your alliance desparately wants. maybe a backstab and some fleet ops are in order. mission rats get defeated and move on to another area of space; you don't feel like moving all your mission gear to a new area, and are kind of peeved by that other corp farming out the available missions so quickly, declare war. really, the possibilities over competing over limited resources are endless, and would add sooo much to this game, and the game could finally function in the way it was meant to."
"this is downright stupid.if resources are as limited as irl, wars would happen as often as irl. in other words, not often.resources are what sustain wars, lack of resources are what bring wars to an end. wars don't happen when one has no resources/runs out of resources, but rather when one has more than enough resources, and thus, uses the excess to obtain yet more. review your history, take note on when wars happen."
"adapt & survive or fail & die."
"from the inferno fw dev blog post:i would like to say that defending sites and getting zero rewards is not fun. attackers can easily drain the lp from i-hubs on anything but upgrade level v.i would like to propose that for every 1% the defenders take back that 1000 lp be put into the i-hub. for example if i run a minor site and bring the contested value from 20% to 19.7% (i think it is .3 but i really only defended a few times because it sucks!) 300 lp would be placed in the i-hub.this would get around the possible farming that ccp was worried about as the lp would be going to the i-hub rather than players.thoughts?"
"seconded."
"seconded as well. capturing in defense plexes is mostly boring. make it at least a little bit useful."
"the closed bays would make for easier design for the game versus having to put work in place for when this ship changes cargo.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"to help out, i still have 3 thrashers on the market that need good homes to help create more emo-bear-rage.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"come try to gank my hulk next time i mine. i'll even put you in fleet so you can warp right next to me.to save time, here is the outcome. i'll be in warp before you exit warp. i'll have about 3 seconds to identify your ship, and a dessie or bc3 means i'm gone. cruiser depends on the ship. bs... i wouldn't care at this point it would be funny. and frig/indie i would just laugh.hint: every ship can instawarp if you have it set up."
"obviously you've never heard of an insta-lock before. you're locked and alpha'd before you even hit warp.i've already demonstrated this to several people in ice and ore belts. an exhumer isn't going to get to warp before i can scram and kill it with hot mods."
"how can you alpha a ship that's already in warp? if they're aligned at warpout speed, it's not going to be difficult to get out before you're out of warp..."
"pro-tip: you hit warp as soon as something \"out of the ordinary\" loads on your grid. so long as you are \"actively aligned\" nothing with catch you (and yes, there is effort involved in being \"actively aligned\")."
"+1 agreed this is an old clumsy mechanic and the possibility of more variation in acceleration would be a fine thing."
"gizznitt, your last post certainly did make more sense, i still don't follow you to the same conclusion, but it no longer sounds like total crazy talk. i do think your setting scenarios where the player that is pveing is as hopeless as you can conceive; solo, no friends or alies, no alts, doesn't watch dscan, fits for pure pve, and so on. where as at the other end its an organized pvp gang, with scouts, fast dscaners/probers, no other possible threats but the poor lone pveer etc. that's not exactly going to lead you to a balanced conclusion.i completely agree that resources to be gained in dangerous space need be worth the risk. this is the key reason high sec pve is such a huge problem in eve, particularly high income low risk activities such as incursions. that needs to change. to my knowledge eve is the only sandbox mmo built around player conflict that has high value pve in areas protected by unbeatable npcs.i also agree there could be more intel tools, especially in the event of local intel as it is now disappearing. the idea presented here doesn't completely remove local intel, but it certainly makes it far less effective. also while not part of the op proposal, it is made with assumption that a form of cloak hunting is also introduced. ccp has hinted they want to change local several times over the years, but in their last meeting with csm 6 they also brought up their interest in cloak hunting. something i strongly believe cannot happen without first doing away with local chat's 100% effortless intel function, or the result could well be the same as removing cloaks from the game.given the ideas in the op, and the additions mentioned in the thread (that the delay on showing local also applies to ships entering the system seeing ships already in it, means to hunt cloaking ships, an improved dscan, and of course an appropriately balanced risk vs reward across all of eve space) what would you suggest to bring the proposal to a point you consider a balanced point that you would support?"
"only way id get behind this proposal is if it works both ways ie if you dont show up on locan local does not show up for you ."
"whelp if we need a new intel tool to replace local then we are going to have to design a new intel tool to replace local. i hate proposing completely new mechanics on the eve forums. but it's the only alternative to arguing around in circles about afk cloaking.so here goes.............1. remove local as an intel tool. local is only there for chatting and smack talk. so it'll probably have to be the wh style delayed local.2. this new intel tool should probably be a beefier and more robust version (and replacement) of d-scan and the system scanner. and it should be automatic so people don't have to keep clicking scan every 10 seconds.3. all friendly ships (blues) should have some sort of iff that makes them show up automatically without needing to show up on scan.4. the new intel tool should be entirely based on in game mechanics. maybe the time it would take to detect someone new comming in system could be based on a combination of sig radius, scan resolution, distance in au, active modules, weither or not they are warping, and any other status effects.5. by basing detection on gme mechanics this makes ships in the scout role more important. think of the interceptor with it's low sig radius and high warp speed. it could get to sites faster and take longer to detect. jumping in a scout ahead of the rest of the roaming gang to catch ratters will be more of an option.6. cloaked ships should not be 100% undetectable, this leads into whatever cloak hunting system ccp is working on. cloaky hunting finally needs to be possible.7. the new intel tool needs to take up less space on screen than what most people use when they pull out local chat. and it'd be nice if it was a little more engaging to look at than a list of people in local.8. this new intel tool could be some sort of upgradable sov module that people can improve with effort. in highsec / lowsec it should be in it's most informative state (low risk / low reward space) and in wormholes it should be in it's lowest informative state (high risk / high reward space).9. personally i'd like ship detection in the new intel tool to be time based. so you will always eventually show up on scan, it's just the amount of time it takes for someone to show up that changes based on how slippery their ship is. this would make camping a system less effective than fast roaming gangs when trying to catch people. although this is just personal preference. i'd like to see more roaming gangs as a gameplay style, instead of people just periodically checking cyno alts to see if anyone is doing anything in local.i honestly think poco based sov is a good idea"
"ok so i have been giving this quite a bit of consideration and like the majority i accept can flipping as a normal, if some what frustrating, part of eve and the risks that go with solo mining. but should we accept this as a valid criminal act and put up with it or should we be recognizing this as a loop hole in the game mechanics that's being exploited?you see for as much as i, like all who experience it, don't like it, the simple act of having my hard earned ore or anything else i may store in a jet-can stolen is something i can begrudgingly accept as a rightful act of criminality. if some one has the means to come in and steal my stuff and are confident they can get away unscathed then fine that is all part of what eve is about.however where i'd draw the line is when some one steals from me, with a clear recognition they took what is mine by the very fact i am now allowed to take aggressive actions against them with no repercussions from concord, and yet to take what is mine simply by it being within their jet-can is to afford them the same rights.my problem with this is that it seems like a complete contradiction to one moment recognize a theft of my property, to the next, simply by means of where it resides, now treat it also as though it is their property which i am able to steal; i should not be able to steal what is mine but only take it rightfully no matter where it is unless that place is inaccessible to me i.e secure container, station or within a ship.my initial suggestion would be that an item stack has a marker which denotes who it belongs to. when legitimately transacted this marker would be changed or acceptably when stolen items are sold on this would change. but when an item is simply stolen this marker would stay the same and so allow the owner, where possible such as in jet-can storage, to take back there items with no repercussions.this i think would benefit game play in a few ways, not least that it would even the odds between miners and those who seek to commit criminal acts against them. it would mean that by current means those stealing would only be able to smash and grab relatively small amounts if they want the protection of their fighting ships to help ensure they can get away with it. it would allow miners the chance to salvage at least some of the haul they have just spent the last 3 hours or so collecting. but most importantly it would mean those wanting to make their living of this sort of criminality would require the right tools. as apposed to now where they leave what they take in a jet-can for half hour while their friend turns up in a hauler and the miner has to frustratingly just accept their loss while all their hard earned ore just sits there right in front of them, instead the thief would have to come in a hauler if they wished to ensure they can take as much as possible before the miner is able to get any out of there. because the fact is most miners who have spent their time on that route of training don't currently have the means to match, let alone out gun, those who can flip. but if stealing required that the thief used the right ship for the job such as a hauler, less the miner move most of their haul out, then it would allow the miners at least the chance and opportunity of chasing down and apprehending the thief. there would be a chance that the thief may actually lose out. there would be a chance the miner may actually get their haul back.to conclude this is something that could truly bring more balance to game play. it would encourage more tactical play and provide a greater medium to allow more miners to engage in some pvp aspects. by simply recognizing ownership of items beyond just who is currently in possession of them it would remove a major point of contradiction in the game system, afford a sense of owner ship to those who spend hours of game play on extracting resources, and most of all encourage far more fluent interactions between players.edit: alternative changebassed on suggestion and concerns about my initial suggested method to acheive the goals stated, it would perhaps be better to simply change the way jet-cans work.______________________________________________________________________p.s. please like this topic if you would support this kind of change. and remember its not about stopping criminality as that's an important part of what makes eve, just about evening the odds."
"stop can mining and get an orca.you people are just flat hopeless.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"orcas take time to train, and i think till then can mining is a valid if acceptably risky way to solo mine. i just think how those risks are posed should change to provide more balanced game play and give those working for something greater possession over what they work for."
"mining of any value shouldn't occur in high sec under the protection of concord. then under those circumstances can flipping is irrelevant."
"mining high sec is as acceptable a way to make profits as anything else in the game. and with what i propose no one would be under the protection of concord. its just about evening the odds and there by encouraging more fair pvp between criminals and those they target."
"you have no flipping clue how to mine in the first place....if you had you woudln't be posting this tripe.you'd be using secure cans until you have a corp to work with or an orca to fly....just like everyone else.can mining is stupid....you should not do it....you dont do it if you have any common sense.if you do it its because you don't flat care....or your lazy...or your looking for a fight.everyone knows this...anyone who pays attention that is.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"jet-cans hold allot more than most secure containers and are far cheaper. and i wouldn't call it laziness but efficiency. its far more efficient to sit on a belt longer and take out one large haul.now plenty of people use this method and if you don't know that then perhaps you are ignorant. of course it comes with risks and i'm saying that i accept that. i'm prepared to have my haul stolen.what i'm trying to put across though is that in the interest of avoiding contradiction and to provide more balanced game play (balanced game play being the theme of damn near every aspect of change i've ever seen to the game) that perhaps a change in the way ownership is perceived and works would be a good idea."
"stealing is also an acceptable way to make profit, as anything else in the game."
"koreli, you are missing the point, posting in \"forums\" only attracts a negative response. you will not interact with peers exchangeing ideas , saddly only spewn hatetred for expressing your ideas, \"eve is not the problem, it is the people who play it. they enjoy the challenge of combating unarmed participants, they love to cause player misery for no other reason because they can, and they actually take pride in that! how could you ever expect to change that? the in game issues and mechanics are merely breeding grounds for this type of behavior, and they use it as a shield proclaiming that its only a game and they are not like this in real life, truly the greatest lie ever told. your idea has merit and will fall on deaf ears my friend,"
"well thanks dr quantom, but it said this was the place for ideas so i thought worth a try :)mallak azaria, please actually read what i have to say as i've stated multiple times that i accept stealing and criminality as a part of eve. however i am saying the way this works and is viewed should change. it should not be possible to \"steal\" back what belongs to you only to take it rightfully. and in making this change it would create more balanced game play. as an example imagine i came into your home and took the computer on which you are viewing this and playing eve among other things. then knowing where i live you come and take back your computer, for it is still yours is it not? would you have also stolen it from me then? could i prosecute you for stealing the computer just the same as you could me? that would just be crazy, it would be thrown out of court assuming it could even make it there.so why should the values of ownership be any different in eve?"
"you.... a 2 month old toon telling me that a jet can holds more.that's funny.keep calling me ignorant..lets see how far you get.you have no business making proposals or changes to a game you barely understand let alone know how to play.high sec is not supposed to be a safe haven for mining... its safer.until you learn that lesson...you will never get anywhere.this is not real life.....this is a game....stop making comparisons are such.and as for ownership....you have every right to challenge the theif who took your ore and to take it right back.so instead of ####ing about it...fight back then....stop whining.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"this is perhaps a 2 month old toon, but my old toon i played in a mining corp was a fair bit older haha.and this is the place for suggestions and debate. now i pay like all (ne like most) players so if i feel there is a problem i'm entitled to voice it... that's called consumer rights. and of course you don't have to agree with it and i respect your opinion. but it would be nice if you could just express it in a little more polite and constructive way.though thank you all the same for your in put."
"you should stop and consider that some of us (such as me who have played since 2008) would rather eat dirt than tolerate people who get on a pedistal and consider themselves \"all that\" and \"experts\" after 2 months of playing this game in changing a very large portion of said game so dramatically that they completely ignore the ramfiications all because \"they don't like it\"your mining corp is likely just as foolish as the rest of them if they think they are entitleneted to jet can mining without risk or concern. (doubtful as if they are old as you say).and sorry to say...you are a true blue green earned noob. prue and simple.the only time i have evered jet canned (after learning the hard way you dont) is in 0.0 or whs.why? because your gonna die anyway...so who cares.as i said....you have alot to learn before you start pushing such game breaking ideas on us.until such time...don't bother....spend 6 months to a year first before you come back here and tell us you feel entitlted as such to that kind of mining.if its that bad and you have no friends....go fly a hulk and slow hoof it. i had too..its not that hard.just don't think your entitlented to safety in that light either in high sec space....as i'm sure many will be quick to point out.again....you can fight back...no one said you couldn't.am i terese? yes....but if you had done your research....and realized no one touches this subject without fear of getting burned...youd understand.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"adding ownership tags, would be an interesting idea, however for one half can of ore, you are talking about what? 12 k tags ? one on each piece of ore? and with multiple characters mining into teh same can how does the game differentiate ownership between individual items in a stack?but more to the point, the entire mining system, weak ships, long cycle times, is very specifically geared towards being griefed. you are starting from the bottom of the food chain. 1 yes you would both be prosecuted, b&e is still a crime in most places, property theft (even property obtained through illicit means) is still theft -> it would be interesting to see what this sort of change did to can flipping though, corpmates couldnt help out as much which would make theft more risky.2 jet cans are bigger then most secure cans. and since jet cans are free. they are also cheaper.3 many people also die in half fit hulks, i wouldn't suggest going out like that though. the logic of \"a million people can't be wrong\" is patently wrong. it is very easy for a million people to be wrong. 4 you are arguing with drake, who is not arguing your ideas merits, but that can mining is stupid. these are different arguments.-> legality in eve, is a very tricky subject, ccp want a way to make people cry without breaking any local laws on bullying. personal ideas of \"fair\" , \"just\" or \"right\" do not apply. here is the universe, it is not nice. that being said, ccp has also been insanely inconsistent with their own programed rules. aggression mechanics do not transfer to logistics (except in the case of concord now redacted) , salvage / loot issues, even the jetcan corp help issue. i wouldnt hold my breath to get this changed, simply because they (ccp ) has quite a bit on their plate, not to mention all the other things they have to break before they get to aggression mechanics and object ownership. also, after the ui changes, you really want them messing with jetcan ownerships?"
"that. the recent frigate changes were only phase one, the kestrel will undoubtedly get looked at. i am a little puzzled though as to why they decided to revamp a mining frigate rather than, say, the hilariously broken tier 1 frigates but what the hell, they'll hopefully get round to those."
"lets hope so. i cant wait for the kestrel to become an effective caldari missile boat. we dont need anymore effective gun boats."
"well a buff to the eagle and vulture certainly wouldn't go amiss, and the moa could use some love as well."
"any comments?"
"so you want a pov of a suicide bomber...."
"what the title says, no war in high sec in any way.you want pvp? cool lowsec and 0.0 is right next door."
"why not just axe the servers and cut the power lines to them as well? same basic effect."
"i like trolls but still not same basic effect. that would stop both pvp and pve."
"i'd actually consider supporting that if it included removing any activity that impacts pvp. which would essentially mean there would be nothing to do in high sec at all, as everything in this game is pvp or impacts pvp. your proposal could be interpreted as the removal of high sec from eve, which is definitely not the worst idea i've seen on these forums."
"you still can have pvp in 0.0 and low sec. whatever impacts you mention still apply.proposal is to remove war and pvp out of high sec not to remove it entirely."
"my comments just flew right over your head. wooosshhhhhhhhhhhhh!try to understand at least the basics of the game you are playing before posting about changing that game. or in the event i've mistaken ignorance for just trolling, don't do it in the assembly hall, go post in general discussion, you'll get way more bites."
"says the idiot troll.get out..and stay out.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"i used to type out lengthy responses to these threads. now i just do this:save me from non-consentual pvp!"
"you don't want pvp. cool, world of warcraft is right next door.summary of eves last four expansions:"
"so...why do you play this game?"
"and then there would be no new paying players cos they would never have a chance of getting any where and all of you who are getting some place would all end up rich enough to buy plex with isk and the game would go bust and shut down.no high sec is important in nurturing new players which keeps the game from stagnating. however there is very little non consensual pvp to be had in high sec any how.lol id vote keep high sec and what little pvp exist there as it is all important for learning and simply cos pvp is in a way the back bone of eve."
"are ccp alts posting these horrible ideas to keep us from posting in the \"terrible inventory\" threads? getting us to bump these instead of the ui threads so they can say \" well they arent complaining about it anymore so i guess we are done fixing things\""
"tl;dr: giving remote assisters a full 60s timer for assisting an aggressed pilot will lead to stranded (and often dead) logistics pilots in lowsec and 0.0. having the assisting pilot inherit the gate/station aggression timer of the assisted pilot avoids this issue while still preventing logistics ships from playing gate/station games by themselves.as was originally pointed out, having remote assistance give a full 60s gate/station timer massively breaks logistics (and rrbs) gangs in lowsec and nullsec. since the original thread got locked due to its age, i'm reposting here to raise awareness of this issue among those who might not have caught wind of it originally, and also due to some of the statements made surrounding the crimewatch talk at fanfest 2012, which seem to imply <.tinfoilhat>that remote assistance will receive the full timer instead of inheriting the timer of the assisted pilot<./tinfoilhat>.(made-up, but plausible) example of this:you're in a 30-man ahac/logi gang heading down from ls to roam down the mainpipe in curse. your skirmisher spots a 20-man close range bc gang with scimi support in jorund, with bubbles anchored on the doril gate. your fc says \"yeah, we'll engage, we think we can beat them with numbers here,\" so your gang jumps in and engages the hostile gang after they jump on your skirmisher. after a few minutes of fighting with the enemy gang, local spikes as the bc gang's 40-odd reinforcements arrive from further down the pipe. your fc decides that the time is ripe to disengage, so everyone in your gang deaggresses and starts back to the gate.as it currently stands, the logis can simply burn back and jump out with the rest of the fleet. if the logis got a 60s timer for remote assistance, though, it'd continually propagate back and forth between the logis via rr and cap transfer modules, leaving them unable to tank or jump through the gate for a full 60s after the rest of the fleet is able to deaggress and they stop their remote repairs and capacitor chain. this leaves them with two options: try to scamper out of the bubbles and make it to a safe in jorund, which leaves them split from the rest of the gang they are supposed to be supporting, or do nothing and bite it because of broken game mechanics. however, if remote assistance gives the timer of the assisstee instead of a full 60 second timer, then the logistics in this case would drop timer at the same time as the main fleet and be able to jump back to doril with everybody else, instead of being stranded on the battlefield without any good options to deal with the situation in front of them."
"everything i've read about crimewatch has indicated that they would inherit the timer of the ship they are repping, not get a fresh 60s timer.they also were quite specific that the the infinite aggression loop would be impossible."
"good to hear! i'm glad that i can stuff my tinfoil hat off in a hangar somewhere, then."
"in further thought on making faction warfare count, and capsuleer actions actually matter, i was pondering the following:i was thinking about the reduction of highsec stations idea. maybe, with the mighty fires of inferno and faction warfare, just maybe capsuleers can have an impact. what if faction warfare actually changed the sov and sec status of systems? how about a few weeks of successful matar warfare actually made amamake into a .5 system and pushed the .4/.3 status further toward amarr? what if faction warfare squads could freely attack a standing highsec station and remove services that would eventually come back if the defending side came back to rep it? i like the idea of faction warfare space changing and moving. i also like the idea of highsec wenches needing to rep their 12 stations in system or go somewhere else in order to refine or repair. non-faction enlisted people might be enticed to join faction warfare, if only to rep up a station that they need. while non-enlisted, they would still be afforded full concord protection, but would also be unable to rep station services."
"but some fo the toughest armies historically ahve also come from areas where the only reason they go to war is ebcause they have no other way tog et resources that they need.just look at denmark, russia (most of their exapnsions historically were due to a dire need of reaching a aprticular resource, whether that is stategic, economic, or geographic), and fo course america (who always si looking for mroe oil to sell the mining righst off to a european country so that they can buy their own oil off someone else)"
"do you want to pay a billion isk for a hulk or a vagabond?no?then don't remove the supply of tech."
"like i said, they have more than enough resources, and use the excess to obtain more."
"limited resources wouldn't be a bad idea, at least putting an end to truly limitless resources like missions. however, the op doesn't contain an actual implementable proposal, should have posted in f&i.what? there's wars/conflicts going on all the time in the real world, and there has been since the dawn of civilization. further more fighting over resources as the oper stated is a major driving factor for most of these wars."
"still having tech difficulties with the scanner. going to have to be patient.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"hmm i wonder if it is part of the logistics that a ship of a certain size just needs to be repackaged and re assembled when transporting.and what stops it being the case that to move even more of these ships people just package them up and use this type of ship.but then it does add in multiple new career opportunities to the game, not least full ship manufacture from grit to fit ready for sale. although considering almost everyone ends up using the same fit so its not like you could be doing custom fits for specific game styles to give an edge would that work?i think these things should be considered but when it comes to it it is down to ccp to figure the ins and outs and the balance and i like it enough so you get my support."
"this is utter nonsense. that's like saying, \"well, threaded plumbing could never work because it would obviously just leak all over the place so solder is the only way to go.\"then, someone calls you an idiot and hands you a roll of teflon tape.anything that might break up some of the monotony of the current alpha-centric fleet paradigm warrants at least some consideration."
"valerie tessel wrote:interception (physically block part of the shot)[list] defender missiles! i fixed this for you./thread."
"mallak azaria wrote:valerie tessel wrote:interception (physically block part of the shot)[list] defender missiles! i fixed this for you./thread. (have a look through the thread...)those only work against missiles... this is about more than that. granted, making defender missiles worth using wouldn't be a bad thing. this is about more than that though. defender missiles will not lead to:- defensive play against hybrids, lasers and projectiles- reduction of alpha-centric tactics- positional play, i.e. maneuver as a greater tactical component- increased role for cheap, disposable, low-skill ships / modulesnot to mention that defender missiles only defend you, if i recall correctly."
"really, just stop whining and just learn how. or join a corp. there is no pig farming or boar hunting in this game. if you planned to mindlessly farm, there are other more suited mmos out there for you. i earned my billions with the blood sweat and tears of lost ships, all by myself with no corp. have i been ganked? yes. lost hundreds of millions. but looking back it was the best thing that happened to me and it taught me valuable lessons early on in my career. here is a concept that may be foreign to you if coming to eve from main stream hack and slash mmos, you will lose your ship. everyone. you will learn to balance risk vs rewards. operating expenses vs profit. if you don't, you'll leave the game eventually but not before you have filled the wallets of those who have learned to work the system here, with your shattered remains of ships."
"haha notice how those who oppose such suggestions are always the gutless rats incapable of fighting a fair gun fight and so make themselves feel big by picking on the very people trying t help provide the very ships they fly and ammo they shoot, in this that is supposed to be an economy driven game.less alt accounts might make the gankers appreciate the miners hard work to keep the chain of supply and demand going more.i think it needs some refining of course but i support this. they always bang on about balance when making updates but where is the balance for the industrialists? it needs to change! as said it doesn't matter your views on it the fact is this will only drive away new players and leave ccp with no income. then you will have no game to gank in at all.theft is fine and is part of the game but i feel something like can flipping is more an exploit, as i explain and make case for here"
"the above of course is a 2 month old nooblet who has no idea how this game works.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"i support this. the game isn't balanced. i should cost at least 30% of the price of the ganked ship, to suicide gank someone. because new players are important to low sec and 0.0 corps, even when they start as miners, we can't affort cheap ganking by players buying isk with dollars and push other players out of game. highsec isn't secure, but shoudn't neither be a playground for poeple don't be able to develop other combat strategies than ganking with destroyers."
"is that 30% of the cost of ganking a properly fitted, tanked ship flown by an active pilot, or 30% of a ship tanked only with an asteroid scanner, cargo rigs and mlus?if the former, we're already good. if the latter, then, well we have a problem(the problem is that you're ridiculous)"
"well, let's see. i've been ganked repeatedly, build somewhere around half of my pvp ships with my industrial alt, and even trained it into a hulk, and i've only done a handful of ganks myself, yet i fully support ganking in all it's forms.if you remove pvp from highsec, exactly how can anyone disrupt the logistics of any nullsec alliance in any way? with wardecs and ganks, you can ruin your enemies day, see for example test ganking a freighter with an outpost egg in it. without them, it's asd simple as autopiloting a jump freighter from jita, past the orphanage, noir. and all the other jita ganking guys, past the swarms of tornados en route, all the way to wherever you can jump straight into deep 0.0 from, with literally zero risk.this is a game of risk and rewards, and in highsec, war and ganks are the only risks."
"i can see it now, the popup coming with \"i'm sorry, dave. i can't let you do that, dave. you're not expensive enough, dave.\""
"hi all,you can tank a hulk to 27k ehp (eft warriors will know!) - it has the tech 2 resists and all that. with that much tank it would take ships with modules more than the cost of a hulk to suicide it. in that regard the field is level.eve does encourage greifing and things that outside the context of this game would be considered anti-social. but they are part of this sandbox. however i'm given to understand that ccp and the gms do take a dim view of greifing in the starter systems.the mechanics of who can shoot what with regards to can flipping and the like can be confusing to newer people. maybe this is something that could be made clearer to help newer players not become frustrated. but i think the current mechanics do allow subtle games to be played which can be fun.the easiest way to solo mine tbh is to get another subscription and have an industrial sat next to the mining ship.and after that - the next safest thing to do would be to use a barge instead of an exhumer - as they are dirt cheap. mining out your missions also gives an extra layer of protection.i don't think it is such a case that hulkageddon is winning, rather that eve is winning because it can have a hulkageddon.i'm an industrialist and have posted qq and raged before - but, imho, the mechanics do give you a subtle advantage that most people don't take advantage of.thanks"
"ha! its oh so simple for all the rich btch (irl) players, with no life and their multi accounts to sit and say this is what you need to do to get along. but some of us don't just have money to throw away. and yes we can join a corp and team up, we do, but that only covers maybe 75% of game play at most. but there will always be times where e are left to our own devices.now i agree pvp is an important part of the game and that there is always risks and such.but seriously, when did it become acceptable to pick on the little guy. its utterly pathetic! id like to say you wouldnt do it irl, but i dont know. your probably the type of people who would beat partners and children cos it makes you feel big.but your not, your crap. you have simply played long enough to earn enough isk and train enough skills to fly these ganking ships. and now you hide in high sec getting your little kicks hitting at the hard workers working to provide the materials you all need. if you were actually any good, truely had any skill, you would p*** of and find a real fight, more evenly matched.if the consensus is that ganking is fine, then sure ill go with that, ill watch my back and just try to get on. but dont act like your the high and mighty for doing it. if we're playing it that way then accept your role; you are the scum, the lowest of the low of eve and nothing more."
"says the 2 month old toon.where do you get off lecturing us?================ stop the evemail spam!"
"sorry if i offended you with my post. it was prehaps not helpful to suggest you get a second account for the transport pilot. (the average age of an eve player is 32 and an eve subscription costs the same as two pints of beer in scotland - so i made a bad assumption and i'm sorry).but yes. i too have been concerned that greifing is encouraged and rewarded by eve. it is the same behaviour that would be seen as bullying outside of eve. but eve is a game and it isn't personal. i wouldn't and don't engage in greifing activities, my in game persona is basically the same as my out of game one. but in an fps where people shoot at one another the pvp there is not seen as greifing.there are simpler things to do to avoid problems. there are lots of less populated systems, which don't have many miners, (thus targets for gankers), and where local will be quieter. in these systems you will have a better heads up for incomming trouble.otherwise - most missions contain asteroids you can mine. why not take your stuff to one of these and clean them out after your missions? suicide gankers are much less likly to scan someone down mining in a missions zone than to just warp to a belt.also - if you fit medium sheild extenders rigs a dcu, a couple of invuls and then three, (i think), medium sheild extenders - you hulk becomes quite tough - much tougher than suciciders in destroyers can easily take. (not saying they won't try or be happy to die in sufficent quantities).also - if mining is bothering you at the moment - try exploration. there are some really cool things you can find in low population high-sec.stick with it though. and take care,"
"why would exhumers enjoy any sort of special casing in this regard? if they were to do that, this would have to extend to all t2 hulls, which would be absolutely dumb."
"its not that you offended me, not personally. just that it gets frustrating that this suggestion always crops up lol.now i'm a student, i don't have allot of money nor always allot of time to be on eve training everything up and earning mega isk. i like to play in my spare time to just relax a while and have a chat with others. and no i wouldn't complain about greifing in an fps but that is because an fps is specifically for fighting and killing.however eve is an mmo rpg and a sandbox one at that. that means its aimed at a wide base of players and fully intends to provide a rich variety of game play styles. that includes both the fighting and killing side and the gathering and creating side. what really gets me is that every point of development bangs on and on about \"balancing\" but this is only ever for military players. where is the balance for newer players and miners getting blown up in high sec by ships that belong in low sec systems with adversaries of similar power and skill (i use the word skill very lightly)"
"less qq, more pew pew.adapt and overcome and you will survive.fail to do so, and you're ganker fodder.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"i typed an answer, it did not make it to the thread.weird.i'm not typing it again."
"the problem with ganking is that you can't wrangle up some corpmates and have them help you out.let us fly ships that actively protect a friendly. after-the-fact repair is no good. neither is buffing the hulk which only encourages solo play in an mmo. give us aegis destroyers:"
"100% agree. there was a post by soundwave 2-3 years ago saying he wished they could do this some day.so as it allready has blue support, this should really be pushed up again. maybe the new carbonising of the game has gotten to a point where this is possible now.edit:the pasrt that really boggles the mind is how they made warp speed implants and rigs. when they don't even doing anything more or less as you've pointed out. also a change in how ships warp should come with new speeds for every ship in game. so that it's not 4.5 times faster tarvel, that's a bit much :p maybe 2.5 times faster. since if the system worked the way it should, that would be enough"
"thanks for the support. i hope now that ccp is adding significant consequences they do something to try to make plexing more of a pvp activity, and less of a pve grind. make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"this is very close to what i suggested: replace local with an intel toolthe few changes i'd strongly suggest: i think intel should automatically be shared with fleet members in system... while having alliance members appear automatically, i'm vehemently against blues appearing automaticly: to explain why: large bluefests have very little drawbacks. however, if having lots of blues means having lots of \"i don't instantly know you are friendly\" traffic, the member's within the bluefest region will typically become more complacent to unknown traffic, resulting in easier pickings for the roaming gangs. in short, lots of friends means it's harder to identify your enemies (unless you're actually working together)... which is a very good thing!!!!"
"i don't know if you've been on many fast moving, gank-the-local \"targets of opportunity\" style roams. but 90% of the time, the pve'er gets caught in a belt, anomaly, or while traveling at a gate by the scout of a gang. then the hostiles comes in and nukes them. the majority of the time, once your roaming gang lands, the chances of survival for the target are almost zero. once the hostiles catch a ship or two, the locals typically safe up until you leave, or ship up to chase you out of their area. standing home defense fleets are rarely proactively setup, and are almost always a reactionary force formed up to counter the hostile gang (i.e. requiring several minutes to organize). currently, the most effective way to survive these roaming gangs is to avoid being caught... once caught, the second method to survive is to escape the tackler before the gang can arrive. failing that, you have to tank the gang until you're backup can survive. and very few ships can survive even 4x af dps for more than 60 s."
"its pretty clear that he wouldn't want to link to the numerous numerous old threads because this idea is bad. local allows small gang and solo pvpers the ability to avoid getting blobbed. i mean we can go on and on with how bad delayed local is. but some people are so intent on trying to gank pve ships they refuse to listen. if you don't want local go to a wormhole but leave the other 90% of eve, that prefers to live in a space with local alone. make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"this here is a game of capitalist intentions. those ore \"thieves,\" as you'd like to call them, are simply re-allocating resources away from bad projects to ones that have merit. at the same time, they employ economic means to keep you from interfering with their markets.silly peasant, all is working as intended!"
"yep..never said his idea was bad. (and it is to be honest but its moot)i just said can mining is stupid.....and making changes to the game in that light is foolish.there are so many better ways to mine....why should we mess with the great sport of can theft?i don't like it....but i get laughs and lol's galore hearing about it.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"again if you read what i've been saying i don't want to stop can theft altogether and i accept thievery and criminality as a fair part of the game.my thought was an entire stack would be tagged in some way not each indevidual piece of ore. but of course then in spliting the stack all splits would need the tag. but this i just as a base suggestion to help put across the idea.also i get your concerns about how easily those working together could handle each others items but i see three points to this: players working together even if having to steal each others items would do nothing about the agression flags given. they would just ignore it. players could always fleet and then simply as now they would be alowed to access each others cans and all stacks would instead have a fleet tag or somthing. if ccp can already program for those im working with to share cans and ore with no penalty but for can flippers to be recognised as stealing then there must be some recognition of owner ship. so it wouldnt be a great step to recognise what i own once its been moved and allow me to take it still as mine. i see masses of tags tracking even just entire stacks might be a problem for game performance and i gues currently it is simply defined by the can itself, hence taking my own stuff back is stealing. but perhaps some sort of tag would only be applied at the point of theft. the tag would then be removed again if: the owner takes the items back the jet can they are placed in times out the items are sold on or used up so i think its plausible and just comes down to if for once people want \"balancing\" to involve industrialists. also thank you kusum for your constructive points."
"it seems to me that jet can mining is the exploit and not the other way around. the can in question is formed when you click on the word: \"jettison.\" usually when someone \"jettisons\" anything, they're throwing it out - and trash is free for all. so sure, it might not be great that you can get flipped, but you're also mining into a container that was never intended to be used for ore storage/transfer and arguing to maintain rights to trash. in some sense, miners are the ones exploiting the system, no? it could just as easily be argued that you have given up your rights to rubbish in the bin. this is doubly true if your complaint is based on a single player gamer trying to defend his right to abandon ore in space until he can switch ships to retrieve it. (which i hope isn't the case, or your whole exploit theory is really shot.) let's face it, trash bins weren't ever intended to be used as a cargo transfer interface.for my part, i'd like to see eve implement cargo transporters to make the drop and grab from a trash bin obsolete.(and, no i don't want to see eve turn into sto. if i wanted that, i'd be asking for phasers and shuttlecraft too. oh wait.) seriously though, this is an idea in progress, but i think it would be fair to both sides and to the cannon. it might affect current game mechanics because there are so many people exploiting jetcans, but it would still be more logical than having everyone mining into rubbish bins.on the one hand, you'd have the ability to \"transport\" ore directly into a sister ship but to do so you'd have to drop shields. (i would expect some kind of visual effect that shows this has occured.) \"transporting\" would reduce noob can flipping, which i agree can be annoying. but, it would also present a new risk to the mining vessel by temporarily lowering ehp, and giving mercs a chance to gank. as in all things eve, risk vs. reward.one drawback is that these cargo transporters would have to be an inherent property of all vessels to be fair - not just industrials. (just as all ships can now jettison cargo.) hulks aren't going to give up a high slot. but if this were so, if a cruiser warps to a station and only needs ammo, why dock? just beam it up. ccp can make the beaming process take 10 seconds or so thereby making it impractical for anything more than just one or two transfers. docking would still be more efficient for loading mutiple item types. but you wouldn't have to dock in every single instance. (you don't dock to retrieve ammo from a cha.) it could even make 1-2 item cargo runs to low sec more accessible to carebears. and isn't increasing low-sec traffic a common refrain?to help facilitate the change, i'd suggest a nerf to the current volume of jetcans altogether. at minimum, i'd like to see jetcans directly proportional to the size of the cargobay of the ship creating them. this should have happened a long time ago imo. it makes no sense whatsoever that a frigate with 100m3 of cargo space can create an object that can hold 20x that amount. where did it come from? and if people were opposed or in a really safe system, they still wouldn't have to use transporting. but in other instances it could be valuable. for example, it could allow two people not in the same corp to work together on a one-time mining op without generating an aggression timer. another potential bonus could be that transfer distance from an orca could be increased to the maximum transporting range - say 20km or so. probably not what you were hoping for, but for now, that's what i've got. just wanted to stir the pot since i was in the kitchen.yonis kador"
"i agree it could well be argued and argue i shall haha. please show me the point in any description that says a jet-can is a bin, that any items within must be unwanted?there is an option built in to abandon wrecks and jet-cans where the content is not wanted (is viewed as rubbish). but other wise it is treated as the players property that can be stolen. i feel this completely negates your point on a jet can only being for trash items as were this the case the items within and the jet can would automatically be treated as abandoned and all contents would be truly free for all to take. now if that were the case then the problem i propose to solve would not exist at all as those flipped would be as free to take back their items as the person trying to steal them. so as this is clearly not the case i'd suggest in fact that jet-cans are precisely intended for transfer.as such i feel my point still stands and again i repeat, this is not about preventing theft, only about ensuring players do it properly and in doing so evening the odds (creating \"balance\") between players. if some one wants to steal my stuff properly they need the right tool (a hauler) in order to grab as much as they can before i have the chance to counter them. they would have to smash and grab as the risk would be i am actually able to chase them down and serve my justice.people keep saying its all about risk vs reward, but all the risk here is on the side of the miner and none for the thief. i stress this is about balance and encouraging a greater depth of interaction between players playing these roles. but as it stands it is a totally out gunned process which is as much about mindless destruction as it is taking the items. this can not be denied as were it not the case they would not turn up in battle ships to leave my gods sat in space for half hour. no if it wasn't the case they would just as i suggest be turning up in a hauler and taking the lot and getting lost right away.actually this is what i want, a good constructive point against me. and of course i will argue against you. but so long as i can stand my ground it can only help my point, if not i would accept my idea was not valid. but as yet that is for others to read the points and decide.but so thank you, i appreciate your input."
"holy wall of text batman. that's a lot of words for a small concept.aside for the added database load of tracking \"owners\" of stacks, this is a bad idea simply because of all the possible scenarios you aren't thinking of. you're making a proposal based solely on a single situation: someone can-flips a miner and leaves a jetcan to bait them/hold the stolen goods until a hauler can arrive. if something like this idea went live, we'd have a very long list of why it was a really bad idea within three days."
"really, i don't see as it should make that greater difference in most areas. its just about saying \"we have already recognized this was just stolen from you and now we recognize your free to take it back if they now choose to leave it laying about\"as i've said at most tags would only need to track entire stacks not individual items that make them up. and these could only be applied to stacks at the point of theft, so reducing greatly the amount of tracking needed at any one time. but also this is just a base idea to get across the concept of ownership recognition. perhaps as yonis suggested it is a can should just be recognized off the bat as abandoned. so of course while people would be free to take the items if they moved it to their own can you would be free to take it back and thus no extra database load but also no retribution for taking back what you worked for hours for."
"and lookie here, another thread full of carebear emo-rage. looks like i need to get a couple more catalysts and thrashers sold for the good of the cluster. hey, at least they're just stealing your **** and not violencing your boat a la suicide gank. and to be honest, they're \"mining\" more efficiently than you are, as they're having you do all of the grunt work for them, meanwhile, they can just haul it away.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"go the other way. how do you know it's yours? it's in your possession. it's not? whoops, it must not be yours anymore.can flipping is annoying because eve offers just enough of a fig-leaf implementation of \"property\" to make new players think that it actually knows what \"property\" is in a real-world sense. might as well just jetcan the whole idea and fall back on a simple, intuitive rule. it's yours if you have it. if you want to keep it, protect it, or take your chances."
"this isn't carebear emo-rage lol. i'm not enraged, leave the house to often and enjoy life to much, and want pvp.no this is just an idea, something i feel would still provide pvp opportunities in high sec. but they would have more \"balance\". balance being that thing that is strictly adhered to where fighter v fighter is concerned cos all you pew pew guys qq if you don't think your gun does quite so much dps as the next race and what ever.and besides i've already said if the consensus is that people cant have the guts to fight a fair fight and they are set on massaging their egos and making themselves feel big cos they can one shot the little guys in high sec that's fine, ill accept it and play with that in mind.but i just thought no harm in bringing it to the table and hoped i might actually get a few more constructive intelligent answers whether it be in support or against the idea."
"i love the moa - and it looks like a 1980's handy-cam, - and would support the kestrel getting another slot :)cheers"
"what in the name of..."
"mining is pvp as well. you compete with other players for the rocks, so therefore it's pvp. you really want mining removed from high-sec?trading is also pvp. the entire market is one big battlefield, where people constantly compete for the best prices. your suggestion would remove all kinds of trade from high-sec too.basically, you want to make high-sec nothing but flying around in a ship, not interacting with anything."
"posting in a not so stealthy \"i want pointless eve lite\" thread.not supported."
"hahahahahahahanope.hello kitty online is thataway ==>"
"no. just no.also, never post again.please, for the love of humanity.\"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"no no no. they just don't want can flipping, ganking, and wars in highsec. that way they can play eve in co-op mode, they don't care about the markets or any other pvp type, they're only concerned with combat and not losing their stuff."
"so what you're saying is, they're a bunch of little *****es.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"eve is a game that revolves around pvp. you can even call marketing a more tame version of pvp, since you're competing against other players.you don't want pvp in hisec? ok then. you'll find your markets in lowsec & 0.0."
"a mod that allows you to connect to other paid for accounts and effeciotiely use your other toons as drones. activation: you activate the mod then a link to account box comes up were you have to put in teh username and pass of teh account you want to link to and choose the character. to link to multiple accounts you just click the mod again rinse and repeat. interfacethe interfacfe at least to start with could be pretty simple liek controlling drones, a few simple commands would be enough such as follow me, orbit me, flee (warp to a random planet/moon/station) attack. etc benefits > this would encourage more players to start 2nd or 3rd accounts > would be an enjoyable feature that would go a good way towards stopping constant screen switching > wouldnt make anyone op because the alts would just be like drones thus die far easier than an actual player piloted ship that can think on his feet. negatives that i can seemay be difficult to implement properly and would likely result in alt accounts being more useful though dying a lot more"
"it's been mentioned before and fairly severely shot down. while it sounds handy and cool, it would be an absolute nightmare to even think about programming such a system. besides that, the only people who would really want such a thing is people whose computers can't handle multiple eve clients, since an ai controlling your other account and following you around would only really give you about 1% of the functionality. it'd be mostly useful for an orca/freighter/boosting alt, almost everything else would really need so much more control."
"...what is the advantage to this over just having two clients open, or using something like isboxer?"
"ummm, embrace the mmo. team up with real people. don't be alone :( hahaor yea multi client... if your comp cant handle that, don't waste money on multi accounts."
"selfdestructing the egg after a ship loss when a huge fleet figh is ongoing is common because of the bubbles at the gates. but when tidi is active it takes more than 15 min. and often nobody shoots you, because the action is more than 100km away. this is annoying. so i propose to take the selfdestruct timer out of tidi, like the pos anchor timer."
"supported, but only for pods. it shouldn't help out people who self destruct just to avoid being on a killmail."
"i support the extension of my proposal. the purpose is just to get a new ship elsewhere. the fear of reshipping is unrealistic, because it's for single pilots unlikely to get into a tidi system. and when they are able to reship and are back in fight: congratulations.it's more fun for all, when we are able to get out of a tidi system with an egg."
"supported...minus the \"tidi\" shirt. (ok ok bad pun )*but only for pod's*================ stop the evemail spam!"
"sorry, not supported.take this scenario. your in a big fleet fight, and you've just exploded at maximum tidi inside a bubble (so you cant warp). everything is really really really slow. you realize you were really really stupid and have some really really expensive implants on you. you weigh up the pros and cons and decide you don't want to feed your enemies killboard. you hit self destruct, and because your in max tidi, you die well before anyone can lock and shoot you. i know this is a potentially small problem, but i think going afk for 15 minutes whilst you wait for your pod to explode is a small problem. so the thing is, i dont want to take up developer time swapping one small problem for another.\"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"kb is the biggest blight to greet eve. arbitrary mechanics created purely for the purpose of kb-whoring at the expense of gameplay, warrants no merit. +1"
"as a very common pilot i don't have implants and most of my mates don't have them as well. some pilots have, like triage carrier pilots, but they have different problems. and egg from titan pilots will be excuted immediatly. so i don't see any problem with the exception of beeing idle for a long time. pls support"
"being held hostage for 15 minutes if your in your pod and your about to die....not justifable enough to be honest.your gonna die...let the man sd and get back into the game.in big fights people are likely going after the next ship and not the \"next pod\" unless they are slinging space bombs or smart bombs.if anything one less player on grid would speed up the server.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"this this this and this"
"i started this on the eve general discussion forum here seeing what kind of response i would get. i got alot of interesting ideas tweaking on this and now i want to get more attention for this and see what folks would say within here. quite a few folks feel it is a good idea so here goes1> war targets under fire are not able to dock into the station.2> disengaging from battle this is known to happen but should take longer then the 1 minute. lets go for 53> kicked out from station 30km would be a cluster **** so its not hard to do a random range when undocking so lets go 15-30km keep the undock speed of the ship the same and this should limit the cluster of ships or roulette if ccp re-skins the stations with multiple exits/entrance.i know it was mentioned earlier in the discussion about the freighters jump freighters and the like should remain able to dock as it is with the normal set up ccp has right now.......unless your a war target then you deserve to get blown up.another idea that i saw in my thread that someone mentionedits an idea thinking that hearing so many people like it and that would help bring about a more unique war style along with what is already out there of forcing people to commit to a fight or hide. this will not only affect empire space but would also affect low sec and null sec space. commitment. that's what its all about!also empire folks would love to see crime watch come out today but i doubt it will happen"
"i'd love to see crime watch released to sisi today.that's not something i want to see rushed on to tq."
"so im thinking that bombers are a pretty well used tactic, and used correctly can obliterate large fleets fairly quickly, even when you are fit correctly! due to the massive dps these put out.seems a little unbalance dont you think? that say 10 bombers can take out 30 ships quite quickly.so i thinking perhaps we can offer some kind of protection and introduce 'shield bubbles' that can inly be used with hictors and dictors.these will effectively act a shield bubble around ships, the bubbles shouldnt be totally indestructable and have the same hp ,same time length and distance as normal bubbles do now. so you can still knock them out so to speak. this just gives that unexpecting fleet a bit of a chance of survival and would add another level of gameplay and warfare tactics.graphically would also look quite cool with ammo and missiles bouncing off them :)edit...all i propose is to level the playing field a little. however i do completely understand that in small gang roams and even solo this could cause an imbalance, effectively having a shield around your gang good make a hugh advantage. from this point yes i agree...so i propose to change the idea a little.shield bubbles should have a max flight time of 10 seconds can only be used every 120swith this it could offer an interesting new tactic for small gangs and give that solo guy a bit of a chance when ganked.rgds"
"not supported.bombers maybe powerful but bombing is more of an art than a science. i've seen far, far more failed (ohmygodwegotslaughteredfornothing) runs and sad bomber killmails than successful bomb runs on fleets. plus the idea of dictor deployable shield bubbles would i'm sure cause no end of balance problems."
"this would be true like last year, but bombing runs have become alot more effective has people know how to do it better and more effectively now. tbh even if you failed, you still have a very good chance of hitting a large fleet and cuasing considerable damage.dont agree with the balance issue, i think its pretty unbalanced with bombers. a group of very cheap ships can take out a large group of expensive ships very easily. ok some bombers may fail and get caught but what do they lose? a few million isk ship?compared to the isk ratio its a big unbalance.you can have a fleet of 200 ships and have 3 bomber fleets going (10 bombers per fleet) which could when staggered destroy this fleet in minutes, literally. something wrong there... theres the imbalance you speak off.all i propose is to level the playing field a little. however i do completely understand that in small gang roams and even solo this could cause an imbalance, effectively having a shield around your gang good make a hugh advantage. from this point yes i agree...so i propose to change the idea alittle.shield bubbles should have a max deployment time of 10 seconds can only be used every 120swith this it could offer an interesting new tactic for small gangs and give that solo guy a bit of a change when ganked."
"just as bombers take practice and mastery to be effective, it should take at least a bit of effort to defend against them. not just hitting f1 and becoming invulnerable.there are so many counters to bombers today that a succesful bombing run is much more often due to the fleet being bombed making a mistake than due to the bomber fleet doing everything right."
"well, for one thing, three waves of ten bombers wouldn't actually work, the bombs would kill eachother.bombers only work if you know what you're doing. i have also seen far more failed runs than successful ones, but even a bad bomber fc will keep a fleet on it's toes. bombers are fine as they are."
"noit sure i can agree in whole. bombers also have the element of surprise by being cloaked.. you cant counter for that."
"i did say 'staggered' so they wouldnt be bombing at the same time probably 30 seconds after each run. i never said anytnign was wrong with bombers, i am just suggesting a counter balance. becuase they are overpowered in a group of 10-20 bombers.."
"here's an idea...post with your main.otherwise... walk away.because its obvious your crying over getting owned by a bomber.stealth bombers are not overpowered...because you don't know how to deal with them.stop changing the game to suit your needs.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"three staggered waves of ten won't work either, they'll still kill eachother.and swarms of bombers like that are not overpowered. you still need a decnet bomber fc for them, or you're not going to do anything. i've seen everything from bombs going to wrong way to mixed bomb types incinerating eachother to warping straight into a bubble far more often than i've seen a decent bomb run decimate a fleet. properly led, they're a thorn in the side of a bs or bc fleet. led by idiots, they die like flies."
"oh look, a thread screaming abloo bloo bloo i got killed by bombers! nerf them!would you like some cheese to go with your whine? or are you so injured emotionally that you need a waaaahmbulance?bombers are not overpowered, and your ****tarded idea would break game mechanics.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"hahah what an absolute idiot you are drake. this is why you are the biggest waste of space and troll on these forums with nothing better to do but insult people.. gtfo, get a life, get laid...for your information i live in low sec lmao... oh but sorry i cant have an opinion on the game in other areas according to you... what a tw@t you are..."
"i'd rather see something like remote shield extenders than a bubble. they'd have a cycle time where say 25% of the time they are \"recovering\". their affect simply acts as a straight increase to the shield strength of the target."
"people have been asking for mechanics to counter \"the blob\" for years. now you want to take away one of the few things that effectively counters a large fleet?oh yeah... a super-sensor-booster artillery-fit muninn/tornado/tempest or three will make very short work of bombers.being spread out helps too.i once heard of an interceptor intercepting a wave of bombs using a rack of small smartbombs (though, that one does sound a bit far fetched).one last thing: this idea you are proposing will have far reaching consequences for 0.0 pvp in general. it will not be used strictly against bombers and fleets will try to bring as many of these bubbles as they can to safeguard logistics and other \"critical\" ships... making fleet battles more of a grind than they already are."
"do you in real life carry all your money with your constantly? if you do i would like to find you in a dark alley"
"first off i want to say that i was against the station lock outs and the new plexing system because i thought it would stagnate the battlefront and turn fw into a bigger farm-fest than it was with just missions in some regard it has, as i've run across many plex farmers that run at first sign of combat, even still the plex farmers are now at the very least helping the war effortat this point i think ccp should hold off on any major changes for at least 6 months and see where things stand as it progresses a bit further because we are seeing a big increase in fighting & activity perhaps a wait and see approach may be best option for the short termi do however want to share a few ideas/proposals on what i think could fine tune the current systemsystem upgrades, plex tax & defensive plexing rewardsright now system upgrades are far too hard to keep and ccp needs to remember that fw has militias that are made up of many random individuals, corps & now alliances, however there is no ability or system that allows anyone to have authority over them aside from making space hitlers with power to control each militia (which i'm against) ccp should just work this into the system upgrades game mechanics and understand it's just impossible for us to get everyone to work together, much less spend their lp's willingly on system upgradesi would like to suggest adding a plexing tax, that automatically takes a small percentage of the lp's rewarded for offensive plexing and puts that lp into a random system's control bunker for upgrading it optional set up could take the lp's and automatically put them into the system with the lowest upgrade leveldefending plexes should also have some sort of reward but perhaps not a direct lp to pilot reward right now everyone is just hitting offensive plexes, because they are the only ones that pay and it's leaves the defense grinding of plexes to those few hardcore's that take the hit for the teamthese guys defending should get some reward or they will burn out at the very least know that what they are doing is helping their militia, more than just de-contesting a system so some farmer can go contest it again my suggestion is to reward a small amount of lp to defense perhaps 50% of that given to offensive but then place the other 50% toward upgrading that system's control bunkerthere should be a built in cap, that limits the amount the plexing tax can upgrade each system to stop each militia from having level 4's & v and extremely cheap ships in the lp store i would suggest capping the upgrades at level 2 or 3 from taxes and in order to move to level 4 or 5 should require investment by the players using their lp'sbugs & abuse of bad game mechanicsthere are various plexing bugs that can be deliberately recreated in order to cause plexes to not spawn these bugs have to be fixed end of story i know they have been reported to ccp but you must act on them because it creates a unfair playing field for those of us that don't stoop down to that level i'm not a expert on plexing, but i know there is 1 bug that is triggered by combat on the plex button and i believe there is also a way to stop the spawning by staying slightly off grid and or cloaking the combat bug must be fixed & the others ruled an exploit once a plex has been completed, the fight for that plex should be considered over and it should always despawn allowing a new one to spawn any sort of triggering to stop this basic \"intended\" game mechanic, should be petition-able and ruled a exploit resulting in a ban for those caught abusing the bugsi have other thoughts & ideas, but this is already getting to long so i will leave it at these for now"
"defensive plexing absolutely needs some sort of reward, and there needs to be negative consequences besides loss of the bonuses for losing upgrade tiers"
"the problem is that no reward for defensive plexing was ccp's way to ensure that the winning side cannot totally win maybe something like you only get 50% of the ops for defending your factions original space but no lp for defending conquered space either way they will have to add something else to make sure fw remains a fairly even fight as long as both sides are trying"
"there is a reward for defending plexes it is that you keep the lp that is used to upgrade the system, and if you don't think that is reward enough, just go grind l4s you isk grubbing whiner"
"the lack of lp for defensive plexing is basically the only thing that might actually balance this system and allow a war that starts as lopsided as the minmatar amarr war to actually turn around (short of some large alliance joining) with the 16x multiplier the winning sides lp is going to be worth much more than losing sides if defensive plexing were paid even 25% what offensive plexing paid then the defensive plexing would probably in effect pay more than offensivemake faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"summarywe already have the following functionality:i<U+FFFD>ve found it helpful to use the directional scanner (d-scan) within the solar system view, for the following reasons: the feature removes all the visual clutter; the orbits of moons, planets make orientation within the system far easier, as well as showing you your own bookmarks, and other mission bookmarks etc. proposalthe proposal includes one small change to the zoom function, and a gui improvement to the visual representation of d-scan within the solar system view. to increase the degree of freedom of the zoom function all the way to zero ( facilities scans below a 2au) and to represent the directional scanner<U+FFFD>s cone of vision within the solar system view. this would be an improvement over the f11 sidebar without making it redundant. thanks you for your considerationi<U+FFFD>ve searched this forum (keyword search), and i<U+FFFD>ve looked at the csm archive and this hasn<U+FFFD>t been raised before, as far as i know. i believe the explanation for this is that the feature is not well know. in fact it hasn<U+FFFD>t been mentioned any of the player guides i<U+FFFD>ve looked at on the subject, and i<U+FFFD>ve looked at a few.related issues (from category:csm submission)directscan improvement (csm) add scan angle buttons to scanner window (csm)edit: i'm not suggesting replacing anything, simply iterating on the system view's functionality"
"yet an another sensible ui improvement.no change to d-scan other than an obvious tweek.why not.supported.================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"waste of time and resources better spent on improving eve."
"single shard.it's one of ccp's major advertising points. wtf possesses you people to think they would ever abandon that idea?"
"to the op, (edit: actually it reads a bit patronising sorry - i guess you are probably more experienced than this - but this might help newer people - doing pi and exploration in lo-sec has recently become a favourite of mine and this is my experience - like i say - i'm rubbish at pvp but don't die like all the time in lo. - the risk reward might just be ok).hi there. i totally understand where you are comming from. but if i might sugegst that there is more protection than what you think in the existing game mechanics for people wanting to travel into lo-sec and then beyond.1) with the reduction of session timers it is now quite possible to ab or uwarp back out through your gate should you find yourself looking at a gate camp.2) take time to look around if you are in a camp while your cloak holds. what ships do they have? is there a good allign to a celestial. or are you best to head back to the gate.3) if they've fired at you they can't jump through after you. use that to get away.4) the \"roads\" have regional jump gates that are massive!!! and as such you are likly going to be quite some distance from any campers! use you cloack time to work out an exit strategy.5) once you are jumping to a varying distance from belts, celestials, poco's , etc you are very hard to \"get\".6) jump to celestials near a gate you want to use if local chat is full of enemies and then dscan the gate to see if it is safe. remember - a fast frigate is very difficulty for a gate camp to take out - by virtue of it's small sig radius and the small time it takes to allign.try moving through lo-sec in a small cheap ship - use a jump clone to protect your expensive implants. and you'll find that this cat and mouse game can be quite good fun. also - try a fight!!! remember that a gate camper - small group will have fittings specific to their roles - you might well be able to get a kill especially if the weaker tackle ships can be picked off!watch eve-is-easy videos or any of the other tutorials.don't fly a ship that will hurt your budget if you lose it - and spend some time in your local lo-sec - learn who's what.i'm no great pvp expert - just look at my kill boards and you'll see i'm rubbish. but take heart - i fly through lo a lot and don't get blown up that often - and i am rubbish at pvp!take care"
"or just remove those csm members who had responsibility for this."
"with the issues my scanner is having, i'm going to just finish the other envoys before i try to scan them.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"i get what you're aiming at here, but this idea has been brought up many times in the past & shot down each & every time.lets say you have 2 blob fleets facing each other, both completely protected by these aegis destroyers. both fleets need smaller ships to kill the 'ship creating big shield preventing all incomming damage'. smaller ships race toward said aegis destroyer, out of the protection of their own. the small ships on both side get alpha'd. the result? 2 blob fleets are still facing each other & the only damage happening was on some cheap frigates.i'm not denying that it's a cool idea in theory, but cool theories often don't work out in this game."
"the difference here is that these destroyers should never be able to provide complete protection. sniping destroyers could fire from protection to tear a hole in coverage. have a read through the countering tactics post on page 2 (linked from initial post).there's no \"big shield\" with these things as protection requires targeting a friendly and dedicating a module to it, and they can't shield against small stuff. presumably the big alpha is coming from cruisers and battleships, which would also have trouble hitting frigates. clouds of drones might prevent frigates from penetrating, but the drones are vulnerable too.if it's a good idea, the balancing can be worked out, and not necessarily by us here in this thread. this thread asks that the proposal be put to the csm and brought up for discussion with ccp. if you like the notion, support it. do critique it, do help refine it, but please support it."
"i can tell you the thoughts/ suggestions i have:firstly though, a caveat.you have to read this with a thought to how this would work in the 'real world' in-game story line of eve. to our characters, the world of eve is not a computer game with mechanics, it is their real lives where they mine, sleep, eat, make love, fight, flee, work and steal. concord and the empire navies are there to make sure that those that break the law would be punished, which would likely mean something more severe than losing your ship. you can't read this thinking 'oh, i don't like this simply because it would make things harder for my pirate character.\" too bad. in eve, just as in the real world, a life of crime would have consequences. these would be conceived by the governments, police, navies, and other law enforcement agencies of the in game, in character, story line world of eve in terms other than game mechanics such as gcc gate, negative sec status, etc. firstly,1. yes, transferrable kill rights are a very good idea. that's the way bounties work in real life.the fact that there is a bounty on someone's head means they are too dangerous for the average person to handle, so the authorities need to place a cash reward for a kill or capture. the way i would do it is this. let's say blackbeard the two year old pirate ganks marty the miner, a newer player. marty now has kill rights, but not the skillpoints to take care of that pirate himself, so the 'kill rights' are useless to him. now, instead of paying a bounty on the pirate (which the pirate will collect) marty now has the option to file a complaint with the npc ded corporation, (i.e. the poiice) for a small fee. (like a war dec is bribing concord). when ded collects enough of these killrights along with the filing fees, they start reassigning them through their agents to a registered bounty hunter player pilot. -ded is the already existing in game npc corporation that is -supposed- to be focusing their energy and efforts on the 'worst of the worst' pirates. in game of course they really do nothing except hand out missions. -for aspiring ded 'bounty hunter agents' could be included in every station that has that bounty hunter button, with each tranferrable kill right being assigned through a ded agent. it won't be a random, assignment, there would probably be a way to match skill point levels of target and bounty, or levels of danger/ risk displayed. -to become a bounty hunter, you would have to grind your standings with ded to a high enough point that you would be 'registered', or get a license. this would involve hunting down some npc pirates in deadspace missions 1 through 5, before the ded agent would start assigning you kill rights. those people who are truly dedicated to being bounty hunters would be willing to do this, but a pirate would be unlikely to do with with an alt just to collect their own bounty. -the bounty amount would be an amount fixed by ded, most likely something tied to skillpoints. you would also get lp points (and stores) for both bounty hunter missions and player kills. -the target bounty would have no way of knowing how much the bounty on them was, neither would anyone else. only the 'wanted' sign would appear on their profile. it might be possible that a registered/ licensed bounty hunter could still see the bounty amount, to allow for opportunistic kills. i would also suggest that if a pirate with a bounty gets podded, they lose their rights to use the 'legal' cloning vats. yes i know pirates won't like this 'restriction', but it makes 'in game' sense. if you are a criminal wanted dead or alive by the police, you are shot dead in space, and if they know where all your clones are, don't you think those inanimate, stationary clones would either be arrested or destroyed before the pirate got podded? if we discovered the exact location where clones of a condemned criminal were being grown, don't you think the police would realistically seek out and destroy those clones? there are of course, already illegal clone vats in the game. pirates with a bounty on them would be restricted to using this handful of illegal, untraced cloning facilities, or possibly one in a cap ship. these illegal cloning facilities could all be placed in low sec, or null sec, or somewhere else slightly inconvenient. i would even suggest their clones could reanimate 'already arrested' in a 'prison system', or penal colony. the world of eve is a 'real place', remember? ded and concord aren't computer controlled 'rats', they are actual thinking human people who would formulate a rational, logical plan to kill or capture those with a bounty. i'm imagining something like an npc station that has factories and a refining centre with bpcs for mining ships and modules so the pirates would have to mine, refine and build their own ships. kind of like building your own 'shiv' in prison. pirates could raise their sec status by killing each other. it would also be possible to do stuff like make drugs, meet other pirates and so on. this limited access, 'dead-end' system would have it's jump-gate entrance guarded by powerful but destructible rats (like navy) for things like jailbreaks and so on. pirates could use their alts to haul things in and out of the system. it should be a challenge but not impossible to escape from the prison system. what i am also thinking though is that the pirates would have their own version of the bounty system, the 'marked' system. while you can place a bounty on a low standings player through ded, you can place a 'hit contract' on another player though an npc pirate corp. grind standings with a pirate corp to become registered as a hitman or assassin. then, you will be able to access assassination contracts against other players. same deal as with the bounty hunters, just on the other side of the law."
"well, its a well thought out idea, i give you that. but, like i have said before in other threads, i hate getting npcs involved in new features. why make an npc do something a player can do? there are some issues aswell.the restriction of the cloning vats for pirates is daft though. eve isn't like the real world where the police get a degree of respect from official establishments. in eve, the corporations rule. if a corporation wants to let a pirate have a clone bay somewhere, they arn't going to stop doing it just because the ded say so. the corporations regularly go behind each others back, their sovereigns back, concords back, ded's backs... so from your lore perspective that doesn't make sense. also, in the game lore ded dont concern themselves with pod pilot affairs unless they absolutely have to, and if they do, they are encroaching on concord's territory.from a computer game perspective (probably more important than a lore perspective in most instances i would say) its unrealistically restrictive, especially with the whol prison system (which is even more restrictive and isn't fun for anyone). there is also the issue that you want to make people who want to be bounty hunters, run missions, to be able to do it... so the people who dont want to pvp (carebears) are going to be the only people with access to the system. and the people who will want to do it (pvpers) will be forces to run missions, which they probably don't want to do. \"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"you were much nicer about that than i was going to be."
"+1 for the opfight them until turmoil is no more and strike terror into their hearts. www.ross-fw.net"
"lol this.. no idea why it was removed to begin with"
"its called pay attention to your environment and don't afk mine.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"make everywhere null sec... but because that will not be happening; find your self a corp that operates out in null sec and either join up, or join their alliance. operate in _their_ space and you will find the protection you've been asking for.you can't trust an ai (concord) to protect you. ever. its almost laughable as your finding out.null sec is a lot more peaceful then you think, and at the brutally calculating but brilliant same time; it can be hell. that indifference is simply the most exhilarating feeling of _why didn't i come out to null sec sooner_. more simply put: lose your ship to a ganker due to bad ai mechanics? or lose your ship to a player armada but another player armada had your back at the time?"
"what is so damned hard about paying attention to local...not mining whilst asleep...and using a little common sense when living in high sec?are you people brain damaged or something?================ stop the evemail spam!"
"what is the 25% that you can't do?"
"no, because you have forgotten most suicide attacks on hulks are not 1 ship vs 1 ship. it is multiple cheap destroyers vs hulk, and the attackers always win unless they are stupid. quite simply, we have goons encouraging bad game mechanics to be used to force new and social orientated players out of the game. not good enough. either the mining ships need to be toughened up so you need to actually have some brains to kill them, maybe 60% resist hull of 30,000 points on a hulk etc, or even better if ccp can sort their crap out, the bounty system and security system being fixed. there is no real risk to gankers, that is the critical issue. people keep talking about risk vs reward ... but the gankers have no real risk, they only attack if they are certain of victory, and no-one can do anything about them. the only thing that hulkageddon has done so far is to encourage people to quit, and to see new things invented. like suicide alts who summon concord to the mining belt before the hulks come out, so that the concord response is instant. broken systems leading to near-exploits to counter the broken systems is simply rubbish - there need to be design fixes, fast.and yes, if you don't provide good ideas, then i think ccp should go with the suggestion above: \"i'm sorry dave, i can't let you do that\"."
"i have to say i agree fully with grace ishukone. i usually run 3 accounts while mining, but for the last two months i've been only keeping my main online, and now that i want back into the game, i'm waiting til hulkageddon is over. i've also noticed that since the last time i've played (i've been checking in alot lately, rather impatiently waiting for the end of this crap) that the avg number of players online appears to have dropped by about 25%. used to be about 25 to 27 thousand online at any given time (except right after resets) now i rarely see more then 20k on. i have no doubt this is because of many of these issues. and just as grace ishukone said, what risk do gankers have? they complain about us hs players making bank running incursion missions in which we could easily lose a 350 million dollar raven if support and repair doesnt back up our tank, a fight requiring teamwork just to stay alive, and then they turn around and use cheap ships to take out mostly helpless unarmed mining ships and reap the profit of work they didnt do. or target supply ships going in and out of jita carrying 100 times what there lil tin can is worth, with us shippers having really no way whatsoever to counter such tactics other then simply not flying at all. how's that a balanced risk vs reward ratio exactly?someone suicides a worthless ship over there, so a couple can suicide there worthless ships over here, pop a defenseless miner/transport and steal his valuable cargo . . . . this could be considered teamwork, but a ship meant to be lost, when it's lost, is not a loss! that's like counting a missile as a loss when it explodes! it's doing what it's supposed to, just like the suicide ships are doing what there supposed to. so ultimately, 0 risk + moderate to massive reward = ganking. then they use these rewards to buy themselves ships to use in null and wh space that nobody else can stand up to, why? because we're busy replacing the hulks and orcas we lost trying to make enough money to buy our own t2 and t3 ships and equip them, which will never happen cus we keep getting ganked by suicide ships, or worse, the t3 super ships that are strong enough to pop you in 1 shot and then warp off just as concord shows up. your an idiot if you think that's not possible. i've seen it done to my mining ops, and i think it's friggin bullshit."
"my post got messed up - i can't be bothered typing it all out again."
"what???i wish people would read and think before they pose weird questions and make points.im referring to time not physical activity. what only covers 75% of time playing is teaming up with people in a corp. you see its all there in that one sentance. \"but there will always be times where we are left to our own devices\" ergo refering to the remainder of the time spent playing, the 25% you question, as being solo play.ok, just to be clear: 75% team play -------------------------- = 100% of time spent playing. 25% solo play"
"maybe you should pay better attention to just who posted said question.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"the way you phrased your op made it sound like there where aspects of gameplay that could only be done with an alt. if you are finding that your corp has no-one online for large chunks of your play-time then that's a seperate issue."
"i'm starting to see people talking about this issue everywhere now. its started leaking into other parts of the forum, in game local chat, and the eve facebook page. this is obviously an issue people feel strongly about and i fear most are dismissing it for too readily. yes, the ideas people are creating to reduce the amount of suicide ganking are frankly terrible, but you should be trying to think up more subtle changes that are more in tune with eve, rather than just trolling. so far you guys have just been arguing in here about grammar, and petty comments made against each other. not very productive i have to say.although i fear i'm repeating myself here, i think there is a relatively easy way to fix this as a problem. not by removing suicide ganking, because i'm pro choice, but by creating greater consequences for suicide gankers.during fanfest ccp mentioned that they are going to be changing the the way crimewatch and the security status system works. but more specifically they said they want players to only be able to go down to -5 for normal criminal acts, and only go below for suicide ganking or killing pods. there may also have been mention of not having police intervention for people entering highsec until below -5 as well. i propose the following 2 extra changes on top of the ones above that ccp have been talking about;- suicide ganking results in greater sec status loss.- gcc and outlaw flagged characters pods are destroyable without concord intervention.so now, suicide gankers can still gank if they wish. and they will still be able to gank in highsec near lowsec bounties (they have always been more dangerous, and frankly they should be.), but it restricts their movements deap into highsec. because they can lose their ship, and then lose their pod and end up back in lowsec. sure, they can use implantless clones, but it adds another level of subtle protection. and its not strictly molly-coddling miners, its just making the game harsher. eve isn't about protecting players, its about stealing other players cookies. i believe a change like this would be more of the latter than the former.\"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"just for future, when you hit post and it goes blank go to the reply bit again it should pop up a little message saying it has this draft saved of your message :)and as to the previouse two posts - thank you - finally some sense being spoken. not just pew pew guys coming in here ranting on trying to push us down to maintain there utterly gutless tactics.what you guys have said is precisely the point i have been trying to get across to. its supposed to be a sandbox game with many different roles and miners should be free to play a mining role without having to be military experts as well. as i have continually said ccp's main policy is balance and yet there is no balance for industrialists. we are being pushed out of the game by players who have no real interest in playing an rpg and sandbox game for what it is and as it should be played.i... honestly i couldn't say any more. again this is precisely what i've been trying to get across and i can only agree with everything that you both have said."
"i like your ideas and perhaps it should be more subtle.but the fact is high sec is supposed to be low risk... and before anyone starts crying i'm not asking for no risk but it should be low. yes it should because other wise ccp would not have made a gradient of sec statuses at all. the gradient from high to low to nul is supposed to indicate the varying levels of risk. but as it stands the risk in high sec is far too high.the only suggestion i have made on this matter before was with regards to can flipping. that being that if a theft from you can be recognized, in order to flag another player, then it should not be a great leap to recognize those items as yours and allow you to take them with no consequence no matter where they reside so long as that place is accessible to you.the entire point of this idea was simply to suggest something that would create more balance in game play. those who want to steal would have to use the proper tools for the job, such as a hauler to grab a large amount, less i simply take my haul away before they get a hauler there. yet as it currently stands they can leave our goods in their own cans for half hour while we are powerless to ever attempt to get them back. furthermore to this point is that if they had to use proper tools in order to get away with stealing large worth while amounts they would now be in a hauler not an over the top fighting vessel. so solo or group miners would be afforded the opportunity to chase them down and destroy them while they are in a relatively defenseless ship, and with no consequence for doing so due to the aggression flag they picked up when stealing that players items. now that would be true risk vs reward and far more balanced game play.now i'm not saying this is a great idea and perhaps it is not truely workable, but at least it is in the right direction."
"a word about the new sec status system. all of you high sec miners will be happy:when i understood right, when you shooting a flashy (-10) you will get some plus points like +5 or +10. so when you have a flashy low sp alt you shoot him twice and you will be cleaned for crimes. this is going to be fun"
"+1 to the op.fight them until turmoil is no more and strike terror into their hearts. www.ross-fw.net"
"its not over m8. the official event is but goons have made a year around reward for people who kill hulks, transports, freighters, salvagers etc.fight them until turmoil is no more and strike terror into their hearts. www.ross-fw.net"
"your definition of high security space is incredabily delusional. i suspect someone will be along to prove that fact at this rate.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"no i'm fully aware of what high sec space is like at the moment. but my definition is based on what ccp and the tools they implement suggest it should be.ok drake i'm going to spell it out for you nice and clear because you really need to stop acting as though people with the same sort of views as me are wrong.neither you or i are wrong at this point.what it comes down to is weather over all players decide they want a purely pro friendly game with very few new players entering. (which personally i only see leading to stagnation and collapse)orwhether over all players decide they want a full sandbox rpg that encompasses all levels of difficulty and security. as such providing a much more low risk high security areas that enable new players to grow more easily and so keeps the game fresh."
"you have only played this game for less than 3 months....and you think you have any relevant idea as to what its supposed to be?your the new kid...your the noob....you have only just begun your journey into the dark world of eve and you think your an expert now?get this straight noob....high security space is supposed to be safer.... not safe.it is not a place where you can prance around and mine without fear or concern.when you have played for over a year...then you can make your arguments...not until then.and i'm not talking in general... i'm talking about when you discover war decs....literal pvp....living in low sec and nullsec.etc...etc..etc..when you learn its not about fairness and a matter of tactics...practice...experince...then you will be a far better posisiton to discuss balance.eve is not fair.eve is eve online...period.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"game age doesn't make anyone less or more privy to what eve is or isn't. trying to say someone has no right to make suggestions is like saying a person straight out of whatever school they were learning at has no right to work as whatever they were learning to be until they worked as what they were for a year.there is all kinds of content in eve, and just because pvp is part of the game doesn't mean pvp is the game."
"i disagree....eve online takes at least 6 months at best to at least get a good understanding of many basic concepts...people assume after playing a mount or two they know everything and how it works...this isn't the case. arguably longer.i'm not saying i won't hear good ideas....but i have yet to see one bloody good thing from this noob ever since he started prattleing off about can flippers and \"fair fight\".am i being prejudiced? yes until such time he actually has a rational sane point that doesn't break game mechanics.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"+1 here. ofc you know you are talking to a rock when you are trying to explain this to themfight them until turmoil is no more and strike terror into their hearts. www.ross-fw.net"
"what other mechanics are there to learn? taken that the 3 month character or 6 month character, however old he was had a hulk, and had the notion of being able to fly the ship out to the belt and mine, and also most likely ability use drones to shoot at the tiny belt rats. which would indicate his ability to target things hostile.yet players with even greater game experience think up even dumber ideas, at least in your eyes.people know pvp exists in this game. it isn't the end all be all of this game. there's an overwhelming amount of pve content in eve which amazingly enough people get their kicks out of.1. anomolies2. ded sites3. wormhole sites4. mining5. manufacturing6. hacking sites7. incursions8. missions9. cosmos missions10. salvaging11. sites with escalations12. incursions13. epic arcsplaying the market, i think is suggested as a pvp activity, so not sure if that would be included as a pve aspect.heck, even \"pvp\" content is pve.1. shooting pos2. shooting ihubs or sbus3. shooting stations4. shooting pocosheck, its not really pvp unless you got an actual person shooting back...pve activities that can become group activities should be catered to in some way as much as pvp is catered to.ok, maybe i digressed a bit, but just because someone has less gametime than you, and that they choose not to spend their time in the hell hole known as 0.0 space, doesn't make them any less qualified than you to make suggestions to the game. a game which people people say is 90% pvp and argue that any suggestions that cater to pve gameplay will break the game."
"get used to this **** because apparently hulkageddon is here to stay. like mittens announced it being indefinite.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"you cant expect these people to have any skill to do these sorts of things you have listed. they require true skill knowledge and tactics because the things there actually pose a threat to them. that's why they so aggressively oppose such changes as suggested, they are only capable of feeling big by killing the defenseless and industrialists."
"you really don't pay attention do you?the guy is defending you and detailing some of the higher end skills and yet you go off on him.we agressively oppose changes that break game mechanics that are far above and beyond over your head as a noob.maybe you should take the time to go talk to some pvp'ers in low sec and ask them about things like agression mehcanics...and how they deal wiht targets in high sec.thats just one of many things you have to learn in this game to survive.and you being \"defenseless\"? speak for yourself.... you can fight back...so get off your ass and do it.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"i know he is on my side and i appreciate what he is saying. my point is trying to get that across to guys like you is like talking to a brick wall. you will never see and take on and try to understand others points of view because you only want things they way they suit you."
"oh we see just fine.fact is....you don't...and have yet to see yourself.we've been in your shoes before.....cried the same cries...whined the same whines....your just doing so with a little too much ignorance================ stop the evemail spam!"
"so suicide gank the suicide gankers?anywho, it took me a little while to remember what the name was, but alot of what you see from people in eve can be attributed to what is known as \"stockholm syndrome\"basically people get to a point where their enemy is their friend, and they start to do things they normally wouldn't do because for whatever reason it now seems to be the right way to do things.i can genuinely tell you from experience from the multiple corp mates i have had that stockholm syndrome does exist in eve."
"i didnt' say youd be invunerable.i said use common sense.if someone wants your ass on a plattar..they will likely get it....but if your paying attention to local..paying attention to your surroundings...you will generally not get hit.i have never been the direct victim of hulkageddon or major suicide ganks...oh sure ive been targeted repaetedly...but they generally dont bother beucase i tend to not show up when such things happen or be in known to be target areas for mining operations.half the reason i moved to 0.0 was to get away from the #### because here....we can fight dirty...even then in high sec i can mine just fine wihtout the harassment because i dont do the obvious stupid things most miners do.mining ships should have a little bit extra defense in my opinion but half the time the only way to nail your oponent is to suicide gank because a war dec will make them dock up (unless they are that ********) so that argument is a waste of time...just like this post.so is that stockholmn syndrome.....no... its called being rational..a concept you people tend to lack.there is no perfect defense..but there are plenty of ways to not get dragged into the precurosor to a gank. many ways....if you can't figure that out...then you deserved to get ganked...repeatedly.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"the only way to not get suicide ganked is to not undock at all. if that is how ccp wants people to play eve, then that is how they want people to play eve. you sir, seem to easily judge people on the pve side of eve as them being wrong in how they play eve right to where you say \"a concept you people lack\". doing the pve thing is not playing eve wrong.you are insisting that pvp and ganking are the right things to do in eve, when in fact there is pve content in eve to be enjoyed too (mining, missions, invention, exploration, ratting, manufacturing, wormholes, and incursions). the people that like pve should be able to enjoy the pve aspects, and have every right to push forward ideas that could improve their pve experience.eve is not completely pvp. complete pvp is your first person shooters and halo and going out to play paintball. if eve was completely pvp, there would be no pve content.but yes, even the most craziest pve person likes the occasional pvp."
"no to this idea.after reading the 4 pages of this thread, i find it funny when you said that the one guy who's probably the most sensible one so far has been posting crazy talks. \"i'd rather have other players get shot by other players than not interacting with others\" -ccp soundwave"
"monthbump."
"i dosent really bother me the wayit is today. still it might make the life easyer for some people and should be easy to do. nise to se an intelligent proposal here for once.you have my full support on yhis one."
"well i do like the idea that there would be low-sec surrounding the empires. it makes me think of what happened in the dark ages.however, it's not necessary to revitalize low-sec.i think the way to get more people/ interest in low-sec is to stop thinking of it as 'insta-death zone' or even 'pvp' or 'faction war zone'. instead, i would consider it the 'bad part of town'. kind of dangerous, but kind of fun. it's still empire space after all, it's just the place that the governments of empire have less reach and authority. considering that both the amarr and caldari societies are authoritarian police states, don't you imagine that the low security systems would seem like an attractive place for many people to live? what i would suggest is this:1. gambling: probably the oldest game in human history. there are already independent and unaffiliated eve gambling for isk sites spreading like a rash on the internet. ccp is missing out on huge interest and revenue with this. some gambling sites make a fortune with nothing more than online roulette or poker. just declare gambling illegal in high sec, and open up casinos in low sec. watch the miners come to spend their money in the low sec casinos. just make sure the gambling games stick with the eve theme please. 2. pleasure centers: ditto. 3. black markets: it seems like there was a half-hearted effort to start this in eve, then it got pulled. eve needs a black market, with smuggling, etc. these would be trade hubs for illegal goods not available in high sec, like drugs, pirate faction things, and so on. have you noticed you can buy 'blood raider' ships in amarr emperor station? really? how is that possible? to me that seems as likely as selling a satanic death metal t-shirt on the streets of riyahd in saudi arabia. stuff that is contraband should only be available for sale at black market stations located in low sec. that includes stuff like slaves, drugs, pirate faction ships and implants. maybe it would be possible to sell contraband stuff in high sec through contracts, but it shouldn't be possible though the high-sec market system. smuggling: there are a lot of people in eve that would love to be smugglers, but currently there is nothing to smuggle, it's not very profitable, and the customs officer mechanism doesn't work very well. even hauling sucks as a career, isk wise. smuggling should be ten times as lucrative as hauling and ten times the fun. make it so that agents in high sec are addicted to things like drugs, and give you a bonus if you can get them some 'crash'. 'dark side' : i would argue that low-sec is the 'dark side' of high sec. not just an empty battlefield, but a mirror image of high sec's hidden, ugly side. settlement zones: like australia or colonial america, low-sec becomes a home to those persecuted in an authoritarian high-sec. obviously, criminal is not always 'evil', such as the amarrians that want to liberate the slaves for example, or caldari socialists, or other peculiar factions. just as high-sec is split up into various regions (such as the holders, etc), so too would low-sec be split into different 'territories', each with it's own story and culture. there could be weird religious cults in low-sec too, and of course it would be a storyline mission to discover these cults and deal with them. pirate faction war: i would have the npc pirates such as the guristas, etc. hold territories and form alliances that player pirates can join. this way, the pirates would be fighting each other for territory as the militia does. i would also make it so the pirates can capture stations too, just as the fw militias can."
"this was done at one point. it was removed because it broke eve. the end.read up on history if you want to know why or how it broke eve."
"first, make mining vessels that dont blow up with one or two hits of a destroyer. people will take them into low sec if they feel they stand a chance.most belts in low sec are unused while ppl stay in the comfort of high sec.its one positive incentive ccp can give.or, just do what i propose and ban concord and make all of high sec into low sec systems and be done with it. everyone for themselves.second, work out a sov light plan for low sec so random corps can own a system as they branch out and even become enticed into wh or null. just an idea. after all concord has no military authority in low sec other than to ding you on your sec status against themselves when you comitt an illegal act.maybe give manufacturing incntive in low sec that are better than high sec.fight them until turmoil is no more and strike terror into their hearts. www.ross-fw.net"
"personally i would make adv arrays add +5 me to blueprints (you can't make it so they use 10% less mins as then you start geting free minerals if you refine) with your only been able to anchor them in 0.4 space or lower.been able to rent out those slots to people outside your corp as long as you have enough fuel in the pos to last as long as the job has been set to run for (also not been able to offline the tower/array when someone has hired it out or remove items like guns from the pos or remove fuel ) the main problem with low is they is no way of making it your own or upgrading it like null. so grav sites will be random for miners as no mass mining to upgrade the industrial index like null no way to boost the amount of anoms which spawn for people who rat.i guess one option would be to make a new class of low sec which are out of the way e.g low sec systems which only have 1 gate in them which players can do very limited options to upgrade.ring mining might also help low sec if that comes in on the fall (low sec has all types of moon all ready)"
"you really need to stop making this suggestion its ridiculous. actually consider it. we are talking about empires here with seats of council and capitals and assets and areas they call theirs. you would be breaking the very fundamentals of eve lore to suggest these empires have no sense of being civilized and that they should not enforce law and order. cos sure lets take the met out of london and the nypd out of new york?!now as for the proposal i support it and actually i think it could make sense.however perhaps the buffer would only be between empires that do not like each other or this being too tricky due to layout have a buffer round all empires but with perhaps high sec bridges between empires that are more friendly. this would create far greater diversity in trade and may encourage a greater spread of players rather than such divergance on areas such as jita"
"to shrug a suggestion off as ridiculous is just to put a blinder on possible solutions.it is not ridiculous to make those suggestions. i suppose your one of those that would say it is ridiculous that man could fly? yet, someones thinking out of the box made it happen. i dont think any of it is contrary to eve lore. ppl in the empires are meant to expand to the reaches of space, not sit in the comfort of high sec and rake in cash. yet there needs to be incentive to reach out of high sec. ccp did well working on getting ppl to null, we just need to improve low.fight them until turmoil is no more and strike terror into their hearts. www.ross-fw.net"
"i'm not shrugging it off, though perhaps it was a little bold to just label it as ridiculous. but i gave my reasons for feeling so as no self respecting empire goes without enforcing law and order. though perhaps each empire should be give their own rather than a unified concord marshaling races that are at war with each other.and i think that these buffers if done right would encourage people to move into low sec. just as each race already has combat strengths and weaknesses this would allow greater opportunity to give them market strengths and weaknesses and varying abundances of resources between races. there by traders especially would be encouraged to travel across the gulfs where their races abundances would be worth more. fighters would be sent across to the rival empire on missions and higher level missions may be based in the low sec gulf closer to the front line so to speak.so yes i feel it would very much encourage players of all types to venture into low sec and entice them into its game play. between friendly empires there would be longer but safer high sec corridors. though perhaps as the roid belts of say a 0.7 system has rats which concord does nothing about these corridor systems would have roaming rats concord does nothing about. and then when it comes to trading between warring empires where the rewards would be greatest players would need to look at fitting warp stabilizers, cloaking devices and other defensive tools to make it through as there would be no safe corridor but only low sec where pvp would be the fear.all as i can say is that currently i have no encouragement realy to leave high sec as all the empires are conected. and yet further to this i see no reason to leve jita and the surounding regions... and im minmatar!"
"the concept of a fair fight does not belong in eve online.get that clear...because this is not the place for \"fairness\"================ stop the evemail spam!"
"i haven't read the whole text because there is an obvious problem here from the start.if you change this, whats to stop the can flippers from turning up with ore in their cargo hold and then just putting it in? its still stealing if you take it. at the moment they are just avoiding carrying it in their hold. but if you make this change the only thing you will do is make can flippers go - \"damn, now i have to carry ten or so veldspar in my cargohold, what a pain!\", and then they'll carry on as normal. you wont have stopped anything.\"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"finally its nice to see a good point and thank you.now my initial response would be, assuming my point of recognizing ownership and such, any stolen stacks would not mix with other stacks of the same item. there by preventing what you suggest.however i realize this makes the whole system more and more complicated to keep dividing things up. yet there is still the idea of simply making jet-cans be treated as abandoned off the cuff from the moment they are created. i don't see as this would create any great change to weather people would try to steal from jet-cans or not. ill be honest on a previous character i intended to play as a pirate i used a hauler to smash and grab miners cans knowing it wasn't likely they would harm me. i just let the countdown end while i sell off their ore. but what it would mean is that this would have to be the sort of methods used. thievery would have to be thievery, for to simply move it to your own can would allow the miner to grab their hauler and take it back.so while the method for achieving the goal here is different the premise of what it does is still the same and over all jet cans would still be used in much the same ways as they are now: for quick transfer of items with little risk between players or as storage with high risk of theft."
"it's called get an orca.....problem solved. a concept you fail to understand or recognize as a valid solution.one that everyone in industry uses and swears by.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"oh yea i forgot they just give those out in the tutorials and take no training!?you seem to fail to understand the concept i put forward to simply suggest a way a specific and unavoidable period of game play perhaps be provided a little more balance.now we all know your stand point but you don't speak for everyone. you don't need to keep posting.either others will and not support it and so it will be dropped or others wont because they don't care and so it will be dropped or others will in support and so perhaps it would go forward."
"again...you missed the point....not unusual with you these days.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"no"
"no to this one.war is good. allowing concord to be made redundant by permitting suicide ganking isnt so good, unless you want to remove concord altogether but thats another issue.fight them until turmoil is no more and strike terror into their hearts. www.ross-fw.net"
"ummm, why not pvp in hi-sec?the rules support it and i'm *pretty* sure ccp knows that people fight in hi-sec space!/me points to the log-in warning about burn jita, etc., etc.,"
"why in the name of all that is holy would you remove pvp from high? i se two reasons for this.1. you where droppen on your head as a baby.2. you are lost in the world of mmo and need to find your way back home to hello kitty online.please promis us you never have children. we dont want you to polute the common geen poll with your sub-par geens."
"why do we need concord?it is clear that ccp wants grossly inflated and ongoing rising prices on the market by permitting suicide gankers to come to high security to suicide gank players who make us ships at good prices.eve is not for the faint of heart to begin with, yet i nearly fell out of my chair when i saw an ad on my client talking about a newbie friendly eve. surely newbs wise up on just how newbie friendly eve is when they get their covetor or transport ganked before they have a chance to figure out how to make isk in the game to replace it or have a chance to find the right corp or alliance to teach them the ropes. even taught the ropes they will die in the same spectacular fashion.hulkageddon is everyday now! eve did not always have concord. concord was put in place with the intention of created a secure zone for fledgling pilots to thrive until they got the nerve and know-how to spread their wings for greater reward elsewhere.ccp has validated, if not acquiesced, the practice of subverting concord to kill carebears and newbs.why have concord? why not just roll back to pre-concord days and make everything concord free?that is my proposal.inflate prices to record highs (as they are now), kill everyone without interference, show the newcomers that they dont stand a chance and buy tons of plexes from, errm ccp, to replace your ships and modules.ban concord from the game plz. seriously.---- renamed it appropriately by me :)fight them until turmoil is no more and strike terror into their hearts. www.ross-fw.net"
"ban amun khonsu from the game plz. seriously.well if you don't like my post...then don't make ridiculous ideas.eve online is newb friendly if your friendly to newbs.problem is...eve online is not wow...or hello kitty online.most people treat it like that.those people do not deserve to play this game.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"no. \"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"thanks for your reply.im serious. do you support a removal of concord or not? it is now a redundant entity.i dont play wow so i dont know about that, but everyone deserves to play the game of eve online. we were all newcomers at one time.fight them until turmoil is no more and strike terror into their hearts. www.ross-fw.net"
"am i missing something or are you going against your own idea? haha"
"well, actually i just want consistency. why have concord if it doesnt do what ccp originally intended by bringing it into the game?fight them until turmoil is no more and strike terror into their hearts. www.ross-fw.net"
"concord does exactly what it's supposed to do. it's intended to provide consequences to any unprovoked aggression in highsec. it is not intended to make it impossible to attack players in highsec, it simply provides consequences if such an attack does happen.so, no, i'm not supporting it at all."
"@op - no i do not support removal of concord...what made you think i did?================ stop the evemail spam!"
"no, it wasn't. how is concord being \"subverted\", exactly? do you even know what that word means?your whining has proceeded from a flawed premise. if ccp had wanted you to be safe from pvp in high security, they would have simply made it impossible to engage in pvp combat in high security. this could be done, trivially. instead, they:1. intentionally opted to leave pvp combat as a permissible action in high security.2. intentionally implemented a system that only provides consequences - not prevention - in the form of concord.3. intentionally balanced that system so that its response time varies based on system security, which carries the obvious implication that it is not supposed to be wholly effective in preventing pvp actions in high security.these are all of the intentional design decisions that went into concord in lieu of simply rendering pvp impossible in high security. ergo, nothing is being \"subverted\" - the system is working as intended."
"ah i see, but well no. the solution should not be remove concord if it were an issue rather fix it. however i don't believe it is the issue. it is the rules of engagement and severity of risk posed that needs some re thinking in order to allow concord to work more effectively.to surmise i believe what your saying is as like to say the police don't work when in fact it is the laws the govern and bind them that are the problem."
"no it doesnt.fight them until turmoil is no more and strike terror into their hearts. www.ross-fw.net"
"right, so the answer isnt removing the police but make it so they do their jobs the way intended?fight them until turmoil is no more and strike terror into their hearts. www.ross-fw.net"
"there is no whining here except by your post about me having the audacity of identifying a problem on the forums. you are so concerned that someone mentioned it that you had to post all of that in response. stop emo raging and discuss it like an adult... enless ofc you are not an adult then i understand your post and the lack of intellectual discussion behind it.the system does not work as intended any longer. it is infact broken. so, either fix it or roll it back.fight them until turmoil is no more and strike terror into their hearts. www.ross-fw.net"
"its only your opinion that its a problem. you are seriously outvoted here. you haven't had one supportive comment, which should show you that your opinion is not appreciated. please let this topic die so that more productive topics can be on the front page. as it stands your just pushing better topics which actually stand a chance of implementation off the assembly hall first page.\"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"precisely :)"
"you didn't identify a problem. you identified something you don't like. they are very different.yes, actually, it does work as intended.you seem to have conflated \"it doesn't work the way i want it to\" with \"it doesn't work as intended\", but those are two wholly separate things.it definitely doesn't work the way you want it to, and that is, quite demonstrably, the intention."
"there is no vote here. if you don't like the topic or can't add anything intelligent to it, go troll elsewherefight them until turmoil is no more and strike terror into their hearts. www.ross-fw.net"
"heh, i don't live in high sec. it has nothing to do with how i want it to work. it is just an outdated mechanic. so your assertions are entirely irrelevant to the discussion.fight them until turmoil is no more and strike terror into their hearts. www.ross-fw.net"
"whether it directly impacts you or not, you clearly want it to work in a certain fashion and that is clearly in conflict with how it is intended to work.that aside, you seem to really struggle with the fundamentals of logical reasoning.you haven't, thus far, made any credible argument that it doesn't work as intended. all of your posts have proceeded from the faulty premise that concord is intended to provide safety in high security, when it is common knowledge that this is not its intent."
"one wonders the caliber of pilot posting then if you have problems understanding whatever logic you think is being applied to a suggestion.if you don't like it, post elsewhere. nothing making you read this thread except that you are failing to trollfight them until turmoil is no more and strike terror into their hearts. www.ross-fw.net"
"one of the fundamental problems with posting in public forums: people who don't agree with your infantile whinging get to tell you you're wrong. learn to cope."
"you are the only one whinging like a fail troll.. ty for keeping the topic alivefight them until turmoil is no more and strike terror into their hearts. www.ross-fw.net"
"i pointed out several intentional game design decisions that were made, demonstration the intent of concord. you refuted none of it. i'm just going to assume from here on out that you're a very young child and treat you as such. *ahem*\"there, there. it's all going to be okay. have a sucker.\""
"you gave no such evidence. i didn't ask for it anyway. either you agree with the proposal or not. that's all i asked for. as for your trolling, get a life and move to another topic if you can add something constructivefight them until turmoil is no more and strike terror into their hearts. www.ross-fw.net"
"nobody really cares what you ask for.nope.again: if ccp had wanted you to be safe from pvp in high security, they would have simply made it impossible to engage in pvp combat in high security. this could be done, trivially. instead, they:1. intentionally opted to leave pvp combat as a permissible action in high security.2. intentionally implemented a system that only provides consequences - not prevention - in the form of concord.3. intentionally balanced that system so that its response time varies based on system security, which carries the obvious implication that it is not supposed to be wholly effective in preventing pvp actions in high security.oh, and...4. intentionally adjusted the system since then, particularly with respect to insurance payouts, to moderate the risk/reward ratio.are any of the above untrue? if so, how are they untrue? if not, why do you continue to believe that the \"intention\" of concord is to render high sec safe?"
"they have been adding soemthing constructive, they ahve been building a counter arguement to your proposal, while all you've done is whine and complain about people not agreeing with you.so far ive seen your one sentence of an opinion supporting this topic,and about 8 paragraphs of irrefutable evidence pointing out that your opinion is based on a faulty perspective of intended game mechanics."
"wrongfight them until turmoil is no more and strike terror into their hearts. www.ross-fw.net"
"deliberately not taking sides here, perhaps the op can explain to me how concord is not fulfilling its intended function?"
"simply put, with relatively cheap ships in the highest security system players can be suicide ganked. though i have no issue with they practice in theory, i foresee that this growing trend and it's ease and widespread existence will ultimately harm the game whe new or intermediate players are concerned. these players are those who will become tomorrows well established players if they see a game they benefit from and enjoy. ofc, if there is no expectation by newcomers that there is secure space there is no harm done. however, since we have high security systems with a force like concord to intervene on behalf of the unwitting victim, there needs to be a level of security beyond getting your new hauler or covetor suicide ganked by a destroyer in high sec with relative ease. i've seen eve over many years now and the trend is rampant and with much greater ease today than it was just a couple years ago.something needs to change.outlawing suicide tanking kills a valid dynamic. so, what needs to happen is to either fix this or just make all of high sec like low sec.... no concord, so that there is no expectation of security at all. new players are unforgiving when they subscribe to pay for a game and they immediately are suicide tanked with such ease in high sec systems whe they (naively i'm sure) believe they can learn the game and make a small amount of iskenderun safely. eventually in the long term fewer ppl will be first time subscribers.fight them until turmoil is no more and strike terror into their hearts. www.ross-fw.net"
"if we outlaw suicide tanking, more hulks might fit some extenders adn survive a gank or two, wouldnt want to destroy teh ganking dynamic, now would we?"
"what the heck is suicide tanking?and to be quite honest/blunt here.... suicide ganking has never been any worse or any less than it was 6 months ago.all you need is a little common sense and you'll live just fine.is it too easy?yes.so instead of arguing it (been there done that) then deal with it by adapting.and to be honest...i never really had an issue with it unless i knowingly allowed it.and bottom line - if someone wants your pod...you will get ganked...its just a matter of time.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"awwwweee! is icle drakey all bothered by something. does he not like getting nice friendly mails from people when its out of his control?ahw, its almost like being mail ganked. but instead of it blowing up your ship it makes drakeys head explode cos he has to read all them words. and we all know you don't cope well with lots of words. that's why you write in all those spaced out broken up sentences right, so you don't get to lost, keep your mind wrapped round it all.here's an idea, why don't you just not read it? and instead of trying to have things changed so you can make more isk for nothing do as suggested and block those who send it to you.hmm, it almost seems unfair that they are generally the players with enough isk not to care about the mail cost... oh but yes of course this place being eve online. well didums!oh or here's a final thought. and don't worry about your mail so much if you just flew into jita."
"ok... i'm going to assume you have a kindergarten education and never made it through high school.that said....there is a difference expecting someone to have a fair fight planned when you get can flipped.and an exploitation of mechanics when it comes to spamming the entirety of eve online for the singular intent of advertisement without consequences.the can flipper you oh so hate is just as much at risk as you are...you can shoot him back...and blow him up even.its a proven fact.you cannot however stop the initial spam flood because at least 1 message will always get through regardless of cspa.now if your nooblet carebear brain cant fathom that...then you have no business making such ridiculous comments. please go back to school and bother to learn to read and think before you respond.thank you.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"my answer was very well thought out. you call it ridiculous and yet its just the sort of answer you would give people when you don't like an idea. condescending, unconstructive and quite rude really. and then you have the gall and hypocrisy to tell me that, effectively, i'm childish and need to think before i speak! you are only truly speaking to yourself there i'm afraid to say. its not just about my idea but all the ideas i've seen you post on that you don't like. it only needs be said simply \"i don't support this idea\" and if you have a good constructive reason to say why.now, in truth it would, yes, be a little annoying to keep receiving spam mail. though personally i'm always in jita and have rarely experienced this. perhaps that s the luck and a perk of being a nooblet carebear :p haha, though i'm not sure they are going to be fussy in mass player mailing. but surely there can only be so many of these guys at any one time and if you just take 2 seconds to block them as they come its not a great effort. and it doesn't just block their second mail it blocks them for good.though at the same point, while i see there maybe some reason to them doing this if its to look for gaining votes or what ever, i can see other methods. not least just plain old jet-can advertisement. and perhaps rather than sinking isk just through paying the right to mail ccp could do this by charging isk to put a simple message on billboards for a certain time and just put a few more billboards in clearer view of gates and even outside stations.for now, for your own benefit just block them haha. but in all i think its perhaps unneeded to mail and a change could even provide more immersion to the game. so as surprising as it may seem i am going to support your idea."
"are you capable of posting without contradiction and hypocrisy or is this a past time for you?================ stop the evemail spam!"
"if i have been contradictory or hypocritical in what ive said it was with the greatest of intention in order to make a point to you about your own behavior toward others.but beyond that i have given you a post that is rather light hearted, tries to make helpful suggestion and over all supports your cause."
"ive gotten maybe 3 spam mails all year. two of them were csm's running for office.i dont see it as an issue tbhfight them until turmoil is no more and strike terror into their hearts. www.ross-fw.net"
"if you take care to read my post....its a potentail threat that could get out of hand if left unchecked....its a gaping hole waiting to be exploited.its not a problem now...but it will be.and at best why not route the cspa fees to your wallet instead of a black hole.if i'm going to get crap mail...i'd rather get paid for it....then its not crap mail.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"you stomp on me saying its a bad idea due to various \"nebulous\" thoughts/ideas...then you support it...then you bash it...but then you relunctantly support it.you talk like you know how it works but you very obviously do not.so if your going to discuss...support..or don't support..then be crystal clear.don't flip flop like some fish gasping for air.================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"well i'd certainly like to get to set cspa at any amount payable to me also, but i don't think its necessary for me as i don't get many. it's not to say ppl who live elsehwere don't get morefight them until turmoil is no more and strike terror into their hearts. www.ross-fw.net"
"pretty much...its not a serious issue right now...but it can be...and its just a matter of time before a group of people get it in their heads to exploit it.its how some groups get ccp's attention to introduce exploitation mechancis that ccp is slow to respond...to use them.without getting banned of course.================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"evemail has existed for how long and just right now the idea of exploiting it has become new and original?i should probably make those credit card companies that keep mailing me their junk mail pay me for every letter they send me."
"don't knock it....at one point in the usa there was a bill in congress concerning that very policy.it nearly made it through....until the corporations and companys that advertise lobbied for it to get shot down.gee i wonder why?getting paid for trash mail....theres a concept.================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"lol the way you say that sounds like you guys missed a trick (presuming you are american and hence knowing that)considering the america very much coined the phrase \"so sue me!\" and there after went law suit crazy lol.well here in britain people have made money from junk mail. you see we just stick a little sign on our door saying \"no junk mail\" and then in some cases people have won compensation where such mail was still posted.hmm you can do something like that in eve but just those who post it cant ignore you... yea, its called blocking them."
"i feel sorry for my uk friends now.either you start to read before you post or don't bother at all...you've repeatedly missed several key points as to the reasoning and debates.================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"first of all, if this topic idea has already been discussed or mentioned before, feel free to move it or delete as appropriate.i, myself, have not any experience with capital ships, so pardon me if i sound like a \"know-it-all\".this is a rough idea for what i think could be a potential solution to the many aspects of the supercap problems.the chief concerns are: blobbing, usefullness and construction.blobbingmany people find that big spaceship battles that take hours to complete, where you shoot and get shot hundreds of times and where you put most of your hard-trained skills to best use, to be some of the best experiences in their entire eve career. for whatever reason, be it revenge, territorial gain or simple good fights, people love to do these things. take a stroll through null-sector with alot of friends and you won't be disappointed. of course, the numbers won't always favour you or your enemies. that's how a battle goes. sometimes people make mistakes and sometimes the opposing force is just too much to handle and a desperate rear-guard action has to take place in order to get out safely.however, one thing is to be outnumbered by regular ships. even in a fight to the death, you could still take a few of the bastards with you in a blaze of glory. this hope is crushed when suddenly facing ships that would take your fleet several minutes just to put a dent in. should you face a large number of supercapital ships that suddenly jump in on your action, the tide of battle will thus turn away from you like an unsatisfied girlfriend. just saying.in other words, supercap blobbing is an ever-present problem that has destoyed many a good fights. in the spirit of this, i propose limiting the number of supercapitals the each alliance can have at their disposal. the numbers usually are the hardest part, so let me start off with a rough estimate:1 titan class super capital per 5-10 systems controlled.1-3 mothership class super capital per 1-5 systems controlled. think about it. with this, the rageing growth of supers wil be trimmed down in the future. it's not a perfect solution, as there still is the current number of supers active in eve, not to mention all the pilots who trained for supers. most of them will have wasted skillspoints if this idea were to be introduced. then again, no one says that the current supers are to be dismantled, it just means that when an excess super dies, it's down for good. this could also spark more warfare in null-sector by trying to cull big alliances who have too much space for their own good. this bring us over to usefullness.usefullnesscurrently, supers aren't what they used to be, and for good reason, as mentioned above. supercarriers and titans lost their regular drone bay last winter and the titans have been nerfed recently to prevent them from being a threat to sup-capitals.somewhere along the line, this seems wrong. i once saw a kill mail/report that showed an erebus class titan shoot down a flycatcher interdictor. to me, that seemed normal. much dismay was had from all sides since people generally agreed upon that the erebus titan shouldn't be able to do that. it leaves me baffled honestly. i mean, what good is such an expensive ship if it can't even defend against one little sub-cap ship? it should be able to kill the ship no-problem-hands-down-gone. it should not have the same chances against a fleet of little ships. anyone whos ever seen star wars will suffer no illusion of this. what's the point of having that giant if all it takes is one lone hero tackler to stop it? even luke skywalker would have been luke gonewalker if he had tried his luck against the death star alone.i propose giving supers back what they once had, albeit in a different way, whilst taking something else away. - remove the e-war immunity from supers, but give them very high stats to counter lone heros. if you want a super tackled, you are gonna have to work for it. i would imagine that supers have supercomputers the size of several houses, so you would have to have a fleet of e-war ships to stop them from working. makes sense as far as i can see. - divide their drone bay into a regular drone bay and a capital drone bay. give them a dominix worth (or less, prehaps a vexor sized bay) of drone capacity to help them counter small fleets of tackler ships whilst retaining their current amount of fighters and/or bombers. titans don't get a capital drone bay, since that would defeat the purpose of supercarriers.now, these idea will spark no end of problems themselves, but as i said before, it's not a perfect solution. it will however, give supers a little chance of living to fight another day, instead of the now old \"oh oohh, there's a single neut in local. i better jump\". not too much and not too little.lastly, this brings us to constructionconstructionmaking the construction of supers more difficult will prevent them being spawned like fleas from a dog. this will make losing a super more telling than before as it cannot be replaced as easily and will also reinforce the aformentioned ideas above. i don't have any knowledge of how long it takes to build these giants, but it seems the current rate it too much for anyones liking, as far as i can tell. of course, i might be wrong.i propose that the time it takes to make a super is doubled (or increased by 1.5x) and prehaps a 25-30% increase in production costs. this may or may not have any effect on some alliances at present, but hopefully it will leave an effect on the future.that's it. let me know what you think. is any of this viable? or should we just forget that i ever wrote anything?over to you guys."
"would prefer a new class of heavy bomber which is designed to kill capital ships only (can't hurt small stuff that much) than trying to limit what's all ready ingame"
"limiting super capitals the way you suggest will just stagnate nullsec. the biggest sov holders will have the most supers, and so they will take space the easiest. and will accrue more space, and so on and so forth. you would end up with one alliance owning almost all sov space, and then no other alliance could ever fly a super capital and therefore could never take space from them. for those reasons alone (as well as many other reasons i can't be bothered to write walls of text on), i will support this idea.also, people have repeatedly brought up the idea of increasing mineral requirement for supers. the problem is supers dont die fast enough, not that people make them too quickly. people will find the resources no matter how difficult you make them to build. if you make them too difficult to build you end up with the same situation i detailed above. it only becomes possible for the biggest and already strongest alliances to build them.as for your ideas about usefulness, they're neither here nor there really.\"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"if you know literally nothing about supercaps, you should not be posting suggestions about supercaps. especially when you're suggesting the reversal of several nerfs.just saying."
"a pilot belonging to a player corporation, should be able to buy a 24-hour jamming license from concord. during that period, that pilot, and any member of their fleet may use ewar in hi-sec on any targets they choose, in a solar system specified by the license.here are the restrictions and consequences in bullet form for easier digestion: not available to npc corp members license for one 24-hour period restricted to a single system fee based on system size / population, and security level players that get jammed have aggression rights license permits only jamming / disruption / dampening webbing, scrambling, target painting or any kind of actual firing is not permitted ecm drones are permitted licensed pilots are listed in a solar system's information licenses held by any given pilot are listed in that pilot's information licenses are non-transferable rather than sit like fish in a barrel, a miner can pop out a set of ecm drones and attempt to jam a ganker before getting ganked. or better, a defending fleet can jam the would-be ganker first, without concord getting involved. as aggression rights would then be available to the would-be ganker, the ganker gets an actual fight if they're willing to stick around for it.like can flipping, jamming licenses would not be sold in newbie systems (1.0). yes, this could potentially be can-flipping on steroids... only, you don't lose the contents of the container, you just lose a lock (or miss the shot).in the case of third party interference with ongoing hostilities, the aggression rights cover that. fight back."
"so i can fly up to a belt, scare a miner into jamming me, keep them bumped so they can't warp out, and just wait for the drones to miss a cycle so i can kill the miner without losing my ship (since it gave me aggression against the miner)? don't you think that's a bit exploitable?tl;dr: no, it's a bad idea. this doesn't help anything at all."
"yes. you can do that... but it'd be better if that miner had a pack of buddies in dessies getting in your way. you wouldn't get aggro on the miner, in that case.mining solo is dangerous."
"doesn't add anything of any value to the game. but it does add more stuff for people to moan about, ie exploits etc.so no.\"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"i disagree (naturally). it adds a mechanic for an initial punch in hisec without concord interference.let's talk about the exploits, though. how bad would they be?"
"what is with the massive numbers of npc alts coming up with insane ideas?================ stop the evemail spam!"
"please explain why this is insane. otherwise you're just blathering in electronic form."
"why should i repeat what already has been said?go read what has been said.that alone is enough for me.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"then don't repeat. the only thing that has already been said is \"it doesn't add anything to the game\" which i refuted. feel free to argue against my refutation. that would not be repetition unless you just literally repeat the claim without giving evidence or a line of reasoning to back up the stance.as for \"exploitation\" i gave an argument for why i thought that kind of \"exploitation\" would be an acceptable addition to the game. it wouldn't be an exploit, it would simply be one more thing leading to a fight. i thought the thesis of eve was that fighting is good.also feel free to bump the thread again."
"your arguments only tell me one thing.this is a joke.i try not to waste time on jokes.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"the proposal was not a joke. your \"no, shut up\" is kind of silly, though."
"stupid idea is stupid.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"see?i don't really need to say much.speaks our overall opinion clearly here.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"yes, but there's no reason at all. just \"that's dumb.\" why? what are the flaws? can they be fixed? what would would a good solution for the problem be?convince me i'm wrong and i'll drop the thread. tell me your unsupported opinion should trump mine without giving a line of reasoning and i can't take it seriously."
"the whole concept is flawed as it would create another avenue for griefing and mechanic exploitation. end up wit a bunch of neutral jammers during wars or 1v1's instead of neutral rr.do us all a favor. give me your stuff and biomass. you half***ed a half*** idea you quarter***ed twit.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"regarding neutral jamming, the act of jamming gives the jammed aggression rights. the moment you or your fleet does it, you're fair game. i addressed that in the initial post. why would that be insufficient?and uhhh... you moronic jack*** of a wowtard, go back to crying over error 37s... is that how that part works?"
"you know not what you do.... i would back off while you still have a chance.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"ooh! i can probe out a mission bear, wait till he's pointed by rats and just jam him till the rats pop him?"
"lolbest one yet!================ stop the evemail spam!"
"or until he warps off, yes. and yes, this actually makes hi-sec less safe."
"lmfao please! drake provide intelligent reasoning. pigs will fly, hell will freeze, the pope will renounce religion and become the worlds leading biology scientist bringing new and great advances in the theory of evolution... anything else and everything else will happen before this guy gets some intelligence and can actually give good logical constructive reason to his views. i mean just check a few of the other hot threads atm and you will realize this.now as to your idea, will this not in fact just further encourage ganking? rich players with money to throw away not even having to worry about concord if they jam a defenseless ship. i really don't think it will help us miners much, only be exploited by those we already have problems with. i can see it would allow miners to jam military ships in the hope they can get their hard earned haul out before they are locked, scrammed and popped. but i really don't feel it would end up working out like that."
"*facepalm*that went right over your head didn't it?================ stop the evemail spam!"
"i would be more than happy to introduce to you why this is bad...except youd post a wall of text crying over why i stole your salvage....blew up your multi-billion isk mission ship...and left laughing with your stuff.so no..not going there.go mission in any market hubs and be paitent and you'll see why my little nooblet.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"the insult was deliberately absurd. i know he's certainly not a wowtard, i simply acted correspondingly to that part of his message. i'd be happy to discuss whether it's bad or good to create a new mechanic that leads to aggression. i'd love to discuss the problems with a license to jam, such as the issues with the current ecm system. but no one has gone there."
"*facepalm*================ stop the evemail spam!"
"i expect it would generate quite a few situations like can flipping does today, with less sting, because firing up ecm is an aggressive act. i don't think it would benefit solo miners much at all, but if those solo miners paid for mercenaries who provide a get-outta-dodge belt patrol, that could be interesting. you'd even get to check out the bona fides of the merc corp, because their fc would have to carry the license to be of use."
"i suspect your just bitter over 1 too many encounters with a falcon.classic ecm whine post.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"not whining about ecm, i'm saying give us a way to do it in hi-sec without a wardec and without getting concorded. i guess the real aim is at nerfing concord, not all the way, just a little bit."
"i've got to agree with koreli, here. i think this would be slanted too far in favor of griefers and gankers. you'd have to charge a high fee to make it a worthwhile isk sink and if it costs more than miner earns in an hour or so then it's too expensive to be worth it for the miner, but still an easy expense for a ganker.aegis destroyers on the other hand...: see sig."
"how can he warp out if he's tackled by the rats? i can just jam him and go afk, and he's stuck till downtime."
"note to self - danika is ebil.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"so is this another \"im another sad panda carebear miner\" thread?you know the kind where some one that got ganked whine and want to change eve so its an easy game. because if thats the problem i have the fix for you and here it comes..... learn to play the game like yhe rest of us."
"no, allows people defending a system to reship faster then the speed of the battle would normally allow. all or none imo"
"skirmisherda hell is that supposed to be?from context i think you mean baitthis is not wow"
"understandable. i like to see it myself. but i sometimes get the feeling that ccp is teasing us....."
"increase the aggression for docking to 15 minutes, full aggression timer.eve is a sandbox that should be about consequence for ones choices. will solve docking games once and for all.fight them until turmoil is no more and strike terror into their hearts. www.ross-fw.net"
"some how i think it would clean up the data base somewhat"
"as the title says. allow the probe launchers to be toggled on and off for auto repeat.pros:no spamming the probe launcher to launch probes. cons:none i can think ofwould think this is a quick change with little testing needed."
"ehhhhhh...i guess this is ok....but kinda lower priority.================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"eve might not be the game for you son. go to your room and play the sims."
"now this just says it all.eve i'm sure once upon a time in the now far flung dreams of the creator (very far flung dreams, flung as far away as possible) was meant to be for you.. and me and players like us. players who like to rp and to play out a story actually fulfill a role.but then the cod monkeys came along, the ones with just enough sense of self to want to act as though they are any different to any other cod monkey and they got in there battle ships and decided the game was all about solo grinding missions and feeling like they are big cos they can gank those who focus on a mining role in high sec.now i love your idea but until eve can get the social interaction of the game sorted out so as miners are actually valued and industrialists can just be industrialists and not have to spend 6 months becoming war hardened veterans too just in order to get along i see no room for any other plans for providing more immersion.i really do love it, but i worry ccp just wants profits, not to make a niche game for real rp immersion players :("
"i might be wrong but you dear sir. sound butt hurt."
"haha, no not butt hurt. a little disappointed yes but only because eve turned out not to be what it said on the tin. like a strawberry jam that says smooth and sweet but ends up being slightly bitter and seeded. but no i'm happy having just moved on with it accepting it for what it is.no not butt hurt, just realistic."
"sorry my bad then"
"i've seen habitation modules and minmatar bunkers in deadspace complexes, but...i am beginning to think that the incarna captain's quarters stations are our 'cities' and 'homes'. i am aware that ccp has big plans for incarna, which i am sure means interacting with each other in bars and such. i'm not sure about fistfighting and such. this might not be the same thing, but a lot of roleplaying pilots create their own chat channels and mix it up there. you are with the sebeistor tribe? i think they have their own roleplay bar in a chat channel. you can also create you own roleplay chat channel 'home', or temple, or whatever yourself as well. i also think that our ships are our homes. the ships are huge after all, contain all the life support, entertainment and conveniences you would ever need to sustain yourself. there is not a lot to do in space, the ship pretty much flies itself, and it's such a hostile environment that if we left our ships we would instantly die. even a rifter is the size of a jumbo jet, which is bigger than most people's houses. i don't imagine it's all filled with equipment. also, even with the warp drive and jump gates, it would likely take us a really, really long time to travel across a solar system, let alone some twenty 'jumps' to other solar systems which are light-years away from each other. it's not quite the same thing as kicking back on your couch in your duplex in the suburbs after spending an hour commuting back from the office in your toyota. if this was really space travel, it would be unlikely that you would be visiting the same system twice. as for a 'habitation module' attached to an asteroid or something, which is what i am imagining, would you really prefer that as a place to live compared to a spaceship with propulsion modules and weapons? something an enemy could discover and destroy?i had imagined something like a 'habitation module' as a node for planetary interaction. this would be a town, a city, a barracks, etc. where you could put the 'passengers' (or 'livestock') you can get as a trade item and transform them into a different type. put slaves into the habitation module and get freed slaves, freed slaves become science graduates, etc. i see this as a mechanism for increasing the population of a planet, which could be used as a scoring mechanism for faction war. pi is kind of like sim city anyways, and the whole minmatar/ slave thing is kind of under-developed. there should be a mechanism for freeing slaves, or capturing them, and i think pi is the best avenue for this. also, if you were thinking of having a home, wouldn't you prefer to live on a planet, or on a space station in orbit around a planet?"
"this. now i have another button cluttering up my station inviting me to spend aurfight them until turmoil is no more and strike terror into their hearts. www.ross-fw.net"
"how come we cant drag structures around on planets? we can already to this with extractor heads, we (in theory) should be able to do this with spaceports, processors, etc. of course you would have to institute a fee to do so, that would only make sense. the reason i ask this, is pi, (at least on my extractor planets) are clickfests. also an idea would be to search for structures on planets, ie. have a menu (i know how eve likes menus) and when you either double-click it or right click -> go to it centers on said structure?"
"i take issue with having to move my extrctor let alone having to move the other items hehfight them until turmoil is no more and strike terror into their hearts. www.ross-fw.net"
"umad bro?and it is one of the more stupid proposals i ever read here. it would **** up 0.0 pvp big time. lets try for a moment and imagen that people actually use the counters that are here today.... its just a thought"
"says the npc'd alt whos crying over getting his @$$ owned by stealth bombers and instead of learning to deal with it..comes crying over here like a care bear and wants to say \"thats not fair\"oh and for your information... i live in null sec.grow a pair.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"+1 to that.on the op, im not sold yet but at least the pilot is brainstorming. fight them until turmoil is no more and strike terror into their hearts. www.ross-fw.net"
"indeed, most people have alt corps or banking characters to hold their isk, i know i do, id just rather not have to switch characters to get at it, but im inclined to spend it all when i see it in my active wallet."
"the original incarnation, while a bit too bright and heavy handed, was a brilliant blue set of space clouds. it was beautiful and impressive, and was an excellent example of the art team's work with the new backgrounds.after people began to complain that the nebulae were too bright and a bit of an eyesore, ccp decided to darken these nebula, or move them to areas of the skybox that weren't in direct view very often.however, lonetrek was not only darkened, but desaturated to a dull tired grey. while i understand the caldari ships are often less than brilliant or pretty, the lonetrek nebula is frankly unimpressive at all. it's barely better than the previous ones we had.my proposal is (hopefully) simple enough: bring some of that blue color back to lonetrek. it doesn't need to be ultra bright like it was before, or too invasive.. but i personally dislike the greyed out version.any supporters?old lonetrek (too bright)current lonetrek (too dark/grey)"
"in the mean time can i get some suggestions or ideas?i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"punch it!+1"
"psst, in most of that pve content you are actually competing against other players for resources, isk, sites etc. that makes it a form of pvp."
"i agree. eve is not fair. in the end, it is a business, and ccp will do whatever it takes to protect the business. i am sorry if all you \"ganking is pvp\" people think that's unfair, but i can see hardcoded changes being introduced to stop or at least severely reduce attacks on industrials and mining ships in highsec.yes, there should be much harsher consequences for ganking. yes, concord should not be protecting people with bounties on them in highsec.yes, maybe if you have negative security status you should be podded by concord and your medical clone kicked to lowsec. i do agree that since hulklageddon began, there has been a drop off in player activity in highsec. the \"if you don't like it, leave\" advice has been followed. why am i still here? i want eve to thrive, not limp along.and yes, i have the tactics, experience, and practice to say with complete confidence that the current highsec ganking is simply not balanced. it's rubbish pvp, and if that is the best pvp eve has going for it at the moment, then this game is in much more trouble than i originally thought. oh, to the devs: for every miner ship killed, there should be an option for the miner to vote on targets for a concord incursion into null sec. if goons mock concord, then concord should conquor some of thier moon mining billions systems. so what if that leads to 1.0 systems that goons can't go into themselves? no-one said anything was set in stone, or fair. and if null sec alliances are so bored that the most fun thing they can do is suicide highsec players out of the game, then they need something to do. revese incursions of empires / concord into null would be nice to see - if sansha can do it into highsec, so can the winning sides in the great war."
"as a non-noob, i can confidently say that the game mechanics from the \"pure design\" of eve got thrown out years ago. deal with it: ccp can and will make changes to cater for the preferences of customers in the game. they have, repeatedly, in the past. a null sec corporation has effectively declared war on the most vulnerable segment of ccp's playerbase. because there is no way whatsoever for highsec miners to strike back at goons, then ccp will need to act, or lose subscribers and income. as for the \"defenceless\" ... you can't fight back against gankers. the alpha strikes possible now days, for tiny cost, are literally laughable compared to 5 years ago in eve. once upon a time pvp took skill - this highsec ganking takes no skill, and indeed most lowsec/null pvp i have seen recently is no-skill butchery too. want real skill back in eve pvp? get rid of logistics ships, destroyers, level 3 bcs, all t3 cruisers, hacs etc. will they do that? no. real pvpers can still use a team of frigates to kill anything ... but they are few and far between. most \"pvpers\" will be cookie cutter battlecruisers who target the broadcast ship, press one button, and call it skill. which all leads to an interesting idea.... if you have a bounty on you and negative security status, you should not be allowed to use the highsec markets or dock at highsec stations. consequences. they have to be real, or there are none. gankers get rich, that is currently all there is to it: no risk, and all reward. that's broken, and needs to be fixed one way or another."
"alts. vov"
"lady flute - who the hell ran over your puppy and shot it?sheesh... serious bitterness.you should quit this game...your just flat not happy about it.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"no i have seen pvp game after pvp game close down in the past few years. the only reason eve has survived against that trend has been because the highsec system provided an effectively no-pvp playstyle option for customers.that is currently over.unless ccp restores it, then i am concerned eve will follow the long path of all those other pvp games that gave players a sandbox and pvp, and closed when all the players did was turn it into a kitty litter box full of smelly things and most of thier customers simply quit.basically, eve will need to get its act together, or when darkness comes out, eve will be in reinforced mode. the best and brightest ccp have will be working on darkness, which if it takes off will be the core growth area of thier business. you can whine, wail, and complain all you want but the bottom line is simple: ccp have been spending a ton of money on advertising eve to bring in new players, if the community undermines ccp's player base expansion efforts, then it has only itself to blame if ccp implements hard coded changes you don't want. i have seen that in other games too, which tried too little too late to stem the loss of social / casual players, which failures i am certain ccp will be well aware of. so my guess is they will either accept the loss of customers and simply put their efforts towards darkness, or they will go very strongly into creating \"carebear space\":do you want the current no-pvp zones to get bigger? i was shocked to find out they had been added while i was gone, but they make sense. how big do you think they will become if you keep advocating for players to quit eve, and players keep doing so? do i think ccp might give in and add \"gold star insurance\" for us$1 a ship per month, that such a ship cannot be attacked in highsec at all? yes. their aggressive plex marketing and the international economic situation suggests they need the money, so watch this space. and when things don't go the way you want them to, remember you had this chance to propose positive systems changes that addressed the underlying issues wihtout breaking the freedom of the sandbox."
"this is seriously messed up stuff.anyone else seeing what i'm seeing here?lady flute is really insane....seriously so.i don't think i can process that much garbage in one go.yeah...i'm done here.*blocks*no pvp zones my ass.... eve online has been in operation for a very long time.... anyone who hints at its death..needs head examined.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"tank your exhumers. no need for ccp to code changes."
"drake draconis wrote:this is seriously messed up stuff.anyone else seeing what i'm seeing here?lady flute is really insane....seriously so.i don't think i can process that much garbage in one go.yeah...i'm done here.*blocks*no pvp zones my ass.... eve online has been in operation for a very long time.... anyone who hints at its death..needs head examined.no. nobody is seeing what your seeing. and of course you cant process that much at once, we already worked out small broken up sentances is about your limit now i think part of the trouble is your taking this far to personally. its not about getting at you but about being realistic and because we all like playing eve, but only see its demise ahead, are trying to do something to save it. now lets break it down in to drekey sized chunks :) new players cant get a foot hold so do as you would suggest and dont play so no pay new games come out that challenge eve such as: the darkness game lady flute mentions or, and a very good contender as it is set to be quite the sandbox"
"i wouldn't be surprised if the only change ccp really needs to do, is to make it so pods aren't treated specially. i.e. a -10 pod would get popped just like he would in a ship.vov"
"and the nooblet bleats like the sheep we expect them to be.so yeah....moving on.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"mhmmm, a bit like conc just look the other way if anyone wants to warp scram and pod that defenseless little blob cos he is a gutless criminal. sounds all good."
"yeah. it's always struck me as a bit weird how they shoot ships, but not pods, but i believe that's because ccp didn't want people to get podded by surprise. but i wouldn't be surprised if ccp decides that the ganking problem has become so prevalent now that they have to change that part of the mechanics.honestly, i'm not seeing what all the rage is, all you have to do is really think of something simple like this, and propose that to ccp."
"xd you gunu call any one sheep? you with your cookie mold ship fit linked to you in some chat or found on some third party site.oh and don't tell me its not, can tell just by the way you talk it is. you wouldn't have the first clue about tactics, let alone understand even the most basic of frigs can be useful past the first few days of play if you know how to work in a team.nope you'll have the same old ship with the same old fit, that is the greatest indication of stagnant things are becoming."
"yea no this is a good point. eve if it had to just be that conc will pod any player it has to get involved with. xd well just don't get involved with concord!but no like you say surely a certain negative standing could allow it and allow other players to do it with no concord retribution. because of course just allow concord pure rights to pod would probably lead to people finding ways to get some one to attack them just to get them conced."
"obviously it wouldn't be based on the \"i just ganked someone, concord will now shoot my ship\" code, that would be ludicrous. no, it would have to just be an extension of the current system where you get shot at by faction police if you're in a ship below a certain security level, and by concord below another level (i think -2.5 and -5 respectively? i dunno), only extended to take the pod as well."
"go gank new players in the starter systems, see what happens to you."
"that would be a very welcome change. biggest problem is that concord protect reds in pods, that should be changed."
"see -10 in pod, grab sebo'ed interceptor, destroy pod, scoop corpse, rinse, repeat.there's your solution.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"i'm not going to read all the tears, but you miners realize you are probably safer in null sec right? and you get to mine those abc ores that will make you ten times as rich!"
"good god, it's not hard to avoid ganks like this.stop mining in a system with hundreds of people in it. go find a quiet highsec system. watch local. see someone new pop in? check sec status, and either dock up or go to a new system if it's in the negative. don't want to do that? at least be aligned and ready to warp the second a new ship pops up on grid. dscan until you know they aren't there to gank to check for probes. too much work? welcome to the same **** everyone else with a ship they don't want to lose has to do when they undock in it.stop trying to have the game changed to fit your needs when all you need to do is ****ing pay attention."
"wolodymyr,almost everything you posted is either covered by my proposal and linked thread in f&i, or it's something i wouldn't have a strong objection to such as your third point on seeing friendlies.going point by point:1. remove local as an intel tool: not exactly the approach in this proposal, but obviously i support this in terms of intent.2. improved dscan: definitely. however, the devil is in the details, i posted a number of ideas on this in the f&i thread. the general idea was a sliding scale between 3 factors, where more of one would mean less of one of the other two. they were distance of scan, angle of scan in degrees, and frequency of the scan in terms of how often the automated scan would activate.3. friendlies automatically being identified in scans: not one of my ideas, but it seems reasonable. at least for corp/alliance. i think anything which discourages blueing lots of other entities is a good thing, so i'm not sure i would want it to apply to blues, but it wouldn't be the end of the world to have it either.4. \"the new intel tool should be entirely based on in game mechanics.\": i'm not sure what this means in terms of your suggestions since you've only talked about an improved dscan and having local chat lose all it's intel functions. in terms of my proposal the time a ship shows up in local is based on ship class which while simplistic gives advantage to those ships i believe ought to have an advantage frigates and destroyers primarily, and not those ships i believe should not have this advantage such as tech 3s, unless of course their covops in which case they won't show at all if they stay cloaked.5. \"by basing detection on g[a]me mechanics this makes ships in the scout role more important.\": my proposal does exactly this, and a ship as used in your example, an interceptor being a frigate is the class of ship that benefits the most.6. cloaked ships being detectable and a means to hunt them: agreed, but only after local chat intel is gone and with nothing similar replacing it. also the detection system must not enhance gate camps in any significant way. ideally the means of hunting should fall into the same type of gameplay as cloaked ships themselves, cat and mouse, sneaky gameplay. shadowbane did this reasonably well.7. improved gui for intel tools that doesn't take up lots of space: yeah of course, who wouldn't want that?8. sov upgrades to improve intel functions: my proposal has that.9. ship detection in the new intel tool to be time based, and eventually ships always showing on scan: my proposal definitely has the first part. the second part of always eventually showing up in the intel tool is the one point you made that is not part of my proposal and i'm unlikely to rush to add it either. i think cloaked ships should be discoverable and huntable by very specialized ships in keeping with the cat and mouse type gameplay. however, i don't think cloaked ships should show up in local or it's replacement.really apart from the last point what you listed as what you want to see and what i proposed aren't that far apart as far as i can see, like a lot of things the details matter, but yeah i like most of your list."
"so i take it you avoid wormhole space like the plague then?bias is not a good idea if your going to be against delayed local.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"any other suggestions?procurerthe procurer is the smallest mining barge, and the easiest to attain the skills to fly. the major drawback to the procurer is its limited mining capacity of only 1 strip miner or ice harvester module. a single strip miner can only mine 560m3 every 3 minutes, less than what most other ships can mine with miner iis. few people use procurers, as an additional 4 days of training will get you the retriever barge, which is much better for mining. similar its t2 variant the unique electronics suite gives it the ability to be the only ship in ore's extensive fleet to be able to fit and use a strip gas harvester for inner stellar gas's, making it ideally suited for gas mining. mining barge skill bonus: 3% better yield for strip miners per level. role bonus: able to equip strip miner, strip gas harvester and ice harvester modules. mining barge skill bonus: 3% better yield for strip miners.role bonus: 250% bonus strip gas cloud harvester yield but 25% penalty to strip gas cloud harvester duration able to equip strip miner, strip gas cloud harvester and ice harvester modules. this way the bonus item doesn't disrupt players that are already mining with the ship, but allows the bonus to be added if the player should train the skill.strip gas cloud harvester i specialized laser to extract gas from harvestable gas clouds. cpu: 12000cpu powergrid: 10mw mining amount: 250 m3 cycle time: 240 seconds required skills gas cloud harvesting 1 mining 4building materialsmodule / strip minerstrip miner i x1module / mining lasergas cloud harvester i x1material / mineraltritanium x24,417pyerite x18,941mexallon x7,728nocxium x1,338megacyte x262 strip gas cloud harvester ii (invention only) specialized laser to extract gas from harvestable gas clouds. cpu: 12000cpu powergrid: 10mw mining amount: 500 m3 cycle time: 120 seconds required skills gas cloud harvesting 5 mining 4planetary commodities / refined commoditiesmechanical parts x5building materialsmodule / gas cloud harvesterstrip gas cloud harvester i x1module / gas cloud harvestergas cloud harvester ii x1material / mineralmexallon x1,073morphite x17commodity / toolr.a.m.- energy tech x1commodity / general electronic parts 6commodity / construction componentsphoton microprocessor x3laser focusing crystals x2 -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------"
"which was done at one point? all of it?"
"maybe..."
"honestly why?i get why in your terms but lets be honest here.they move way too damn fast to focus on.....even a space bomb is too quick.unless you want to watch in tidi mode.================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"some of long range missiles still fliying long enough :)in tidi mode... it's must be glorious"
"quick update on day 1 of the summit. sorry if this is a bit of a teaser of a post, but we don't want to spoil the minutes.csm intro / white paperwe discussed a broad range of procedural topics, including reforms to the csm election process and possible other structural changes. there will be an internal discussion of these things followed by a public discussion period before anything is decided.we gave the new meeting recording / remote conference system its first live test, and it seems to work well. we also discussed and will implement some ways to improve the level of detail in the minutes.what is a stakeholder?a very productive discussion with senior producer unifex about the role of the csm in the development process, in particular release planning. during the next development cycle, some test projects will be undertaken to determine the best way to fold csm input into the process at earlier stages.winter 2012 / eve futurebroad discussion of what ccp plans to do in the near, medium and long-term, including some preparation for discussions later in the summit. some very interesting stuff is going into the pipeline.the state of incarnawe got a briefing on the goals ccp has for incarna. large parts of this in the minutes may well be nda'd, but it was a very positive meeting.live eventsclosing out the day, we had a session devoted to finding ways to encourage more live events, both ccp-created and also player-created (such as hulkageddon). some interesting stuff imho.the final event was an excellent indian dinner at a restaurant fast becoming a csm favorite. some of the ideas that came up in conversation were brilliant, demented, or both -- the one about a special event during the alliance tournament being in the latter category.ccp unifex was sending email notes to himself during the entire dinner, which allowed those seated nearby to consume more than their fair share of the naan."
"sorry if this is a nay sayer post.but what was the purpose of this again?because i literally saw nothing of productive or constructive use in this post....it might as well been completely ignored or dropped.i mean all you said is you came...you saw....stuff was done but we can't tell you that...so we won't....you ate...and you left.that's it...nothing else.very very poor.what's the point of saying anything at all if you have literally nothing to say.negative? yeah....especially in light of recent events.ps: and shouldn't this be in jita park since there's literally no content to benefit assembly hall?================ stop the evemail spam!"
"it is a life signt, a reminder, that we as the playerbase are not fogotten by our elected council. i like it. keep on."
"if you like political bull##### posting and fluff with candies and ice creams with promises of unicorns and rainbows...sure.whatever floats your boat.... but i call bull####.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"good teaser update, i'll be sure to check the final minutes.- [img]"
"i am sorry that you are disappointed that, after 10 hours of meetings, a working dinner, and intense discussions late into the night, your sleep-deprived and jetlagged representatives could not produce a detailed multi-page synopsis of the meetings over breakfast and get it nda-vetted before doing the pre-meeting prep for day 2.given the >100 man-hours of effort that will go into the production of those detailed notes -- they are called minutes -- and your obvious burning need to read them, the only suggestion i can make is that you should run for the next csm, get elected, and attend the meetings in person. no doubt you will do a much better job of informing the community than the current bunch of incompetents.love and kisses,trebor"
"maybe you should learn to read before you respond.i got more information out of two-steps posts in jita park than the horse crap you slung here.all you've told us is you went to a meeting and dined and thats it.there is litterally no content.a simple \"we're posting the minutes soon so be patient with us\" would have been more productive than the tripe you posted there.this isn't jita park...we're not interested in your political grand standing and top hats with canes and monocles posturing.if your going to communicate...do so with constructive information and not fluff.attending \"100's of hours meetings\" would imply a hell of alot more content than the mere excuse of \"nda\".that's like posting a document with black bars painted on the page...why bother posting in the first place if that's all you got.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"ah, you gotta love your loyal fanbase"
"the way this works is that we are basically in meetings from about 0830 until 1800 local time with a few short breaks for three days straight. we then all head out to dinner for some ~real talk~ chill time with the devs where a lot of the stuff discussed during the day that we ran out of time for gets delved into more deeply. trebor managed to throw this quick summary together (as he always manages to do somehow) to give people at least a minimal update of our impressions of that day's sessions. after we all fly home, we'll start working on the minutes. while that is going on i will write up a blog that goes into a bit more detail about the summit as a whole. more info is coming, obviously, but as the summit progresses it seems like folks would want to know, at minimum, that things are going well and there have been no 'incarna-level' type events take place yet. v0v"
"which ones?"
"dude, for real? what was political about that. here's what i learned: csm election process and structure are being looked into, incarna discussons were started on day one, always good, more ccp/player hosted live events. and who doesn't like a dinner story. you should thank your god of preference that trebor is there and posting and not darius."
"hillarious....seriously..thats funny.mara - oh the bulk of the threads where people are actually discussing crap that should be in this forum....my point is theres something constructive going on over there.this is just grandstanding.oh sure...we are \"doing stuff\"ok....\"but we can't tell you what it is\"yeah....sure..... let us know when you actually start doing something. thanks. ================ stop the evemail spam!"
"look at the cfc member crying guys."
"sorry drake, i usually agree with most of what you say, but over the last couple of days you've started making yourself sound like a complete tool. you spent all that time trolling the other topic to say csm wasn't comunicative enough with us, and now that you got what you wanted your complaining that they were actually paying attention to the player base.. just grow up man, seriously. its nice to get an update from time to time, even if there isn't a great deal of content in it.\"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"i am as quick as anyone else to hold the csm's feet to the fire, but i call bull### on you, here.two step is secretary, and if he's putting out more informative posts that would be appropriate, that's his office.trebor is near-live blogging an nda'ed event. i think maybe you should cut him some slack here. save the condemnation for a case where it is deserved.thanks for the update, trebor."
"hey, trebor got a fan - of sorts.<<insert some waste of screen space here>>"
"thanks for the update trebor. keep it up."
"to paraphrase a previous statement you made to me about my right to have my say:perhaps you should be a csm for 6 months (minimum) before you make any suggestions on the way they work!i think most of us got plenty out of it and are glad to hear things are coming along well. and it state very clearly it was but a teaser. so i can only suggest that"
"nice writeup treb. as a side note, can you give greyscale, ytterbium, and other devs a spork with \"dev blogs are good\" engraved on them? just to remind them that dev blogs of changes are good."
"csm is constantly encouraging ccp to communicate more, and at the earliest possible stage in the process. i think you'll see more of this during the summer."
"drake, you seriously need to calm the **** down. you were one of the ones yelling the loudest about lack of csm communication.at least trebor took the time to let us know about some of the basics that were covered. in public speaking, or presentations, it's a little thing called a keyword outline. he let us know \"hey, here is some of the stuff discussed to keep you all in the loop, but i'll get to details once the minutes are done.\"that's a little thing called a professional courtesy. so shove a pacifier in it, and wait patiently like everyone else.and also, learn to read. he didn't say he attended 100's of hours of meetings.he said it will take 100's of man hours to comb through the detailed meeting notes to ensure there is no nda material in them.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"when are the minutes being released? a week? less? more? i'm looking for an estimate of posting date. i haven't followed the csm closely before so i don't have the schedules for the csm meetings listed anywhere. drake has always sounded a bit like a tool, this thread doesn't tell me anything other then you've had a meeting, i guess that that is important, but there is no meat in it.of course, teaser, yeah little meat implied. on a side note, is there anywhere on the ccp forums that csm post their platforms?"
"my point is communicaiton is pointless without content.thats it....oh sure hes flapping his gums.but thats all i'm seeing.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"i love how you get zero likes. your basiclly asking for less communcation from the csm. lol. well if you don't like it, keep your mouth shut so the rest of us can know what they are up too."
"you don't want to pvp? give me your stuff and biomass.wow, hello kitty online and various other \"friendly\" mmos are over i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"sorry. i just can't take people who use internet-abbreviations seriously.also, if they removed concord now, they'd lose thousands of subscribers."
"can someone link where ccp has stated conclusively how concord is supposed to work? or will this just be another \"i dont like gankers\" vs \"concords irrelevant\" threads?"
"yes, but if that were to happen, what difference will these bombers make other than making the already existing weapons against supercaps less effecient?i disagree with some of your points. mainly because even if these ideas never take flight, null-sec will still stagnate just like you described. supercaps will spawn more and more. there will be more supercap pilots as time progresses. if what you say is true, then with or without any new ideas, the status que will remain as it is. but let me ask you then: what is preventing one of the big alliances from taking over null-sec right now?let's for fun say that this supercap system limit is the way things are. with around 7500 systems, 2500 of them are wormholes and not sov related, by the 5000 remaining systems around 50% is npc controlled. so, an estimate is then 2500 systems which can be controlled. let's say you get one titan per 10 system and 3 moms per 5. that'll be 250 titans and 1500 scs. if you then take a look at this partial list of \"known\" supercap from eve24news link there should be around 471 titans and 1414 scs around. numbers may vary of course, since things blow up and get rebuild, not to mention that not every single supercap has been identified. would it not be better with just a little control that could be managed instead of limitless numbers that will eventually drown out everything?i shouldn't, but i did it anyway. what does that make me, other than ignorant? it makes me curious and helpful. i see people suffer, so i offer them a suggestion. that's what this is. these ideas are suggestions, but they are not demands. i do not claim any deeper knowledge of supers, thus i do not demand any changes to them. i simply offer helpful suggestions that other, more proficient and knowing people, can take, turn and toss around and perhaps use to come to a new solution. in short, must i be a meteorologists in order to look up upon a dark sky and say \"i think it's going to rain\"?besides, it's not like these \"reversals\" will doom you to eternal agony. unless you're a hero tackler. just saying."
"you've never fought supers, so you wouldn't know anything about who'd suffer. it used to be drop supers -> dd hics, command ships, logis -> blap whatever's left. no way to do a thing in supcaps. then the dds got nerfed, then the guns got nerfed, so that supers would need a support fleet, and were vulnerable to subcaps. you want to remove the need for a support fleet, and remove the vulnerability to subcaps, putting us right back to where we were when the nc got steamrolled.what else do you want to bring back? aoe doomsday? or even better, remote doomsday?"
"no, i've never fought supers, but i presume that you have, right? if yes, then why not try to make something constructive of this?so far, the only thing you have done is take one look at one part of my usefullness section and ignored the rest. so much for useful posts from someone who seems to know alot. and please, don't presume to know all about my intentions. what i'd like to see is multi-billion isk warbeasts not getting cornered and captured by one or two lone people in some random system and then it's offically game over. from my view, i don't really see that as fun or an awe-inspiring moment. basicly, if you look at it, what exactly can supers do today that a regular strong sub-cap fleet can't? my point is, why ever bring supers if they are good for nothing? as far as i can see, the only use they have is destroying carriers and dreads, which is quite the freudian prospect, paying upwards around 20-70 billion just to stop two kinds of ships.do be a dear and tell me exactly where i mentioned the \"vulnerabillity to all sub-cap fleets must disappear now!\" in my first post. as far as i know, i only mentioned hero tacklers as a target."
"been flying in the geminate area recently and have noticed something that has really seemed to proliferate - sbu spam.that is, the sov holding alliance places sbus on all gates within a system forcing any attacking entity to destroy those sbus, then put up sbus, then assault a system. this is undesirable in my view as it creates more structure shooting and makes assaulting sov even more difficult than it already is.how can it be prevented? i think the only way to stop this sbu spam practice is to render all sov based benefits inaccessible when a system is sbud. no beacons, no jbs, no cyno jammers, all upgrades rendered useless, etc, etc. stations and station services can remain accessible in the interest of enabling pvp."
"honestly, i've been out there before and gem changes hands so often and has so much fighting going on that sbuing your own system is the only way to prevent constantly having to grind sbus yourself. it's not horribly unreasonable for that to be going on.also, if things worked like you suggest, people would sbu just to harass alliances (especially jb systems) and would use sbus to take down cyno-jammers (rather than having to actually fight the cyno-jammer pos itself). i think ccp had the right idea when they kept sbus from affecting the sov upgrades."
"i personally agree with this. just think, everyone would have a prime opportunity to **** in goonswarm's corn flakes.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"it's got nothing to do with goons you moran. it's got to do with a part of the game (sbu spam) which reduces the chance of a fight* and promotes blobbing**.* we can't drop into system with an 8-man gang and drop an sbu to provoke a fight. we can shoot one of the n sbus currently in place while the sov holder lols knowing we can't even carry enough ammo in our 8 ships to pop all his sbus.** if we do want to attack sov we have to start with 50-100 dudes shooting sbus. how many will the defender bring? more to be sure."
"oops, sorry, you're quite correct. my mistake.perhaps the license should exclude deadspace?"
"i used to mine several years ago, but moved on to missions (more isk) until they nerfed salvage, lived in wh space for a while. now i answer ctas and bash poses with the rest of my alliance mates in null.i just think that things are slanted a bit in favor of the ganker. i want to provide some way, preferably through a combination of player roles, to even the odds a bit without buffing concord (which is actually the cause of the problem in the first place)."
"alright you misguided, inbred, self-absorbed, piece of walking human fecal excrement, let's break this down in simple words that you can wrap your tiny intellect around. i'm sure you don't have two misfiring synapses to rub together to jumpstart even the beginnings of a thought pattern without starting a fire in the big empty skull of yours. a \"license to jam\" in high sec would spell disasterous results for already easily exploited mechanics. let's break out an example, shall we?corp a wardecs corp b. corp b brings all of their friends in falcons with their jamming licenses. suddenly corp a can not do ****, even with aggression from being jammed, and suddenly, there goes the fleet. it will be like neutral rr all over again, which created nothing but ***pain.furthermore, your weak argument of \"they'll have aggression on the jammer.\" are you ****ing serious? so let's say we get multiple ships that get jamming licences, and decide to all go jam the same target at the same time. tell me, how are they able to aggress? chances are, they won't be able to.but i wouldn't expect you, the child that should have been the load blasted on the wall after a quick pull out to understand that. furthermore, who's going to take a noob npc alt seriously? stick around for a while and stop ****posting, or even better, just stop posting altogether, and biomass, because honestly, we'd hate for your blatant stupidity to rub off on any of the rookies that are actually worth something.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"holy #### jack...since when the hell did you start posting rational sound reasoning and keep it reasonably civil enough not to say the f word every other word?damn...nice work.*applauds*well said!seriously! i'm stunned!================ stop the evemail spam!"
"five weeks in the hole changes a man.in all seriousness, ****ing nco training.and usually there was something rational in my paragraphs loaded with belligerence and hatred. but i think it's because i actually have the proper balance of nicotine and caffeine in my system for once.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"at last an actual argument. thank you.my only answer to that is what's stopping corp a from bringing a bucket of jammers themselves? but yeah, that does sound like it's opening the wrong door. so how do we nerf concord the right amount?"
"to answer your question, absolutely nothing.however, it would turn into neutral ecm-a-thon instead of neutral rr-a-thon.so either way, it is a stupid ****ing idea.this just needs to be locked until someone can come up with something actually worth a damn.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"this....ps. i laughet so hard i pissed my self...... great post."
"sounds like it...keep it up....seriously...your going places.================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"reasons why this is a terrible idea: 1.) incursion griefing... get a license for a high-sec incursion system, find a nice blingy fleet running the incursion... jam their logies... scoop the blingy loot... profit... 2.) griefing miners... get a license for an ice mining system... periodically decloak and jam the ice miners, which will negate their entire mining cycle... 3.) grief the ever loving hell out of mission runners... scan them down, and permajam them, preventing them from running the mission. this is very easy to do to marauders. if you want to attack people in highsec, either declare war on them, or suicide gank them... i don't see how implementing this would be any good for the game.."
"what is this multi boxer thing which i hear mentioned. at teh moment i'm hacving to tab out of eve then click on my other open client and its just a bit annoying. is there any way to efectively play both accounts at the same time so i can say shoot at red crosses while salvaging?"
"the google-fu is weak in this one.================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"i never understood why people owe the guys shooting them a killmail.i have advocated for an insta-pop self-destruct years ago. the pilot doing it is not winning anything. they lose their ship. it should be their sovereign decision whether or not they blow up their ship. it is their asset, they make the decision.the people blowing the ship up deny the pilot the use of a ship/pod. this is as it should be, this is eve. losing ships is the birth right of the pod pilot. at the same time they don't owe the people blowing up their ship anything. if they decide to self-destruct and they click 'yes' on the prompt, it should happen instantaneously.if that denies the party/parties opposite a killmail, hey, it's eve. live with it."
"the next best thing short of removing kb.the main reason for risk aversion these days isn't actually the isk, which is easy enough to come by, but rather messing up one's kb stats. a sad state of affair."
