"if anything, update the nebulae in wh space so it looks all cool and shiny like the rest of eve. we still have the old crappy nebulae with new cool pulsar, mag, etc effects and the contrast is rather odd."
"1.0"
"you sir made one of the best ideas that could really improve my eve lifestyle+1"
"jack. i hope you don't mind me linking to this in my humble eve blog. i gave you credit for the idea. i just wanted to share it and get it out there. i hope to bring more recognition of it via the #tweetfleet and any other means i can. again, great idea. jack dant for csm7???? harri out"
"thumbs up"
"totally agreed, 10/10."
"supportedhowever, to be fair to the pos owner, it should be a week afterall, it could be computer died, ice storm nuked the power supply, player got the flu with projectile vomiting, wife threw belongings on the curb and filed for divorce, etc or, it could be you won the lottery and went on a partying binge (til the money was spent in a week), you pulled a thorn from the foot of a supermodel and she professed undying love and sex (for a week), or you ran for local office, won, and then got a swollen head planning your eventual presidential campaign (for a week), etcif any of those things put you out of access to the internet for more than a week you've got problems more serious than the loss of some pixels, or more enjoyable than the preservation of some pixels but you should have at least a week to try to recover from rl misfortune or fortune"
"supported"
"hacking modules are a nice idea i would extend this idea to all stuff which is anchored around but offlineeg weapons without shield hanging around with out a pos its not worth the time to repair those and unanchor because they dont give enough isk at all a hacking module would come in handy+1 supported<U+266B> when your ship gets blown to bits <U+266A> <U+266B> and you lose your faction fits <U+266A> \<U+263B>/ don't worry <U+266A> <U+266B> <U+266A> <U+266B> <U+266B> <U+266A> <U+266B> <U+266A> be happy \<U+263B>/"
"this is a great idea!"
"and what if you were in a car wreck and in a coma for two weeks? where do we draw the line?don't forget that the pos has to be offline first which means either you weren't keeping it fueled, or you were gone long enough for it to run out of fuel, be found offline, and hacked for 3 days i don't care if you were marooned on a desert island with just a volleyball for company for a week, it's your failure to be prepared that costs you the posnot a three-day timer"
"don't you be bringing in stanely into this================ stop the evemail spam!"
"currently the implant process contitutes a significant isk sink to the game with the lp payments going to the npcs, how do you propose to balance the impact to the economy with simply removing them?side note: maybe add an insurance process for implants akin to ships? in theory also an extra helpful game isk sink. this would help to irradicate some of the risk aversion associated with implant use."
"you have a valid point. ccp proposed the idea to the csm so i bet they have an idea ready. personally i would say that removing learning implants will encourage more pvp. the increased loss of ships will spur the purchase of new ships which in turn moves the economy all around. it is quite possible that the removal of learning implants itself can be the payoff. i know many people who will refuse to pvp because they have a billion isk in implants in their head they don't want to lose and then replace. take that out of the equation and they would go out and either kill a bunch of other ships or lose their own.i would say no to the insurance idea. we really don't need to break that anymore than it already is. frankly i am to the point where i believe insurance shouldn't even exist. what company in their right mind insures something that is being taken out to be deliberately put in danger with such a high risk of damage?"
"you have to be *really* unlucky to lose a pod in empire space. a billion isk in implants isn't exactly that much, a hg slave set will take up a fair portion of that (if not the whole thing), and people pvp with those ...taking out learning implants won't make people pvp ... they'll then cry that they can't pvp because of how expensive it is to replace their ships (which you lose a lot more than pods)."
"the buying and trading of ships only transfers isk around it is not a sink to the game.so like combat ships?personally i think the suggestion of insurance for implants is well placed and would contribute a much needed significant drain to the isk pot in the game."
"the only problem i see is what would happen to pirate implants? you guys better post some ideas, how to fix them.they could be simply moved to 6-10 slots (omega removed), but with removal of their +3 att stat they would become kinda weak, no? they could be boosted, by replacing their +att bonus with something else or increasing their other bonus (not recommended).1-5 slots could be left untouched eventually, just for pirate implants purpose - is it worth?i personally would like pirate implants to become some kind of permanent boosters, that \"enchants\" any other hardwire implants with their 2nd effect. so basically you could buy, lets say, snakes and enchant your 6-10 hardwires with them. they both would be lost with pod ofc.and good topic is good topic, i support."
"i strong do not support this.implants represent a risk vs reward....these should be kept in eve.i fly with 3+'s in 0.0 and 4+in high. i balance that out according the reward vs risk i take.giving everyone 5+ would be silly."
"i kinda like this idea. but there is one huge downside. attribute implants are a huge isk sink. many many players believe a full set of +5 implants is an absolute must. personally i run with +4s as i can get a full set of +4s for the price of a single +5. but as i said they are a big isk sink.with the inflation i have seen in game in the last two years(mostly over the last 6 months) isk sinks need to be added not taken away, or we risk inflation raising the entry level of general game play above what a new player can afford."
"really? i recall seeing a lot of threads about people being ganked in highsec. heck i have been podded on a gate from smartbombs in lowsec before while traveling in a shuttle. some people who live in wh space run with high value implants and avoid pvp at all costs. i am sure there are those that do the same in nullsec. but yes...people will always find new reasons to ***** and complain about something.i haven't had any implants in my character for 2 months now. i live and run out of wh space. i have no jumpclone option. i could spend another 400 mil for a set of +4's but i just don't care to. the bonus to my training time just isn't that valuable to me. each to their own."
"can you clarify for me then how buying new implants is an isk sink? every implant i have purchases has been from another player...not an npc."
"the implants are sourced from lp stores, and cost a certain amount of lp and isk. \"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" - abrazzar"
"ganked in hisec != podded. running into a discogeddon on a gate is \"unlucky\". i never said *everyone* pvp'd with hg slaves ... but there are people who do. it all depends on what they can afford to lose."
"i support this because it's a pain in the ass to replace them when i die (which i do, a lot)!"
"i think you need to realize that not every pod gets away in highsec. people are podded in highsec probably a lot more than you believe them to be. and luck has nothing to do with it.ah...i don't exactly use the lp store. i thought they could be created from blueprints. that makes sense then. i suppose more isk sinks are always needed so removing learning implants would create a loss in isk sinks. i may have to rethink my support of this thread."
"ok, there's also the \"pvp newbie\" crowd ... we need ccp diagoras to get us the stats on ship losses overall in hisec, and compare that to subsequent pod losses to really get a decent metric. however, pods insta-warp off, so you should be able to gtfo to a safe (or the star, or a planet) most of the time."
"i would agree. the only way to truly know would be the stats. i agree that while pods insta warp that people should be able to get away but insta locking ships and smartbombs sometimes prevent this. i won't mention the afk deaths because those ones deserve to be podded."
"on the issue of smartbombs, it's pretty rare that you're going to find someone with those in pvp situations. much less so in hisec, because if you hit a non wt, or the station, or a gate gun ... and concord is going to come and say \"hi\". i mean, sure, it's possible that a domi or other droneboat may have one or two fit, but you have to be really careful about using them... and the range isn't exactly far.insta-locking ships still take a second or so to lock you, and that really comes down to luck as to who ticks first (the person trying to gtfo, or the point on the instalock)."
"not supported.really, implants prevent ship to ship combat? so what. pvp is not and never limited ship destruction. your argument is immediately invalid. every aspect of the game is confrontation.industry implants. i need to compete against other producers of blueprints. implants for copy speed, material research and time research. and why would i risk these on a roam? is the intention that these too be removed because a vocal minority fails to understand levels of adversal play? i choose to take the risk of implants, for a greater reward. is the sandbox so limited for some, they can only see the kicking of castles?your insipid argument could be extended to expensive mindlinks being risk adverse? or an expensive set used for probe scanning and exploration? remove those too, because these pilots choose not engage ship to ship?so where does it end?"
"wow you totally didn't read the fact that i left out hardwiringsmight as well biomass your forum alt and roll a new one! \"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" - abrazzar"
"+1 trial only"
"supported.because this is going to be a big problem when people from dust start trying to register names in this shared universe."
"+1i actually want my own name that i took with a trial account attached to an email, at a place i am no longer employed. i think.but if names were freed up, i could recover it :-d"
"i recently got a friend to subscribe to eve, but i don't think he'll stay. he hears about all the neat things going on ingame and got to see some of the stuff i do too. he likes what he sees an wants to do the same, but i see the excitement and enthusiasm melt away from his face when he learns he can't do anything except run missions and mine. he doesn't like to hear that he can't do this or that because his skillpoints are too low.i'm doing the best i can to encourage and mentor him, but i'm afraid it's just not enough. he's already fallen into the habit of setting skills in the queue and not logging in. he's told me that he feels like a fifth wheel when we play together. that his actions have no impact one way or another. eventually he's going to ask himself why he's paying for a game that takes far too long to do anything an he'll just unsub.the new player experience needs drastic improvement. it needs to give new players more options and things they can actually do with such low sp. and yes i still believe ccps nerf to starting sp was a mistake. they reduced the amount of starting sp by 94%."
"there's plenty to do with low skillpoints if you have an imagination and that includes valid isk making.the person that responded saying there is no 'story' to the game is not only flat out lying but goes on to demonstrate a complete lack of understanding of the creative opportunity available in new eden.having said that, this is a worthless thread that has no relevance to the csm other than as an idle aside."
"one thing that comes up time and again is getting noobs into player corps.most small player corps won't touch them which only leaves the larger alliances with specific noob corps.i don't think the root of the problem is the player corps, i'm sure there are loads of small corps that would love to expand, but they have no way of telling wether a so called \"noob\" is actaully a noob or a veteran alt looking to scam their corp or assess them as a potential target for a war dec.not sure how you can fix the latter, but you could go some way towards it by altering the basic corp setup. possible enhancements colud include a specific \"probationer\" role and/or a \"probationers hanger\". this would make restricting access to corp stuff much easier, and possibly encourage smaller corps to take on noobs and provide mentoring."
"i don't know about that. i think if this thread has any value it's to illustrate how important the npe is and how it still needs a lot of work to attract and/or retain new players. i believe this should be a high priority for ccp."
"1.0"
"-1 not supported.if someone killing himself thats why generating to killmail for anyone else ?i understand pl want more e-peen and officers loot when they using supcap blob.maybe the supcaps after sd, could throw a couple of scrap metal to them."
"be happy it died, you just cost them billions (for a supa)sd should never create kill mail. its a good way of saying a final fu to the 300man blob that just jumped you. longer timers yes!insurance payout should still happen but at 50% of its total \"insurance contract\" payout. because lets face it we all know that supercap payouts are laughable anyway compared to the cost of the ship its self. not forgetting the fittings.on a different note stop crying about people sding. like i already stated, its dead isn't it? that's what you was aiming for"
"not everyone is just killing stuff for the sake of it. some of us want at that super cap x-type loot pi<U+FFFD>ata.[center]\"i don't troll, i just give overly blunt responses that annoy people who are wrong but don't want to admit it. it's not my fault that people have sensitive feelings\" -mxzf[/center]"
"i believe all caps should shoot caps and structures not rifters."
"and whats the cost difference between a dread and a titan?"
"what is the point to your question? it's a matter of the size of ship hitting another ship of a much smaller size. cost really has nothing to do with it. while a titan should never be able to hit a moving rifter, a rifter should not be able to kill a titan."
"ok first things firstthe idea is any form of manual ship control that has a tactical impact.now the wasd thing was an example that was put there as something that most people would be able to comprehend.so lets try a different approach since people seem to have trouble seperating the inherent implication of first person twitch play versus what i am actually talking about which is tactical movement controlso lets go with a better example of what i am talking about though some people may not have played the game that i am drawing the example from.there was a series of games under the title of \"homeworld\"this game featured a movement command system that worked well for the existing conditions such as the server tick someone mentioned and would allow quick tactical commands that fell in line even with things like time dialation.but the game and the ships executed such commands at their own speed.eve already contains a tactical overlay system, so it is not such a be stretch to have them enhance it with a system for issuing manual movement commands.this could even be implemented in a staggered manner.first offering the control element as a modification to the existing tactical overlay systemthen later they could look at working out if it would be possible for objects and other ships intercept fire if it is blocking line of fire/effect between the target and attacker.and if they felt it would be beneficial they could later consider things like limited fire arc and such. but that for me is more a whimsical thing.so, please get off the \"first person flight sim\" wagon since that is not what i am talking about.and as far as such a system favoring one type of player over another or giving some kind of unfair advantage. i would like to hear your arguements on possible ways a system as i have just described could be abused or how it might grant said unfair advantage."
"they should make pi like dwarf fortress too right?pfffffffffft"
"i normally dismiss these threads, in fact i can<U+FFFD>t believe it has come back already i thought we just got rid of one.that said people talking about homeworld and strategy games like c&c got me thinking.we have engine trails that in effect represent where we have just been, would it be possible to extend a line from the front of the ship representing its flight path, the line could be in proportion to the speed of the ship and if you had say three way points on the flight path that could be manipulated in 3d in a similar manner to the probe interface perhaps that may give a more tactical element.again though, it could soak up a lot of dev time and change eve perhaps in a direction i am not so keen on i certainly do not support twitch gameplay."
"trouble with comparing it to homeworld is that in homeworld, you gave the ships \"basic\" commands (go over there and shoot that). once they got there and started shooting, the game took over and did all the work of ensuring the bad guys were in the firing arc of your ships (as ships had to be pointing the \"right way\" to line up the shots).iirc, the only ships that had \"trouble\" with firing arcs were the interceptors/fighters and cruisers. those ships (unless you put them in \"sphere\") always had to do fly-by runs (kinda like stealth bombers). everything else got into range and pretty much stayed still (except ion cannon frigates, which had to track the whole damn ship to keep a bead on the enemy) ... unless you were doing tactical moves to get some of your fleet outside the firing arcs of the other fleet.compare that to eve, where all the ships have turrets and 100% coverage, fleet engagements don't need the tactical manoeuvring to get behind one of the bigger ships, where it doesn't have any gun coverage... so things can stay a lot more static."
"+1 i suppose drones may be included too"
"not a bad idea at all. maybe even a quick and easy fix. who knows?+1"
"currently salvaging someone else's wreck doesn't trigger an aggression timer unless you also loot it. i'd like this changed, and i'd like to be allowed to blow people up without losing standings or having concord get upset, if they come and salvage my wreck, or my mission. i don't mind if someone else wants to salvage my mission when i'm not doing it, but when i have a friend who is already on it, i'd like to be able to punish someone for trying to race them through it.i don't see how this would punish newbs at all, and it brings more non-suicidal pvp to high-sec. it doesn't add any additional bating techniques either, because if you're leaving wrecks behind, you're likely leaving loot as well, so if someone wanted to loot jack you, they can already try to bait you that way."
"you realise the actual objective of most ninja-salvagers is not to get the salvage/loot right?but hey, i might even +1 this, as it will breathe life back into ninja-salvaging.read: more foolish/trigger-happy 'bears getting their pve bling-barges smashed into junk, and maybe more officer-mods for me!"
"nerf to a valid starter profession and yet more carebear greed.not a new idea and discussed to death already. please come up with something new or don't bother."
"this again? for the 20 millionth time...ccp has stated on numerous occasions that salvaging is working as intended and will not be changed. wrecks do not belong to you. /thread"
"so many times in the past threads like this have popped up and the standard response from ccp is that salvage is working as planned, it belongs to whoever gets it into their hold first. that isn't going to change."
"do you even know what the word salvage means??? have you even bothered to look at the thousands of posts about this. i suggest you do a little research before posting here and making yourself look like a complete moron.oh, and i'll just leave these here:by gm ytterbium: \"players are still completely free to salvage other pilot wrecks at will, no matter if they belong to the same corporation or not and doing so is not considered as an exploit.\"by ccp mitnal\"salvaging is a mini-profession within eve and does not constitute stealing.\"by ccp prism x\"sadly, i've already explained the whole shebang a couple of times already and have heard no discussions as to changing the ownership of salvage. things are working as they were designed and i do believe we're quite happy about what the introduction of salvaging has done for us.\"by gm faolchu\"this is an intended game mechanic and is in no way an exploit. people salvaging your missions npcs or the player you just blew up are doing nothing wrong. the players are salvaging what is effectively floating rubbish in space and concord places no value on this wreckage.\"eve is a harsh place you won't always have everything go your way, its a do or die world and people do what they can to get along. if salvaging some wreckage gets them a few more isk someone will do it, it doesn't matter who just blew it up.\"by ccp prism x\"if you're surprised as to why the server does not consider it your stuff, it's because it's a mini profession designed for people who want to roam and look for salvage, not to further increase the revenue from mission grinding.. i doubt anyone with a perspective thinks we need to high-sec increase mission grinding any further.\"eve is a really hostile game. we love how hostile it is.. we never meant for it to be a breeze.\"jint hikaru - miner / salvager / explorer / spacebum in the beginning the universe was created. this has made a lot of people very angry and been widely regarded as a bad move."
"nice collection of quotes there. really sums it all up. i really do think this is about people needing a shift in expectations. salvage is not the posession of the person who blew the ship up. if you accept that then you can move on. if it upsets you that someone is salvaging ships you blew up then stop doing your mission for a bit. simply warp off. a \"ninja\"-salvager in a probe can't / doesn't want to do a level 4 mission. they'll scan down another battleship. you have a week to do a level 4 so come back later.or.. you can try being a ninja-salvager too and see if you get enjoyment out of it! or try baiting the salvager and get a fight! same works with can-flippers. i heard about a can flipper in a gulfonodi belt. pretended to mine. he fliped my tin. i got a battlecruiser 10'000km off the belt - dscan to only get the belt - waited - saw him - warped in. and i lost my battlecruiser! but the fight was ace and there was \"gf\" in local and lols.but what you mustn't do is qq. because it feeds them!!!!"
"where have you guys been lately? seems as the months went on, the involvement from the csm became less and less. i recall seeing treabor and a few others post from time to time but that's about it. the assembly hall is designed specifically for the csm to receive input from the players. as a csm member it seems like you would be more active on the forums and more so in assembly hall.by this i don't mean sarcastic idiot humor as your reply to everything. you should be providing your own feedback, encouraging discussion and development of ideas. yes that means you mittani. especially you.and yes this belongs in ah."
"this also goes out to the future csm members...new and old. please take more part in the assembly hall. doing so may even cut down on some of the repeat posts and trolling that occurs here."
"to be fair, mittens did pipe up to let us all know how man-pretty he thinks he is, but that was over in general:"
"sorry spencer but a thread like this is going to get you nothing but flamed. you don't want to be placing bounties...it is pointless. you are just giving them money. find a good alliance willing to help you out and join them. make friends and stick with em for safety. stop letting pirates kill you.welcome to eve and best of luck."
"hire mercs or better just ignore. join a 0.0 corp, make some serious isk.<U+266B> when your ship gets blown to bits <U+266A> <U+266B> and you lose your faction fits <U+266A> \<U+263B>/ don't worry <U+266A> <U+266B> <U+266A> <U+266B> <U+266B> <U+266A> <U+266B> <U+266A> be happy \<U+263B>/"
"presets for fleets is fine idea. also i think should be added a dialog for pilots to pick wing/squard to join when entering a fleet."
"i haven't found \"supported\" button, so i just post here to see it again."
"1- does you mine if there is an neutral player using a sb in your system? new pos system new sov system"
"ok, removing your trolling and talking about tactics of defensehow do you guys deal with it? like if there is an sb fleet cloaked on your lvl5 industrial system, and your industry is shut down? for example. new pos system new sov system"
"well, my opinion here is that there should be increased pvp and increased risks, so:1) this is a valid point of view, although hotdrops are good, they heat up the fight, and they should continue the way they are in my opinion, since they scale the fight to higher levels. and it would be hard to balance this without reducing the pvp level of the game... don't you think the same? 2) true. although there are always the ships that log-off in the system and the danger could always came from the nearest system or from a wh, it is never 100% safe... and for now the only way to get a cloaked ship killed is for bad timing at gates or incompetence... this makes hunting for a cloaked ship that enters in the system boring...3) 100% correct! new pos system new sov system"
"i believe that only a select few should have the authority to create a new thread in the assembly hall. either a csm who has had an issue brought to their attention or someone who has been given the authority to post their well thought out and discussed idea for a proposal from the features and ideas discussion forum.anyone should be able to voice their concern, approval or opinion in any threads that have been opened but not just open their own thread \"willy nilly\""
"i agree. most of the problem stems from trolls and peoples flat out unwillingness to discuss issues and tendancy to simply flame someone instead. pretty much every proposal i have made on the new forums so far is a proposal i have made previously on the old forums that already went through i&d and yet i am continuously told by people to submit to i&d. guess what...already did that. not doing it again just to appease one or two people. but you are right...there is a lot of repeat threads and random stuff posted to ah. frankly if everybody just ignored the threads they don't like instead of flaming and ranting about it the thread would die and dissapear sooner. but people keep bumping these thread to the top because they just cant keep their opinions to themselves. posting to the topic once is fine to say you don't support it but to continually return and just flame is a problem.honestly (to the op) it is likely that what you ask for will not happen. recently i just started blocking people and just ignoring the threads i have nothing good or constructive to say in. i find it helps a lot for myself at least."
"where do i apply to be an isd moderator of csm forums so i can turn assembly hall into a posting utopia by enacting one. strict. law.?"
"i don't think it would be that simple. likely you have to follow very strict rules of your own and won't be allowed to do whatever you want with peoples posts."
"anyone have an opinion on the second part of my proposal regarding capital ships?"
"you may notice that i specifically wasn't talking about the ishkur, ishtar, or dominix. these three ships are fine in as much as drone boats are considered <U+FFFD>working as intended<U+FFFD> in the current state of game mechanics.yes, this is why you see fleets of drone boats rampaging the systems of eve. yeah, the myrmidon and dominix can be active tanking monsters, but this is an extremely niche role. this change could help move these ships out of this extremely limited niche and encourage their usage in larger fleet engagements.a major issue is that both the cruiser and battlecruiser hulls for drone boats require not only training into two different weapon systems (guns and drones) but these ships are the only ships of their kind that also require training into a battleship size weapon (heavies/sentries) in order to maximize their potential. in addition, this \"potential\" is significantly below their counterparts when you consider all the issues and easy counters to drones.the change included in this proposal is intended to help encourage new players into training into drone boats outside of the pve environment as well as improve the usage of gallente hulls in the pvp environment by making more ships competitive with their minmatar and amarr counterparts in both solo and fleet engagements."
"what a bunch of butthurt from supercarrier club pilots whining to selene. oh but i can't use the fighterbombers anymore whaaaaaaa.bullshit, you just can't use them to kill everything now, you can still use them in much more limited role.no respecs, not for noobs who want to dump mining skills that they used.no respecs, not for petulent supercarrier pilots that used they drone skill for how many months to kill everything in sight and now can still use them but just not to kill everything in sight.no respecs, to use the meme, cry more."
"this"
"oh where is your support for that - the bolded and underlined part? simply stating something does not make it so. you don't have any support for that statement. it is your worry, not mine and not that of almost all of the people who have responded to your proposal.so you try refuting a statement that the majority are opposed to respecs by saying no a majority support respecs. ok, where's your polling data. your supposed majority is a lie.we don't have polling data about what the majority of eve players would prefer. regardless, whatever the majority opinion might be, this is not a political election where the majority opinion matters and will determine the course ccp follows. it is a business, and they have to calculate the depth of feling of whatever portion of customer base feels either way. the important consideration is which way will the game lose subscribers. will ccp lose tenuous new players who trained astrogeo 4, made some money mining for a while as noobs with their mining cruiser or retriever, and then went pvp and wish they could have that sp allocated in medium ac spec? will ccp lose a couple hundred butthurt supercarrier pilots who fotm chased when scs were ridiculously op and now want to dump fighter-bomber sp for titan sp? or, will ccp lose many varied and long-standing players who resent the change in the core game mechanics that could only favor fotm chasing and pouting brats? ccp will then ask how many players will we lose out of these groups with either path.one thing that is clear is ccp did the math after the shitstorm of protest with the incarna p2w fiasco. ccp learned that it can't **** up the game without provoking a response that will kill it. poeple did walk with their account renewals, until ccp apologized and refocused on the core game aspects. so, ask yourself, does ccp have a stable sp mechanic going that may result in some minor petulent or spoiled quitting by fotm fickle customers, or does ccp fear the shitstorm? i think the last protest to radical redesign of the core game mechanics showed that ccp does fear the shitstorm, and rightly so.btw, also ask yourself why the vast majority of the responses to your proposal have been negative? but you seem persistent, so i'm sure even while you profess to not be in favor of the concept behind your proposal you will continue to argue for it. have fun wasting your time. and may the sisters of eve (bow to the rp segment of the eve populace, whould i run for something?) have mercy on your soul if by some chance you are right because you will be rather unhappy with the sorry game that would result."
"hey i am only replying to this thread when someone else does. i am not bumping it needlessly. it is obvious it is mostly hated by those that browse these forums. you are more than welcome to not respond to this thread at all and let it die."
"1: then stop posting.2: stop playing \"the last word game\"you wont read...you wont listen...you won't think...you just guess...assume...and wildly speculate.that was the point of that wonderful wall of text.while i may not completely agree...at least its rational...and it makes sense....unlike the tripe you post all over hell half the time.================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"your proposal is broken. if you unlearned stuff at half the rate of learning stuff and unlearned sp can go directly into skills, you're basically doubling learning sp gain. everyone would just start constantly unlearning those skills that they are mapped for to maximize sp amount returned and put new sp in what they want to actual have trained even if its the same skills as you're receiving twice as much sp for your time. the only sp reallocation i could support is where you get a small amount of sp to move every year similar to a remap, lets say 2 million sp. you get a month of training back to allocate where you currently need it, but 2 million a year isn't significant enough or frequent enough to allow fotm."
"i think you should rethink that for a minute. if it takes more time to unlearn a skill and you can't train another skill in the meantime...how can you possibly double your sp? i see what you are saying but you are thinking about it wrong. if i have 1 million sp and it took me 1 year to attain that i can unlearn the skills and refund the entire 1 million sp in 6 months. i still only have 1 million sp but if i had not unlearned anything to begin with and had just kept on training i would have 1.5 million sp. the point is...new players that screwed up and want to keep playing but don't want to have to wait another 3 months just to train the skills they need that they already have the sp for can do it in less time but still be punished for screwing up. older vets that have dedicated years to this game who really have nothing of value to train won't need this. the people in the middle might invest a little time to get rid of a few skills they regret taking that they never use in favor of those they might use more while still being punished. i doubt there is anybody out there that is going to get rid of all of their skills simply to respec entirely. most people have at least a little direction and just dabbled in one or two other professions on the way up."
"armor sniping muninn rocks yo."
"i'll keep this brief for all you tl;drersthe problem: for a lot of lp store items, it is simply unprofitable (even, in some cases, virtually impossible) to acquire the tags required to purchase items, due to really low drop rates of particular tags in addition, the distribution of antifaction missions is really lopsided (for example, in gallente space, the main antifaction missions are pot and kettle and in the midst of deadspacewhere the enemy is amarr nice going, ccp!)the solution: split the distribution of missions, so that either wholly anti-pirate or anti-faction missions are offered when a capsuleer first approaches their agent, for example, a dialogue box would pop up asking \"hello [name], i can offer you a choice of either political or law and order missions which one would you like take?\"i'm sure there are problems somewhere with this but i don't have the time to intricately go through them now i will later, thoughthanks for your comments/ideas/supports/trollsadding mxzf's suggestion (see below):"
"i'm not seeing much of an issue with this i would suggest putting another two buttons next to the \"request mission\" button for the agent and have them be \"request anti-pirate mission\" and \"request anti-faction mission\", which would actually help both the missioners that care about their standings (no more 4h waiting period) and the missioners who want tags to sell (no more pirate missions with no tags) and there would still be the \"request mission\" giving out completely random missions for people who just don't carewith any luck, and enough people running anti-faction missions for the tags, this could help to drive down tag prices (which i would see as a very good thing) as long as all three options remain a choice at all times, and you don't lock yourself into a certain set when you first talk to the agent, it sounds fine to me"
"nice idea the idea you proposed is essentially the same as mine :) i meant to clarify in the op that the choice wouldn't be permanent - you could always back out of, say, choosing political missions and instead go with anti-pirate"
"yes, looking back over the op i really meant to add that in lol :) well done for bringing it out to the fore :p"
"sounds perfectly fine to me then and, yeah, i was hoping that's what you meant, i just wanted to make sure (and i had what seems like a good idea for where the choice could be, so i figured i'd toss that in too)"
"thanks - your suggestion in your first post helps the old and senile to focus their thoughts :)"
"this is a surprisingly well thought out, simple idea, and it is consistent with the removal of learning skills. it also fixes a whole lot of issues regarding null pvp and jumpclones, as mentioned."
"i dislike agreeing with (test)icles and goons, but i like this idea."
"anonymous forum alt? like an elected csm in public office, making a comment for the removal of learning implants - and there is no name in the minutes?sounds to me like everything is working as intended. you don't want to take the risk of expensive implants, then you do not get the reward of accelerated learning. the real risk isn't the loss of training rate, it<U+FFFD>s the cost of replacement. in the pvp universe as so many recite includes the accumulation rate of skills, a contest it pleases me to beat you in. why should the game change based on \"your style of play\"? what a disgusting concept! if you want to win this contest, the game already has given you the mechanism to level the playing field. your request parallels hi-sec carebears crying over suicide ganks or incursion disruption. (not their \"style of play\" they say). in the cold harsh eve, i have no sympathy for either them or you. yes, learning are seeded via the loyal point system. but they are also available readily on the market? are you telling everybody, you do not trade at all? as an example; outer ring excavation goodies are only available on loyal points - should these removed or seeded through another system? and removing attribute bonuses <U+FFFD> wouldn<U+FFFD>t that make plus three implants with secondary bonus next to worthless?so, the answer remains no. welcome the skill point interdiction."
"ask, and we shall receive.so, 14.5% of kills in hisec result in a podding. at least this is how it worked out in january. over the course of a year then, 15-20% would be more than generous of an assumption.edit -- so a 1 in 5 chance of losing your pod... learning implants are fine.edit 2 -- yes, this is hisec only. in no way am i implying that nullsec is anywhere as \"safe\" for your pod."
"nice. and that is just highsec as you said. low and nullsec, especially nullsec, probably have far more pod kills. not to mention wh space. honestly with all the pvp i have seen in wh space i have seen very few pods get away...especially with bubblers. either way. you were right in that the number is lower than i thought.i don't think this is a question of would removing learning implants encourage more pvp, i think it definately would. the question is how would the isk from no longer losing those implants balance out in the game."
"i don't think lowsec would be much higher than highsec -- still can't bubble ... though on the other hand, the pvp guys are probably \"better\" at the twitch-lock that you need to nab a pod... i'd be surprised if it's above 33%.nullsec/w-space is probably closer to 50% (or even higher), so the question of implants there is probably valid."
"following this logic all implants are pointless as someone who want's to be hyper optimized in x needs to have the implants for that and will then not want to play the game incase they lose them.soalthough they bug mei'll just stick to using what i can afford to lose."
"-1. this change won't negatively affect botters in the long run. and it might discourage new players.it might even help botters if a proportion of suicide gankers are lazy and couldn't be arsed scanning them down all day.unhindered bot mining, here we com"
"mineral prices going down would not necessarily be a bad thing.you are correct about the net effect on botting. it will be near zero. people who think scanbots are really hard are naive or terrible at programming."
"this is a super suggestion. it will make mining more fun as well as helping eliminate bots. i'd really love to see this put in the game.it is a really strong suggestion. i don't belive that the bots will easily learn how to play the probe game. i don't think it will alienate the newer players. i'd really love to see trhis happen.totally +1 :)"
"hi aggressive nutmeg,i hear what you are saying. but from my limited understanding the bot programs have to \"interface\" with the game via a simulated keyboard and mouse and by \"seeing\" and then interpreting the screen. i think this could make scanning very hard for bot programs. unless of course there is a sure-fire \"method\" that could become an algorithm that will always render a resolved \"site\" then i don't see it happening. the \"bot\" program would have to \"see\" the little arrows on the probe squares as well as interpret the image past the spinning spheres - as well as \"seeing\" the sites and, (in 3 dimensions), allign the probe formation over the target sites. . . i just see the probe mini game as the closest thing to a captcha eve has.i really think/hope it would defeat the bots. i hope you are wrong - but i'm not a programmer and you may see how to get past the above issues - so it could come to be that what you predict is what happens.but i still think this is the most elegant suggestion i've seen for ages. it will add gameplay. it will add fun to mining. so even if it doesn't get rid of bots it still has merit. if it can reduce botting then that is just a brilliant bonus!"
"the idea isn't to change it to drop loot, just to generate a record indicating who damaged the ship before it self destructed. a subcap gang can certainly catch and kill a super (thanks to the new logoff mechanics), but at this time, the intelligent super pilot will simply initiate self destruct when it becomes clear help is not coming, and a super's ehp is such that it essentially requires another supercap fleet to kill it in that 2min window.\"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" -abrazzar \"the risk of having your day ruined by other people is the cornerstone with which eve was built\" -ccp solomon"
"i would support this only if a part of the killmail recorded it as a self destruct.the other parts i'm in full support of.pods imo should take just a few seconds."
"i'd say that's fair.\"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" -abrazzar \"the risk of having your day ruined by other people is the cornerstone with which eve was built\" -ccp solomon"
"generate kill mails if they're aggressedcapitals should have a longer self destruct timerthat'd do me."
"stay away from the dread... seriously, not even sure why its being lumped in with these titans.recently t2 siege modules just came out; giving a much needed boost to the dreads, but regardless, a t2 siege / t1 siege module grants a 50% tracking speed penalty. this penalty fairly well nullifies the dreads from being able to hit tiny stuff unlike there titan big brothers that can nail cruisers etc. plus, titans long range and ridiculous alpha means that a glancing blow will shred a cruiser.i do agree that titans in theory should only be able to hit bc and bs ships effectively, however, the way the current gun formula is written, this is nearly impossible to accomplish.now that titan's can't dd sub-caps i have a lot less complaints. with log off timers gone, dropping blobs of supers becomes a much more dangerous proposition. +1 to more dead supers."
"my point is when you start trying to compared dreads to titans they cant be identical. there has to be some justification for the titan cost. and what point of the titan sacrificing its tank to be able to do this do you people not get. when the titan is nothing but a giant tracking boat they are fairly easy to kill. so man up and come up with a way to kill them. this whole bitching about the titan tracking is getting old. imo they got nerfed to much the first go around."
"it's not just n00bs who are clueless about aggro mechanics!!! i got an old post about my confusion with it all. there are a few of us who when we see qq in local and see the player is 10 days old do try and offer some support rather than the usual, \"lol, nub - l2p\" comments that are so popular.the trouble is. n00bs don't just stay in the starter systems. the last issue above was an 11 day old player, a gallante, in gulfonodi of all places."
"wow, i've seen plenty of arguments against this idea in my time in eve, but that one takes the stupid cake by a fair margin.\"the world as we know it came about through an anomaly (anomou)\" (the gospel of philip, 1-5)"
"you might as well advocate for everyone to have artificial lag to account for some people having poor connections, and random deductions from our wallets to make the playing field level for those stupid enough to fall for scams. and masks for the pretty avatars.direct control isn't practical because of the scale of the game, as has been discussed. 1,000 pilots trying to fly stick at the same time would result in a huge lagfest.i would enjoy flying an interceptor through fleet battles and ice fields and other such places...but it's not going to happen."
"bo-ho if some salvaged your wreck you'll still get the loot if they haven't taken it yet. armor repping, looting, and whatever else gets you agression timer is fine, but plz not salvaging. its fun when people race for it and it be dumb when someone starts shooting over salvage. yes i sound like a carebear but really, come on."
"salvaging working as intended, if i could downvote you i would"
"obviously everyone knows the drill here. working as intended, ccp won't be changing this because those wrecks aren't yours to begin with, blah blah blah.but if you're looking for the right to shoot someone for stealing your stuff...where do you run missions? i have a punisher for you to shoot at."
"yeah...not exactly the kind of csm representative we should want. hell ccp shouldn't even want him."
"i spend time every day monitoring ah threads. i only occasionally add my 0.02 isk however; it's often better to let discussions percolate.many members of the current csm are not big supporters of the old-style csm proposal system (in fact, there's been only one during csm6, which i raised). however, i think there is merit in it, it's just that given what's already in the csm backlog, the bar is high when it comes to adding new stuff. and the development realities are such that many proposals, even ones with much merit, will just moulder there.even so, the discussions here and in features & ideas are valuable, because they are a reference resource that is available both to csm and ccp -- in particular when ccp is looking for new story ideas."
"thinly veiled anti mittens thread becomes not so thinly veiled after 4 posts.a new record"
"thanks for the reply. it's just nice to know that the csm members are still there and actively working with the rest of the populace of eve.i don't need to veil anything, let alone thinly veil something. if i want to call out mittani for being the smacktard he is, i will do it. despite my feelings for mittani i think he could actually do some real good for eve through the csm if he tried and really cared to. as it is he comes off as very aloof and arrogant which makes the csm look rather bad. all csm members should be able to separate themselves from their personal agenda in eve and represent the entire community for ccp. not just their \"constituents\". do what is best for ccp and eve as a whole. not yourself. i rather like what trebor and even seleene try to accomplish and how they accomplish it. i hope both of them run for csm and i hope both of them win again this year. good luck to both of you."
"used for same grid maneuvers max 400 -500km yes.in system map veue no as this would facilitate the instant creation of deep safes that would otherwise be impossible to get bms forit would be abused to **** and you know it"
"100% agree"
"i wish that you could just order the folks in local in some other way than alphabetical - how about by standing? people with negative standing towards you are either at the top or bottom, etc. that way once you add wts you know if they're in system immediately. +1"
"i don't know if anybody out there is using medium shield transfers, but i'd like to. the only problem is: the range of a med. shield transfer is only 6km. why? who's using a st/rr if it only works within 6km (except for logistics which have a range bonus but logis use large transfers) so please just increase the range of medium st/rr up to 20km. otherwise they're as useless as 50mm armor plates."
"most ships using shield transfers are using larges and likely get a bonus to the range. i think 20km is a bit much...i am not sure they really need a buff honestly."
"t2 logi's only use large.however you dont need to use the t2 logi ships."
"while you're at it, fix faction/ded rrs to be better than meta4/t2 ones too (atm they have worse boost/cap ratios across the board, and the t1 logi ships have enough cap issues to begin with)"
"i want the not button toohow do i support this? where's the button..."
"just like other sites (youtube, reddit, etc etc etc)a dislike\downvote button would be interesting\good.on the forum posts you could see replies, views, likes, dislikes.this would also need to be tied to one \"like/dislike\" per account to stop people burying ideas of boosting their own or some such thing.ultimately i think it'd give a better idea of how ideas are percieved by the forum public... ok i just saw the flaw in it but still... usefull? no?"
"not the first time this has been suggested.maybe it's time to beat the dead horse again."
"but it's the only part of eve i'm any good at"
"seems to be the source of several other topics...hereand here...i agree that the forums need some better feedback options, but to dislike a person and not their idea will be abused to death.the thread itself needs these buttons, the player-based like button needs to go imho."
"i know the tactics to use baits, and how to get a cloaked ship on a campgate. also i'm trained to avoid camp-gates while clacked. i lived on a wh, i fly protheus, arazu on pvp... and i can tell you. the game goes on even if there are cloaked ships in the system or not. at last for me. i have 3 differents chars. 1 at nullsec, 2 at wh space so if the wh gets boring i go play in nullsec, and if nullsec gets boring i go back to wh. and if both gets borring i go do other things...(like thinking ways to make it less boring and posting here)but this game is not only rating and pvp, there are all sorts of players on eve and you should respect their play-style .there are players that are industrials, and what they do is to purchase and manufacture ships for pvp/pve.there are pilots that doesn't fly combat ships and hate pvp and also hate pve, the like to mine... these few players are responsible for most of the minerals that are available in the market.these players, when there are a non-blue player in the system just stays inside the force field or inside the outpost, waiting for the storm to pass or for their allies make the system safe again for them. they are not carebeers, they are the ones that build your ship, and there would be no eve without them.so i'm proposing a way, to increase the difficult for those who enters the system and stays cloaked for hours ruining the game of this guys and everyone say to me that i'm the noob and i dont have balls to live in nullsec?don't you guys want more fun in the game? less cost for ships? more pvp? a better game for small alliances?if you open the map, pressing f10 and you look at sovereignt, and then development indices. you will notice that there are militar at lvl5 everywhere, and there are almost no industrials. this means that what you say is 100% correct. people don't mine for isk becouse it just dont woth the risk. they can make much more money killing npcs.what i ask if for a ballanced game where you could make a life being a pirate, a miner, an industrial, a pve or a pvp or anything you want.i'm not doing this proposal before thinking. but you guys are complaining about this proposal because you are thinking only on yourselves... but of course i'm not asking for a way to make nullsec as secure as hi-sec, just putting some difficult for cloakers wouldn't do this. but this small fix would increase the game-play for industrials and other defenseless sorts of players, this would result on more ships and modules available on null-sec market, and more players for eve. and more fun for pvp players. new pos system new sov system"
"as long as the god-mode intel tool known as \"local-chat\" still exists, then cloaking is working exactly as it should.not least of all as a most delightfully potent psychological-warfare tool!"
"there is wh-space for this. doesn't it? also if you read the last csm meeting minutes, ccp is working on something related to the local chat being used as an intel tooland i don't think that this psychological-warfare is a good thing, it ends up pulling away people from eve. i mean, this kind of warefare works against industrials and miners on a cynojammed system, but will not work against a hurrycane killing some rats.... since they would 1 voley any frigate that shows up. so this means that everytime that a system reach lvl5 on industry someone will show up and cloack for 1 week inside the system untill it reaches 0 again. and there is nothing that can be done,,,i have a friend that played eve for about 5 years, he was industrial, he hated pvp. but he had amost all bpos trained and he also had 3 tech2 bpo. all this time he played on hi-sec. he had lots of billions on his wallet, but he was not the kind that want to lose a single isk. well, he tried to go to null-sec joining an alliance, he took all the minners he had there. about 7 acounts while the other 11 kept running his own things on hi-sec... (he is a business man in rl, pays subscription for all his 18 acc...). but what happened to him? he stayed 7 days in nullsec. in this time there was some untouchable sb in the system for about 6 days. so, despite the fact that we told him to dont leave the forcefield, the sb logged off for a couple of minutes, he put all his miners on the gravimetric and then the sb logged back again and before someone realized he had lost a hulk and a 1bi pod. ( yes he is inexperienced in pvp as you guys are on industry.) after this day he hauled everything back to hi-sec. played 2 more weeks and then stoped playing eve (incursion).this means that ccp lost 18 subscriptions on this. and there are 18 less characters producing ammo drones and stuff. also some complains about some prices rising.he had right to have fun playing eve doesn't him? furthermore, this is the reason for a game to exists. if we wore able to make harder for the sb to keep on the system that time, probably he would still be playing. and this is what ccp would want. increase the fun of the game and increase the number of players. new pos system new sov system"
"cloaked ships should also vanish from localproblem solvedtrue cloaking createdthen add in the \"hunt like a submarine\" thing."
"you may be right. if the csm restricts certain thing then intervention by ccp is possible. but a vote would be a good idea to players who do pay attention to the forums etc. csm is as bad as i;ve been hearing lately ccp would have to do something."
"both this and the op are good suggestions. rep bonuses on ships tend to be completely wasted in pvp."
"bumping for exposure.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"fair enough, i can understand you wanting the functionality sooner rather than later, but, they are going to have to work on formations as some point. when they do, it would be unbelievable not to see tractor towed ships. it is an ubiquitous sci-fi utility.tractor mods need some attention, there is a whole host of stuff that should be legal to tow that isnt. i'm suggesting that this class of ship would benefit from the development of the formations mech, and an iteration of the tractor mechs.what would be even better in my opinion is an open skeletal ship model that showed the contents of it's hull. but that would open up a whole different can of worms."
"+1 very good idea nothing to add"
"supported."
"not a bad idea, not something i would use personally as i just sell all my stuff and move on so i dont have to move anything.i see the use though for some people..."
"i'm always mystified by the suggestions for creating entire classes of ships simply to save money on rigs. all that coding, balancing, art resources, blueprints, construction calculations, etc. just because people don't want to strip rigs off their ships. being able to carry 3 rigged battleships is the equivalent of carrying 1.5million or more m3, which far exceeds the capacity of any other ship in eve, including carriers. you can move 2 rigged battleships in a freighter using courier contracts. if the only purpose of the ship is to move rigged ships and all it can move are rigged ships, then its pointless. just strip the rigs off the bs already. not supported."
"this :)read and support: don't mess with our wh's what is your stance on wh stuff?"
"just wanted to agree with the posterwh stabilizers would completely destroy any and all reason to live in a whyou could hop in at any time from a system with a blob (which is why goon supports stabilizers, f**king blob warfare needs to stay in null)clear out all the sites, and hop backthis would completely thrash/destroy the market for any and all wh goods probably another thing goon wantswh's are excellent in their design atm small gang pvp for the most part, with the ability to siege and have take downs if properly planned (rnk or aharm anyone?)i've lived in a wh for just shy of a year now, and while they can be very profitable, there is also a lot of risk and a lot of time investment (constant scanning, logistics for getting stuff in/out)all in all i think wh's are one of the most balanced aspects of eve, and shouldn't really be bothered"
"i am not a wormhole dweller although i have considered moving into one several timesbut even i can see how damaging this would be to the wormhole way of life w-space is the only place in eve where you can pvp without the risk of getting blobbed or hot-dropped and it needs to stay that wayi used to think that it would would be cool if cyno's and jumpdrives worked in w-space with a mechanic to prevent cyno's in c4 and lower of course systems linked by a worm hole would not necessarily be close to one another so it would take so time to find systems within jump distance of each other but even this would severely damage the current wormhole way of life the possibility of getting hot-dropped would be equally damaging to the small scale as this idea of wormhole stabilizersleave w-space alone, except maybe expanding it but the mechanics are close to perfect do not break them"
"is ccp changing these mechanics? it would be nice if they would at least consider this change. make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"i do not agree that fleet boost should be limited to on grid. actually with the number of systems in eve the argument could be made it should extend to the hole constellation. i do believe though that you should not be able to leave the booster ship sitting safe inside a pos shield and it still contributes to the pvp fight with no risk to itself.even the mining fleets generally leave the orca or roqual safe inside the pos shields while the fleet is out mining. these ships were meant to be on grid with the mining fleet. that is why they get the tractor beam bonuses.if gang links could not be activated inside a pos shield then it would add a whole new level to the role of fleet boosting in game. you could have it at a safe spot but there would be risk. orca would be used in the belt with the miners or not at all. roqual could be kept inside the shield and used for compression but if you want to benefit from the fleet boosts you need to take it out of the pos.just my 0.02 isk, and for the record i do run mining fleets and usually have my orca in belt with the other ships. so much more efficient and a little risk reduces the boredom."
"this proposal makes allot of sense. skimming through i didn't see any significant downsides either. make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"hello eve as a newer player i really like this idea. i recently have got more into pvp in general, been mostly running missions. i went on two roams and got a little lucky, it dropped my sec status surprisingly fast. all targets were other people roaming looking for pvp as well. not an impossible barrier or anything but seemed slightly crazy how long it would take to raise the sec back up through even lvl4s.tldr: +1 from a youngin.s.l.ten thousand years - recruiting chill dudes for exploration! in game channel - 10k lounge"
"+1 i like this proposal.it came up somewhere in the middle about sentries not having tracking - i think they should. it might allow for limited frig engagements on gates where the aggressor will decide if they can make a kill fast enough and then gtfo. go"
"+1 supported.initially on reading the subject and imagining what the proposal would be like, i thought that it would be just one of those typically insane simple solutions to a perceived problem that would actually make things much worse. i avoided readin"
"this is the first unquestionably good idea i've seen about fixing lowsec in years, i'll yoink it and dump it in front of ccp. lowsec: eve's vegas, but with more guns"
"wow, this is an unexpected turn of events. also, inb4 sh*tstorm."
"i agree that ccp needs to rework what the minor plexes. they should let af in minors and create a rookie plex that only lets t1 vanilla frigates in. t3 cruisers are allowed in medium plexes but t2 cruisers are not. i think they should just not allow t3 cruisers in mediums and the problem is fixed.as far as cloaks not working in plexes or missions that does sort of cut both ways. one of the best ways to catch stealth bomber mission runners is to put a cloak on your ship warp into the mission and immediatly cloak. when the sb lands on top of you, you will both uncloak and you can lock the sb. its a pretty good trick that i actually had pulled on me. make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"tags need to go"
"it would be very nice to have this.make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"i have over 200 bookmarks in some systems, and every one gets used, i do not want all of that in my overview, its fine where it is, because ccp's all or nothing programing means that i couldn't just have a few on my overview, it would be all 200, or none at all."
"has anyone noticed how faulty the jaguar/wolf turret positions are? it has been so ever since the incarna expansion when the turrets were renovated.if you look at a jaguar:1st turret slot places 2 turrets at the front and another turret on top at the back.2nd turret slot places a turret an each ''wing'', at the sides of the ship.but the 3rd turret slot places 2 turrets underneath the hull; it would have to shoot through its own hull to shoot above it.ever since that expansion, you could put turrets in any order you liked. that means you could just put a turret on the last turret slot of a jaguar. if you did, you would see that just those 2 turrets underneath the hull would have trouble shooting anything above it without trying shooting through its own hull...the wolf basically has the same problem. it has the same turret layout as the jaguar except it also has the extra 2 turrets on top of the hull at the back, because of the extra turret slot it has. again, these turrets would have to shoot through its own hull to shoot anything below it, as well as above it for the 2 turrets underneath the hull.the rifter seems fine...because of the turret layout it has it won't have its turrets shooting throught its hull. but lets be honest, the turret on top on the right and the turret underneath on the left, looks awful.i think the original turret layout for these ships were better (and made more sense), despite the lack of a turret to shoot above with the 2 turrets at the front. i understand that this is only somewhat of a graphical issue,but its still kind of annoying."
"after watching 3 super carriers sd last week i am going to sign this :)"
"hmm, where do i start?- they deal dread dps without the need for a siege mode- they can bridge fleets from the relative safety of pos shields- they can run six ganglinks without any command processors- in addition to the ability to fit six ganglinks, the hulls themselves give insane bonuses to fleets - the erebus' massive armor bonus, the leviathan's massive shield hp bonus, and the avatar's capacitor regen bonus are all extremely useful to capitals and subcapitals alike.- their doomsdays can put 3,000,000 racial damage on any capital-sized shipi think the cost is fairly justified! \"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" - abrazzar"
"i find it kinda funny that after motherships got nerfed into insignificance against sub-caps, as did ddds, people are now up in arms against titans just shooting things at all. while it may seem a bit silly that titans can alpha almost any ship, it is simply the practical application of a well established tracking formula. we all know that bit guns can hit small ships under the right circumstances. it's just the way the tracking formula is. the truth about all the lolmails people is that the same as trying to fight an alpha-bs fleet with frigates, people are discovering that it is near impossible to beat the tracking from all of the ships all of the time. that's the key here. people scream about how frigs should always be able to beat tracking, and that is true but only against one ship. there is no practical way to dodge all of their tracking unless you are orbiting very fast a very long way away. and we have all known that this is true for a long time. some people aren't going to be happy until supercaps are totally useless except for pos bashing, most likely because they don't have a superfleet but are likely to fight people who do. they'll be complaining about jump portals soon enough, and then about clone bays, and then about capitals being able to carry other ships too. what we need here is a little sanity. if you are in the situation where you are being shot by titans, my advice is to run at 90 degrees to the direction of fire."
"no, the key here is that ccp grossly underestimated us and our ability to mass-produce titan's like they were frigs .. the tracking formula is \"tried and true\", but since it was clearly not meant to balance the current situation where a double digit number of titan's can kill any and all things something else must be introduced to plug the hole.why are supers still immune any way, it made sense when they were born as they were intended to be few and far between, but now?perhaps a revision of ewar could include a contest a'la what is used for ecm to be calculated before effect is applied and supers could then be granted a high'ish base number whereas other ships have only a few points (or 0) .. in other words make them susceptible to td/ecm/damp spam and there will be a way to counter titan spam.either that or removal of immunity through nerf-bat, specialized module or sov. dependency."
"oh look, another super thread where andski is crying his eyes out (titans can't do dread dps and fit 6 gang links, but spin your yarn how you like andski, nobody can stop the flood of your crying anyway short of ccp outright removing supers, something that they've said they won't do).there is more wrong in this thread than any one person can address.yes, your dread can hit sub caps just fine.yes, you can make caldari and minnie caps hit just fine (with missiles) and do tremendous damage.yes, you can make a bs hit a frigate with no problem at all.its all in what you put on and in the ship.90% of this thread needs to go back and try again (except andski, who just needs to stop, its getting ridiculous for this poor dude)."
"while ccp never thought that we would produce titans in the numbers that people have done they always knew that things with titan guns would be able to shoot smaller targets because its just an extension of the existing mechanics. and it is in fact existing mechanics that are to blame for the current proliferation of titans into the battlefield.agressive use of titans is the only realistic way to even up the numbers in a fire fight. they are a ridiculously expensive hard counter to alpha bs, without which there would be no answer to whichever power block can bring the biggest bs fleet. is there an answer to titan blobbing ? not as of yet. but then again titans being used agressively havent been arou d that long.the point im trying to make here is that the answer is in the metagame. its not in nerfing the titans. every fleet has a cou ter, but similarly every idea has its time. raging because titans have become cool again is exactly the same as all those people screeching about drakes being over powered.successful does not mean overpowered. soon enough there will be an answer to titans and someone will whelp twenty of them in a day. and then everyone will complain about whatever is able to kill dozens of titans is overpowered. its all cyclical, and its all relative. for the sake of perspective, remember that alpha maelstroms one shot anything subcapital in game too. but in theory they shouldnt because of tracking and gun sig. but they work just fine. this is the same asthat, but each ship costs billions more and needs a bajillion sp. to be honest im ok with that.i think that any alliance that wants to win a fight bad enough to exert sixty titans on a single fight is going to win no matter what. be it through titans or some otherway."
"just wanted point out the fights recently where pl and various others have gone toe to toe with the cfc hordes, with half the men, and held the field at the end of the day.bs spam can be countered by strategy and skill by smaller numbers(counter compositions, people refer to them as). titan blobs can only be countered by more titans. that breaks the games fundamental rock-paper-scissors balance.people say that you have to sacrifice your tank to get the cruiser blapping abilities, and this is true. ignores the fact that you can refit off the capital next to you as soon as you get targeted so as to not lose the tank for all intents and purposes.titans are balanced as long as no more than 1-2 are on the field, its when you end up blobbing them that they are broken.perhaps a simple solution is to disallow refitting in space if you have an aggression timer? (even the invisible one we get in 0.0)."
"while some of what you say is true, i take issue with these 2 points.1) enough bs become physically impossible to counter, its just a fact, theres just simply not enough people playing eve to counter them past a certain point. the cfc currently contains the largest sum of warm bodies, and has the loudest voice opposed to them. the reason is 2 fold, in that you currently can't be matched simply in ships alone, but you can be matched in super numbers so you simply don't like titans in their current incarnation.2) with enough caps in a pile, it becomes impossible to refit. you see, i don't expect you to know, but if you were in a gigantic cap ball you'd have gotten that canned message you get any time more than 12 caps are close to you and you try to refit."
"i take it your opposed to the thought of forcing titans to be an fc of a large fleet in order to online any system other than jump/warp then"
"ever since i started this game anything that counters a blob of t1 ships is always \"overpowered\" the problem here is that other than a few alliances nobody commits capitals to battle over fear of loosing them. well tough crap, put them out there to loose like the others do and you will kill some caps. pl/nc. have allot of cap pilots because they actually use their caps and have active cap replacement programs and therefore attracted allot of capital pilots. start whining at your alliance leaders to promote cap fleets and cap replacement instead of hording the isk or rmt'ing it or whatever the heck they do with it. this omg he wtfpowned my drake army with capitals is getting real old. get some balls and some skill and quit crying like little girls..and yes titans can be killed by bs blobs if you do it right."
"its past the point that a solution like that is viable, think of my alliance. we have over 100 active titans, and we're not the only one like this. you essentially make the ship useless.theres too many for such a simplistic solution as that. ccp won't nerf the ship into uselessness no matter how much anybody wants it to be that way, its just something they won't do.so any actual change suggestion has to be something more realistic thats in the scope of something they might do, and they'll never take the fun out of the ship, its always been in it to one point or another, titans will stay titanic, even if everybody in game has one."
"i was chatting in the mining channel today and some folks were saying they played eve because they weren't so hot at the basics of economics, and eve being based on economics was a good and fun way to learn and get a better handle on the subject.being an individual who enjoys marketing and advertisement, my immediate though was, \"how is there no marketing or advertising skill/branch in eve?\"with that, i would suggest that a skill/branch be looked in to for those who enjoy marketing and advertising. this would of course tie in with the trade skills.allow these skills to tie in to the billboards which aren't really used to an extensive point currently. depending on the skill level would effect the size/time allotted per ad/ etc. this would be awesome for folks who run salvage companies or hauling companies off my head, though this could easily be taken much further. it'd promote more in game interaction instead of using the forums as much as they do currently and bring more attention to flying in game. a salvage/wrecker company that invested in the skills would be able to promote their company and mission junkies who are too lazy to salvage could see the service when going through to their next mission hub and spark to the idea of using such a service, where they might have never had the idea.this is only the tip of what i had thought of and would like to create a discussion on it where it could be fleshed out more if the initial concept was something worth going further with."
"i believe what you're talking about is already in-game and is referred to as \"spamming local\" or \"posting it on the wts forum\".i don't think we need popups or any kind of advertising showing up in-game, there's already enough of that to deal with irl. and the billboard idea isn't bad, but at the same time they are mostly ignored atm and i don't see this as really changing that. there is marketing in eve, but it's more like rl where who you know is much more important than what you know. if you're willing to go talk to strangers and get your product out there, it will be recognized."
"the entire 'spamming' of things is exactly what brought me to this idea. as for the billboards not being used, again another reason i came up with the idea as a starting point on using existing game content and making it more than just scenery.as for marketing being like it is in the real world, i don't know how much marketing experience you've had, but while knowing people certainly helps, it never beats a good sale and display. :)"
"well, my marketing experience comes from listening to my dad, who is in marketing and is in the top dozen or so guys in his field worldwide and most of what he gets paid for is knowing people and knowing who to talk to. good sale and display helps, but nothing helps more than knowing who to show it to and how to do so. so, yes, i do know a bit about the subject. and i'm not saying that the spamming is a good solution, but i don't think that trying to use the mostly ignored billboards in the game is the right solution. and after thinking about it, i'm not sure there is an artificial solution in-game that would ever work, because it's either forcing adds on people or will never be noticed."
"i think that for items the market already does a pretty good job of bringing together people that have something to offer with those that want something. for services however, there are much less effective ways to bring those people together in-game. people have to get active on forums, or already know the right people.what is needed is something like yellow pages, where you can find everything from freighter services to mercenaries.as for ads, i'm not a big fan. just annoying visual pollution like in rl. and if we go down that route we'll soon also have \"pay aurum to remove ads\"."
"i don't know if there is a disconnect or something. all i have suggested was to use the current in game billboards to create ad space for in game characters/corps/services. nothing is being added to create forced viewing of ads. why would you need to pay to get rid of them? are you paying or asking to pay for something to get rid of the current billboards that are in game already displaying bounty values of people? no, you're not. most ignore them as has already been stated. people might pay more attention to them if they knew they might see something that they could catch a break on via service or such.all i am suggesting at this point is implementing new skills and using current in game mechanics. i dislike using the forums. i'd rather stay in game when i am playing the game. not sure why folks are so pressed to 'continue the norm' of using the forums for sales and services."
"i understand what you are saying. the point is, if you really want to make the billboards effective at informing people about offers, they'd have to be much more prominent than currently, which imo is not so good of a solution. i agree that you shouldn't need to go to the forums to find offers, therefor i proposed yellow pages.aurum for ad-free-ness was a sarcastic comment on where things would progress to if the marketing and pro aurum crowd would have their way."
"i once proposed on a different forum the idea that, for aurum, players could upload videos that would be updated and displayed on captain's quarters for those who elect to subscibe to their video feed. through advertisements and/or solicitations and maybe a fee-based system for isk, plex is then bought which is turned into aurum and pays off the hosting fee. the news tickers would be a full out rss feed run by and subscribed to by players as well."
"sorry but i think a thousand players posted threads like this one... and the answer to every thread was no.no because a capsuleer is controlling the whole ship - not only the engine... and no because this would change the entire gameplay, what would you tell ppl who have 2 or 3 or maybe up to 6 accounts? how should they handle this? and i say a third time no, because i personally don't like the idea of manually flying."
"there is a game you might like, if you like this idea, called evochron mercenary."
"a better suggestion would be for wreaks to trigger agression if they are salvaged within say 15-30 minutes of the ship dying on the basis most ships except marauders dont salvage and shoot at the same time.there is nothing more annoying than a salvager coming in and salvaging your wreaks without stealing and you cant do anything about it.add a timer, after the timer expires the salvage is anyones...the profession stays the same, its still a valid profession but only if the wreaks are abandoned or not salvaged in a valid amount of time.makes more sense that way i think..."
"a better suggestion would be to stop beating the dead horse and drop the subject. read every reply in this thread and you will see that this has been beaten to a bloody pulp already and it isn't going to change."
"the isnurance loss is a pittance in terms of potential profits afforeded to this exercise, and were pre-determind not to have a n impact on the activity.ccp also added significant new additions to improve the suicide ganking profession at the same time. dessie improvements and a new tier 3 bc with a large alpha platform much cheaper than bs.some people are now reporting the capability of earning a plex in an afternoon as a result of the new bc.this whilst they can easily avoid conflict resulting from their criminal activity with a broken bounty system and activites such as corp hopping, dropping from war mechanics or simply using npc corps. as such there is little retribution to the act of criminal activities."
"devblog from 2008.08.06 concord wasn't so powerful prior to that. though personally, i think they should be ramped down to 2005 levels (or whenever it was that m0o locked down the trade lanes...)"
"currently you lose the full hull value of the ship, you have about 5-10s to kill your target (less if you are an outlaw and get the navy spawn), it obliterates your sec status (assuming they don't shoot back) and they get kill rights on you. how exactly do you propose making suicide gankers suffer more without completely deleting it from the game?tbh suicide gankers have it pretty rough atm. i suggest you stop making yourself such a juicy target since ccp can't nerf them any more than they already have without deleting that aspect of the game entirely."
"people whining about suicide ganking should get ganked more until they learn to enjoy it"
"i'm not involved with you in the way that you like, but you didn't vote for me and actively whine about me regularly - so not only do i not care about what you think, i actively enjoy seeing you express frustration and feelings of impotence.toodles~"
"no but you see unless you make 50 posts every day saying hey guy this is a great idea i shall propose it to ccp immediately to every pants on head dumbass suggestion which has been made every week for the last 4 years you're not properly ~representing the community~ and you should be removed from the csm and executed irl"
"this is true. and typical...this is somewhere out in left field."
"it's not small gang that ecm really breaks, it's solo.proper solo, you know, the kind where you don't have a booster alt and a falcon alt and a scout?"
"i am shocked that eve online, a massively multiplayer online game, would reward those who work in groups \"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" - abrazzar"
"tears about solo pvp are cute."
"if you can't beat them, join them.. there's nothing in the carebear world for you chap. you'll wake up oneday with your billions of isk, your fancy ships and faction mods and you'll realise there's nothing more left for you.. that insatiable hunger for more isk will consume you like it has all the other miners & missioners. you'll develop a horrific drug addiction, your wife will leave you, your shiny ships will be blown up my narcistic pirates and terrorists.. then you'll be back to square 1 - alone, broke and pissed off that the world is so ****.best of luck to you!"
"even though almost all those losses were your fault and you should probably find a corp where there's people who will teach you not to make the mistakes you made, you are correct in that the current bounty system sucks.edit: see if you can join the pirates, they seem to know what's up"
"this is the worst idea ever.nobody would ever have anybody but hostiles and neutrals showing in local, taking an already broken omniscient intelligence gathering device and making it worse in a single move."
"my guardians often use some mediums, depends on how much fitting i blow on the tank/mobility .. and mediums do an excellent job even in fairly large fights (albeit not as well as large obviously).what i'd like to see is for some differentiation of the sizes, all there is now is amount repped while cycles are exactly the same. double capital rr cycle duration, increase large rr to 6-8s, keep mediums at 5s or lower to 4s and make smalls regular bunnies with a 2s cycle .. adjust repped/cap to taste.gives a reason for purposely downsizing rather than \"only if you can't fit a large!\" when tending low ehp clients.ps: give the scythe/aurogor the rr bonuses for goddess sake!"
"the problem imo is that you can't use med st/rr on other ships than logistics, sure logis are specialized ships, but if you want to fly a rr bc gang you'll soon get range problems. these gangs are never as effective as logi support but it would open a few new ways to fly in a gang (especially for small gangs). just balance the logistics so that their range stays the same and increase the range of med rr. other ships than logistics would have problems anyway (cap - nothing to add)."
"you can't expect every ship to get a bonus to rand on rr. rr is specialized and therefor needs special ships to use it properly."
"thats not what i wanted, i just wanted a bit more range (logistics would get a little debuff on range so that the range of the med rr would be the same as it is now for logistics) so you could try some other fittings but it seems my idea wasn't very thought-out."
"i frequently run a drake with a large shield transfer in the utility high. got to dump much of the tank to get it stable but it works for me. running level 4 missions i run a maelstrom with a good buffer tank and 1400mm ii artties or 800mm autos depending on the mission, a drake with a full rack of hml ii's and a large shield transfer in the utility slot just in case the maelstrom gets into trouble. works amazing. 10 warrior ii's(5 from each) deal with the frigates real fast , the drake takes out everything smaller than a bs quickly, and the maelstrom eats the bs's. if the mission is bs heavy the hml ii's on the drake do good dps against the bs's too. i follow them with a noctis on my third account one room behind for salvaging. i complete level 4's very fast while completely looting and salvaging everything. i can easily do 100m isk per hour with this set up. when my fourth account gets up to a decent skill level i will probably add a logi into the mix making it even faster and safer."
"i support a review of the rr mechanics and modules as a whole. 1.) i do not think rr needs a buff.... if anything, i think it needs a nerf. 2.) i think the fitting requirements and attributes of each class of module is somewhat out of balance. i also think giving the exequror and osprey a role bonus to fitting the rr modules may be appropriate, as well as a general review of the aug and scythe. 3.) changing the cycle times of rr modules can have significant effects on rr, especially when comparing armor vs shield reps. while this isn't a bad idea, it needs to be done in a manner to maintain the shield-armor balance."
"i know this idea had more support in other fw threads. it seems not many people in fw come into assembly hall. make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"i have been calling for improvements to ass. hall since forever. then ccp made the new forums, ignored all improvement suggestions and removed the little dedicated functionality there was instead.obviously supported."
"the idea behind it is not just to have it and fly it just because you can. the idea is to save money and further immersion and flesh out ship roles a little more, and to add another aspect to the game.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"seleene also confirmed he was bringing it to ccp in his own thread a few days ago. it's great to see the idea picking up momentum. even if ccp then does it in a completely different way, just getting them to look at lowsec from the right angle is good.what happens in lowsec, stays in lowsec, lowering the barrier to entry to lowsec pvp:"
"i think this is a terrible idea, but am too lazy to argue the point."
"back when they had the agent revamp (removing qualities and changing categories) i suggested this, and i'm still behind this this will benefit both those who are working up standings through missions, and those who seek to build faction items supported"
"sounds like a new spin on the \"oh noes, my precious standings\" argument clever ploy to use tags as the basis for it, i'll grant you that---warning: product may contain elements of rp---remove all tags from high-sec missions, the idea that enemies are allowed to set up shop within the sovereign/policed borders of an empire's space is ludicrous i mean just how bad is the military command structure if they outsource eradication of such cells to lowly station agentstags in fw are plentiful, were they to become a major export item we'd have something to help keep afloat that the solo-bombers can't touch (mainly plexers and 'proper' mission runners who hoard tags)tags (ie anti-faction missions) in ls in general makes heaps more sense as navy patrols are few so it is reasonable that an enemy could haul in umpteen megatons of gear to set up a forward base would create a market/product dependency between high- and other-sec much closer to what was originally intended in regards to ore, goo etc you could of course still have your button saying that you want to fight for the empire in question, the mission would merely take place in nearby ls system and be concluded with agent suggesting you sign up for the militia proper! hahahahaha"
"there is something in your proposal, it just need a little more work and few improvmentin any case you have my support +1"
"no, this has nothing to do with standings, and everything to do with the brokeness of the lp store requirements"
"i support having bookmarks available for the overview... not because i'd actually include them in my overview profile (oh divinity's edge, the clutter), but because i'd include them in my bracket profile so that i could see them in space. it would make aligning to distant bookmarks much easier.survivor of teskanen. fan of john rourke. i have video tutorials for eve online on my youtube channel:"
"my idea is dont mess overview, because user could be copy those bookmarks to folder, what he need to see on overview.that's why i wrote: \"two \"overview\" named folder to personal and corporation locations and when a bookmark copied there thats would appear on overview.\"this function maybe make it selectable \"overview bookmarks\""
"i'd like the option to put corp and alliance tickers in chat user lists. where target portraits and brackets in space have the range, i'd also like to have the velocity and angular velocity. i'd like it if a single chat tab could display multiple channels within it and you could color the chat according to which channel was involved. this would make it easier to monitor multiple channels of interest at once. implement drone-related implants, please. being warp disrupted/scrambled/bubbled is a very important thing to know. i'd like to have aura verbally announce when the warp drive becomes incapacitated or available. pre-crucible, you used to be able to get your current xyz coordinates whenever you clicked \"add bookmark\" for your current location. this seems to now be missing, so i'd like some form of knowing what my current coordinates are in the solar system. new feature, please: \"this circle, drawn on the background, is centered on your current velocity. you are warp-aligned to any distant objects within the circle.\" survivor of teskanen. fan of john rourke. i have video tutorials for eve online on my youtube channel:"
"i whole-heartedly agree. i mostly miss the sheer diversity of such interesting names. take 'gremlin' and 'thorn' then compare those to 'cataclysm' and 'devastator'. the bigger missiles always sounded so powerful, and now that element has gone.this change was unnecessary - ccp could surely have simply added a damage type suffix, if they wanted to simplify things."
"i never said that they can do both at once but feel free to keep putting words in my mouth! \"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" - abrazzar"
"you can fit your dread to kill rifters too, you know. they do after all use the same weapons as a titan."
"you guys would know >.>"
"while i believe your idea has merit, i think you're going about it in the wrong way. thinking about the 'yellow pages' idea that a previous poster had said, i think this might pay off for the 'services' department.what i envision is something similar to the contracts system or the corp or agent finders. people could pay a given amount to have their service (whether forum signatures, hauling, or other services) listed on the search option.i think this would be both non-invasive (unlike the billboard idea) and profitable. other than this, i support this idea."
"i only suggested the billboards being used because they were already in game and display the bounties of various pirates. something like a 'yellow pages' or 'service listings\" book/comm would be just as acceptable in replacement of the billboards."
"hell no!"
"thats not a suggestion, try posting something constructive."
"the wrecks dont belong to you"
"your accounts not belongs to you. that is ccp property, like as idiotism of salvaging it's a mini profession."
"if elected to the csm, i promise to give my input on every thread in ahnot really lol! \"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" - abrazzar"
"i am not expecting a post in every thread and a reply to every post. but i expect to see them from time to time providing input and posting ideas of their own and requesting feedback. it should not be difficult to find posts by csm members, especially in a forum dedicated to them."
"look guys if you're really angry at mittens you should just vote for nicolo da'vicenza for csm7. that'll show him"
"i like ass. hall because it allows raising and discussing proposals in a public, time-independent and self-documenting fashion. and it is currently the only formal venue we have to raise proposals to the csm. imo it is the csms duty to give as much active input on those discussions as possible.if instead you boycott it (like most csms are doing) or want to kill it, you need to replace it with something else. it seems that once elected, the csm doesn't actually want to interact with the community, and the argument that backlog is full sounds like a lame excuse.you can do better than this."
"ah, well, then by your own criteria your very own dear leader should be the first one up against the wall, shouldn't he?"
"seems like you're in the same situation that nearly every eve player goes through. i went through this myself, and you have two choices:1. decide this game is too difficult (it does have a steep learning curve), quit it, and go back to whatever game you were playing before this, or2. learn from your mistakes, come back stronger, and recoup your losses.i know this, as i once lost 10b isk in a high-sec gank (i was in a hauler before the wtz days). i could easily have quit and moved on, but i resolved to rebuild my fortune. i hope you're a fighter, and learn the ins and outs of this magnificent game, but the choice is in your hands.one last thing to keep in mind: when a player quits eve to return to wow, the intelligence of both communities goes up a little."
"independent of whether it was the ops fault or not, the bounty system does need an overhaul. transferable killrights are the first step to realizing the great potential in the bounty system."
"even if you did place a bounty on them, it's no good because they can just pod themselves with an alt in a clean clone and you've basically just handed them a chunk of cash.*insert plug for eve university here* (seriously, you could learn something)and yeah, bounty mechanics could use some work."
"rectilinear, oo err missus"
"please dont post anymore.+1 for idea"
"that's not a bad idea; it would help to build fleet structure, and get organized faster.maybe have some settings that allow you too designate available squads for corporation permissions too, just to make that easier. possibly something that could define a pilots role in the fleet...better idea: on accepting to fleet, the fc can automatically assign wing command, squad command, or squad member as a role call feature. from there, the accepted pilot can then choose a squad or wing, based on fleet structure and his or her abilities. gives choice on both sides.alternatively, the fc could set fleet configuaration to manage everything directly above squad member level, and use the role call feature to directly place all squad and wing commanders. possibly even another setting which allows him/her to micromanage, even at squad member level.all based on what the fc wants from each fleet configuration.zubzubzubzubzubzubzubzub"
"the backbone of any warfighting operation is timely logistical support. this would allow for additional vessels to be supplied to pilots in an expedient manner.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"+1 for me, now bring me those ships black frog!"
"the amount of feedback (mostly positive, and very little negative) is astounding. let's keep this idea moving in a forward direction.if you must make negative feedback, at least propose something that would be helpful as a tweak.but then again, there hasn't been much in the terms of feedback that has been hollow and negative.let's get some csm and dev input on this. keep the ideas and support flowing.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"i like this idea. hauling ships around is a pain. shuttling back 'n forth takes a good deal of time, time i rather spend shooting. no slots, no ejection option. +1 from me."
"i'm not sure if security status will entice the carebears into coming to low sec.might start first by not calling them carebears.also, how will this increase pvp? because they don't have to grind sec? you have to do a lot of shooting to get below -2 if you're not shooting pods, and your suggestion does nothing for pods. structures make a bit of sense, i could see dipping below the mark over shooting a pos. but then again, does structure bashing require us to make a such a drastic alteration to the security status rules of low sec?how about graduated war declarations instead? such as \"this war declaration is only valid in 0.0 to 0.4 security status systems.\" you still get what you want, without the crazy \"if this, then that\" scenario you're painting.props to you for using your brain though, will still give you a +1."
"how will it increase pvp? did you read the post at all? the idea is that they don't have to go below -2 if they don't want to. podding will get it below -2. i think you're missing the intent of the idea."
"this is such a phenomenally good idea that i'm going to be disappointed if it doesn't happen. though i honestly don't think the elimination of kill rights is necessary. on the other hand, i don't see concord handing a pass to kill a person in high if they have a negative sec."
"because there are an epic ton of people who avoid fighting in lowsec because they don't want (or have the time) to grind for sec. i'm one of them. i would have spent a lot more time in lowsec if i didn't think i had to put aside a bunch of time drudging through sec grind in the near future. if you want isk for pvp and don't have time to grind, you always have the passive isk or plex options."
"at 0.5% aggression penalty, plus 1.5% kill penalty, it takes just 11 ship kills to go from 0 sec to -2. you can get those kills easily in a couple gang fights if you are never primaried.getting those two points back by killing rats takes around 80 high bounty battleships. if doing that in highsec missions, where you can't switch systems after each rats, thats a minimum of 20 hours of mission grinding.structure kills are not significantly more expensive in sec status. unless you mean fights around a structure.what happens in lowsec, stays in lowsec, lowering the barrier to entry to lowsec pvp:"
"krs are well balanced in 1v1 scenarios. but in gang vs gang, they are giving out too easily. in a fight between and gcc gang, and a non-gcc one, the first person to die on the non-gcc gang will get killrights on everyone on the other side except the primary he was shooting.not a problem now, because killrights are redundant against flashies. but if this proposal was implemented, you would see lots of mission and mining ships dying to killrights from consensual gang fights.what happens in lowsec, stays in lowsec, lowering the barrier to entry to lowsec pvp:"
"has anyone here heard of npc 0.0 - just a question? maybe a rework of lowsec based on this might help?maybe remove lowsec entirely and turn it into npc pirate claimed territory with npc pirate missions or standings gains with them through navy rats in belts / around gates n stations. this would enable a whole new dynamic to evolve, players choosing either empire npc affiliation or pirate npc affiliation.... i personally would love to add a guristas pirate tattoo to my toon in customisation. like 0.0 with caps (no supers), without sov n bubbles and and pvp could reduce empire standings (not sec) and increase pirate standings..... now players can choose a full time pirate lifestyle with some benefits and income.could also make the various navy rats drop the empire faction items thus putting some income to the pirates that choose this path and making the area more appealing.....just a thought, agree or flame the choice is yours....."
"although i like most of the idea, there's one thing i don't like. i think you should still take a security hit when you attack someone with positive security status. i don't care if pirates kill each other. but lowsec isn't just about pvp. it has asteroid belts, complexes, mission agents etc. for a reason. your proposal would make lowsec even more dangerous for carebears like me. it would be a wasteland. if you want consensual pvp: put up a can in jita, join rvb or whatever. don't bother me with it."
"so everyone that attacks a carebear would still be kicked out of high sec? basically that would mean lowsec would stay exactly the same as it is right now.....i believe there's a huge playground for carebears - it's called highsec. if you want the additional income, cope with the additional risk.again, as mentioned before, this change would invite many casual/smallscale pvpers, who just don't want to be kicked out of highsec for life.yay! right in the face of every pvper.\"go beg for your fights in jita you dirty scum.\"you could as well ask for secure 0.0sec because ratting and mining there is more profitable....anyways:i really like dant's idea +1"
"+1 though its not something i do, i would like the option to do it in the future. (also i have found them in the past and put them up on contracts in the hopes of selling them to the victim/killer)"
"i have a feeling that alcohol was involved. either that, or someone got podded and doesn't want their corpse traded.either way, this development was made of fail.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"i read the entire thread b4 posting this, and wow, half of you all are idiots. (no offence to the special ed)i do have to bring this to the table,capital ships and their weapon systemsrevelation - lasers (beam or pulse)naglaf - projectile (auto's or artillery)moros - hybrids (blasters or rails)phoenix - missiles (cruise or torps.)now y would ccp make the caldari capitals ships and super capitals use a secondary weapon systems, while the other races use their primary's? simple, they don't.i'd personally love a naga with 8 t2 cruise launchers... that thing would tear stuff up and at a greater range than any other tier 3 bc would. and if you want to start yelling at me about how long i played this game and what my skills are and blah blah so it makes you think you look better but really just makes you look like an ass, i have 40m sp, i fly every battleship in the game, some t2, and various other race t2 ships (and some capitals), i'm skilled in all weapons systems, and iv played this game for a long time, and i have friend who have played this game even longer... caldari are missile based.-your friendly adhd and slightly psychotic sov space neighbor.eva"
"ah yes, how can one disregard such great ships like the sacrilege, vengeance and ham legion \"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" - abrazzar"
"doesn't the nag have two turret slows (bonused) and two launcher ones (unbonused). even without bonuses, two capital launchers isn't something to just ignore. i don't think other dreads use two weapon systems. ah minmatar, masters of the mixed racks.it's power stems from the revolutionary vertical design."
"i didn't bother reading your op, i'm just gonna tell you what i told every other imbecile who whined about the naga being hybrid based:a missile naga would suck. i mean, really suck. the rail naga is a great ship if you fit it right, but giving it missiles would make it worthless compared to the other tier 3s and in general.with cruise missiles - it would be an utter joke. with torps, it'd have no viable targets below battleship size, and battleships would rip it to shreds."
"you can say exactly this about every ship in game. a blob of maelstroms does too much alpha! a blob of logistics ships tanks too much! a blob of drakes is too tough and too long ranged!. a blob of falcons can jam my whole fleet! i recently pitched an idea to my corp about how to beat a 40ish man tornado blob which had recently beat our ass. the answer i came up with other than just numbers was 20 armor tanked scorpions with guardians, damnations and hero-dictors. the plan being for everyone to pick 2 guys at random off the target list, jam them, and deal enough cruise-missile alpha to pop a tornado. i still believe that this would work. now, if we had ever tried that and won, would that mean ecm is overpowered ? would that mean scorpions are over powered ? no. of course not. it would mean that we brought something that would radically have changed the playing field beyond just gank and tank. almost all fleets that are currently pvp standards are pretty damn terrible against a big number of titans. that's why people are using their titan fleets to incredible effect. as it stands right now we can either chose between two evils:1. bs blobs that conquer all, including conquering all capitals. 2. titans that conquer all.the first one of these sucks for many many reasons. bs are cheap and essentially unlimited and only need mediocre skills. all that anyone needs to win is a comprehensive ship replacement policy and the stomach to win wars of attrition. whoever can command the largest number of bodies will always win. the second of these sucks, but less so. titans cannot be whelped with no ill effects. they are limited and extremely labour intensive to build. they require extreme amount of sp. and even with all of that they need to be used with sanity and support from sub-capital fleets. titans are dangerous and powerful. they allow smaller groups to stand against 1000 man fleets and carry the day. but they are far more limited and far more precious. i would rather see titans ripping everything apart than battleships because of the practical limitaions on them. they cannot be logged in all the time nor be in more than one place at once. they are not simply a question of man-power, they are a complex and difficult ship to use.if you don't believe me, take a titan blob somewhere without sub-caps and carriers and see how long you last."
"/heh/ \"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" - abrazzar"
"i see where you're going with this, and i support it.would be nice if it was a corporate skill, honestly. you could give your corporation advertisement a % chance to be displayed, with corresponding skills to affect the area of influence.my own thoughts:a skill to determine % of appearance.a skill to determine area of influence (hq system, 1 jump within hq system, 5 jumps within hq system, entire hq system region, etc)a skill to determine the cost of displaying the advertisement.the billboard advertisement should also differ from the regular corp adverts we have already. something which can be noticed and read in less than 15 seconds.not only does this seem cool, it also shows you who runs the local area. if you're seeing a corporation's billboard advert every 5 minutes or every other gate, you start to get a feeling of who actually lives there and operates there. will also give corps a reason to use the hq except for \"fake bases of operations\", which is what most people use them for now."
"would you like your mummy now"
"you know what, change it, go on ccp please change it.i will be one of the first on here laughing my socks off at all the whining, when you start losing your billions of isk faction fit ships.then the next call will be pvp safe mission areas, because it's not fair. muppets.destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"return back to the lottery does not sound like a bad idea, but it must be a better solution fot this"
"a few things to consider however:1) value of gank ship: with the boost given to destroyers, they have become even more efficient gank machines. cost of these is pretty much nothing.2) sec status: with some support, -10 sec status isn't that much of a penalty for those who understand how to do iti'm all for ganking, but its a lot easier than you claim."
"they will become masochists though the power of repeated application of explosion to ship?...who are we kidding, it won't end until all ships in hisec with sec status >0 are simply invulnerable like a station in a system with sov."
"wrong sir. the mechanic is broken and here's why. any npc that i destroy in a mission site, the wreck turns white. both loot and salvage. if a pilot enters my mission site and takes the loot from my white wrecks, they are flagged to me as a criminal and i have the option to engage them if i desire. several patches ago, ccp gave pilots the option to release the wrecks from the mission owner which turned them (the wreck salvage & loot) blue. at that point, anyone could loot and salvage with no criminal flags being issued. the implementation of this wreck ownership change is what broke the mechanic. if releasing a wreck to the public by turning it blue constitutes no criminal action, then a wreck that is white (loot and salvage) must belong to pilot that created that wreck in the first place. in this current scenario, ninja salvaging must be considered an exploit since there are no criminal repercussions for salvaging a white wreck that belongs to a pilot that created it in the first place. ccp needs to fix this. then again, we're talking ccp here. dont' hold your breath...ahs"
"nope. turning the wreck blue only releases the contents of the wreck (loot) to the public. salvaging the wreck has never been considered a criminal action, and ccp has very clearly stated that salvage is considered to be publicly available on multiple occasions.\"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" -abrazzar \"the risk of having your day ruined by other people is the cornerstone with which eve was built\" -ccp solomon"
"as per my longstanding position in these matters, i support this proposal. missioners should not be restricted to watching mission looters go red flashy and then being too afraid to shoot them when they could also so easily be able to watch ninja savlagers go red flashy and ignore them too"
"again? seriously? learn to ****ing read!!!!!!!!!!devs said no.end of ****ing story.don't like it, give me your stuff and biomass.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"guys and gals, he's talking about the bounty system, not his losses. let him be mad, thats the appropriate response. he's asking for a way to deal with it, and you're not giving him answers.op:i, for one, did not realise you couldn't place bounties on individuals having sec statuses higher than -1.this seems odd, and should be fixed. if i want to place a bounty on someone's head, their security status should be irrelevant."
"every space vessel can possibly carry valuable goods. i have seen rookie ships carrying cargo worth several hunded million isk.iteron iii can possibly carry cargo which has value over 1 billion.price of ship hull does not matter at all.talking about security status, whole system is pretty ********. being on negative side only gives you a lot of trouble and no real gain so almost everyone just gets it up just enough not to be under -2.0. only reason to stay below is roleplaying. this is maybe a minor thing but nevertheless one of the things ccp and csm both fail to look at like many other things which makes low sec low sec. they both just lack knowledge and vision about wtf people are actually doing or looking for in there aside silly faction warfare.to the actual point. sec status limit for bounties is fine. it prevents you for placing illegal bounties on law abiding citizens. harhar. of course nothing stops you from creating 3rd party bounty service."
"still thank this is a great plan"
"i stopped reading right there...i was laughing too hard to be able to read any further."
"there is no downside to this. i think this is a fantastic idea and would be easy to implement. +9001 opdo this ccp!"
"thinking that people in low sec will not kill your pve ship because they do not want a security hit will just get you killed repeatedly. you should give up on that idea right away.anyone who goes to low sec now with any frequency already understands this. so this proposal will not deter anyone who already goes to low sec. make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"this negatively impacts my gameplay. ccp, please restore corpse names."
"i feel the need to...bump.be sure to like the first post if you think space needs a cleanup."
"i think you mean \"wilson\"... either way great idea and a 3-7 day timer would work fine. maybe have it variable 3 to 7 days and that way it would be more like an actual hacking device. could add a skillbook to speed it up to 3 days from the basic 7.ah the possibilities are endless...just give us a way to get rid of the damned offlined poss..mason"
"most hardwiring implants have an actual impact on your ship. if you don't fly with them, they bring you nothing. learning implants don't work that way. there is a similar issue with, say, industry implants, but it's a minor one as characters with these implants rarely undock to pvp anyway.learning implants affect everyone and make people less willing to risk in pvp, so.../supported"
"restore the white \"active\" circle around cloak modules. much more useful and visible cue than the soft green pulsing we are left with."
"why did someone revive this long dead horse? there was another thread about this recently as well. on the test server before crucible was released there were people using naga's to flat out obliterate battleships using torps. there are even a few vids on youtube of this. it was far too overpowered and had to be neutered. i would love a cruise naga though...but the naga is fine as is with rails honestly."
"sorry, you see slightly confused, as you just described the way they are actually supposed to work, not the way they really do.bs blobs can be easily countered, usually by kiting or sigtanking. neither tactic works against titans. no tactic works against titans blobbed up, except more titans.titans and superscarriers are fairly balanced alone, its simply that they were designed with the assumption no one would ever be able to build a blob of them.ccp is no good at predicting their customer base i honestly don't want titans nerfed, exactly, but rather limited so you can only field them in fleet support roles(my idea was to have their systems all locked, other than movement, unless they are giving fc bonuses to a certain critical mass of other pilots) because they work fine when you have 2-3 on the field. the problem is that with 20-30+, if you can't track that cruiser, your buddy 30km from you in the blob certainly can because you will always be at 0 traversal to someone in a blob, and a titan gets to one shot you when that happens. bs fleets don't because you are not gonna be at 0 traversal against everyone."
"if that works the other way around as well, then you have a like."
"i am suddently missing the aoe doomsdays again...i remember all the complaints about those back in the day and it hardly compares to this issue."
"jumpin' jesus on a pogo stick..... are you bears completely incapable of using a ******* search button? it's right there at the top left.congratulations though, i'm pretty sure you've started thread number 5000 crying bout ninja salvagers. no, really, there was one on this very same page of the forums right herefeature working as intended. deal with it.btw, where do you mission? i could use more salvage."
"i thought due to the rumour engine that a certain (i will not mention as it is supposed to be an uproven nda disclosure to certain players) csm council member declared that t2 bpos were going to be removed from the game in the near future?"
"i've found at least 3 wh in the past week that have abandoned pos's littering the moons with no sign of any inhabitants. i find it very frustrating that i cant either one take ownership of the moon or just take down the pos all together. so i would like to propose some sort of system that would allow for the claiming of the stations or some way of making it possible for new ppl to enjoy wh space. im not good at coming up with balanced systems to allow this fairly im just proposing the idea so if there are more ppl in eve that are also annoyed at this situation plz post your ideas so that maybe we can put this up as a priority or even an idea in ccp's head.thank you"
"yea there were a lot threads about it."
"maybe the hacking skill could give one a chance to unanchor an offline pos. (a higher chance for smaller pos, lower chance for faction) that would be pretty neat, i think."
"one of the many things that need to be handled in the pos overhaul that eve has needed for like 6 years"
"+1 and then + 10000 moreits very annoying to see 100's of dead pos's everywhere. a pos should not have to be destroyed or left to rot in space forever as a placeholder.there should be 'profit' in taking a dead unfueled / abandoned pos."
"you mean like this"
"nerf pos they're too difficult to destroyin all honestly i see no point why you can anchor deathstar just on top of stargate"
"umadbro?don't get mad at the missionbears; it makes them think they've learned how to troll properly.\"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" -abrazzar \"the risk of having your day ruined by other people is the cornerstone with which eve was built\" -ccp solomon"
"this thread has come back to life over and over again since salvages were introduced in the game. the only thing that needs to be nerfed here are expectations."
"^this.i have a pilgrim gathering dust in the hanger because no one will engage when it goes disco. i've gone so far as to loot and salvage entire missions as the ships are being shot in a noctis and still can't get anyone to take a shot at me.how about we make the act of targeting someone a hostile act, which it is, and therefore an actionable offense. of course it would be a field day until bears learn to set auto target-back to 0."
"actually this could be solved easily: if you are still on grid wrecks are yours, when you fly away they become free-for-all.then if you wanted to salvage in mass scale (aka noctis) you need to take risk of losing your wrecks, in case you want to be safe you can do slow-ass salvaging in marauder, without anyone spitting on your face.an perfect example of risk vs reward imo.edit: ops ninja edit ^^"
"it could be solved even easier than that. you wanna salvage \"your\" wrecks? put a salvager on your ship and do it while you kill more rats. that or get an alt. either way...no more need for threads like this one since it has already had a final say from the devs on it. working as intended, not going to change!"
"i dont think it should even count as stealing if they take loot from a wreck tbh, doesnt make sense. just because you blew up an npc it doesnt make its wreck yours. in pvp the wreck and its content still belongs to the owner of the original ship, if anythign you are stealing form the npc you exploded."
"looting a wreck should be an offence to prevent people taking high level drops without possible repercussions.however, ninja salvaging is good in my books, it is a way of baiting people that you shouldn't react to, like bumping in mining belts etc.don't like people ninja'ing you? (you are in hi-sec otherwise you would just pop them)then fit your ship to salvage as you go. too far out? switch to blasters/pulse/autocannon"
"so i am a little confused at this mechanic.when you fit a infinity point on a hic, (using for low sec) the cap drains so quickly its pretty unusable.a little crazy dont you think for fitting a specialised mod/script or a specialised purpose ship intended for that purpose.proposal is to add more base cap and give a cap significant recharge"
"use cap boosters? \"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" - abrazzar"
"i was waiting for that, you missed cap rechargers too. but a valid point nonetheless. if you using something like a shield hic, you are probably going to have double sebo, and the rest some tank. doesnt really leave room for cap boosters. so you mihgt say well its shield so fit cprs. well yes but then with say the broadsword you need te, and gyros to make any decent impact. especially if you need to kill the ship before it get back to the gate.the cap drain from a dedicated mod that can be only used on this dedicated ship, its crazy. all other specialised ships get bonuses etc for using it as intended."
"train an rsb alt? multiboxing has its benefits! \"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" - abrazzar"
"not anymore mate, not with the new changes...but meh maybe... doesnt resolve the problem thought does it."
"i think the problem lies in what you're trying to do with the fitting.you want to hics to be gun boats as well as tackle, only they can't do that, they can do one, or the other."
"i only really have issues with cap, when trying to run two infi points for too long.sounds like either your skills or fit, are in need of work.destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
":psyduck:"
"my phobos is cap stable running 5 medium electron blasters loaded will null ammo and one scripted infini-point. i have not one cap mod on my ship.post your fit for review as i feel that is the problem."
"training time in minutes equals:(points needed for next level - points you have) / (primary attribute + (secondary attribute/2))) * skill multiplierfor example:i currently have leadership trained to level 4 - 45,255 skill points.level 5 requires 256,000 skill points so:256,000 - 45,255 = 210,745 points remainingthe primary attribute of leadership is charisma, which i have at 31 points.the secondary attribute is willpower, which i have at level 25.31 + (25 / 2) = 43.5 points per minute * 60 = 2610 points per hour210,745 points / 43.5 points per minute = 4844 minutes = 3 days, 8 hours, 44 minutesnotice how each of the two attributes involved in training leadership contribute their own points.charisma will contribute 150,185 points at a rate of 31 points per minute or 1,861 points per hour.willpower will contribute 60,560 points at a rate of 12.5 points per minute or 749 points per hour.these rates are based entirely on my attribute values: base + implants + remap points. the only condition is that i must have a skill in training in order to earn skill points. but sometimes real life prevents us from always being at the keyboard. it's not that we're irresponsible, quite the opposite, it's just not a practical expectation.to address this, i introduce the generic skill. this skill has no points, no bonuses, and never stops. when the queue has no regular skill to train, it defaults to this skill. the way it works is that we can set any two unique attribute for the primary and secondary and it continuously generates skill points from those attributes at the same rate as training a regular skill. however, instead of generating universal skill points, it generates attribute-specific skill points. each attribute has it's own pool of skill points which can only be allocated to skills that depend on that attribute."
"1. how would it determin what caracter to asign the skill points to? or do you expect them to be asigned to the account in the redeaming system? what about implants and from what caracter on that account?2. lets say a user buys an account and trains nothing for a year, should user beable to come along 1 year later and alocate all those points to make whatever caracter they want?"
"it would automatically apply to the character that is actively training skills.i don't understand what you mean by \"redeeming system\".implants would work as usual.they would only be able to allocate the points for the character that last trained a skill.they would not be able to create a new character and then transfer the skill points to it.otherwise, as long as they've paid the bill, absolutely."
"your idea was already shot to flaming bits in this thread, please don't cross-post it, it just makes you look bad. you know that kid that goes and asks mommie for something because daddy said no but you know he hasn't told mommie yet? that's how this post comes across."
"apparently you weren't around before they introduced the skill queue. i used to get up at 4 am some days just to make sure i get a new skill training. the ability to add skills to the queue that run past the 24hr mark completely negate your proposal. not gonna be on for a while? throw in a looooong skill. gonna be away from a computer even longer than that? well, them's the breaks. it's tough all over. suck it up and move on. ccp has already gone above and beyond to help out [noobs] with skills (removal of learning skills anyone?) and shouldn't have to accommodate for every possible contingency in your life that may or may not prohibit you from putting a skill in the queue. there's a quote i heard all the time in the army that i think fits this perfectly, \"a lack of planning on your part does not constitute and emergency on mine.\""
"actually i've been around since long before they added the skill queue, which i agree was a great idea. but i vaguely remember the topic in the old forums where the idea was originally proposed many years ago and, believe it or not, it still got \"shot to flaming bits\" by characters like yourself.this proposal does not 'mess' with the skill queue. it does not change or replace what is there now, it just adds something that makes it better. if you really believe it won't help your game, fine, you would have the option of not using it."
"going from f&i to assembly hall should not be considered cross posting. his other thread was hardly \"shot to hell\" but i would admit it was only there for a day before this one was made so it hasn't been given a chance to get any real feedback.personally i like the idea. even as we speak my alt is not training because real life took me away for the weekend and i never had a chance to log on and change her queue. now i am at work. will i fret over a couple of days of lost training? nah...i run without implants half the time just because it isn't worth it for me. would an alternative method for skill queuing be nice? yeah...but at the same time there has to be some need for people to log on once in a while instead of just paying for their subs and never logging on. however, i also don't think that need should be to change their trainings. there should be something more important to draw the player to log in. on one hand you have the argument of \"eve is harsh, forget to do your trainings and be punished\" and on the other hand you have \"eve is too harsh and causes most gamers especially the casual ones to not want to play\". which is more important? eve's success along with a higher player base or retaining the difficulty and individuality of the game that caters to the hardcore? can't we have both?i am somewhat torn on whether or not this kind of idea should be or needs to be implemented. i will reserve my judgement for now and wait to see how other players respond in this thread and the other."
"why the hell would we want this?this is why a skill queue exsists....why would you want to waste time stacking up time when it can be put to use on the skill you want.all this is...is a exploit waiting to happen.....alts being trained for the express purpose of sp farming.for someone who claims hes been around a while...obviously has very poor common sense.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"cross posting a bad idea, is also a bad idea.destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"please do not create multiple threads about the same topic, thank you.thread locked.you can continue discussions about this topic here."
"ecm works as it should - stop crying about it and fly with friends.........you have big guns and big tank........ the ecm specialist ship is usually paper thin and has no dps... who's the one taking the risks here!grow up and stop being babies....... why don't you ask all the pvp foes to hang on a sec while you lock them up and shoot first....get your own drones on the ecm boat and kill it or scare it off...."
"and i refuse to let this one quietly fade into obscurity.let's get some support and input folks!i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"i find it laughable, and rather insulting, that ccp continue to market the idea of the \"bounty hunter\" when everyone in the game knows that the system is completely broken. i liked the new website, apart from that aspect. bounty hunting is probably the \"coolist\" profession, and certainly one that got me looking into eve so many years ago, and the fact they are still pushing that as an actual, feasible profession is borderline lying imo.i'd say that perhaps the new website might actually lead to a fix to the bounty system, but the fact we've all been waiting for years makes this highly unlikely. please someone fix the bounty system ! and no, i don't live in highsec. as if that would make your opinion any less wrong."
"this was always a 'feature' of eve that i quite liked even though i was never that ghoulish to collect corpses myself.please bring the names back, ccp."
"yeah its true the gallente store is terrible with the tags always cheaper to buy them off of contracts then to redeem them kind of sad kind of like the idea, but standings loss is still annoying, and wouldnt do anti faction missions because of that at least not now, always hoped of having a hi sp vindi or kronos then being able to handle the standing loss better"
"yes i like this idea gives you a choice whether to screw up your security status with a faction for the tags or to still be able to wander through all of eve if you preferas a gallente pilot that does use the lp stores, i agree that the tag situation in gallente space is a bit crazy+1"
"thank you for everyone's support :)"
"not sure there's any real need for this to be honest.put your bookmarks in a folder for each system then double click the folder to create a pop-out window that has all your bookmarks in it. makes life easier to align to and warp to bookmarks. so much easier than having anything shown on the overview."
"found the problem."
"i wouldnt mind losing the learning implants, but do like their uniqueness in the game. not sure what to replace them with. only think i can think of is like learning stones in cq, not sure if that will be a hit though. other then that can only think of learning skills again :). make learning skills like rigging is designed. cybernetics for the core skill. then the attribute skill maybe it will be a 2x skill to train after cybernetics. want the learning skill at 4 train cyber to 4 then that skill. or want 5 train cyber to 5 then that skill. maybe make the attribute skill a 1x one but thought that maybe too cheap. only thing i can think of, maybe better ideas."
"the opinion of a pro-incarna, anti-csm incursion running roleplayer alt is hardly relevant \"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" - abrazzar"
"think a lot of people are totally missing the point in this thread.it's not about riskless pvp in null sec. anyone living in null for longer than 10 minutes will probably be using a jump clone if they don't want to lose implants or have so much isk that they don't care anyway.this is about removing an unnecessary barrier to new players that will not have jump clones nor the isk to replace implants if they get podded.all the things mentioned in this thread about people not participating in fleet is usually from newer players that can't afford the losses the bitter vets can.anything that makes the game fun for new players can only ever be a good thing.and before anyone says anything, yes i do live in null and i have not had any implants in over 3 years so i don't run any risk in loosing pods anyway. i couldn't care less about the 2-3 days i could save on learning something by having learning implants. it isn't that important. playing the game and killing things is."
"there used to be corps that allowed people to get free jump clones. is this no longer the case? can't null sec alliances let people know how to get free jump clones? yeah people who learn about the game actually have advantages over people who remain ignorrant. do we need to flatten that learning curve? do we need to dumb down the game for everyone, so we can get more noobs in null sec blobs?make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"just like this."
"so why remove it? why cant we find another solution.i do want to keep implants and learning implants. they are part of eve.make it easier to get your first jumpclone perhaps. make it possible to switch without timer if you are on the same station.all problems are solved without deleting stuff out off the game.and one thing you should consider: not everything that is fun for new players is good for eve.it would be fun for new players to fight in a titan after a month. but it wouldnt be good for eve."
"one possible solution could be to add insurance for implants.\"reduces\" but does not completley remove adverse risk associated with using them.adds another potentially significant isk sink into the game.dual benefit without the need to simply delete content."
"one of our newbies actually scammed his way into one within his first two monthsokay, not really \"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" - abrazzar"
"supported.oh and all the dodos squawking \"risk vs reward\" where is the reward exactly?learning implants are a place where not taking risks is rewarded while taking risks is punished. sit in high sec with +5 learnings gain faster training, risk little. fight in nullsec with no implants lose training speed while risking much.oh and in pvp it's not a question of whether one is going to lose something rather than when, it's not a risk it's cost.even beyond the whole question of cost there is also the factor of availability. personally i have no problem risking +4s 40 mil isn't all that much in the scheme of things, but atm i'm stuck in a +3 clone not because i wasn't willing to pay for +4s for it but because there were none in the market when i made the clone in question. so now when it comes to a simple question of whether to go that clone (which is in our staging system) i have to calculate the chances of something actually happening to make the loss of learning speed worth it at least until that clone is destroyed.training speed is just to valuable a thing, particularly to new players, once one has a solid skill set it's less so but when you're first starting out and you have all these \"required\" skills that are on opposing attribute sets it's a bfd (that's big *#$&$&ing deal to you civies ) oh and faceless forum alt cowards, your opinions are discarded because there is no way to check your bonifides no way to see if might actually have some experience to support your opinions and arguments. as an experienced debater i know full well that it's often very easy to support a bullshit argument if you toss out enough unfounded assertions.you have no credibility and your arguments are worth exactly squat.implants are a significant isk sink.. got any actual cites on that? because the reality is that most people just simply are not going to be risking expensive implants on a regular basis. this is something that you rattle off because you think it must be true while the reality is that it just isn't. learning implants particularly the expensive ones simply aren't replaced that often. most nullsec pvpers don't wear them so it's not like they're burning through them at a prodigious rate and high and low sec players aren't losing many of them either. not at the rate to make them a \"significant isk sink\"no for the most part the expensive learning implants get stuck in a high sec clone and left kept in the safe confines of high sec so there is no risk there only reward to the risk averse.if you are going to base your arguments on \"risk vs reward\" then you should damned well be sure that the reward scales proportionally with the risk rather than inversely. implants are a place where all the rewards go to the non-risk takers. personally i agree with the general sentiment that attributes should be removed entirely they are a silly mechanic that really only act to limit peoples choices. and no that's the same as suggesting that everyone gets all skills at 5, prioritizing skills based on need rather than some long term map plan is not the same as eliminating planning all together. and to all the \"i'm willing to risk my implants anyone who doesn't is just a wuss\", good for you, you wanna a cookie? it remains a stupid mechanic that discourages risk taking by rewarding the risk averse.+1 support"
"+1absolutely no need to encourage sitting in safety just to train optimally. it defeats the entire premise of getting new players into the action from day one and getting them into competetive and useful positions as soon as possible. furthermore it rewar"
"the reality is in the market order histories. you can see for yourself. someone posted data earlier in this thread too. it was just ignored. make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"i propose free clones and module insurance as well.hell, why not just respawn a player in his ship at the nearest station upon death.that'll be more friendly to new players, never a bad thing. all those week old players refusing to respond to a cta cause they're running incursions in +5's. shame."
"basically this.as it is, the naga is a fantastic ship both in the blaster and railgun role and i don't think ccp are every going to change that now. it even out-blasters the talos (but talos gets drones so that's ok )get your corpies to train turret based skills and out of their ratting drakes."
"titans are supposed to do ridiculous damage to capital ships and stationary structures. they have the dd for this, so why do they need guns? shouldn't be for self defence as that's what their sub-cap fleet is supposed to be for. we have dreads for turret based damage but as it stands they are virtually never used.remove turrets from titans, give dreads a role again and then there is no problem."
"a lot of people get around not appearing at the cyno when jumping in their super capital by timing the opening of the cyno with a self destruct of the ship. players wait till just a few seconds before their throw away cyno ship is about to self destruct, light the cyno and hit the jump with their super capital. so before the super loads the system, the cyno ship has exploded and they appear in some random safe spot in system, totally 100% safe and they can simply cloak up immediately.super capital owners have been using this tactic to sneak into systems, run level 5 missions among other things. all to avoid possibly being caught.i say that if you light a cyno, any self destruct timer you have going is immediately cancelled."
"lining up a self destruct, cyno activation, broadcast and jump all within a 2-3 second window is that trivialdo you just make these things up? \"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" - abrazzar"
"you don't need to broadcast and no, i didn't make this up. try it if you don't believe me."
"you do need to broadcast when you have a ton of cynogens in range :\ \"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" - abrazzar"
"i'm starting to think hes/shes/its cracked under the strain of space crack abuse.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"i guess i can take a moment to teach you two trolls how to do this.step 1: add cyno throw away alt to watch list.step 2: wait till system is empty/safe.step 3: move cyno alt to a safe spot.step 4: start self destruct timer.step 5: when there is about 3or 4 seconds left on the self destruct, light the cyno.step 6: move mouse over to the cyno alt on the watch list and right click, select 'jump'!step 7: cyno ship explodes before you load system, thus placing your capital at a random spot in system.step 8: activate cloak on capital ship.even if someone was fast enough to activate warp to the cyno that was up for a couple seconds; the most they could hope to do is pod your cyno alt. hoping to prob down the ship you just cynoed in at some random spot in system faster than you can press the cloak is simply impossible.so there you have it. step by step process on how to move any jump capable ship, that can fit a cloak, with 100% safety."
"honestly if its true what you said (because honestly alot of the bs you post is just flat bs tbqh) then you should petition this...not post it here.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"petition? it's as much of an exploit as fitting a cloak to a capital ship to warp to a safe spot till you have enough cap to jump out. it's not an exploit. the goal of my proposal is to add a degree of risk when moving super capitals.also are you even capable of posting without sprinkling insults throughout it?"
"i just did this with my mains chimera and it works. have to admit i will be abusing the hell out of this due to the fact i am not limited to station systems now."
"learn to read your posts before you speak.your indicating an exploit when it comes to those who can cyno beacon and then die instanly after the ship arrives.i couldn't care less about your cloaking whines.my problem is the fact a cyno beacon is supposed to trap the cyno-ship there for the lentgh of the cyno.anything outside of that is normal game mechanics.cyno beacons are braodcasted to everyone in the area as to their presence...gives risk to the arriving ships.this removes that risk...who gives a flying #### that you can fit a cloaking device on any ship (with high slots) in the game...bulk of which can't warp away while cloaked. if you want to #### about claoks then make yet an another bloody thread about it somewhere else.moar tears please!!! i love im!================ stop the evemail spam!"
"this is a mute point. anything that ends the cyno can cause this effect. even waiting for the cyno to naturually end and hitting the jump button just as it does."
"drake draconis - you said marlona was making stuff up and she proved you wrong and even broke it down into simple steps. i know this must be difficult for you to digest, but all you are doing now is building a straw man. your just embarrassing yourself really. i suggest you close your pie hole and leave the thread be.if you don't like how players have used this mechanic then please just give support to the change. no need to troll or build straw men."
"this proposal is simple enough. just like a cyno can not be activated in a pos shield; self destruct should not be allowed to be activated and when entering will be cancelled in a pos force field.the main reason for this is unknown space. invaders successfully defeat an inhabitant only to watch as one of the main reasons for the attack is just self destructed over and over leaving nothing to be looted. a change like i said above would encourage more reasons to pew pew in unknown space."
"scorched earth is as old as warfare, i see no reason to change it. if you don't want them getting back to pos, pod them."
"i see your point but i don't think it is a change that should be made. denying your attacker of his prize is part of war and also part of the sandbox. if anything i would say they need to change it to allow people inside a pos to target and attack each other including modules in the pos. if you are gonna lose the pos...why not help out and get on the km?"
"no self destructing in a pos shield?lay off the space crack.although i love your tears...thats for sure.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"i see the point of denying prize but it is soon becoming so that any conventional pvp has no rewards at allcurrently if you want any decent prize for doing pvp you need to go to hi sec and suicide gank nubbinsin 0.0 everything is nullified, cloaked, jump bridged, bubbled to hell and protected by 1000 man blob on titan bridge and even if you get past that they can just self destruct everythingsomeone might think there should be a little better options in general."
"so people in null sec have utilized the tools given to them to stay safe? isn't that the point? every kill shouldn't be a massive reward. in pos bashes i have taken part in it isn't uncommon for us to buy the contents of the pos from the person we are attacking. sometimes we buy the pos and everything in it and they just move out. we let them live and they sell us their crap at a discount after they are allowed a certain leniency to get out of the wh. it's negotiation. where does that players negotiation option go if this change were made?"
"so the best way for you to make isk while \"pvp\"ing is to attack the people who have no isk? that doesn't make any sense at all. (i put it in quotes because i don't believe it's really pvp if the other party can't fight back or even pretend to fight back).self destructing is a valid denial mechanic that's working as intended. just because you've trapped someone in a pos doesn't mean you earned the right to all their stuff, it just means that you've earned the right to do your best to keep them from getting away with their stuff."
"if i, or anyone else for that matter, wanted to play black prophecy i would've downloaded that instead of eve.i never understand why people want to remake eve into something it's not. it's most definitely not a fps and i think everyone would like to keep it that way.not supported."
"oh dear lord, this again?!?!see all the posts above as to why this will never be changed. also, eve is called a mmo for a reason. stop solo mission running, bring a corpy or a friend and have them salvage/loot for you and you will never need to concern yourself with ninja anything ever again.(sorry to all the hi sec mission baiters if they listen and you can't kill mission bears anymore )"
"sure why not,aggression for everyone!i honestly think poco based sov is a good idea"
"wasnt there this thread yesterday?i will say again, a wreck is not yours. in pvp the wreck still belongs to the player who exploded, npc wrecks should no belong to teh player who shot them.also, can you imagine the tears when teh carebears realise this would actually be a massive benefit to griefers?"
"i will say again, the ships in your hangars is not yours, because that is the ccp property.forget this idiotism, wreck is not yours."
"get rid of t2 bpos and make everyone do inventioni honestly think poco based sov is a good idea"
"this is so funny and truth at the same time"
"i remember ccp saying ages ago that things floating in space that hadn't been used in 30 days or more would be removed. not sure if that was ever implemented or not but seems like it should apply to abandoned pos's. maybe move them to the corp's hq that anchored it? or have it impounded so that if someone wants it, they can claim it later?trouble with wh's is that the pos would probably still be used if the corp that anchored it could find it again. and that's most likely the problem here, people leave the wh and forgot to bm the exit or got podded out of the wh with no way of finding it again."
"still - a pos that is unfueled - should be ripe for the picking and should be able to be unanchored."
"hacking an offline pos replaces its authentication table and makes it \"yours\", at which point you can do whatever you want with it. it doesn't matter when it ran out, if it's offline, it's hackable."
"make it so ccp"
"^ this."
"/me agrees! and no, i don't live in highsec. as if that would make your opinion any less wrong."
"i'm broadly in favor of this, and have been for quite some time. ccp is quite aware of this issue, in particular with respect to the pos graveyards in some wh's.however, i personally think there should be a short grace period after the pos goes offline before it's hackable/unanchorable/whatever."
"yes i agree,dead poses should either be able to be salvaged or hacked and unanchored after a given amount of time. i believe 90 days is fair. many others in other threads about this same topic believe it should be much shorter.90 days is long enough that anyone having an unexpected absence from the game should be able to get back by then. if you are going to be gone for more than 90 days you should have known about it and planed ahead by either taking it down or arranging for a friend to put an alt in your corp to top up the fuel once in a while.any shorter than 90 days i belive would result in a lot of semi active players complaining. i believe there are many offline poses in eve that have been there for far more than 90 days. and not just in w-space but even in high sec. start with 90 days and see how many disappear. i expect the number of off line poses in eve that have been ofline for less than 90 days will be small. if having a grace period would not work than just make off line poses easier to kill than online poses. the argument has been made many times that a pos with no fuel should have no shield. how is the shield powered if there is no fuel? currently the bubble disapears but if you want to pop the tower you have to burn through the full amount of shield giving it the same hit points as an online pos minus any defensive modules such as shield hardeners that would be off line.i believe off line poses are even protected by reinforce mode if they have stront in them. not sure on this but that is what i have heard."
"yep i agree thats why i came up with the idea of a anchor-able hacking modulethe idea is it has a given amount of time to \"hack\" the pos giving the owner time to respond.any chance this is going to be added to the csm's list of things to be done?"
"i don't see the need to unanchor offline pos\"s. it's hard to say something is abandoned or not. i think the answer lies in the shields. if a pos is offline then the shields should not be part of it's hp. however this comes down to the programming in the game, and ccp has expressed it isn't easily fixed."
"fix the bounty systemgive the people effected by gankers the ability to do something about it, and at the same time, create the profession of bounty hunters that ccp \"claims\" exists, but doesn't. that was my favourate bit of the new website, the blatant lie that the bounty hunter profession exists. errrm.... it doesn't! it's broken. whats more, everyone has been screaming that its broken for years! kinda underhanded of ccp claiming otherwise just to entice people to start playing eve, i mean, who doesn't want to be a bounty hunter??make bounties like contracts. i set bounty contract against pirate a, assign contract to bounty hunter individual/corporation b, resulting in exploding pirate ship/pod c, giving nice big bounty payout d. sorted!or think of something else, please, anything has got to be better than putting a bounty on some guys head, and them collecting it 5 minutes later with their friends help.that way, people getting ganked can stop moaning cause they've no interest in pvp, and gankers can get all exicted about more pvp coming their way. best of all, bounty hunters become a viable profession! everyone wins! and no, i don't live in highsec. as if that would make your opinion any less wrong."
"slight bump on this. indeed, a corp. iconmaker rewamp would be nice. current options are so... 2003...i'll admit, it's a small thing, but damn, corp. icon is displayed in cq. and will soon hit our ships too. more customization on this please !"
"didn't they redo all the corp icons like 1-2y ago? i remember a fairly recent change to them and adding in/changing a bunch of options."
"manage a corp and there is one thing that you do not know about your corp members...who no longer plays eve and who has their account expired.when an account expires - it would be cool if you can send an email to corp / admins or something to let them know."
"any api query to an expired account would return error code 211, \"login denied by account status.\"any serious corp would collect members' apis. \"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" - abrazzar"
"or a paranoid corp."
"except it's trivial to change api keys, especially with the new system."
"this to be quite honest....anyone with half a brain employs serious api key checking.it's kinda obvious when an account goes defunct.i used eve hq to track members in my former corp...it can be teidous...but it does a fine job and ccp has enough on their plate.not supporting.================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"different thread same tired old \"salvage is mine hands off\" refrain expertly blown out of the water."
"its nice watching this guy's guardian angels come in. i like a happy ending to a thread."
"i can see vertisce soritenshi point in this but there's also the practicality of reading through some of these threads. some go into to 10 pages or more (mostly trolling) and it is time consuming and laborious for the most part.i also appreciate it gives the csm and to a lesser extent ccp an insight as to what a very small portion of the eve community is thinking but it is very small. a lot of eve players probably don't even know these forums exist let alone voice an opinion on some of the things posted.you also have to take into consideration human nature. i only look at the posts that have a direct interest for me and usually try and provide objective input as to why it's a good or bad idea and the csm will very likely look at things in a similar fashion whilst trying to appease all.a very very fine balancing act to be sure but it is nice to know that someone somewhere is reading these ideas/proposals at least, even if they can't or won't act on them. may be just a copy & paste message to say it's being looked at or not?just my thoughts anyway."
"i agree. it is not fair to expect them to read every single thread but they did run for the position and did get elected so they should dedicate time to it. i spend about 4 hours a day or more on these forums. it is just that boring at my job. i just wish to see more interaction and input on the better ideas."
"same. think it's a fitting or skill issue here.hic's are fine as they are.not supported."
"bump for exposure to hopefully draw some more love for the space truckers.we need new ships!!i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"destroyer are now known for the extreme tanks and somewhat good speed. (sig radius rediction) in keeping with that i wouldnt at all suggest that a new destroyer either it be t2 hull or a completely new destroyer hull. i would never even suggest it have the horrible signarture it once had and the interdictor still does."
"interesting idea, but that may kill people who make gay videos about \"super solo pvp\", where they are in pimped \"solo\" ship using bonuses from loki and tengu on a safe spot for killing crowds of retards.i like such videos, so dislike.but talking about big fleets and other game mechanics, perhaps you're right."
"i have to agree with the majority of people posting.this is one of the best suggestions i have seen for taking care of lowsec issues that keep a majority of people out. the op has the right idea here on how to level out the warfare in lowsec so that more people will want to join in and this would certainly encourage more numbers to roam in lowsec than currently do.+1great idea."
"i think, it should not be invulnerable, but it should exist in the game. abandoned poses in highs, whs and other areas just keep the moon and make unnecessary line in your ship-scanner result. if you wanna occupy the moon by your pos - don't leave it without fuel then. if you left the pos then somebody else should have a chance to hack and grab the fuelless pos (not to kill it)."
"[quote=davaderi think, it should not be invulnerable, but it should exist in the game. abandoned poses in highs, whs and other areas just keep the moon and make unnecessary line in your ship-scanner result.[/quote]having the module invulnerable means they need to online the pos thus determining if it is abandoned or not.i noticed there are varing opinions on what makes the pos abandoned.1. the pos goes offline, that makes it abandoned.2. the corp that the pos belongs to is closed.3. after a given time period (varies)so the question is: what do you concider makes a pos abandoned?"
"that's clearly a natural extension of this proposal, dumbass \"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" - abrazzar"
"hey, he probably has a very large one, so if asses are anything like brains, it would be a very smart one.\"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" -abrazzar \"the risk of having your day ruined by other people is the cornerstone with which eve was built\" -ccp solomon"
"i don't recall any data posted regarding this then again i only skimmed the last few pages. (re-skimmed the whole damned thing and no actual citation of any sort to back up the claim)tell you what though, claiming that implants are a significant part of the eve economy (do you have any idea how big the eve economy is ) is a positive claim and as such the burden of proof is on the person making the claim. so no i'm not going to go on a unicorn hunt trying to prove a negative. if you are going to make that argument you provide the evidence to back it up. otherwise i'm just going to assume you are going with roma data."
"no"
"are they really?merlin has hybrid bonusesraptor has hybrid bonusesharpy has hybrid bonusescormorant has hybrid bonusesmoa has hybrid bonuseseagle has hybrid bonusesferox has hybrid bonusesrokh has hybrid bonusesso they plainly are at least partly hybrid based."
"caldari have drake and tengu with nighthawk and cerberus. why to have one more? naga should stay hybrid-based."
"a) missiles on naga were totally bad in every wayb) caldari also use hybrids stfuc) be happy naga uses hybrids because missile naga sucked assd) it's in line with other tier 3 caldari shipse) missiles on naga are bad mkay?"
"there is an ability to award a medal to a member of your corporation, as everybody know. these medals can only be visible by other pilots, if a pilot opens show info screen of some another pilot and goes to decorations tab (in case of the person set public permissions to observe his medals).after incarna we have all those dresses, monocles, captain quarters, 3d model of the character walking around, new avatars, etc.why isn't there an ability to show your well-deserved rewards to other people on your avatar or on your uniform, when the captains quaters mode is on (3d model)?that's very simple idea: to have an ability to put one or several medals (which you were awarded by) on the chest of your 3d character model in the \"character recustomization\" screen.you can put a new shirt on, why can't you fasten a new medal to your jacket and make a new photo with it?technically, i'm sure, that this is very simple to implement, cuz they can use the same texures of the medals as are used when we look at decorations tab and click on medal's info link.this is pure optional design stuff. those who don't like medals or don't care won't be bothered at all.the topic is refered to this, but the idea is not excatly the same."
"oh lovely....now we will have chars walking around with a crapton of medals just because they can and what not.making them less meaningful. medals don't mean much as it is....we don't need more clutter.pass.not supporting.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"why not? i like medals as well"
"of course, there should be strict limitation of medals number! let's say 10 medals, or even 5 would be enough."
"support!1'st row for free and 2'nd row for an aurum"
"just so long as we can choose which medals we display (i say as if i had enough to need to choose). not that they'd be visible in most portraits."
"why not? supported."
"lol...i support this idea. i think ccp should make achievements with medals you get for them to use on your avatar instead of the player created ones from your corp.yeah yeah...achievements suck...whatever. i wouldnt mind having a system that tracked my kills and accomplishments through an award system. 1 million pvp kills...yay!"
"ok, so ask your ceo to make those kind of \"achievement\" medals..."
"not the same since everybody else in eve isn't held to the same standard."
"um, how about we quit worrying about bullshit stuff that doesn't affect gameplay and actually focus on the game here? devs don't need to work on stupid **** like medals... we shouldn't have captain's quarters in the first place, but it's too late for that. let's not waste any more effort on that **** though!"
"supported.i have some medals and they'll look nice on my chest!<-----------here"
"i'm not sure if this is the right place to post this complaint or not, but here goes.for many years now i've played this game, and i have a long, long list of petitions to go through. and since about 2007, the general quality of gm service has been declining. response time has gone from hours to weeks. the quality of those responses has gone down the toilet spectacularly. in the most recent few it's clear the gm had not bothered to read the petition before posting a canned response.i had one weeks old get a response that they were unaware of any such bug. despite it having been listed as 'fixed' in the previous day's patch notes.i'm sorry, but tl:dr is not an acceptable response in customer service. are there any steps that csm can take, or is this something that needs taken to someone else?"
"i have to agree with you there. especially when they repeat \"clear your cache\" as a mantra (especially annoying since ccp hasn't gotten around to giving us a way to export/import our window positions and settings yet)"
"\"in before lock\" but at least this post is decent.they will likely lock this and ask you to petition a higher gm....posting about it here will not affect much.i do have to agree...quality has been dropping as of lately.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"what's above senior gm? because one of them above was one."
"dev. pretty much anyway. unfortunately you quoted drake so i read his reply and he is right in this case. likely this thread will be locked but escalate your issue until you can't go any higher or are happy with the response."
"the underlying issue is really quite straightforward. turret weapons have no form of 'cap' to their damage beyond base transversal. the minute you stack on all the tracking enhancements, target painters and webs that are avaialble, it becomes possible for a turret titan to kill basically anything. the fact that supercap fleets can currently shake off mwding interdictors - the very ships designed to tackle them - shows just how fundamentally broken tracking is.missiles on the other hand have had a much smarter balancing cap from day 1. oversized missiles simply cannot effectively damage undersized targets, regardless of other modifiers. a drake will tank citadel torps from now until the next downtime because missiles are properly designed to maintain the rock/scissors/paper model of ship balance. the leviathan is pretty much exactly what a 'balanced' titan should be - a high damage platform that is only able to damage other large targets. no need to remove supercap weapons, no need to nerf their damage, no need to take away more hp. all we need is a hard cap that stops oversized turrets damaging inappropriate targets and encourages diverse fleets."
"it's moot by the way, not mute.that said, the point is that a current mechanic is being used to keep super capitals and others, 100% safe. are you opposed to making super capital movement involve some risk?"
"i believe his point was that you can use the same trick regardless of if they make it impossible to self destruct with a cyno going, the only thing it would change would be to take 10 min to pull it off (and save the person who's jumping from having to buy so many cyno ships), and you're likely spending part of that time recharging cap in the system anyways."
"allow me to detail my points since you have a serious lack of comprehension and reading.1: marlona is complaining about things with stupid reasnos that are obviously biased....practicually every time marlona posts its just flat riduclous..2: this post in particular is about being able to kick in self destruct timer and cyno within seconds before cyno collapses....for once...a valid concern. re-read my post as to why that is.3: marlona is bitching about cloaking up in a super cap and warping off....irreleavant. this is about cynos...the topic says that...wtf does cloaking devices have to do wtih it?conclusion: stop crying and file a petition for the cyno...and make a thread for the rest.end of discussion.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"ten minutes of hoping no one destroys your cyno before you want it to go down/die. anyways i'm done arguing with people who only want to disagree no matter what. if you like the proposal fine. if not, fine."
"if it is getting attacked and is going to die, then you just jump as if you'd self destructed"
"seems to me that if someone is deliberatly self-destructing their cyno ship so that when they jump their cap in, it gets thrown to a random location in the system, instead of at the cyno point, then this is an exploit and should be looked into.supported.jint hikaru - miner / salvager / explorer / spacebum in the beginning the universe was created. this has made a lot of people very angry and been widely regarded as a bad move."
"tricks like this are exactly what make eve a sandbox game - players should be encouraged to think outside the box, not be taped inside it. plus if you try to stop it, people would just blow up the cyno frig with a 3rd alt anyway.judging by your other threads you seem intent on banning players from doing anything unexpected that prevents you obtaining easy kills/loot. if only you put as much effort into hunting people as they put into evading you...if it's an exploit then that also applies to when the ship is blown up by someone, causing the jumping ship to be thrown. should people be banned if they blow up the cynoship with a friendly alt? what if they use a neutral alt with no affiliation? what if a hostile player blows up their cyno instead? should someone be banned for that?please tell me where you draw the line on this 'exploit'."
"i would suggest that the mechanics of where the jumping ship is going to land should be changed. obviously there is some timing issues between jimping into a cyno just before it closes and the point when the next system is loaded and the game tries to workout where to put your ship.seems to me that its not an intended result by the game, as the point at which your cap ships (or whatever) arrive is supposed to be known to the entire system.but i have to admit i dont use cynos, so i am sure there are other players who know the ins and outs a lot better than i do.cynonet two, my question to you is: do you believe that manipulating the timing as described in the ops post is an ligitemate method, or would you say that its an unintended result and therefore an exploit???jint hikaru - miner / salvager / explorer / spacebum in the beginning the universe was created. this has made a lot of people very angry and been widely regarded as a bad move."
"to the op. ignore the trolls. seriously...just ignore them. life on the forums will get better once you do. drake has been on my ignore list for some time now because he simply never has anything constructive to say and rarely knows what he is talking about anyway. just block him and watch how clean the threads start to look. you are right. i have used this tactic in the past many times. i don't know if ccp has made an official statement on the issue or not but i fully agree with you. i would almost say it is a glitch and using this tactic is exploiting the system if it wasn't for the fact that the mechanics that are in place is what makes this so blatantly easy to do. i think it should change and fully support your proposal.+1"
"could always make self destruct do dmg to nearby ships, obviously no where near uber dmg, but given a fleet size you'll think twice about it amongst your own ****. i'm sure there is alot of flak in regards to using in highsec, apply criminal assuming they hit something/one. and no i wouldn't advocate dmg that one shots frigates, but something that pops some pods possibly. i'm sure this will get shot down, but looking at it on a logical front this would be an roleplay perspective of why you wouldn't self destruct inside a pos, or populated area for that matter. any way two iskies."
"it would result in far more invasions if there was actual booty to be had. i understand self destruct is a viable mechanic. while i do like it as a scuttle feature, denying your enemy of loot, there is other things i do not like about it. like no kill mail or the hard 2 minute timer on every ship no matter the size, but that is besides the point.the idea to encourage more aggressive behavior in worm holes. it is relatively easy to build a fortress given enough time. if someone was able to over time defeat the enemy, there should be something to be had. not hours upon hours of watching the enemy self destruct hundreds of ships. i know you think this is enough of a reward and perhaps some witty smack on the forums is reward enough, but i think there should be something more tangible.this does not mean your version of the reward is wrong and this does not mean mine is either. just different endings to the story of a fight."
"absolutely agree with the topic starter. also, for capital and supercapital ships there should be longer timers (up to 10-15 minutes)."
"srsly, this thread has made me lol several times already!please, keep arguing for this change! the whining vs 'working as intended' rage is feckin priceless!omfg edit: can you imagine this change coupled with /scannable/ wrecks? mayhem!"
"welcome to ccps new eve website.lets have a look at the careers avaliable to eve players, oh look.....ccp wants salvaging as a career!please close this thread now. its officially dead!jint hikaru - miner / salvager / explorer / spacebum in the beginning the universe was created. this has made a lot of people very angry and been widely regarded as a bad move."
"wrekc are not yours, if you want to shoot people coming into your mission got to lowsec or nullsec"
"this will kill ninja-salvaging preofession, so greatly dislike."
"that could work to, although im not a fan of such solutions"
"while the no shields while offline make sense and should happen anyway, i want the pos not a killmail or the moon.it just criminal all those faction towers in wh space that are abandoned that no one can use."
"fully agree. a grace period is needed.i also suggest that in order to do this in hisec, you have to wardec the owning corp.if the corp is closed then no need.jint hikaru - miner / salvager / explorer / spacebum in the beginning the universe was created. this has made a lot of people very angry and been widely regarded as a bad move."
"why? if it's offline, it's already been at least a few weeks since it was last tended to properly."
"making it possible to make an offline pos invulnerable by abusing the wardec mechanics, as is done today. vov"
"+1 to every solution found. as long as all the towers in wh space that are dead can be removed, im all in favorps: also something to unanchor towers when there are (incapped) mods attached please. a selfdestruct on mods?"
"giving pos's a major upgrade is a high priority for everyone on csm, and i would not be at all surprised if ccp decided to take this on for the winter 2012 expansion. i'm certainly pushing for it (remember that when you cast your votes!).this kind of change would be the sort of thing that gets discussed when they decide to bite the bullet and give us a new system.bestrps: for avoidance of confusion, my idea of \"a short grace period\" is perhaps a couple of days. and apart from giving people the chance to recover from their own screwups, it also gives ccp a chance to recover from theirs as well -- such as what happened with the fuel block changeover."
"the \"grace period\" is the amount of spam a pos gives you that it's about to run out of fuel.if you don't have the ability to maintain it, then you should be able to have one tbh"
"people get pos refuel notifications in their calendar now, if they still can't refuel the pos on time based on that and they don't take the hint of \"halp halp i'm low on fuel\" every hour for 24 hours, then i'm going to just go out on a limb and say ****'em.just so this is said, i'd assume the hacking of a pos would be something which would actually take a while to accomplish, say an hour or so or whatever, just to try to give the owner yet another hour to get there, put fuel in and start it up, thus protecting his investment. i wasn't thinking it should be something which can be done within 30 seconds of a pos going offline."
"very good point zim. jint hikaru - miner / salvager / explorer / spacebum in the beginning the universe was created. this has made a lot of people very angry and been widely regarded as a bad move."
"exactly."
"and if the person does not log in for a couple days they will not see the pos fuel spam. not everyone in eve can get on every single day. i often go almost a week without getting online. real life always comes first. especially with two small children in my life. i use eve gate to keep tabs on corp messages and such but many others do not bother. there are also a lot of military personnel that play eve. they can get a last minute deployment and not have time to arrange their assets in eve for an extended leave. they can be often 3 months with no access to internet let alone a pc they can actually log into eve on. this is why i believe it should be 90 days after a tower goes offline before it can be hacked and claimed by someone else. i do believe though that when a pos goes off line it should have no shields or reinforcement immediately when it goes offline. and i think high sec poses should go into an unanchor timer if they run out of starbase charters. they take up very little room and are very cheap to buy. there is not reason you can not have 6 months worth of starbase charters in fuel bay at all times. if you lose your anchoring permit(starbase charter) in high sec an automated unanchor timer of say 2-4 days would activate and could be cancelled by adding more charters. this should be regardless of whether the pos is online or offline. no permit no anchor rights. if the unanchor timer reaches zero the pos unanchores and will disappear at next down time. if someone comes by before than the pos and all its modules can be scooped.put a little risk into investing in a high sec pos. if you do not maintain it you will lose it. many corps my self included have offline poses anchored in high sec just5 incase they are needed. it takes some logistics and coordination to get corp standings high enough to anchore a pos. so if you think you might need more in the near future by them an anchor them before you let your standings drop. for example i have a one man corp with my 4 accounts but only one of my characters has enough standings to be able to anchor a pos inhigh sec. so i have to either start a new corp with that character or move all my characters without 0.0 standings out of the corp, wait for standings to adjust. then anchor the poses and reinvite the other characters. it is much easier to just anchor a couple extra pos while my standings are up. as long as they are offline they cost me nothing but the capital investment. if i had to online them for at least one day per month and keep them stocked with starbase charters it would add some cost and risk to those poses rather than being able to claim the moon for free indefinitely. if players ant to keep offline poses anchored just incase they need them then there should be some cost attached to it even if it is minimal."
"wait...what?"
"then they should keep their pos fuel topped off so that it doesn't run out. another good way to do this is to prevent people from being able to dec scrape to save their pos. if you can't defend it, you shouldn't own it.the best solution i've seen is the anchor-able hacking device linked earlier in this thread. have it only affect offlined pos and put a three day timer on it and it becomes quite easy to quickly take ownership of abandoned pos anywhere."
"i like the idea behind the three day timer. that sounds good, without being op, or such a pain in the ass no-one bothers.as for vets and others who get called away at a moments notice. i *do* understand, having been in the service for 10.5 years, however, in game assets do not necessarily have to reflect out of game issues.imho, ymmv..."
"more importantly, don't operate a pos by yourself. if your absence results in the loss of your station, it's because you tried to do something solo that wasn't really intended for solo play. all you need is one other person you can trust to keep the pos operational while you are away.if you can't manage that, don't have a pos. i've never operated one and don't see why others think they need one to play eve, much less that it should be protected from their inability to maintain it."
"3 days? really? that's even worse than the sbu timers etc."
"i have asked that there be a review. please point out exactly where i have a directed specific action to restrict the action of suicide ganking in high-sec?then i thought about this. perhaps there is some truth here. (color me pariah) players perception needs to be aligned to game. i had an idea for a tutorial which should be done by new players. in which they lose ship and pod by an ambush. then the remainer of the tutorial explains about the games tools of d-scan, local chat intel, map and statisics. (and any other tools which really should be ingrained knowledge within the first 10hrs of play). get new player over the shock immediately. the current series of tutoral merely foster carebear attitude by their design.and see? we haven't nerfed current mechanics at all. but this is not the place for this suggestion. it should be raised when there is a forum of review - then all players can have feedback about improvement. which is no different from what is currently happening with incursions."
"and even better, the gankers start ganking each other for bounties, lol"
"to be fair... anytime someone says that suicide ganking \"needs review\" they are generally aiming to nerf it or make it harder in some fashion. in the future, you might want to consider including a goal or reason for \"bringing into review.\"there was an idea similar to this that was floated in the f&i forum awhile ago. basically it would be a mission (and purely optional at that) that would be available only to accounts that are less than 1 month old (to prevent abuse). this mission would essentially ask the newbie to get into a cheap frigate (or be provided one) and go out to a randomized system out in null-sec (not too far out into it though)... nothing more. just get to point a, doesn't matter how you get back.the reward would be something that only a true newbie would covet (i'm thinking a tier 3 cruiser or something) but not necessarily need."
"really? is it too easy? i think, it's not. removing the insurance by last big patch was a good act of balancing, why do more? there are many ways not to waste expensive stuff carrying from jita to your carebearing location. if you fly afk on tankless ship - don't be offended, please."
"in more than a year of carebearing, i was never ganked in highsec. why?because i flew properly-tanked ships and didn't autopilot."
"i think fixing the bounty system properly is the answer for this thread.this thread addresses this issue quite nicely."
"just add value to killrights. allow the players to set the concord/npc navy/docking rights response if that ganker is ever unfortunate enough to jump into the same system as the victim. allow the players to set this reoccurring response for the duration of a standard killright. or increase the duration of killrights."
"suicide ganking does not need reviewthe only times i've ever lost a ship to suicide gankers is because i wasn't paying attentionthere are already in-game mechanics for the prevention of this, it's called not being afk, warping to 0, and tanking your ship if it has slow align timedoes not need review, learn to play the game."
"maybe its my fail logo design skills, but i fully agree, the system would benefit from an overhall.jint hikaru - miner / salvager / explorer / spacebum in the beginning the universe was created. this has made a lot of people very angry and been widely regarded as a bad move."
"not to mention the missing faction logos,, letters, numbers, triangles, hexagons, circles, animals, colors... and pirate faction logos (could be a standing unlock on this one. with character portrait background too)."
"bump of the day to get more exposure/support for the idea!i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"great idea.i also like the idea of small tug class vessels with remote agility and align speed or other such modules for getting big ships into and out of stations faster.i would like to point out that the gank level of this ship needs to be somewhere about the 1.5 bil or so mark otherwise it will just be a large juicy target for any destroyer group. if you can carry around battleships in warp you need to be massively large and consequently very tough target just based on size alone. the ship in space also needs to dwarf all other ship models by a good margin because seriously, it should be big enough to look like it can swallow other ships."
"i want to make sure i get this right as this proposal is getting a great deal of press.joe blow the 3 week player gets tired of mining or lvl 1 missions, and wants to try out some pvp. he's getting pretty bored with empire. so he fits up some cheap frigates and has a few fights. but, if he fights too much he's going to encounter a problem; he drops to negative security status.as he's flying from dodixie (in his brand new frigate) to his favorite new fun spot amamake for some more 'o' that pvp goodness, he jumps into egghelende. surprise: i was waiting in a quick lock thrasher (or t3 for even extra survivability) on the gate at zero. now that he's dropped below zero sec status (very quick trip for him as he doesn't really care for missions), i can pop his butt. and the good news is i'm pretty safe; i don't have to worry about sentry fire, i can sit at zero on the gate - anything ugly comes at me, i just jump to highsec. and i'll never lose sec status... it's a camper's dream!joe blow now has two options; he can either go rat/mission to return to zero, or he can risk another frigate trying to enter lowsec. personally, i think joe's going to pick option #3... he's going to become risk adverse and spend the rest of his life in empire bitching about the ebil piwates and their dirty gatecamps. note this was a player who originally wanted to pvp.this is the problem i have with this proposal. anything which restricts access past current standards will do more harm to the cause than good. do not answer with \"he should get a scouting alt\"... that's horseshit, you and i both know it. don't say \"der... mmo isn't for solo!\". that's a cop-out too.@jack dant: i think your underlying premise is fantastic... and honestly, in spirit, touches upon a real 'fix' for lowsec. but consider a more literal interpretation of \"what happens in lowsec, stays in lowsec\":1.) gates and stations, with their sentries, remain in their current form. thus, joe blow can still get his frigate through.2.) remove the sec status hit for combat which is initiated 1000km from gates or stations. you can attack any ship in a belt and not take a security status hit. in other words, concord doesn't have the manpower to watch the belts, planets, or poco's... if you get nailed there, you're fair game.3.) pod kills anywhere in lowsec still apply as per current rules, allowing the truly evil to become -10."
"that's an interesting point. however: currently, joe blow would end up in a similar situation, except he wouldn't even be able to enter highsec without being shot at by npcs. most likely, he'd die to players trying to undock from dodixie moon 20. as such, things get easier for him, not harder. the camping ship is nowhere near as effective or invulnerable as you think. your fast locking thrasher will lack either web or prop, and so be easy to escape from, and not very good if mr blow decides to fight. the t3 would be a tasty target, and people would keep trying to bait you. remember you can't jump for 1 minute after aggressing. in the end, people who like to do risk-less camping will always try to find ways to do so. if these ways are a problem, we should fix them, not make high-level game design revolve about them. personally, i think station/gate games need some work. finally, joe blow has another option. he take a small detour and jump into lowsec through a less transited gate. about the counter-proposal of no sec status away from gates and stations, it's a good one, and it was mentioned in the same chats with my corpmates that sparked this thread. my main problem with it, is that most fights of all kinds happen on gates, because that's where gangs meet each other. excluding those fights from a sec status fix seems incomplete.what happens in lowsec, stays in lowsec, lowering the barrier to entry to lowsec pvp:"
"thank you for your reply. in our above scenario, i believe joe blow the new player is actually put at a severe disadvantage compared to the existing mechanics.it currently takes a significant hardware investment to pull off a gate camp capable of snagging frigates. the common villore/oms camp is a good example; they're able to hit frigates, but only by risking a goodly deal of isk. the changes, as listed your original post, would make it easier to camp (dependent upon the camper keeping his sec status up and selecting targets with sec status below zero). casual pvp'ers now have to worry about getting their frigate through the gate.in effect, dropping even 1/100th of a point below ss zero now inflicts the full penalties of -5 on pilots seeking casual pvp. we're now punishing them even more than we do today. i do not feel this is a change that will promote casual pvp.as a pirate, you've become used to operating this way... and i respect that. but i believe casual pvp'ers will be far less accepting of this new restriction. already most empire residents fear the 'gatecamp boogeyman' specter in lowsec; it's the main thing that keeps them away, and i advise constantly that it's really not that dangerous if you stick to small, agile ships. this would change were your proposal (as currently written) to go into effect.i also rebel on a personal level against anyone making anyone else rat or mission to keep their ss up so that they may keep fighting while still having access to empire. this is another barrier that casual pvp'ers have to cross, which i feel is not really needed. why are we punishing people for wanting to pvp?as mentioned in my post above, the simplest solution imo seems to be to remove ss hits from belts, planets, and poco's while keeping the entry routes to lowsec 'safe-ish' (but never, ever completely safe... the current mechanics in this small area seem fine to me). let 'em get in safe and find a fight. if you even bring up the chance of a gatecamp, or suggest they must rat/mission or suffer on the gates, they're going to stay away.i'm not trolling. i am a solo casual pvp'er, who has advised and taught the pleasures of casual lowsec pvp for years."
"there's a problem with your logic. it's much easier to keep your status above 0.00 when the lowest you can go is -2, as opposed to keeping it above -5 when you can go all the way to -10 by pvping. it's essentially the same system we're using now, with less penalties for casual pvp. and that's not even considering the fact that it doesn't cut off your access to highsec at all. if you want to keep positive security status and keep the protection of the gateguns, it would be much easier to do, therefore lowering the barrier to entry, nullifying the conflict you're describing."
"scenario: i'm flying my rifter around lowsec looking for targets. i jump a gate and find a tarannis before me. my sec status is -1, his is -7.4current mechanics: i can decide to engage or not. he cannot camp the gate against me unless i've dropped my ss all the way down to -5 note that i can still run around empire.proposed changes: he can engage without any danger of sentries.replace the tarannis with a loki, tengu, hell... just about anything. how does this entice more people to try lowsec pvp? you're raised the restrictions... not dropped them.i'll tell you what it does offer (and holy crap i can't believe i'm actually saying this): it would provide more targets for those below -5... they would not have to worry about gate guns half as much as they do now."
"you're completely and utterly missing my point. current mechanics: you have to keep your sec above -5 to get assistance from gateguns, with the potential to go to -10 by ship kills.proposed mechanics: you have to keep your sec above 0 to get assistance from gateguns, with the potential to go to -2 by ship kills.it's not the absolute number that's important: it's the differential. for casual pvpers, they won't have enough ship kills to get it down seriously, and if they do, it will be such a small amount that you can very easily get it back up. right now, that doesn't work because there's no floor to your sec status when killing ships.yes, it means more targets for pirates, but guess what? we're open targets for anyone, and will remain so under the new rules. also, people will understand that negative sec means no gategun assistance, so they won't go negative if they don't want to, just like the -5 barrier works now. it's actually much more intuitive, positive sec = gategun help, negative sec = none. bear in mind, it will be very easy to maintain positive sec. also bear in mind that aggressing pirates will still not result in a sec hit, so you wouldn't have negative sec if you didn't want to. it really is an elegant system if you think about it."
"vaurion, thank you for your measured responses. we'll probably have to agree to disagree on this one.if ccp is foolish enough to attempt to promote pvp by utilizing a system which further encourages any type of gatecamping, they deserve to reap what they sow.i am not anti-pirate... hell, not anti-anything... and would be the very first to say lowsec needs some love. but this, imo, is not the way. the solution is to remove the ss penalty in select areas (belts, planets, poco's)... not adjust it to one group's advantage.again, thank you for the debate."
"gotta love people who respond in a polite, diplomatic fashion without reading what has been written."
"plutonian, i completely understand where you are coming from. i did mention how sentries help keep lowsec sane by keeping inty/bomber/falcon gatecamps unfeasible.i don't think that would be affected by my proposal, but i confess i'm not sure. there is no way to be. the pure camper loves kill numbers above all, so i expect they would keep engaging positive sec people and podding everyone. so they would still need heavier ships. incidentally, the increase in outlaws would probably be followed by an increase in non-outlaws hunting them.i proposed making negative sec players free targets, because as an outlaw, i welcome people who shoot first. if i'm roaming solo, in a fast ship, i cannot engage anyone on gates. sentries are just too much of a handicap. so jumping into a gang that actually wants to shoot me is great. well, as long as their tackle is not very good i wanted that to extend to more people coming to lowsec.raimo's suggestion in the first page would actually fix your problem better: cap sec loss, but keep sentry/gcc mechanics unchanged. then us proper outlaws keep our chance to get fights without sentries, while gates are safe-ish for everyone else. my problem with that, is that i foresee more standoffs on gates as two gangs dare each other into aggressing first.what happens in lowsec, stays in lowsec, lowering the barrier to entry to lowsec pvp:"
"i agree on some points"
"there might be a solution for this issue by introducing a more gradual alteration in security/sentry mechanics:1.: lower the sentry aggression barrier to -1.5 sec status - that will give the newbie a little buffer to play around in lowsec before he looses protection on gates.2.: sentry aggression will always be triggered on jump gates which are connected with high sec as long as the player is above -5 sec status, thus preventing solo camps on those gates. on other gates the camper would still have to face the risk of being popped by a gang jumping in.another possibility is connecting the sentry aggression directly to the systems sec status: - in 0.4 only attacking everything above -5 will trigger sentry attack - in 0.3 everything above -1.9 - in 0.2 everything above -0.9 a.s.o.(just an example - these numbers aren't carved in stone)this would provide a \"safe\" entry into lowsec for everyone, while with further advancement you'd get vulnerable on gates to solo pvpers depending on your own sec rating."
"the rules need to be simple. both the current ones, and the ones i suggested are: you see the target on overview, you see the background color, you know whether the sentries will open up if you shoot. if it depends on where the gate leads, the exact sec status of people involved, or the system sec, it will only cause confusion and frustration. hell, you'd be surprised how many times i've jumped into highsec by accident.what happens in lowsec, stays in lowsec, lowering the barrier to entry to lowsec pvp:"
"forums ate my post because i was lazy and didn't copy before posting. short version follows:while i would personally be fine with raimo's suggestion, i felt that it was too harsh towards the current pirates. those who wanted to be flashy red... they'd probably not care. but those who went pirate because there were a lot of targets that day, or due to the fw-aggression-rr mechanics would probably be pissed. i understand your frustration over gangs meeting at gates and having to jockey to see who gets the guns on 'em. i've never been outlaw, but follow pirate blogs, and i see the stuff you guys deal with. it sucks.i'm asking that any solution remember the little guys starting out in solo pvp. it is imperative to keep the gates/travel lanes as open and free for them as possible. when i lose a frig to a gatecamp, it's no big deal... i have billions (of isk, not frigs). when the same happens to them, it can be the event that turns them away from solo, pvp, or even eve itself. when i have to rat up my ss it's pretty easy. before it gets too bad i just do some l4's in a marauder (i can fly them all with perfect skills) and presto! back to fighting in short order. these new guys are generally on level one missions...ugh. they cannot repair their ss as fast.we need new blood in lowsec, and we have to get those pilots from somewhere. it's probably not going to come from nullsec (and if it does it'd come with cap ships), so i feel we need to reach out to empire. and that means keeping things easy for the casual new players."
"i agree completely. things must be kept as simple as possible."
"i guess i'm fine with this idea to an extent - i don't think the major issue of gate guns is going to be resolved with a low security cap of -2. all that'll happen is that some people will keep their sec status above 0.0 to get gate guns on their side. i sure will as i live in low sec.i don't think negative sec status should go red. it needs to stay at -5.0. make the low cap for low sec pvp -2.0 sec status. no \"gcc\" for being negative until you hit negative 5, as it already is. that alone makes pvp in low sec more appealing, but with enough penalties and enough risk for certain things.now, what i do like about this is that it stops me from going deep -10 for doing pvp in low sec. and it will promote some fly by weekend high seccers to go into low sec pvp and not feel like they'll suffer severe penalties.that part of the proposal alone is solid.good ideas, i think they're a step in the right direction philosophically."
"i would very much like this immediately.+1"
"i'm a bit odd... i've always been one of those strange 'fair-fights' type people. but you know what? even i have my limits. do it. push it through. it's going to be amazing. i have a positive sec status. so once the changes are in, here's what i'm going to do:i will select a ship with good tank and decent scan resolution. i will sit on entry gates into lowsec... i will sit right on the gate at zero. i figure the jel gate in egghelende will work nicely.when random joe the rifter pilot comes through, if he's got a sec status below zero, i'll lock and pop him. boom baby! i camped and didn't even lose any sec status!! if i'm smart i'll have an alt to warp in with a cheap probe w/cargo expanders and scoop the loot. i'll keep my camping ship safe at zero on the gate... can't lose much that way. random joe can watch me loot his wreck as he slowboats back to the gate (he's quite safe... i won't pop his pod because i'm riding on the gravy train and have no intention of screwing something this nice up!).when bob the builder jumps in i'll let him pass... he's got a sec status of 2.3when the guy rum runner (ss -0.04) jumps his transport in, i'll see if i can grab that guy. thank goodness i don't have to worry about sentry guns... i'm the golden boy as far as concord is concerned, out doing the lord's work. amen and hallelujah.now you're a nasty ebil piwate lurking in the depths of egghelende system, and you don't like me grabbing up all this choice loot. so you jump in your jaguar, fling yourself at the gate (hoping you can get some shots in before i jump safely to empire where you can't touch me) aaannnnddddd..... surprise! i just sit there. perhaps i mock you in local. because you cannot attack me without the guns murdering your shiny jag.so you say \"ok... everyone get in some hurricanes!\" and your group warps to the gate. i simply press the jump button and i'm gone. you cannot follow me. i'll either move to another entry gate (easy... i don't even require bookmarks as i sit at zero), or go and sort all my loot until you get tired of waiting. then i'll be back at it.i'll do the same when your alpha maelstrom shows up at 80k. boop! i'm back through the gate and safe. can't get me!hmmm, you think... this isn't working out. maybe if you get some positive sec status people to engage me. wrong! if they attack me, they have to be big enough to tank the guns which will be on my side, and that means they'll be somewhat slow. and i can escape at any point. no one can hit me now! i've become the perfect gate camper. i'm making billions and hardly risking anything.and here's the neat thing: so far i've just been doing it by myself or with an alt. imagine what i'll be able to accomplish with a couple of friends, also with positive sec status. my only concern is that, after a while, there won't be too many people jumping through with bad sec status... eventually they'll seek out another gate... which means their loot won't go to me, but to someone else doing exactly what i'm doing.but hey, that means they'll have plenty of time to hang out in empire and grind their ss up.i cannot believe all the time i've wasted in eve running around looking for fights in belts. what a fool i've been.(note: i've actually never camped a gate. did i get the mechanics right for this scenario?)"
"i'll see if i can get some of my sellers to voice here as well...i really don't like buying corpses now as i truly have no method to catch dupes. thanks for ******* up my nice collection ccp...unless you are planning some future development of harvesting/reprocessing corpses can not see any purpose this was meant to do."
"loling at the people who recently paid billions for ccp corpses.tash'k out."
"ridiculous to have changed this. can't think of any reason why."
"they fixed it :) good job my forum warriors!"
"in support of returning names to corpse collection and the op/macabre's posts"
"i missed my dbrb corpse. good to see other people wanting the names back."
"speaking as a new player, i agree that losing +4/5s i can't afford to replace is a significant deterrent to hazardous behavior. assuming the appropriate mentality is risk vs reward, the 'risk' weight jumps way up any time i consider anything remotely dangerous. still, there seems to be an excessive amount of hyperbole present.it is to everyone's benefit, especially serious pvpers, to encourage new and relatively unskilled players to enter the game, play actively, take risks, and ideally to accumulate possessions worth taking from them. a pool of sharks needs fresh fish. conversely, eve does not and is not intended to appeal to everyone. catering to newbies just because they are newbies will not sustain or grow the population; it will at best temporarily boost it with, lacking a better term, \"spoiled brats.\" they'll leave for the next game quickly whether or not their demands are met.with that in mind, i think the question isn't \"how can we protect newbies from risk?\" (which i don't think the op was asking anyway), but instead \"how can we encourage newbies to take risks?\"some people have suggested lowering the timer on jump clones. i actually support this, but as a skill that branches off infomorph psych iii or iv. it actually *is* a risk-avoidance rather than risk-mitigation strategy, since at a short (hour or less) cooldown there is simply no reason to ever risk one's expensive implants. i support it because it makes jump clones more interesting, and would suggest a rank 3 to 5 skill with a 10% reduction per level. if we really wanted to make experienced players truly galaxy-hoppers, a second, rank 8 branching skill could be added that reduces cooldown by a flat two hours per level. i would strongly discourage this because it would look attractive to new players, creating another logical barrier to play. still, it would be fascinating if some way around this could be developed.someone else suggested \"learning boosters.\" i think this is fairly interesting; it could actually be turned into a fairly robust system, with the effectiveness of the booster decreasing the more total skill points the character has (so a sub-million sp character might get a +4 boost from a cheap booster, but a 20-mil one would need an expensive booster to have an effect). it would be an option if learning implants were simply dropped from the game without adding to characters' base attributes. like all boosters, these would be lost on death, making this a risk-mitigation (since they would presumably be cheaper than implants currently are, especially for low-sp characters) rather than risk-avoidance strategy.the op's suggestion is actually fairly good, by my metric. if implant slots i-v were replaced with 'career implants,' they could provide an immediate boost to newbies (so they would still risk isk on them), but would only be beneficial to players who were actively engaging in the game. in particular, i would find useful implants boosting: mission rewards (perhaps one for each category - sec dist and mining) mining yield (folded a bit in the above) ship speed cargo space trade skill effects tackling (an obvious choice for newbie implants, really) that would leave me much more free to focus on training core skills.lastly is the idea of clone insurance. allowing characters to insure their clones would encourage them to take more risks with those; even a relatively small upper limit on insurance packages, such as 15-35% of market value of implants, would dramatically encourage risk-taking since the perceived loss is much less (some compensation is infinitely more than no compensation). i think the best option would be a flat value per level of package, plus 15/20/25/30% of implants. the cost per package level would be dependent on how frequently the character has recently died, with a cap of 75% of the cost of the package's pay-out. the pay-outs should be calibrated such that dying and re-purchasing the appropriate level of medical clone is always a net loss."
"i have better idea, make implants indestructible. pros-implants cost goes down-even more pvp-infomorph psycholgy v makes sense-less of unnecessary punishment-pvp in full snakes for everyone, not just plex sellers-etc"
"bump"
"that should have been fixed long ago, surpized why it's still not changed. amarr light and medium drones really need a boost of damage modifier."
"look, by now sansha kuvakei has noticed that his plans are constantly foiled by this ragtag band of teenage capsuleers, it's about time he asks for help from the other evil space alliances in town. force incursion runners to join the war on the side of concord in order to run incursions and give other players the ability to ally with sansha's nation. each faction would be a valid war target to the other in incursion systems. yes, even in highsec. anyone who shoots a sansha ship in an incursion system should be flagged as a valid target for the sansha allies, who gain standings and lp for every enemy they kill.this fixes incursions instantly without nuking the payout."
"supported. it will completely destroy high sec incursions as an isk farming method, but that's a good thing for the game overall imho."
"added thought:if concord can adequately defend the highsec incursions from infinite capsuleer pirates, why can't they wipe out the incursion themselves? hence, concord should not defend those who run incursions."
"if concord can adequately defend the highsec, why not move them to defend 0.0 as well? 80 (or was that 90?) percent of playerbase sits in empire doing pve, why not to expand it to 0.0? think, and be happy that ccp priorities doesnt make sense, else 90% of systems would be hi-sec and you would be crying even more."
"boooooo! thats blasphemy! put him in irons! hang him! burn him at the stake! booooo!"
"do you think that would take too much effort? i doubt. however, as the idea of interacting in stations wasn't rejected by ccp (i mean the usage of 3d character models to interact while docked on same station), medals change would increase the fun from it, if it will have been implemented some time."
"why dont we have a ingame jukebox that could play audio songs in a file on you pc. wouldn't that be awesome? control ingame the songs you listen to when you play eve!! /hemmo"
"waaaayyyyy down the list of priorities. let's not confuse ccp now that they seem to have their priorities for development time somewhat sensible."
"i've been doing a lot of alliance contracts for ship replacement and to feed the demand i have to use multiple characters to have enough contract slots to put all ships out at once.there are times when my whole stock is used in moments and i'm left with ships available that aren't put out until i can next log in.sure, i'm in a large alliance so it partly comes with the territory, but i can't put contracts up for allies this way so my trading pool is still significantly limited. also, some corps (eg goonwaffe) are larger than many alliances by themselves and can make huge numbers of corp contracts for corp members.so, to get to the point, i propose that alliance contracts should not take up a public contract slot the same way corp contracts are currently exempt."
"seconded."
"1.0"
"i need to retest as it's been years but i believe the the spot isn't random, it's one of 4 preset coordinates in the system. as for the exploit, this should be generally solved with spool up timers.an easy enough equation to make spooling based off of mass and distance.spool time=10(mass of ship/1000000)*distance traveled in lybasically if you have a ship whose mass is 1 mil traveling 1 ly it would have to spool up for 10 seconds. this would be simular to an align time to warping. equation applies to bridging to, so frigates jump through fast while bs's jump through later."
"i can agree here... but to be frank i would rather have it so that self destructing automatically pods you back to your death clone."
"\"wrong! conan! what is best in life?to crush your enemies, see them driven before you, and to hear the lamentation of their women.\"if they are self destructing, that is the equivalent of seeing them driven before you. who needs killmails or loot when crushing your enemies is what's best in life?"
"a homeworld 2 move system wouldn't be bad, but a wasd based system with eve's current collision envelopes being the size of small moons, erm, no. even some sort of improvement to the existing double click move would be good, especially for those of us who get stuck on space things"
"incompatible with game mechanics, fundamentally flawed for balance purposes.i can tell you don't have a practical mind, or much knowledge about how computers work / games are designed."
"one huge con that most people seem to miss out when suggesting manual flight control (there are soooo many), is that it would require a complete change in the fundamental networking architecture of the game.eve is made to handle the key requirements of a single shard mmo, which include:large numbers of players can gather in one place players come from all around the world (it takes much longer for their packets to reach the server and vice versa) the implications are that network traffic between clients and the server need to be minimised (both in terms of packet size and how often they are sent back and forward), and there is an exponential increase in network requirements with each client in the same area (one new client doesn't just add one more lot of data to be sent out, it needs updates about its state changing being sent out to all other clients).manual control which would not only make yaw/pitch/roll (facing/orientation) manually changeable, but also significant to gameplay, would require significant amounts of data to be sent over the network and would also require that data to be sent a lot more often.there are neat tricks that the network magicians programmers can do, but the fundamental technical design considerations are still there.homeworld is not an mmo, and therefore doesn't have the same design constraints so the comparison has no value."
"supported.was going to make a proposal for having cargo loadout (including ammo, but also other stuff), but will support this here instead.my trade character can't fly all doctrine ships but i put up alliance contracts (lots and lots of them) so this would automate a long and tedious process."
"hell yeah supportedalso now that we know that the number of saved fitting is relatively easy to adjust could we get it increased again, while 100 is better than 50 it's still kind of low imo.+1"
"yeah but the rigs of each type look the same and the full name of the rig is cut off. core defence field ....extender? or is it a core defense field.... purger? so its easy to fit the wrong rig. i'm not saying i do that often but on occassion i looked at my kill mail and said wtf did i do that for. i have even put a hybrid rig on a projectile ship before. when you lose allot of ships fitting them and double checking can be tedius. i would much rather go through everything and double check once to make sure its right. then just save it and know its right. as for cargo finding all the different missiles you may want to use say for a ham drake is a pia and i always forget the damn nanite paste. same thing for ships like the vexor where i sometimes have to jam 1 small gun on there to make it fit that means i need allot of different types of ammo. make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"-1this essentially means people who frequently move things via jump freighter will always hesitate to push that button. also, you can search your cargo hold."
"it would be an option to have the cargo or the rigs checked. you could have either or neither checked. edit: plus i didn't think you could actually fit a jump freighter. but i am not sure.make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"you lose your rigs when you package your ship. often it is not worth it to use them on a deployment that only lasts a couple days."
"so then don't click \"yes\" when it asks if you are sure you want to include the rigs, or have a \"with rigs\" and \"without rigs\" fit.usually the rigs are integral to the overall fit though, and surely any decent deployment will have carrier support for ship logistics for moving rigged ships."
"ill admit i am not sure what you concern is exactly. but it used to to be that if you tried to fit a ship that already had different rigs fit you got another pop up saying are you sure? or even can't do it because you have these slots filled. it didn't automatically destroy the rigs you have fit. but anyone you would just need to uncheck the cargo box or have it unchecked by default if that was an issue. make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"i have a better idea: have a friend with in a noctis cleaning up while you pewpew npcs into slag? or even barf up the green and two box with your shiney new account the salvage man, even pimp him out for iskies to clean up for everyone in your corp/alliance/social network"
"what is your response to the accusations that goons are running a kiddie porn ring through an in-game chat channel? the accusation can be found here."
"such a classy forum alt."
"reported.wrong board...this belongs in jita park or coad. ================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"confirming that i was kidnapped as a child and raised to be an eve goon<U+FFFD>"
"if you have reasonable suspicion of criminal activity, please report to your local authorities and/or file a petition at once. the forums are not the right place for such discussions.accusations without any evidence can be considered slander and are not allowed.thank you for your understanding.thread locked."
"just remove all the t2 bpos entirely the game mechanic that produced them is no longer with us, so remove the items / benefits they give to players just like we removed everything other than the mining lasers from the remaining hisec caps or re-add the mechanic that allows you to get them either works, but doing nothing is a bit imbalanced"
"t2 bpo's are moreless fineif anything the invention (or whatever you want to rename it to) process could use some tweaking i personally would like to see the decryptors add x% of the original me/pe levels to the invented bpc (rather than fixed amounts like they currently do) leave base stats for invented bpc's (ie, me/pe = -4/-4)circular logic = 06 probability, +9 max runs, +0% me, +5% pe formation layout = 11 probability, +0 max runs, +15% me, +15% pekeep the values conservative (15% is probably too much), so the bpo's are just better (plus, they wont ever need decryptors), but with enough bonus that researched t1 bpc's provide a leg-up in the manufacturing process"
"so i was talking about this last night with some guys from work and it was brought up that skyrim had mods that made breasts bigger. i stated it would irritate me that they are bigger but solid as marble. they then directed me to a link (which i will not post here due to questionable content) that had a mod that made boobs move. it was rather unrealistic but the point is they could take a game that didn't have this option even available and make it happen and it was done by an average joe modder not a developer of the game itself. if that can be done for a game like skyrim then it should be possible to be done in eve and even made optional, although i can't imagine why we would want it optional unless ccp just made it over the top rediculous instead of realistic."
"ha ha, like the idea"
"you missed the part where you are easy to bait. a rifter with -1 sec status jumps in, you aggro. inmediately, his six friends in hurricanes who were waiting on the other side of the gate jump in and gank you before you can deaggro and jump.ah, but i will have a scout watching on the other side, you say. ok, then instead of waiting on that side of the gate, they will be on another gate a short warp distance from it. and then, you need another scout on that system. so instead they wait at a safespot just outside scan range from the gate. egghelende is a busy system, so you won't notice they are there.now, since your tanky ship got popped a few times, you get a cloaky logistics ship (t3 works best) to help you deaggro.but by then, you have 3-4 accounts involved, probably in excess of 1b invested in ships. and the only thing you can kill is t1 frigs, industrials, and if you are feeling brave, cruisers. while being a target for every pvper in the area who will spend nights figuring out ways to trap you.these people exist, they are incredibly hard to catch. but the feeling when you do...what happens in lowsec, stays in lowsec, lowering the barrier to entry to lowsec pvp:"
"it seems ccp love ruining things that don't need to be touched and everyone loves.put them back ccp. these little things might cause another incarna and we all know that we don't want that to happen (again)."
"support"
"nope, still broken"
"this is gross... i don't know what you guys do with the corpses behind closed doors.perhaps this thread should be renamed \"bring back named necrophilia\" lmao :p"
"+1as a long time corpse collector with several celebrity corpses in my collection i am appalled by this change.don't ruin my hobby ccp!"
"agreed. if it's not broke don't fix it. ccp please learn this. patches and expansions should be aimed at fixing and improving the game for veterans while making the game more attractive and accessible to newer players. this change did none of that."
"imo link the timer to time since the pos went offline, not time since someone wanted to salvage it.pos goes offline today, can't be salvaged till next week/month/etcyou find pos today, but hasn't been fueled in months, it's available for salvage immediately.you find pos today, but it just went offline yesterday, sorry come back later."
"back to the top :)"
"\"we're not happy with the effectiveness of large groups of titans against subcapital ships, so we're making some adjustments to titans and to xl turrets.this is a quick, surgical adjustment to solve a specific issue we have identified. it's not a general titan balance pass, and we don't consider titans \"done\" after this change. titans will require significant further changes, and probably an overall adjustment in role, before they're in a place where we're really happy with them. this will require a reasonably significant amount of work, which we unfortunately don't have the spare resources for right now.\"copied from this thread:"
"(some of this is temporary until i get some feedback or new ideas)[prices also not current, 50b price tag for a titan is the assumed value, so adjust accordingly]new super capital ship stats: the titan mkii (price tag? 25b?)would use existing titan hulls and retain all current fleet bonus stats, plus the fleet bonuses from their racial command ships. high slots would now be used for the superweapon, gang links, plus the usual capital fare: smartbombs, cloak, and heavy neuts.new super weapon mechanics would be required to bring this ship into balance. see my suggestion in post #3.another possible option is adding fleet transport capability. a titan in the fleet command position could allow up to 249 sup-caps to dock and be carried to their destination by the titan. an alternate concept would be to allow said 249 ships to lock into docking clamps on the exterior of the titan.the superdreadnaught (~18b)all: 7 high slots and 6 weapon hard points which would leave a slot open for a siege module.amarr/gallente: 5 med slots and 8 low slots.caldari/minmatar: 8 med slots and 5 low slots.base stats (such as tracking) for the hull would be taken from a dread to start with, and then balanced appropriately.it would get the same dreadnaught skill bonuses that a normal dread of it's race would get, plus a role bonus of +100% capital weapon rate of fire while in siege mode. (this is converted from the current titan's 100% bonus to capital weapon damage) it would be unwise to tracking fit a superdread as you will need lots of tank if you plan on using siege mode, if not, you dont get that pretty 100% bonus that the current titan gets all the time.what does everyone think about adding +1 high slot and the ability to mount a capital class warp disruption field generator? 25 km range? alternately, a regular module with a range boost on the ship hull.new capital ship stats:the mothership (~7b) (working title)possibly an ore ship, as it doesn't really seem necessary to have 1 for each race. (not a super cap.) tech 2 rorqual?4 high slots, 6 med slots, 3 low slots. 7/6/4 if t2 rorqual.able to mount: clone vat bay, jump portal generator, and industrial core.industrial core anchors ship in place while active, making the ship unable to be bumped.jump portal generator requires the industrial core to be active, but allows for bi-directional bridging to a cyno or titan mkii.as noted in the opening post, we need more combat capital classes. here are some suggestions:capital heavy interdictor/tackler (tech 2 dreadnaught?)currently only useful against subcaps, as it can be insta-popped with current superweapon mechanics.tech 2 logistics carrier that gives up 90% of its drone capabilities for more repping capabilities.75% increased capital repper range per level of carrier15% reduced capital repper capacitor requirement per level of carrier (or logistics)can still launch 5 drones, but no fighters.tech 2 drone/fighter carrier that gives up 90% of its repping capabilities for more drone/fighter capabilities.can launch up to 25 regular drones, 12 fighters, or 6 fighterbombers.bonuses to drone speed, optimal range, hit points, and damage.(alternately, redo tech 1 carriers into this, and introduce a new ship to handle repping)anti-subcap capital (another tech 2 dreadnaught?)following the concept that regular capitals should destroy subcaps, we need a capital ship that is really effective at shooting subcaps. something like 6 or 8 high slots for large weapons(not x-large), with bonuses to tracking(allowing it to hit cruisers and larger) and damage(+200%). an alternate concept would be to introduce a new type of xl turret, that is effectively just a bunch of smaller weapons fire linked together to annihilate subcaps. to prevent abuse by supers you could limit the new turrets to dreadnaught use only.capital covops bomberthink stealth bomber writ large, covops cloak, citadel torps, good maneuverability, and capable of jumping to a covert cyno. (alternately, fix black ops battleships to function in this role) [as i think about it further the black ops battleship option sounds like a better idea]"
"some additional thoughts:if ccp decided to set the price tag for a mothership somewhere between the cost of a jump freighter and a supercarrier, it would put bridges into the hands of smaller alliances that couldn't afford a bridging ship (titan) currently.i realize that the csm has stated that it doesn't want to see more supercapitals introduced, however, in this case there isn't anything really new, its just that the existing capabilities of one ship would now be carried by 3 more focused platforms.as suggested by zimmy zeta: a viable alternative would be to give the titan subsystems which would allow it to perform some of its various roles at a time. this would allow it to be balanced on a subsystem by subsystem basis, however it would also preclude the possibility of a cheaper bridging ship being available. (unless ccp decided to add a separate bridging ship anyway)an additional concept that has been brought up, is removing ewar immunity for supers/titans. in return they should get something like 50 warp core strength and enough sensor strength to require 15-20 subcaps to effect them. in addition, i think that regular capitals should get some love in this regard, with perhaps 5 warp core strength and double their current sensor strength. they are capitals, they should require a team effort to effect them with something designed to effect subcaps. there is a massive downside to this however... removing their ewar immunity would make supers susceptible to tracking links which would put us back where we are now with the tracking problem.since a titan is currently worth roughly 50 bil, you could make a case for breaking the price down since we are also breaking down its abilities. if you make the mothership cost about 7 bil, and the superdread 18 bil, you could reduce the price on the titan mkii to around 25 bil. i wouldn't reduce the time investment required, but it would affect the amount of capital components required, making construction jobs a bit easier on the logistics pilots.new super weapon could be something along the lines of a focused beam weapon that ramps up the damage based on the time spent firing at a single target. (unable to fire at sub caps) the amount of havoc that the doomsday causes on the target ship should also cause some kind of warp scrambling effect or energy neutralization as well. possibly going so far as specializing the effect to what racial weapon it is: amarr would neut, caldari would ecm, gallente would warp scram, and minmatar would web.ineffective concepts already proposed in this thread:#1 make capitals into support for subcap fleets; would destroy the subcaps < capitals < supercapitals balance.^there are half a dozen other reasons that this idea wont work, but for brevity i am only listing one here.^ see post #51#2 remove titans from the game; would dump over 50 trillion isk (or minerals) back into the market. see post #76"
"interesting concept - effectively turning supercap proliferation against itself.not sure if i support it, but worth thinking about."
"i loled.yeah, no, supers need a nerf, we don't need even more of the buggers running all over (especially not in the even-more-op state that you've proposed).good lord, i hope this is a troll post. but i've seen too many serious posts like it to have any faith whatsoever in the posters on here."
"the mothership wouldn't be in the \"super\" category, and as a non combat ship i will assume you aren't referring to it.while the superdread would be a new super class ship, it could be balanced independently from the titan, and given that it would be just a bigger tankier dreadnought i doubt there would be much issue balancing it. its not like the titan doesn't already do this.the new titan super-weapon that ive proposed is more powerful, but i am sure it could be balanced on a dedicated platform. there needs to be a capital class heavy tackler somewhere in the capital lineup, why not the doomsday? on top of that, by making the damage ramp up, you force the titan to sit there and shoot 1 target for a while rather than the drive-by-doomsdays you see now.what i have proposed is in fact a nerf to the titan by taking away over half of the capabilities of the ship as it exists today.while i appreciate the time you have taken to make a response, please outline some solid reasons why you do or don't think the proposal will work.thank you."
"how about making titans modular and customizable like tech 3 cruisers? titans should be rare and unique ships, like ww ii superbattleships (yamato, bismarck, etc.) the builder of a titan should be able to emphazise certain aspects at the cost of others to make truely unique flagships that will go into history..so several of your above mentioned roles could be added to the titan without actually creating new ship classes. i'd like to apologize for the poor quality of the post above and sincerely hope you didn't waste your time reading it. yes, i do feel bad about it."
"an interesting concept, but it would rule out the possibility of a cheaper bridging ship. it does sound like a viable alternative if ccp is willing to make titans effectively a tech 3 capital ship, and then balance their subsystems separately. i will add this to the additional thoughts section."
"i have said this a thousand times in a thousand other threads and still stand by it. titans should stay in the game when the pilot logs off and is inaccessible to anybody but the pilot that logged off in it. they should not be able to be stored in stations or pos structures just like now but only left floating in space inside pos shields. you can eject from the titan before logging off of course making it accessible to other players should they need to move it.this will cause titans to be killed a lot more and a lot harder to maintain and protect. titan proliferation issue resolved.balancing is another issue."
"i don't see a problem with a ship with many roles. it is after all a titan, a captial of capitals, flagship of the armada. maybe tracking is too good for hitting subcaps, but still what is wrong with multiple roles with a 50 billion ship."
"if we start bringing logic into this game, theres no end to how boring it would get"
"i am certain that adding a pvp component to the highest paying activity in the game would make it boring."
"i think quite a lot of players thought incursions would be very much like what the oper suggests when we first heard about them. instead we got crappy group pve raids for shinny loot, content that belongs in a themepark game rudely inserted into eve. it's a travesty to everything eve ought to be."
"there is literally no good argument against this change."
"i want to shoot at isk pinatas risk free is not a good argument."
"i agree, but i may be biased."
"nerf high sec incursion rewards"
"bumping.the trolls here have not formed a decent argument as to why the name change doesn't matter. it does.yous are all just trolling the older names were pure win, not least because they gave eve online a certain flavour that the current names are not capable of emulating. i for one will always associate the 'paradise' class missile with the better days of eve gone by. imo ccp need help understanding just what is ********, and what isn't."
"zomg i can't even say r3t4rd3d anymore?"
"yes...people get offended by the word because they are ignorant to it's meaning."
"the idea seems interesting, so i support it."
"remove the option to self-destruct while engaged in combat. - as a member of small pvp corporation, the tactics and effort we employ to tackle a capital ship in a small fleet is hugely diminished when the hostile capital pilot simply 'self-destructs' just to deny a killmail or perhaps save himself corp embarrassment."
"agreed. almost every supercap kill ive been involved in was a self destruct also."
"yes, agreed.why should someone be able to deny an enemy a kill just because he has more ehp and can survive the 'self-destruct' countdown. this definitely needs fixing.cms, we're counting on you to save small gang pvp. this is an easy fix and a step in the right direction.thanks"
"i like this idea. don't let the big boys have an easy out. at least make the self-destruct while agressed a 30 minute timer. anything but an easy out. give the small guys a chance to fill their killboards....they have earned it.yes, yes, yes.do this please."
"no idea why self-destruct was put in the game in the first place, as it serves no other purpose than to deny killmails or loot which depends on the loot fairy."
"what eve could have is a subsystem targetting system; be able to destroy such subsystems as:jumpdrives, self-destructs, overheating, sub-warp engines, warp engines, weapon mounts, pos shield password stuff, drones bandwidth.then the only way to repair these would be hull reppers and rr hull heppers.\"he commenced self-destruct. every refocus and shoot his self-destruct.\" stuff like weapon mounts ought to be very hard to take out but jumpdrives should be so fragile that they fall apart near instantly."
"i do not like all the self-destruct stuff going on either, so i am supporting this plea."
"agreed. at the very least self destructs should still generate killmails for those who are attacking the ship."
"i'll chime in with support for this. there shouldn't be a way for capital ships to escape getting a bad killmail. agression mechanics and logoff timers were fixed, this should be fixed as well."
"i think it should still be an option - but should still generate a km"
"yep - and the km should go to the highest non-npc damage dealer at the time of destruction.not that bothered about loot, though i suppose having the chance of survival slightly lower for a self-destruct makes sense in a way."
"why our 4 manticores couldnt break carrier and he goes boom, petition fix it csm hear me white tree?"
"agree!"
"either that, either the km should have come after sd (final blow may belong to the victim or to whom inflicted last hit)."
"either remove the option to self-destruct or generate a killmail regardless of whether its a self-destruct or not. highest damage from a player on-grid gets the killmail.i can see an argument for denying people loot by self-destructing but it shouldn't be a way to protect your killboard."
"bring more dps and nutes or cry some more for your deficiencies"
"self destructing is a valid game mechanic that has its place in the game. i disagree with all these people calling for the total removal of the self destruct option. however, a killmail should be generated."
"aww, sounds like you're the one crying. seriously, how about some constructive comments instead of this childish post.i think the whole point of this thread was to get a killmail for small gangs that are incapable of brining 'more dps and nutes'. to have a ship tackled, in particular a capital ship, with hard work, not a blob fight. in the scenario described above, the capital pilot is losing his ship one way or another so how about at a minimum generating a killmail for those responsible so they can decorate their board and show some accomplishment.yes, obviously there is purpose for self-destruct. agree with you in generating a killmail for those self-destructs during a fight."
"100% agreed.."
"self destruct should:-destroy all cargo and modules, denying the aggressor loot.-generate a combat log entry, the same as a concord kill.-not pay insurance, or at least reduce insurance payout by 50%.that way victims can still thumb their noses if someone fails to bring the firepower to get loot out of their freighter, but the aggressors get the killmail so they can prove they got the kill."
"there's some danger with removing self destruct entirely is that it would become a very effective griefing tool - tackle something (but don't kill it), and simply hold them there for as long as you wish. less of a worry with ships themselves (since the pilot can at least eject), but with pods there's really nothing that they can do. while i admit it would be pretty funny, it probably wouldn't be good from a fun perspective. that isn't to say that the idea wouldn't work, but it's probably something that should be considered.that said, i completely support the generation of killmails for combat involving a self destruct, or any mechanic which prevents self destructing simply for the purpose of denying killmails.the current state of affairs makes combat involving capitals less exciting, and has a particularly large effect on newer players and smaller groups. getting on a capital (or even supercapital) killmail is something that newer pvpers can get really excited about, particularly for smaller groups where a capital kill is a real rarity. getting a kill like this is a really big achievement for these guys, and giving them something to show for it would, in my opinion, increase the quality of their experience.tusker, small gang pvper, and author of the altruist (guides to pvp in eve) formerly director of agony unleashed's pvp-uni"
"no. -1"
"this and only this. denying me my sandbox choice of self destructing instead of letting you kill me is unacceptable. self destructing should be like driving your car into the lake and getting caught. no insurance for you! self destructing is controlled and therefor should be a total destruction of all modules and possible loot with the exception of salvage. a kill mail should still be generated for the last person to land a hit before the self destruct for those who even care for killmails but the killmail should clearly state that it was a self destruct."
"let them self destruct, but there should be a killmail generated. (no insurance either - this is fraud at its highest level!)"
"i agree... no self destruct while in combat. i think it would be great for pirates among others. pin down a ship and order them to eject. it would be sort of like a new form of ransoming."
"wtf...are you two the same person? you look like twins...you got the pissed off brother and the overly happy brother..."
"i'm for this but the modules should still have a chance to drop, once your in self destruct mode modules should not be removable, you risk moving it in space you risk someone taking it away on your deathno insurance payout at all.killmail yes"
"wait ... there's sound in eve? seriously though, what's wrong with just tossing up vlc or media player or something like that to play the music? if you have a media keyboard, you can even control the player from in-game. i (and most people i would assume) just use standard media players rather than trying to learn a whole new one inside eve."
"unless they changed this in the last few patches... you can actually add your own music files (mp3) to the current jukebox and control them from in-game. i'm not in the game right now but can post the instructions when i get online unless somebody beats me to it."
"you mean this jukebox?"
"goonswarm federation is the source of nearly all player-made content. the next expansion should celebrate this fact in the following ways: -add special goonswarm rats (rifters that drop scammed isk) to the belts in systems owned by our reds. these rats tackle and also spam local with obnoxious copy-pasted ascii art until they are killed. -add goon mission agents to our stations. the missions include ganking npc miners. courier missions are replaced with forum missions on the official eve online forums. non-goons may run the missions at their own risk, but it is possible to buy acceptance into npc goonswarm (a corporation subservient to the real goonswarm) with sufficient lp points. -all goon players should have a rat bounty equivalent to their medical clone cost. this is impossible to exploit since the isk comes from the goon who dies.-have important npcs recognize the mittani as a story-relevant character and goonswarm as an entity that rivals the might of the empires. hire the mittani as a full time ccp employee to let him focus on creating live events for the others players of eve. -while we're at it, hire gms to play the various rulers and officers of the empires and pirate faction leaders so that we may all become massive larpers. -let goonswarm federation brofist sansha kuvakei in-universe so that we may borrow his incursion machine (wormhole portal + remote cynojammer) in order to create pvp content anywhere in the universe. -this expansion shall include band of brothers, lead by a returning veteran, sirmolle, who is also to be hired as a full time ccp employee. his office in ccp hq is to be placed exactly next door to the mittani's.-pandemic legion is to be added as a pirate mercenary faction. they can be hired at auction (for isk and lp) to attack a sovholding alliance. once hired, they shall form roaming fleets of faction rats (t2,t3, supercaps, afk cloakers) in the target's space.if you do not support this expansion, you are against fun."
"warning: ego on overload."
"no"
"i know you guys like to troll...but this is would embarrass even me.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"just stop posting krios. no one cares."
"forum missions are the best missions. i can play the game and not have to login"
"this is unironically a serious thread.here is exactly how tofix nullsec:-every time someone is podded by a player in nullsec, that player receives an isk bounty minimally equivalent to the character's medical clone cost. this encourages war, roaming pvp and generally playing eve instead of botting or not logging in. very little money is gained from killing newbies, tens of millions are made from killing 6 year vets. there is no net isk generation so it is impossible to kill yourself with an alt to make profit. -every ship destroyed by a player adds 20% of its insurance value to the player's bounty. ships that are destroyed in nullsec shall have a 20% smaller insurance payout in order to avoid creating isk (and because no insurance company would pay full insurance for war equipment destroyed in a war zone). now go get revenge on that elite pvper that has been terrorizing your home system for weeks without dying; it pays.-player bounties and bounty upgrades shall be spread equally to all participants on a killmail/in the same fleet except those with blue standings or in fleet with the dead player. fix cloaking:-make cloaks have a nonzero capacitor use and a cycle time. the capacitor use shall always put the ship in negative recharge, though capacitor rigs and modules such as rechargers, extenders and boosters will greatly enhance a ship's ability to stay cloaked for long periods of time. cap stability will be a hardcored impossibility. there is no reason for a powerful module like a cloak to not use energy. -add a t3 cloak that is available for all ships. it behaves almost exactly like a covops cloak (full speed, no targeting delay), but it is impossible to warp cloaked and somewhat expensive (100m isk). it has non-negligible cpu use (80 or 100 teraflops) and allows ships to take black ops bridges. fix supercaps and caps:-make pilots suffer horribly from dying after being entombed in their supercap for years. supercap pilots may never eject of self destruct. upon ship death, the pilot dies too; no pod ejects. when a pilot dies while piloting a supercap, the pilot suffers a temporary, soft form of wetgraving(read the chronicles) and his relevant supercap skill is reset to level 1. for example, losing a titan means that your titan skill is back to 1. this is quite like t3 ships, but harsher. supercap kills add no bounties to those who killed them, since they cannot be insured.-remove supercap ewar immunity, replace it with arbitrarily high but finite numbers. for example, a titan should have 30 warp core strength and 100 sensor strength. tracking disruptors and other ewar should have 5% of their normal effect. titans are not as rare as they were intended to be, so let us chip at them like whaling sailors. let 20 falcons jam a titan, let 30 tacklers prevent one from warping. in exchange, let remote assistance affect them at 5% of regular effectiveness. supercap pilots, you know this is only fair. -make the minmatar dreadnought a pure projectile ship. remove its missile hardpoints and replace them with turrets.-fix the leviathan replace its missile hardpoints with turret slots for railguns. -alternatively: just make citadels not suckfix certain subcaps:-add one midslot to all ships who currently only have onefix bubbles:-it shall be made impossible to warp through a bubble, even if the beginning point of the warp is not inside the bubble and the end point is outside of the grid. the warping ship will stop at the bubble's edge. fix sniping:-it shall be made impossible to warp directly at a target on the same grid through probing. probes will only generate a signature that allows the prober (and his fleet) to warp to the target<U+FFFD>s grid at a random range. there will be no effect if the target is on grid.fix industry, mining, hacking, etc:-rats shall drop no module loot. upon salvaging a wreck, it shall generate salvage as normal, in addition to a new type of salvage, scrambled datacores. these datacores can then be decrypted (using the hacking skill) into meta 2,3,4 1-run bpcs. a hacking skill equivalent to the datacore's meta level is required to decrypt it.these bpcs can be used to build named items when used in conjunction with relevant science and industry skills. they are locked at me0 pe0. as a general rule of thumb, meta 2 requires skills at 2, meta 4 requires skills at 4. so, making a best named railgun would require electromagnetic physics 4, mechanical engineering 4, science 4 and industry 4. scrambled datacores may also be turned in to a research agent for a small amount of normal research points towards a regular t2 datacore.-rogue drones shall use the same new loot system as the normal rats, with a bias for drone-related modules. they may also drop scrambled datacores that decrypt into limited run t2 drone bpcs with perfect me and pe. -the only mineral drops from rats are the tritanium from salvaged metal scraps. -corpses may be salvaged by someone with a sufficient biology and science skill. they have a slight chance of dropping scrambled datacores that can be decrypted into implant bpcs for the implants who were in the corpses's head at the time of death. creating the implants requires t2 components and relevant pi goods (miniature electronics, wetware mainframe?) -boost module drop rates on player ship death, let scrapmetal reprocessing remain somewhat relevant. also, lower scrapmetal reprocessing's training speed multiplier and prerequisites. refund the sp difference.fix incursions:-implement my suggestion , players should be allowed to join sansha's nation in faction warfare. anyone who shoots a sansha ship in an incursion system should be flagged as a valid target for the sansha allies, who gain standings and lp for every enemy they kill."
"fix lag:-tidi (it works)fix the market:-just let us sell officer and deadspace modules on the market, there<U+FFFD>s no reason not toplease try to find ways in which these ideas are not perfect so that i might correct them."
"i agree with most of those things except the \"rats shall drop no module loot\".you'll make them drop bpcs, and due to...well, ccp or something, it's awful to manage. can't stack them, you have to go through the pain that it is to put those 100s bpcs you just got from your lvl 4 in the oven and all that.i don't really know how to fix that.i would add one thing to this tho.faction guns are expensive as fsck. like, really. and it gives you a lower dps than t2 weapons. they indeed have a lower cpu consumption, but it doesn't make up for the cost.either allow them to use t2 ammo and allow them to recieve the \"specialisation\" bonus, or multiply their droprate (for faction guns that drop from npcs, but also for faction guns you can buy in lp stores) by 4.or go ahead and do both of these things. no one uses faction weapons for a reason. the only faction weapons i ever saw were on a officier fit golem, a repfleet fitted machariel and a cn launcher on a 100mn tengu cause a t2 wouldn't fit.there is a reason to it. it's because the weapons have too many disavantages (less dps, and less usability due to not being able to use t2 ammunition. also, it cost a fsckton to fit those 6/7/8 guns you need) and the only avantage you get is ridiculously small."
"updaded:"
"there is still a net isk gain over the current model the amount gained would be so small that it is hardly a motivator. in the words of testcursions, my ~isk/hour~. this is functionally useless, an isk faucet, and imposes arbitrary penalties on 0.0. also, while you might enjoy role-playing, it shouldn't be grounds for balance or game-play features.fix cloaking: i can't even begin to describe how dumb you are, or how much i hate you because of it. hopefully the copy of this thread you (foolishly) posted to gf.com gets populated with the appropriate insults. i'm not even going to comment on the rest, although i'm tempted to just quote it before you realize the error of your ways and edit your post to avoid ridicule.maybe next time post this **** on an alt and save us the embarrassment and yourself the inevitable flaming."
"so it turns out that the op is an idiot, good to know. about the only thing that is worthwhile at all on there is the removal of on-grid warping to something your probes lock, the rest of it is just random garbage."
"this has to be some kind of meta troll but he posted the same garbage on our forums. stop trying to \"fix\" cloaking ugggghhhhhugggggggggggggggggghhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh"
"posting in a \"waaaa mummmy\" cry thread"
"you're all fools, only goonswarm have the true answers to fix eve!*vaurion infara hemorrhages and dies"
"+1 for you for managing to use 'hemorrhages' in a sentence, lol."
"people do pvp, and lose stuff. if insurance was the barrier to pvp, you would never see tech 2 or tech 3 being used or lost. which is not true.the insurance idea could help with driving a reward for killing people (other then just gloating and eating tears), and the loss of a portion of a insurance payout is negligible to the cost of deployed a properly fitted ship and that most people worth salt have reimbursement programs, or can pay for themselves the difference. if they can't well time to stick to tech 1 frigs.allot of the ideas are though pretty bad."
"look if i could make half of what i make looting belt rats by shooting irc in the face all day in a rifter, i would never touch a rat ever again."
"that really is a decent solution to this issue. even if it is 4 specific points in a system its still a bit much to expect people to figure out and bookmark them all for each system."
"wrecking your own installations while you are behind a shield seems perfectly ok to me. receiving insurance for it, maybe not so much.i could get behind something like this though: wrecks from self destruct fail to despawn inside a pos forcefield until the shield goes down, so that the attackers if they win may salvage them all (or defenders may get some money back, if they successfully defeat the attack after all)."
"right now the new t3 battlecruisers and sniping battleships can lock and kill out to 250km. this is wonderful and makes for some fantastic fights.but there is a downside, a critical and intensely annoying one: you can't broadcast targets that far.targets can only be broadcast out to ~150km and, with combat in these sniping ships regularly going further, targets have to be specifically called out by name, something that is incredibly annoying in a large fleet fight. extending the broadcast target range allows sniping ships to be more effective and fulfill the purpose they have been ostensibly designed for.this is a simple quality of life change that will have very positive consequences considering how range has now become an ever more important factor in multi-doctrine ~1000 man fleet fights."
"what is the problem with making it possible to broadcast everything on grid?"
"being that ships in eve have turrets, the only way first person freeform controls or gunning would work is if you could have multiple people commanding different parts of the same ship.in the case of carriers, you would need people being able to command fighters. but i would say it could add allot to the game, if it were possible. eve has many good features and this could enhance it, black prophocy is a example of a game that has that one feature, but lacks many of the dynamics of eve (player driven content, supreme market, and destructible ships add a wonder to the game that drive it forward). so it would be great that eve could steal that one idea that makes black propocy interesting, and take it themselves.one thought to give players some kind of ship for dogfighting, is to have frigs be able to do it. they may be large compared to earth based fighters but still could be relatively maneuverable. they need to be large considering they are self sufficent vessels that can travel in space long distance. have non-turreted weapons for them. (small chasis and manuverable they have one disadvantage).if the lag issue exists then that kills the idea, but still what if it wasn't a issue.though... this idea would drastically limit the size of fleets, if you had to have 9 people for every battleship. that unless from one gun you could point it manually and all the other guns follow to aim at the same spot. in that case could you autopilot the ship and manually aim the guns? personally i would say firing guns is a bit funner then being space barge captain trying to maneuver something that has no maneuverability. if free flight is allowed can the ship can still be auto-piloted like normal, or follow directions in fleet, fleet formations?does this open up area damage on ships, attacking one area and direction does more damage then others.also would this revamp the skill system. would your shots hit because you aimed right, or because you motion tracking skill is high enough, how would that interact. how would targeting work, would that be gone seeing that you could just point and shoot, or would jamming remove crosshairs, give static?this could change the game."
"manual flight would be a pain for anything that goes less than 1 km/s<U+FFFD>"
"supported. don't see why it was removed tbh. would be nice if it auto loaded scripts, ammo and cap boosters etc too."
"thats would be create, ninja-salvager killer mini profession. so greatly like it."
"skyrim is a single-player game designed to be extended and altered by modifications. there's a mod kit, and an automatic extension loading mechanism (you just have to drop files in the right locations and they'll be picked up).eve is very different beast. the devs would have to work this in."
"exactly :)leave wh to us - small gang pvp'ers keep you null-bear-blobs hands from it as far away as possibleread and support: don't mess with our wh's what is your stance on wh stuff?"
"all wh residents and people that are active in w-space know that this is true!the wh mass stabilizer would only benefit large alliances as it would make their w-space \"take over\" much, much, much easier a alliance wich can bring together 60+ fleet members cane easily take over a wh if they well plan and coordinate the attack but for that you need time and some effort wich some don't want to give they want it easier and therefore make it alot harder for the other side it is allready hard to defend a wh if you are a small corp or small alliance this would make it impossible 60+ hostile bs fleet jumping at once into a wh where a 30 member corp lives come on!\"mechanism to get rid of the invulnerability some groups enjoy in wormholes\" - huhif this was refering to c1-c4 wormholes then that \"invulnerbility\" shuld be renamed to well planed pvp ships and coordinated team of players wich took alot of time to plan how to effectivly defend their wh, even if that means that they collapse the wh to prevent the enemys forces to get in that also needs some effort!c1-c4 whs usally have a small amount of players in it as there are not that much people needed to do a site and because there is less isk to share therfore if you take some time you can find their weakness but that time is a bit to much time for some it seemsc5-c6 are in my eyes allready dominated from large alliances as they have more people inside 1 wh and therefore more people to fly cap ships for now different alliances can hold their ground if they have alot of people and caps in theitr wh, and that is the only thing that comes near invulnerbility in my eyes but even that can be taked if you plan well and are willing to take some risk if the wh stabilizer would come in game then the alliance with the largest fleet and largest number of caps would dominate all c5s and c6s w-space would become equal to null-secfor now people can defend themselves and have a chance against larger corps and alliances wh mass stabilizer would make the possibility of defending the wh really small the large alliances would then really become invulnerable!"
"think it was attually the rnk csm member who suggested it not any of the null sec csm's"
"the people wanting to push this through are the ones eager to benefit from the feature themselfes; the corp/alliances they are in in my opinion, those in the csm voting for this are corrupt, and are abusing their voice and influencewormhole mechanics are just fine the way they are now, do not mess with it!"
"true, but she (well, he) is hard to be called wh representative - rnk have just one wh corp: guilotine therapy - all other are just null sec corpsread and support: don't mess with our wh's what is your stance on wh stuff?"
"jack, i have to disagree with your proposal.in addition, i created an alternate proposal in this same forum category. the reason for this is i feel your proposal only moderates (caps) a ss punishment which should not occur in the first place. it also allows pirates more targets on gates, which i feel scares off the casual empire crowd.fwiw, since jan 2007 i've been fighting to get more pilots from empire to come out and fight solo in lowsec. that's five years of this (possibly hopeless) battle. it bothers me to see anything proposed which makes travel more dangerous for those pilots, because i believe they are the salvation of lowsec... new, fresh blood. your proposal has gathered a great deal of support (most from -10 pirates i must note) and a great deal of press (due to our eve election period). my posting of the alternate lowsec fix is simply my way to at least throw out a view from the side of the solo lowsec pvp pilot. i would be remiss if i did not speak up against something i disagree with. if it dies quietly, i can say \"hey, i tried.\" no hard feelings (at least on this side) either way."
"i personally think offline towers should have no shields, making it easier to kill.but this is also good as well, 3 days and you get a message warning that your pos is being hacked.if you don't respond in 3 days, well too bad, your fault for not taking care of your tower."
"what you are proposing is a core game mechanic change, which should be intuitive and straightforward. to fit that, the change needs to be applied to all ships or none. if you could convince me that this is a change you want to propose to fix a problem with all ships, then i might back up the idea. however, i can't get behind a core game mechanic change that would affect all ships, just to fix a single broken one.i don't really have a problem with a titan being able to perform in multiple roles, but it shouldn't be able to do so all at the same time. the real problem shows up when you are dealing with a group of 40 of these \"flagships\". even once ccp introduces a capital class heavy tackler, a blob of titans as the ship exists today will still be nearly untouchable."
"easy way to balance titans is to remove their turrets.dreads have turrets for capital and pos bashing and the titan will still have it's dd for the near instapopping of other capitals.will solve the titan problem and make dreads useful again."
"err ... no!you guys should really move on to another topic .. titans and sc are fine atm."
"frankly, the problem and the solution are very easy.the problem is not that the titan needs nerfing. some ongoing balancing might be in order but it's not completely invulnerable. the same goes for supercapsthe problem is simply this. they are *difficult* to kill and relatively easy to make. ergo, many more titan and supercaps are being created than are being destroyed which, if nothing changes, will lead to ever increasing sizes of supercapital blobs. basically, the number of titans that can be simultaneously put in combat should be limited so that eve doesn't die a slow death to ever increasing proliferation of titan blobs... this can be done in several ways but my favorite is to introduce a mechanic whereby the titan must \"log on\" to a corp tcu in order to activate it's jump drive. advantages to this approach(a) it allows for the creation of large numbers of titans (for logistics or defense) without the risk that null-sec will simply fill up with invulnerable titan blobs (b) it creates a new reason for large alliances to *need* to take and hold space if they want to develop their combat capability (= more reason to make war). (c) it creates a new way for alliances that don't have huge titan blobs to have an impact on the combat capability of corps/alliances that do (ie by sbu'ing systems or destroying tcu's). in other words, no more (nearly) automatic win because you can put more titans on the field. with this mechanic, the number of titans you can field on a given day will depend on more than the number of titans you have.....(d) it can create new drama in the form of \"stranded\" titans that are locked down in one system (unable to jump out) because their corp lost sovtl;dr: titans may need fine tuning but the problem is that many more are being made than destroyed. what needs balancing is how to ensure that the growth in *numbers* of titans that can be fielded in combat is limited. a proposal for a mechanic to enable this was made in this post. t-"
"if i remember right, in a regards to empire law and the stories in regards to titans. specifically that next to planets they can actually change tides etc.(as off as that sounds...) wouldn't it mean a shitload of them on grid at the same time **** up orbits / gravitational pull? would be kidn fo funny if 80 on grid or so cling together and crash/crunch."
"exactly, and bump.."
"yeah we all thought incursions were going to be cooler than they actually are.i originally thought they were going to be pvp trainers with npc pirates warping around with advanced ai that makes them behave like small roaming gangs. i also thought that incursions would turn off concord.so yeah the current raiding mechanic is better than just solo running l4 missions but it could be a lot more amazing.i honestly think poco based sov is a good idea"
"well the new system is just fine, i really enjoyed the old system, having each missile type with its own name just added some fluff, something i sorta enjoyedhowever, when ever i have to type mjolnir to find my em missiles, i get little mad"
"is there any other type of missile except scourge....ummm...i mean trauma? it's just a name and no real hassle to remember after awhile.i am sure ccp have better things to fix than missile names."
"yes this is true, because many people do not know the word can also be used to describe a decelerating motion or a slowing energy force (retardation) which is where ******** derives."
"i want my scourge backand not only that but i want my cold gas thrusters back tooi personally think this falls in same category with removal of ship hangar."
"i would've put it a little more tactfully but i agree with the sentiment.not supported."
"thanks for being more eloquent than me, smiling menace :)"
"+1 we have shortcuts for bcing targets, why not tagging? :dit'll make my life tagging in incs, whs a whole lot easier.who said that noob ships suck?"
"i don't agree with removing self destruct even in combat but if you are agressed by others then a killmail should list all involved in forcing the self destruct in the first place.as others have stated, it's only sensible to deny your enemies some nice shiny loot if you die and that's fine. if you can't kill them before the timer is up, bring more people."
"to be fair there should be module that renders self destruction impossible.dont make it to easy for the wolf."
"i remember i sent a petition about an obvious macro i suicide ganked. after i blew up his ship he warped back and forth from the field to the station in his pod, at that point i podded him. it took me over a month for me a receive a response from a gm, telling me that they will investigate it. the only petition that will receive a fast response is the stuck petition, that is the only place where the gm's are active in, everywhere else is just an afterthought."
"\"clear your cache\" is my favorite response to petitons i've seen, even better when \"clear our cache\" has no way of fixing the problembeing a full time help chat troll, the question of \"whens my petiton going to be answered?\" has long since beaten the \"whens hulkageddon?\""
"i was going to write one of these, i am glad someone else did it for me. the quality of responces from petitions and the increased wait times have become very annoying, as well as when the gm basically laughs at your petition and closes it right away without you getting a chance to respond causing you to open a new petition to have yet again that same gm make fun of you and close the petition again.you know exactly who i'm talking about, and to be honest this gm's personal interaction with anyone of the petitions i have made are rather annoying. i swear he see's my name and is like mine *trollface*.ccp really needs to retrain their gm's, hire new ones, and make them less grumpy."
"only speaking from my experience, but i have never had a problem with a slow gm reply, or the quality of it."
"1.0"
"heart of the swarm is too starcraft."
"rats never utilize rifters. although why, i cannot fathom.you'd think by now the angels at least would say, \"you know... that's a sturdy little ship. maybe we should get some.\""
"you're an embarrassment even to the goons."
"lmao! you guys just have no sense of humour. as much fun (and mayhem) would ensue from such an expansion, i'd have to say not supported."
"in other words, devs should be able to provide their friends with enigmas and eidolons and stuff as \"occasional drops\", right?"
"what? that's not what i was saying and it was not what i was proposing. your post does not relate in any way to what was being said. to repeat the point: if ccp plays on tranquility they should play with the same rules that affect us all. it's incredibly lame to delete a drop because you don't like what dropped unless all players on tq have this right. t-"
"to repeat the point:what if these guys weren't just lucky but were in conspiracy with the dev to get this rare ship?what if they were even this dev's game characters (yes devs play eve too)i just wonder what this guy was doing on tq on a spot in a lowsec with enigma in his cargo?"
"well he clearly had no business being there in that ship but what you're accusing him of is pretty extreme. frankly, if he wanted to give his friends special \"favours\" there are a lot of other ways he could do it under the radar. personally, i think he was just being a fool and either panicked or got all ego-hurt about losing his ship and decided to cover it up.... but he can't cover it up completely because the killmail was registered. either way i find what happened distasteful and i hope it doesn't happen again. t-"
"it's not like something new for eve"
"i don't think it was his own decision as i seriously doubt any eve dev can give away plexes left and right%)"
"yeah. that's the only case i've ever heard about. do you have anything more recent? iirc the bob bpo debacle took place in early 2006. that was 6 years ago. do you have any evidence that anything like that has taken place since? t-"
"i think that's the only case that went to the publicand of course i don't accuse ccp as it is of anything. i just find suspicious the actions of a particular ccp employee and think ccp made the right decision and removed the ship from the game."
"i don't think the dev had a choice about removing the enigma.its simple, at this time, players are not allowed to have such ships."
"posting in a thread full of \"tinfoil hattery.\"that's a \"bughunter\" dev ship and is normally supposed to be \"invisible\" to players. most likely he/she was monitoring/looking for an issue on tq and forgot to fit a cloak. dunno what that enigma was doing in the cargo... but w/e. it was a lucky kill on someone whom people shouldn't have been able to kill. nothing more."
"this.large volumes of highly researched ammo, drones, charges and ship bpo's. biggest bpo store in eve!"
"i applaud the initiative behind any proposal which seeks to 'fix' lowsec. like many others, it is my belief that lowsec should exist as a place for casual pvp.current mechanics make that difficult; the penalty for fighting in lowsec is the loss of security status, eventually locking the player out of empire. a player is forced to either painfully rat their sec status up or create logistic alts to bring equipment in. these restrictions, imo, are the problem. eve may be a sandbox, but the engine which drives it has always been about combat.players should be able, without significant restriction, to find casual combat if they desire. there are many pilots located in empire, who would enjoy casual combat in lowsec, if 1.) the security status 'punishment' was fixed, and 2.) if they feel they have a chance to get through gatecamps.my proposal is this:1.) remove the security status hits for initiating combat against ships in all areas of lowsec except for gates and stations. in other words, if you fire upon a frigate in a belt, planet, poco, complex, or safespot, you suffer no loss of security status... at all. what concord doesn't know won't hurt them.2.) combat wrongfully initiated upon any grid which contains sentry guns (i.e., gates and stations), will bring about sentry gun response and security status loss. gatecamp mechanics, as they exist today, would remain unchanged.3.) podding anywhere in lowsec still incurs security status loss, as it does today. this allows pilots who seek the -10 badge of honor the ability to go 'full pirate'.i believe this proposal offers the most simple solution which will allow players, old and young alike, to try out casual lowsec combat without suffering penalty."
"i see you got tired of posting in jack dent's thread so you made your own little tweaked version. sticking to the topic at hand, your version changes nothing about how lowsec currently operates. 80-90% of combat in lowsec happens on gates or stations, and you completely failed to address the problem of casual pvpers losing sec and highsec access. if you're going to copy someone's ideas, at least copy the good parts."
"let's face it... you stopped listening. jack's proposal favors pirates too heavily... and you're a pirate. this is kinda like a nullsec group promoting playstyles that favor their game play while taking from others.as a solo frigate pilot, i have not fought on a gate or station in the last four years. perhaps your pvp happens there... mine does not. as a matter of fact, the only pvp i see at gates are gatecamps or gangs engaging gatecamps.negative. security status restrictions, under my plan, would be removed unless on a station or gate. under jack's plan, the solo frigate pilot who goes to lowsec and engages in a belt still suffers a loss in security status. shall we look at some of those \"good parts\"?jack's plan puts a 'cap' on security status punishments which still occur even when two opponents meet in a belt and both choose to fight. my plan removes that; don't fight on gates or stations, you'll never suffer a ss punishment.jack's plan, which did not remove these ss punishments, then says \"to compensate, make anyone with negative sec status a valid target while in lowsec, with no gcc or sentry repercussions.\" let's be really clear on this one: if two pilots want to fight, one's going to head to a non-senty location and the other's going to follow. the only thing jack's 'concession' does is open up more targets for roving gangs. as it stands now, i'd have to get to -5 ss to start worrying about getting my frig nailed on a gate in lowsec. under jack's plan, i have to worry about it much, much sooner. jack's items on highsec ganks and pod restrictions i have no issue with.jack's plan says: \"optionally, rework killrights to either remove them, or make them only usable in lowsec.\" what? killrights are awarded to a ship which was destroyed and did not defend itself, right? i'd say in lowsec the most general application is, i catch your hauler, kill it, but then i have to watch my back for a bit. you want to remove this?items not mentioned is the new type of gatecamp jack's proposal allows. but i've written enough about that in pages 9-10 of jack's thread. and, given your posts, i doubt you'd listen if i took the time to restate them here.in short, jack's proposal starts with a damn fine premise... but becomes far too 'pro-pirate'. when it begins threatening solo play, i must disagree."
"i've been in lowsec, almost exclusively, since the first week i started playing. i hate gatecamps, station games, and the like. i certainly prefer a willing fight to a gank. the problem here is what you see as a solo frigate pilot who has 50 kills and what i see as a career lowsec pvper is completely different. i've been in your shoes, and many other shoes during my time here. hypothetically, if i were a solo non-outlaw frigate pilot, and i knew gateguns would assist me if i kept my sec above [insert arbitrary number here], i would keep it above that number. the whole premise of your argument, as far as i can tell, is that you really don't like gatecamps, especially gatecamps where the campers can operate with impunity. right now, everyone knows that below -5 makes you an outlaw who will never have gateguns on their side. if that number was moved up, it would be exactly the same as it is now, only people would keep their sec higher. what you're doing is applying the security status that people currently have to a hypothetical situation where that wouldn't be the case. this is the point you're either not understanding, or ignoring. gatecampers wouldn't have free reign in lowsec, because people would understand the rules of lowsec. no one accidentally goes pirate, and no one would accidentally get security status low enough that gates wouldn't help them.please refute me, because i'm not sure that this is sinking in."
"by removing sec hits from belts, planets, etc, they won't ever have to grind ss back up. you will never lose sec status if you fight in belts, planets, ect... so you don't have to worry about unwanted combat on a gate (except in the super-boosted oms gatecamp thing... which i believe is acceptable).would this, in your opinion, bring in more casual pvp'ers from empire?"
"ugh... please read this before thinking of a retort. bear in mind that shooting someone with negative sec wouldn't even lower your sec, so your argument about not having to grind goes out the window. you're really wearing me out dude. removing sec hits on planets/belts solves the problem of the highsec warrior who wants to solo in a frig, yay! what you're not accounting for are fleet fights, which happen almost exclusively on gates. and it's not something that can be negotiated to a belt. i would love nothing more than for solo pvp to become viable again. but that's not the only thing that goes on in lowsec."
"you would sound more mature if you'd drop the insults. you simply come across as a rude adolescent. no one has a reading problem around here, your points are being heard (read) and understood. that a dissimilar opinion exists does not mean people are simply too 'fail' to understand your position. i have attempted to deal with you fairly and politely... are you capable of the same?you keep trying to moderate a symptom. i believe it is best to address the cause.you've not answered my question from the last post."
"this is going in circles. i think it's best to agree to disagree at this point. i will respectfully disagree with your proposal, and move on."
"i also disagree with this proposal. the reason is easy. if you are in gang than you will fight with a 90% chance at the gate.why? because you have to pass through the gate.don't think that if you find a fleet with even numbers and same shiptypes ect. on a gate that if you ask them to warp to a planet to fight that many people will say: yes. this time is far away. we had it years ago. you can still find it but you wont find it often.so you have to decide if you want to fight these guys and ruin your sec status or to leave them if they don't want to.this idea wont change low sec.and allow killing people if they are in belts, on planets etc. you are still able to kill haulers or people who want to kill npcs.sorry but i cannot see a difference between belts and stargates or stations.and yes, you can always create a fast log ship. you can do this also at the moment. pirates use also scouts.so if someone warps to the gate pirates may warp to the gate too and kill the guy. (concerning your post in jacks's thread).of course it will be easier for people who have only one account but it will be also easier to create a trap for them.and i don't say that i disagree just because i am a pirate. i also had to think alot about being a pirate. you have to pay attention on your wallet. you have to search for other ways to reimburse your ships and just because you want to do some small size pvp.i think many people think about it too."
"not at all... i appreciate the feedback."
"i am necroeing this thread. some of my chars (though their combined efforts - and yes we also need to fix copying bookmarks, 5 at a time, really?) are heading there sometime this summer. i may delete 3 or so thousand safespot construction bookmarks (well, parking them in containers, as i didn't bookmark farm those incursions for nothing), but that will only delay the inevetible to give ccp devs enough time to raise the limit. *shoo*"
"maybe you don't get the picture. most valuable loot is moving in hi sec. especially when you count the dividends afterwards. if you loot 10bil with 10 pilots it's only 1bil each. it's not really much even then. it's pvp because you're shooting someone. if you want some kind of fair fights you should probably go play guild wars at \"pvp\" arena or something then you realize how pointless fair fights are. oh and i am not even going into exploting orca for hauling valuable **** yet. that's so ******** i cannot comprehend.and then pos's. if you somehow manage to figure out these dudes have maybe 10bil worth of ships in large deathstar pos you need first a lot of people to attack it. if they can just pull out self destruct bullshit even after somehow getting trapped after reinforcement timers and all that crap it seems pretty funny all that work went to nothing. you say you need to work out your best to keep them from getting away witth their stuff but that's not even possible unless they just don't log in which is not valid argument."
"it does seem strange that with the range of some ships that you can't broadcast targets that far out.supported."
"if this ******** \"feature\" were implemented, wormholes would become nothing more than nullsec with sleeper rats and no local"
"as a long-term wh dweller ( nearly 2 years now ), i have to say the mechanics, whilst needing a few subtle changes, are fineno 2 wh-stabs!a few pipe-dreams are:* allow a sov style structure to be anchored in a wh, this gives improved functionality this structure can be attacked, and when re-enforced will take away the functionality provided- this gives you access to the current static exit's marketplace, or in the case of deep wh's, the closest static exit through a whthis could of course be easily argued against as making wh life a little too easy, as we would be able to check the markets without sticking our noses out, and could probably be abused to know what area the exit is in before it's scanned so is less than ideal this is more of a major pipe-dream than serious idea- an anchorable cloning facilty in wh space, so when we die you are back in your pos this cannot be used outside w-space, so can't be anchored in null, low or highsec when killed, if you are in k-space , you go to your k-space medclone if you die in w-space, you go to the w-space medclonethis has again advantages and disadvantages for attackers, it's more of a gamble as when we kill at the moment, we know that we have removed that player from the field for at least the next 30 minutes or more, depending where/if the residents know where their exit is with this mechanic in play, the aggressors can come back into the fight, potentially within minutes the disadvantage is of course the fact that fights on wh could simply become meatgrinders, throwing clone and ship after clone and ship into a fray, and of course it makes life more difficult for any aggressors prehaps a \"cooldown\" of 24 hours before another w-space clone can be made available to limit the tactical advantages?just a few brain-farts to throw into the mix, i'm sure there are a lot more than that out there"
"+1. booster alts are so overpowered and prevalent these days in lowsec that you have to match them to even compete. screw that, pvp is expensive enough as it is."
"+1especially since it would fix the issue with multi-ganglink t3 outperforming fleet cs. as opposed to what someone said before, they wouldn't be useless - they can field a nice combination of resistances with decent buffer, sig and speed - if they fit on"
"confrimign i am like idea ver much,.i am thinkign when i am get on csm, we am needign to talk to get these idea into widre frameworks for reveiws of all dec / sec \ bounty systims. these may becomign part of mine platform move forwards.keep up good thinkign !"
"well done, jack. this accounts perfectly for 99% of people's problems with lowsec pvp -- the sec status and travel restrictions. would love to see this implemented, hope ccp is listening."
"terrible idea. only people with agendas would want to do this"
"makes sense.+1"
"what agenda, if i may ask? \"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" - abrazzar"
"null and wh's have greater risk attached to them, and thus greater rewards. if you're not risk averse (i don't believe you are) and you're not ok with further nerfs to null / wh incomes (i'm assuming you aren't), then how can you justify calling for something that would make null/wh's less of a financial risk aka \"safer\"?which brings me to your second point, that the 24hr cooldown on clone jumping prevents people from playing the game. this part i agree with. the cooldown is too cumbersome, provides little in the way of emergent gameplay and \"seriously what the hell is the point of a jump clone cooldown\". and to your third point... wait, i thought you said you weren't risk averse. now i'm confused.in summation, the solution to real \"problem\" is not to remove learning implants and remove the inherent risk they add to null and wh's, but to reduce the cooldown on clone jumping so that nullbears can stop using that as an excuse not to show up for ctas."
"the issue that i see with removing jump clone timers is that a large alliance like goonswarm would be able to have its members place jump clones strategically and have at least one combat ship at each of those stations, allowing us to quickly form up wherever we want - that'd be overpowered.i don't consider implant loss a \"risk\" in nullsec. it's a certainty - for example, i have two +3s and a couple of hardwirings plugged in. their combined cost is less than 30-40m - i need the hardwirings for my scimitar, and the +3s are nice for the long skill i'm training. if i get popped (and heh, a-name in a scimitar, ask me about getting primaried) don't get podded, i'm probably self-destructing my pod to quickly reship and get back on a titan.removing bubbles or making cynojammers block covert cynos would make nullsec \"safer.\" taking away learning implants from the game would take away something that i personally view as a vestige of the days of learning skills. \"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" - abrazzar"
"there is nothing wrong with titans as they are -- the problem is that the majority of people are too stupid to counter them.this is a worse idea than the op"
"having 40 dd in a blob, is basically having 80 million damage you can instantly apply to a single/multiple capital targets, which is enough damage to take out several supers all at once, or a whole fleet of enemy dreads. the capital weapon portion of the titan is actually the least op in my opinion. (assuming the tracking issue is fixed)an interesting concept, perhaps you should put up a proposal of your own for people to respond to. however, sov mechanics are getting changed up sometime in the near future, so i would suggest you think of some way to manage the idea without linking it to sov control since we don't know how the new system will work."
"make the color customizable like all other colortags, not just gray. \"omgwtf neutrals in the fleet\"look how dumb you are"
"on a related note, i've been waiting to join the blood raider convent for 2 years now. mmm, delicious, purified capsuleer blood."
"the issue with self-destruct boils down to no killmail being generated. make self-destructs generate a killmail, but do not provide insurance or loot drops. problem solved."
"keep all self-destruct mechanics the same, just make it generate a killmail. give the killmail to the last person who got the last shot off on the victim before he explodes."
"boost sd!make it take out all the attacking ships within range!"
"pretty much this, insurance should go to zero same as concord kills since self destructing your ship would be frowned at by any sensible insurance company.should generate killmails yes,should destroy all loot as this is a way to stick it to the aggressors. but since you will alos lose your insurance this must be weighed up by the pilot.but most of all, it should create a killmail, probably to the last shot before the explosion, but highest damage would also work."
"i support this initiative. self-destruct should void insurance, destroy all loot, and generate a kill-mail. i'd like to propose a small change: the kill-mail should be 'earned' by the self-destructor (because they just killed themselves), everyone else involved would show up via damage done or ewar modules.then the kill would show up on both the loss and the kill side of the self-destructor, preserving the holy killboard stats of their corp, and on the kill side of the tackling corps killboard, adding to the tacklers isk-destroyed, generating e-peen, lols, and more interest in small gang pvp."
"sd should either take much longer for capitals or generate a km if they're aggressed. or both."
"**repost (with improvements) from the old forum's features & ideas discussion**as we know an instant \"wow style\" respec is bad and generally unwanted here in eve. heres where i come with much more balanced idea.an skills unlearning queue, similar to normal train over time feature but working... backwards.how it works:you set the skill you dont want to see anymore and then it goes, from max to the zero, over time, lvl5->lvl4->lvl3, giving all unlearned sp to your \"sp redistribution pool\" (the same sp pool as from missing learning skills).whats the point then?-it would have to be able to work along with normal skills training. dual queue, one skill learning and one unlearning at time.-skillbooks wouldnt be given back, they are all lost, risk:reward ~.~//wait wheres my punishment?! everything in eve should have punishment... and consequences! lets see what we can do here:-sp unlearning speed would be based on 17/17/17/17/17 attributes or your lowest attribute//some would say its still unfair to unlearn an unnecessary skills at the lowest possible speed for a whole year?here it comes, another harsh penalty (eve players loves them, no?)-untrainable total sp would be capped on 1-3m sp (adjustable)-said cap would reset annually like neural remap-an unlearned sp pool would be capped on 1 million (or less) to prevent sp stockpiling. pros:-with untraining being based on time we wouldnt be able to respec to the new fotm instantly -with untraining limited to 2-3m sp per year we wouldnt be able to respec to new fotm(s) at all-we wouldnt be able to instantly respec our alts then flood character market with them-we would be able to correct our mistakes and clean out our skill sheet a little-enough penalties to satisfy every masochistic eve player!-my \"respec\" idea is well thought out and better than others ~.~cons:-find one!"
"absolutely not. any skill training should be permanent, short of being podded in an insufficient clone. skill respecs in any form would take away from that. even with a hard limit of a few million sp per year, that's a substantial amount of reversible skill training. \"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" - abrazzar"
"sorry but no. trained skills have to be removed by ccp only (still sad that they removed learning skills).losing sp due an insufficient clone is the only normal wayto remove sp but you cannot control it. this should not be changed.if you don't like a skill don't train it. if you realize years later that you trained crap than live with it. we all do it.i also have skills i do not need but hell i would never remove them. it is part of your eve history."
"1.0"
"by that reasoning, wouldn't it be more sensible (and easier) to keep the current skill system as it is also based on \"time\" and has a proven record for preventing inta-fotm?one million sp is still a bit. i could use it to get (racial) frigates 5 and max out most of the weapon skills needed for it. two to three million sp can get you two (racial) battleship skills to 5. people would keep the \"sp pools\" in limbo until a new fotm comes out. no such thing as a \"mistake\" when it comes to skills. the skills you trained before were relevant at the time you trained them... otherwise would wouldn't have trained them at all.for disclosure: i trained my character here as a miner/industrialist when i first started playing the game and have well over 1 million sp in all the skills related to those areas. i have not used those skills in over 2 years (i refocused my efforts on pvp)... but you never know. one day i might want to use a \"battlehulk\"... or i find myself in the position of having to manually move/collect barges/industrials from a pos because no one has a carrier/orca nearby... or maybe i stumble upon a grav site that contains something worthwhile to mine (dark ochre ftw)... etc.not really, no. your \"sp pool\" is too large and still allows for \"insta-training.\""
"well, finally some constructive criticism. an answers like \"no, because no!\" really makes me lose hope in humanity ^^retrainable sp cap could ofcourse be adjusted accordingly. i said 2-3m, it can either be 1m if it sounds more fair to you, or can be adjusted on fly, basing on, lets say, total sp? the more sp you have the less you can relocate (newbie friendly).also, dont say these 2-3m or even 1m is much compared to racial carrier which is x14 multiplier that gives 3,6m sp at level 5. its the bright side of this idea. you and especially new players, can respec their x1 skills and other little mistakes while fotm roller carrier pilot cant remove his high sp skills for next few years.an size of such storage pool could be also capped and adjusted so players cant store unlimited amount of sp. good catch!about \"mistakes\". yeah, for some people it doesnt make much of problem, but some players cant simply stand having mining iv or industry v on their sheets. it would only help one group of players without hurting the other. win=win, no?"
"\"you successfully salvage from the goonswarm shiptoast wreck.\"missions where the completion requirement is an exhumer killmail would be both fun and hilarious.roaming sleeper-ai rats that don't show up in local would just be funny."
"eve is one of the few games that punishes customers for being long-time subscribers thanks to its unflexible jumpclone system.it discourages higher sp characters to take part in e.g. nullsec t1 frigate roams because depending on clone requirements, losing the implant-less clone alone costs ~30-40 times as much as losing the entire ship.so here's the proposal: - players get to chose a main medical clone that retains all current skills plus the one that was in training whn he was podded in a different jumpclone. if they decide to pvp in their main medical clone and it's not fully upgraded, people lose their sp just as they used to.- when installing a jumpclone, a player can chose any clone type from alpha to omega and the move the desired skills (including their prerequisites) into that clone up to the chosen limit (or beyond that - but sp exceeding thetype of jumpclone wont be retained when getting podded). once a player gets podded the jumpclone is destroyed and players need to create a new one in that slot.- players get to chose which clone they get transferred to once a jumpclone is destroyed, so it doesn't necessarily have to be the main medical clone.you know... [morons.]("
"your own reluctance to get podded is what discourages you. embrace your own firey death, and it's all fine.and just fly an assault frig or something instead. a wolf is just a bigger rifter after all. (or an eaf if you don't want to overshadow rifter newbies.)"
"the opposite is the case - i have no issue with getting podded - as a matter of fact i actually wait around in my pod with my lower sp alts if the enemy gang doesn't immediately go for my pod or self destruct the pod to travel home faster.i just don't see why i have to pay more for being a long-time subscriber just because back in 2003, ccp thought that high sp = rich.you know... [morons.]("
"could this issue not be solved by creating a specific weapon system for each class of titan that can do significant damage to large objects but do nearly no damage (or perhaps none at all) to sub capitals. something that does not take tracking into account in the fashion of turrets but instead in a way similar to missiles. this could be a nice idea. although it would mean more work for the art department what it would do is even out the damage profiles of titans (making the levi not useless in combat) and also (if it was done in this way) would maybe have a skill based damage multiplier that cannot be modified by damage mods. but rather have its own unique damage (and maybe specific fuel/ammo type) than can be changed to select ranged ammo or shorter ranged ammo etc like other weapons. just an idea that the above post made me brainstorm on."
"i like the fuel bay idea better.i could see a skill loss like blowing up in a t3. but no ejecting from the ship is too brutal. yes yesthis sounds annoyingi honestly think poco based sov is a good idea"
"yes!also let me put more than 5 quotes in a forum commenti honestly think poco based sov is a good idea"
"fix eve. ban goonswarm."
"tinfoil and greed thread. only hilmar should feel so sad over not getting everything he wanted."
"quite simple this. many other websites have such a feature, it doesn't make much sense to not have it here. all you really have at the moment is likes only, which can be misrepresentative if in reality the poster in question supplies a lot of comments that deserve the negative slap on the wrist that comes with it. we're not just talking csm elections here, it can also apply to fitting advice for newbies, lame attempts to troll the community, the list is endless. to only focus on the positive aspects of a reputation system given the nature of the game itself is a massive tragedy that needs to be put right.an example of a dislike button in action.i await your thoughts, if any."
"there is a dislike button. if you feel that a post violates the rules of the forums, feel free to flag it. \"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" - abrazzar"
"that's for crybabies and actual rules being broken. i'm talking about a properly representative social status system, and the more i see a lack of dislike button the more i think facebook."
"pvp corps run out of locations real quick.. would boosting this number really present a massive server load? would be nice to not be limited so much. having say 500 or 1000 limit (nearer to the characters limit iirc) i think would be better."
"i have noticed that for those who have corps using the markets with various people that you cant see what the market totals are in the corp wallet information in the way that a chracter can if they are looking at their own wallet. so im sugessting here the addition of a section in that tab which displays the same market totals. total isk in escrow, buyorders value total, sellorders total etc for the selected wallet division.opinions?"
"all your terrible idea would do is make it take two people to do this -- one guy lights the cyno, the other one blaps him."
"can we get some more love for this idea? i think we can.is there a dev or csm member in the house?i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"bump, this needs some more support"
"i support this idea. +1"
"wh stabilizers are the worst idea ever i live in a wh for more than 2 years now, all wh people that i know and that i've talked to agree that:wh stabs will destroy wormhole game play we don't want oo space without local there are many ways to improve whs, the wh stabs one is a fail@ cmss that suggested that: i hope your idea won't get any support"
"you know you've arrived when mintrolio shows up."
"^ this is why i made an alt to pvp in lo-sec, it's a pain, but it's working as intended... ccp please listen to op! who said that noob ships suck?"
"friendly bump to the name changing cause!"
"takeshi yamato wrote:aggressive nutmeg wrote:i would implement name changes like this: name changes cost 10,000,000 isk (or some appropriate fee). name changes can only be done once every 12 months (like an attributes remap). history of name changes remains in player info (like corporation history). a player's name history can be searched by other players for 10,000,000 isk via the current in-game search agents. players applying to a corporation would be asked to give the corporation 10 mil isk for the background check. that wouldn't be good for the game.the rest is reasonable. some extra isk sinks, as small as they may be, are good.why exactly wouldn't that be good for the game? this already exists as it is. a lot of nullsec alliances require an up front payment in isk to deter spies.i would actually set the name change cost a lot higher to prevent people from changing names all the time. seriously...a billion isk. and no i am not kidding. name changing would be a nice option but it should not be easy to do daily. besides...if you were on crack when you made your character and don't like the name...it should cost for a name change."
"counter proposal:(1) admit titans were a huge mistake, even though they sounded :awesome: at the time(2) remove all titan bpos with reimbursement at npc prices. delete all bpcs with reimbursement at 10% of npc bpo price. all construction jobs are cancelled, with construction materials removed to the station hangar of the owner of the job. remove all titan and doomsday skillbooks, with reimbursement at npc price.(3) transport all titans and their pilot to whichever station has their medical clone(4) perfectly reprocess those titans back to the capital parts, repackage the modules and ammo, and reimburse the rigs(5) remove the implants from the titan pilot's clone and place them in the hanger(6) reimburse titan-specific skillpoints; the racial titan and doomsday operation skills only.(7) delete all references to player titans from the database and the evelopedia(8) get on with our lives."
"i fully support expanding capitals and super capital hull ranges.but i flat out reject this proposal.titans are not broken. they were designed to be giant dicks and they are working exactly as intended. blobbing rifter pilots crying about blobbing supers and their awesomeness are just spacepoor and should be banned so that they do not pollute the world with their crappy ideas about balancing caps.to solve our current problems of proliferation and unique usage of supers, just remove the ability for supers to damage or hit sub capital ships. remove all the sub capital ship's abilities to shoot, damage and or tackle supers. then boost the mid range capital ship hulls with new ships that are either:1) super effective against sub caps but useless against caps and supers2) super effective against capitals and supers but useless against sub capsremove super carrier and titan vulnerability to hics and dics completely and introduce t2 capital ewar designed to make capitals and supers cry with tears of rage on the forums.let the hobos with cheap small things go play with other hobos that have cheap small things. let them out blob eachother to death and cry some more about broken war mechanics in a sandbox game where the wealth of players increase in a long enough time frame to the point where they could afford to blob supers. stop this super cap whining for the love of...."
"it should be made clear that katalci was unable to make an argument of his own without deliberately misquoting the content of another. i object to being maliciously misquoted and distance myself from any association with the assertions being made by katalci.t-"
"i don't like this. however i do support plex for sp reallocation. the question then would be whether if the sp reallocation provides any significant ingame advantage rather than convenience. can the vets comment on that. who said that noob ships suck?"
"i support this. no plex for remap.edit: i am also against plex for sp reallocation. you trained the skills for a reason once so you had your benefit. you made a decission that you want themand now please live with it. we all have to. and i am proud of every single sp i have (yes, also for exhumer 5 which i haven't used for years)."
"god-damn your inability to read! wtf can't people see that this is suggested over and over! it will be no every single time. no plex for sp, for remaps, for re-allocations of sp, for sp catch-up, any of that bullshit."
"while i think that the current tutorial is working fine - it still needs a lot of work to help facilitate the \"npe\". one section that i love about the tutorial is the \"tutorial is now done. now go join a player corp!\" the section that i hate is that it stops at showing the newbie where to get into a suitable newbie corp. perhaps an idea worth talking about is allowing large player corps opt into a \"corps you should join\" list at the end of the tutorial page? granted, we can control and regulate the quality of the corp opted into this list by having \"like/dislike\" button that the player base uses next to the corp info. all ccp has to do is limit the slots allowed into the \"newbie corp list\" and provide a platform for player corps to apply/resign from their position. a programmable script should be able to do that. player-base regulates the quality and when the corp hits a certain ratio of \"dislikes\", it's automatically dropped from the \"newbie corp list\". i haven't been long enough to be able to come up with a concept based on \"vet-status\" experience. just thinking out loud without much re-considering, could be a bad idea for all i know. gotta go to work soon after this. what do you guys think? who said that noob ships suck?"
"this right here says a lot. if the effort you're willing to put into something stops below finding the correct spelling of \"unparalleled\" then you're going to struggle with a game like eve that gives you freedom to do so much and all it requires is taking a little bit of time to find stuff out.i'm the first to agree that the npe is harsh, i've even compared it to the rugby match in the meaning of life, but if you're not going to put in any effort to engage with the content then changing the game to suit you will remove a lot of the charm that eve has - losing established existing players to attract new imaginary ones."
"i'm afraid the fault is yours, for telling him all that he can do is mission and mine. (i agree that he should complete all the tutorial missions, including knowing how to mine).use a buddy invite to start a new account and get yourself a 51 day free alt. train up a new character alongside him and do stuff with him, on his level. of course he feels like a fifth wheel if he's sitting in a kestrel watching you blap stuff with your tengu. within a few days, a week at the absolute most, he can be flying a useful t1 frigate, going out and having some fun. buy a couple of dozen t1-fit frigates for the pair of you and try a few \"consensual pvp\" frigate fights within corp (if there are some other very new players who can join in, so much the better) so he gets an idea of the basics, then graduate to messing about in lo-sec or even maybe a bit of suicide ganking. it sounds like your friend is keen to play, but he just needs letting off the leash you've (with the best of intentions) put around his neck.edit: i started off with ~60k sp and no learning skills. your friend starts off with ~60k sp and the equivalent of all learning skills to v. he's skilling at double speed compared to what i was at that stage (actually more than double, when you take remaps into account). he'll make it if he wants to. if he doesn't it won't be skill training that makes him fail, but people telling him the skills he's trained are meaningless."
"hoping to draw some csm input to a thread i made in features & ideas. i will paste some of the content here for a quick reference.thread:"
"i see the point in this, but if you are gone that long to make a difference why not simply leave the corp, ask the fleet boss to make a fleet advert for corp mate and rejoin when you are done eating, or doing other stuff"
"um, join the afk squad, or just type \"afk\" in fleet chat. problem solved."
"why not? the idea is quite simple in implementation"
"i disagree on making it fun for the fc, i believe it should be a necessity for the fc to have those tools available to him. maybe even a tactical overlay star chart with real time showing of red and blues. +1 support"
"thanks to all for wonderful responses. some really great ideas have been brought forth in this discussion and it is apparent that all are in agreement that at a minimum, a ship that self-destructs during combat should generate a killmail to those responsible for his cowardly action.i never thought about the loot or the area of effect damage from the self-destruct. so thanks for bringing that up. would love to see some more discussion on those."
"self destruct sequence should immediately offline all modules (crew complements are gtfo'ing, and they were running all the modules, so it makes a lot of sense imo). any aggression either way before the sequence was initiated should mean it is posted as a killmail as well.a ship that succesfully completes the sd sequence before it is otherwise destroyed should *maybe* drop no loot, perhaps with increased salvage. otherwise, with the killmail change no-one is going to do it without some little bonus grief element to doing it.little crew escape pods coming out would be sweet as well."
"now that i've pondered the loot dropping some more. a pilot self-destructing his ship would mean his attempt to deny loot for his opponent. however, this attempt should not be 100% effective. a small chance of some module drops is more realistic.take for instance, the real-life use of incendiary devices to deny enemy equipment, intelligence or technology. when the us navy seal team vi executed its raid on osama bin laden in pakistan, a stealth helicopter crashed. before extracting, the seal team used incendiary explosives to destroy the remaining parts of the helicopter, however the tail section remained in tact thereby providing the opportunity for reverse engineering of parts of that stealth helicopter.so its seems to me that loot denial in-game should be chance based, although less chance than normal kills."
"no dual training/untraining and no sp pool - skills are just untrained and that's it - gone - no refunds. then i'd be fine with it.you know... [morons.]("
"no"
"yeah...i already proposed pretty much this exact same idea and got flamed to hell for it. i still think ccp is going to do an sp respec of some sort and this idea is better than no idea and letting them **** it up. if there were to be an sp respec then this is how i would want to see it done. preferably i don't want any respec at all but i recognize that i am the minority in this desire and the average player being the majority wants something like this. ccp want's to make the barrier to entry to eve a little less daunting to increase subs and retain more new subs. that being said i would not rage quit like a little girl on the rag if they did implement something like this."
"you people don't know how to read..... seriously....go back to school...and learn to read.#### no....for the millionth billionth time.stop being dense for once.if you can't learn to live with your choices....then please quit the game and biomass your toon because we don't care about your tearful whines anymore.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"this ^^stop ******* posting about sp reallocations, purchasing remaps or sp, sp \"catch-up\" for not being active for a while. it's all bullshit and won't happen, as it would be game-wrecking in eve. get the **** over the bad decisions you made, learn that actions/choices have consequences, and stfu!"
"you got that op? you are not allowed to have your own opinions or desire to make changes that don't fall directly in line with what everybody else wants because drake and tidurious said so! there have been a few other threads on this already. all of which the same people have gone ape **** crazy in because they refuse to accept that other people want things they don't approve of. don't worry...they will be the ones eating crow when ccp eventually makes a change with sp refunds."
"maybe if you turned your brain on long enough to comprehend youd understand.your entitled to your opinion allright.your also entitled to get called out for your stupidity as well.you knew that the moment you started spouting half the crap you post.start doing your research on these subjects and stop spitballing crap for once people...some of us have seen the same damn idea every damn week every bloody time and they are given the same damn answer every bloody time.maybe if you bothered to listen first and speak later you'd get it.ccp can do what they want they want...but they will certainly not be listening to you thats for sure....or the op....they listen to the majority of the people who paly this game.and anyone who thinks they can make these stupid ideas based on threats of subscription base quitting maybe you should actually talk to these said subscribers for once. never assume everyone is just gonna die with glee and complete joy over your ideas....start acceptnig the fact that maybe 1 in 100...1 in a 1000 will work...and just maybe you'll get somewhere.i have little mercy or paitence for reposted ideas...i expect the same treatment of myself if i did so..and already have recevied such treatment.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"in eve a single player can sell an item on the market, it is only required for him to have the following item and to make a sell order. now image your corporation, most corp in eve are small. but some good corporation can have a medium of 100 to 200 players, and some even goes up to thousands. now what is the main goal of a corporation? on my personnal opinion, it is a group of individual sharing a similar opinion and that wishes to help each other. you can ask much veterans they will tell you a good corp need good trust between the players.now that i have made an introduction to the subject lets head on.what if eve would allow any given role (or rank) player to place items into a specific corp hangar slot, and give each item a price.-a skill book that you would buy on market at 1'000'000 isk, could be processed by your corp for half the price and then sold on that sub market at 500'000 isk. -a cruiser that could cost around 20'000'000 isk, can be processed by the corporation for much less and then resold to 7'000'000 isk.(of course theses prices are false, i do not know the exact prices)using this tool, it can allow the corp to sell their manufactured product at a cheaper price inside their very own corporation,now come of you might think, it is up to the corporation to make a system and distribute theses items throught out their members,- first, on a corporation that as over 100 members it becomes difficult for the directors to coordonate everything and make it a fair price,- second, if a corp is realy small then it becomes even harder for the director to distribute their items, as many players wont be connected at the same time, for the same amount of time.an other scenario would be a corp mate to buy everything at a cheaper price and then resell it on the market for a bigger price, of course it is up to the corporation to controle their members, and as i said above, trust is the most imporant part of a corporation.also, other might think, corporation will stop selling their items on the general market and only place the loots into their corp sub-market as it will benefict their corp and them at the same time.- first, i believe that it is not true, the main way of making profit into eve is my trading items for isk, it is the base of the system, if an american buys something at is local shop, lets say he buys for 20$ how much does the us make profit? 0$. but if an european goes to the us for vacation and buy for 20$. the country make 20$ profit as this money was not shared between them, but brought from an other source.the way i see it, the only way of making corp profit is by taking players item and selling it to other members of other corp.i hope you didn't falled at sleep while reading this, and i give you my apologies for my bad english, as french is my first language.tell me what you think!"
"lol, only if i can have goon agents in my hisec npc stations that direct me to destroy the evil mackinaws ice mining in abudban... and give me a 30m payout for each km :)"
"if you are using tech 1 frigs, use a low sp alt.or... no implants?"
"besides this proposal having nothing to do with implants at all, that's what i do. just started my fourth pvp alt because they end up with too many sp. sold my main 4 years ago because of it (well - you know first mains - they end up too unfocused...) and now the other two are 20 and 30 mill/pod without implants again.anyway - that's not the point - the point is that other companies tend to reward long-time subscribers whereas ccp decided to punish them instead.keeping a 'main-med-clone' as a kind of skill library and tayloring some clones for specific needs by picking from that library would resolve that issue.you know... [morons.]("
"you of all people should know better.if you can't afford to fly what your flying...you have no business flying it in the first place.it's so easy to get that kind of isk these days.... if your not getting it...your doing it wrong.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"with this community's attitude this game is gonna sit with its poor subscription numbers for another 10 years. i dont get it why the same few people keeps spamming and criticizing every single idea posted on the forums while not contributing anything themselves, whats the f**king point?back on topic, i like this idea. i for one wouldnt ever pvp with my high sp main purely because of clone size. its pointless mechanics, that doesnt add anything to the game."
"yup...everybody in this thread except you and sephiroth is in my block list. and for good reason obviously. it isn't a bad idea though. lco is correct in that high sp players are less likely to take out smaller ships simply for the fact that they are killed easier which means being podded easier which means paying a crapton of money for a new clone because you flew a cheap ass ship. i kind of agree with the op on this one. i am just not sure this is the correct approach."
"poor subscription numbers? where the hell do you people get this crap?================ stop the evemail spam!"
"why not just lower the cost?"
"it would reduce the isk sink that clones create. which is why i am kind of hesitant to say a change should be made. on one hand it would encourage more pvp in a larger variety of ships...on the other hand we don't have enough isk sinks as it is and to lessen one that already exists and is working correctly may be a bad idea."
"like losing ships/ mods? if it's not enough than add another one...iteration. imo removing barriers like this (without unneeded complexity), attribute implants, etc. are a good thing."
"um, jump clones really aren't that expensive. if you have so many sp that you can't afford to lose the jumpclone, than you need to do *something* to make isk once in a while. someone with that many skills shouldn't have a problem making plenty of isk. if you are too lazy to run a mission/plex/incursion once in a while, or don't want to because it's \"boring\", that is your own fault and you need to deal with the consequences. sorry, but jumpclones are working as intended, and you need to change what you're doing a little if you can't afford the clone. i mean, c'mon - the jumpclone that holds 264 million skillpoints only costs 90 million isk. to keep 120m sp is about 30m isk. you're trying to tell me that your 100m+ sp toon can't afford 30m when he's podded? i call bullshit and/or you're lazy. y"
"you dont get it, the point is that if theres 264m sp player that fly frigates only (he doesnt touch any other ship class, but he keept trainining for many years, because who wouldnt?) and there is another 5m sp frigate pilot. they fight. 5m sp pilot loses and gets podded - he has to pay for new 200k isk ship, 264m sp player loses and gets podded - he has to pay for new 200k isk ship + n-i-n-e-t-y million isk. it doesnt make sense."
"what tekashi said.the problem isn't that i wouldn't be able to afford jumpclones (i don't have that many sp on my pvp alts - sigma and tau clones, as denoted earlier). making money isn't a problem either, yet skills for most money making activities are maxed out at ~25 mill sp max (maybe except for production - never did that) whereas jc cost continues to increase. so no matter if someone plays the markets / does pve / mining - a 25 mill sp pilot will do these activities just as efficient as a 100 mill character - yet the 20 mill jc costs 2 mill isk whereas the 100 mill sp clone costs 30 mill.it's more about ccps business conduct rather than about the actual cost: all companies i know of reward their long-time customers with premium offers, gifts, payback points and whatnot, whereas ccp punishes them. now i'm not asking for a free limited edition ship for every year of continued subscription or anything, i just don't want to be punished for being a long-time subscriber. call it a matter of principle.and yes - losing an xx million isk clone in a 1 mill isk ship just feels wrong.my proposal may sound unnecessrily complicated, but it's just to prevent players from ******* around in cheap clones and then quickly hopping in carriers.you know... [morons.]("
"they could do what they did with fightbombers, and make xl turrets just a redressed 'missile'. not sure how this would apply with turret support skills though."
"what they did with fighterbombers is actually the reverse of what im suggesting here. dreadnought guns imho can stay as they are. but changed to only be fittable to dreadnoughts. (and battleships for those lol times in abaddons w citadel torps)what im thinking is something like this..1) weapon uses same physycal mechanic that missiles use...2) weapon has a graphic of its own (e.g the ragnarok could maybe fire a small group of missiles and the avatar some kind of laser weapon etc).3) weapon has its own required skill and a change to the titans turret bonus to the new weapon would affect its damage etc.4) weapon would require its own unique charges enabling the pilot to choose a short range danage ammo or a long range lower damage ammo, enabling the pilot versatility in damage selection etc.5) weapon would not be affected by damage mods. it would be its own type with its damage modified by the above propeties.thats sorta what im thinking might be an idea to solve it... titans wouldnt be able to omgwtfbbq subcaps as much as now because they totally ignore tracking entierly. but they would be able to deal damage against their true intended target types. also if this change is also paired with a change to supers to achieve a similar effect they also would need to have a support fleet this would possibly be a soloution to the supercap blob vs everything issue."
"do what you want with titans, just leave dreads alone. dreads are disadvantaged against titans in they are required to be in siege module to do any significant damage.being in siege:nerfs tracking by 50%can't move, jump, or warp for 5 minutescan't receive rr or other assistance for 5 minutesmust rely on active tanking to stay alive, which scales horribly as numbers increasecan only lock 2-3 targetshas a 70-75% reduction to scan res which makes it so that it takes 40 seconds to lock a battleships, 2 minutes to lock a cruisers, frigates take an eternity. has trouble hitting orbiting capitals and supercapitals, supercapitals cannot be webbed or painted. very vulnerable to neutingcan be one shot by doomsdayspenalizing xl guns will hurt dreads even more.problem with supercaps:a great problem with the supercapitals is their ewar immunity that does not require crippling penalties of not being able to receive rr or being stuck and committed to the fight like the capital ships are. another problem is that they have the ehp of pos towers combined with the ability to receive rr while retaining great firepower.solution:either make titans unable to lock subcaps or make all supercapital ships vulnerable to ewar, in order to be invulnerable they must use a siege type modules that gives them immunity to ewar at the cost of not being able to receive any rr or remote assistance and also being unable to warp, jump, or move for 5-10 minutes."
"well if they behave physically like missiles then the avatar is going to have to shoot those star wars lasers that are 2 feet long and travel at 30mph. terrible ideabetter ideai honestly think poco based sov is a good idea"
"let me get this straight, so you propose tin foil hats? i don't understand the op..."
"lol.... ok... ok.... let's see.. i've been accused of tin-foil-hattery, greed, and being incomprehensible. it's no wonder the devs never read these threads... they always seem to degenerate into chest-thumping forum pvp.... boringthe only point being made here is this: if dev's decide to play on tranquility they should play by the same rules as the rest of us. it's that simple. it didn't happen in this case and i don't think that's right.t-"
"yes, they do play by the same rules when they go on tq with their player characters. everything in the game, every ship, everything in your hangars is considered ccp's property by the eula, and as such they can take away things like enigmas that drop from dev ships. \"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" - abrazzar"
"i know a lot of people don't read any rules but let me highlight the part of the rule people agree to when playing eve which can easy be used.ccp may find it necessary on occasion to make changes to or reset certain parameters of the persistent game world mechanics, interface or features of eve online in order to maintain game balance and enhance playability or performance for its subscribers. these changes may affect or cause setbacks for the characters you<U+FFFD>ve created. to take it even further i could petition several people who replied in this thread under tos rule 1.you may not abuse, harass or threaten another player or authorized representative of ccp, including customer service personnel and volunteers. this includes, but is not limited to: petitioning with false information in an attempt to gain from it or have someone else suffer from it; sending excessive e-mails, eve-mails or petitions; obstructing ccp employees from doing their jobs; refusal to follow the instructions of a ccp employee; or implying favoritism by a ccp employee. i am fairly sure i can make a case in regards to the underlined parts of that rule."
"it's no wonder people are actually stupid/dense enough to post this **** on the forums expecting the csm to do anything about it when they know for a fact they wont.oh wat....================ stop the evemail spam!"
"i don't think it's unreasonable to expect the player reprsentatitive to ... er... repsensent the players' interests. if they can't ... or won't then the whole concept of the csm is at issue here.... if pl, raiden. or shadow were able, unlike all other players, to \"delete\" undesireable losses because they didn't like what dropped then people would object. my only point here is that ccp should play according to the same rules as everyone else if they decide to play on tq. that's all. t-"
"except that that particular dev was in a ship that is commonly known as the \"bughunter/cockroach ship\" and was most likely looking for and/or monitoring a problem on tq. no one is supposed to see this ship... much less kill it."
"i don't support a dislike button on the forums themselves as a whole, i think that it would just lead to flames and trolls. however, what i would support would be a \"supported\" and a \"not supported\" button for the op in every \"features and ideas discussion\" and \"assembly hall\" thread. that would show a better representation of the community support, and it would reduce forum clutter with people saying \"+1\" or \"-1\" in each post."
"i believe \"drone-mining\" is the issue here. search it up on forums, i don't nearly know enough to elaborate on the matter. who said that noob ships suck?"
"what you're still not getting is that doubling the drops from drones wouldn't do anything at all. because pouring the extra minerals from those drops into the market would hurt the mineral market. so even though you'd be getting twice as much m3 out of it, you wouldn't be getting much more (if any) isk.the core issue here is that drones drop minerals as their primary reward. once that's fixed, the issue will go away. until then though, as salazar said, either shut up or move somewhere else."
"all rats drop minerals...================ stop the evemail spam!"
"not all rats drop nothing but minerals though, most have bounties and only drop minerals in the form of modules. maybe it wasn't as clear as it could have been, but my point is that rats dropping minerals as their only form of payout is the issue."
"well most inc runners don't realize is that if mommy manages to withdraw successfully, we all get zero lp. which is imo worth more than the iskies, well carebears will do what carebears do... see iskies and turn into $_$ retards. i prefer a nerfing in payout instead of despawning sites when mommy shows. (fyi. mommy shows up in like about 4 hours of running vgs.)who said that noob ships suck?"
"^ this. something like corp recruitment ads we see in the corp button. who said that noob ships suck?"
"i'm not a freighter pilot but it's still a great idea. definitely to get someone else to haul my bs's across space for me....oh and the tears that would fall if it was ganked. =d"
"that would work only when ship maintenance bay will participate in the drop. now ships from ship maintenance bay are not dropping into a wreck (as well as corporate hangars content). when this will be fixed (for all ships - carrier, orca, etc), then it's time to introduce such 'thug' ships, imho."
"agreed. getting smas and corp hangars to drop loot really needs to be done."
"i think a ship like this should be tier 3 or 4. make it require racial freighter 5it would fill the gap in capital ships between the regular freighters and jump freighters. much like the covetor is a step between the retriever and hulk but needs level 5 skills.if it was to be an ore ship it would be cool to have it a tech 2 version of the orca. drop it to 1 utility high slot, no gang link modules, no ore hold, minimal cargo hold, leave the corp hanger, drastically increase the ship maintenance hanger so it can hold 2-3 battleships. no jump drive as there would be no room for it with the expanded ship maintenance hanger. and you could customize the tank, passive buffer tank or active tank how ever you see fit."
"for added depth it would be cool if items/ships in the corp hanger or ship maintenance arrays dropped in locked containers that needed to be hacked before being looted. it would add some differentiation between regular cargo and give the owner a chance to retrieve the stuff before it gets looted.ships though might have to drop as a whole ship as in sitting in space with no pilot as the only ship capable of looting an assembled battleship would be a carrier. then the tug/freighter pilot could try to jump into one of the ships that dropped when they get ganked."
"+1i agree with op 100%"
"just getting into low-sec pvp lately and i have to say it's real fun, but the whole standings hit system really curtails my blood thirst since i live in high sec. +1"
"if it was to be 'locked' at -2.0 you are essentially making ls pew a 100% consequence free activity which goes against everything real and virtual .. drop it to -3.5 (attacked in 0.7 systems) and it would still make rp sense, still allow people access to high-sec but bar them from polite society (read: hubs, trade lanes).would personally want to see concord/navy auto-response to negatives replaced with killrights transferrals and rat type bounties paid for killing them .. the only mechanic limits on negatives in high-sec should be inability to use links, cloaks and other 'advanced' tactics."
"my biggest problem with low sec pvp is the use of a vast amount of alts to scout and gather intel risk free. toss in the local chat and cloaky t3's and you have a stage set for by far the most risk adverse players that have ever played any game. always running at the first sign that one of them might take a round of antimatter.another example of what happens when far too much information is available with no risk for players to use. \"wait what? you mean it wont be a 100% risk free gank?! **** that ****. everyone warp out and get safe now!!!\" - 99% of eve online players"
"then explain to me how highsec mission griefing or trade channel scamming would be tolerated in 'polite society'."
"do you think null sec is better? if so, do you think there is a mechanic that null sec has that makes it better?if you think wormholes are better for pvp i can only say the actual facts the of amount of pvp per player in wormholes versus low sec proves that is not true.make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"i don't think null is better. the issue comes down to the fact there is no more unknown when it comes to pvp. i am not saying the op's idea is bad, i think it has a lot of merit, but it will not be enough to get more players to want to come out of high sec. movement in this game is by far too easily tracked. which forces anyone to join a large entity to have a chance."
"i don't know who is right overall but in my experience the opposite is true. when you have no idea what your up against you bring what you can expecting the worst. if you have an idea of what the other guy has you will bring something similar to get a fight. moreover i think if people end up leeroying gangs into overwhelming odds because the intel is more difficult to come by they will be less likely to pvp - or even play eve - in the future. if people don't know what they are getting into the fights will tend to be more lopsided not less. my experience is in faction war so ymmv. i think because faction war's main draw is the good fights there are more people who are of that mindset. of course if your running up against pirates who are actually trying to make isk from pvp they won't have this same mindset. make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"there is a rather big difference between tricking money from gullible people (scam), throwing banana peels in front of people (mission grief) and then premeditated murder (pew). while the two former are frowned upon, causes some raised eye-brows or a slap on the wrist (depending on severity) the latter will 'normally' be against the law and involves severe sanctions."
"we are immortal in eve so there is no murder. pew is basically criminal damage to property. and arguably there was consent to it when you pressed undock. make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"doesn't answer my question. why would lowsec combat be frowned upon when highsec combat isn't?"
"ok, try can flipping? wardec exploiting? any form of highsec combat? even from a rp prospective, (lol), it doesn't make sense."
"as a new player that has chosen not to spend my first 6 months or something training skills in highsec i think this is a good idea. risk aversion it may be, but being new and having stepped into nullsec already put me at a disadvantage <U+FFFD> with which i<U+FFFD>m fine. (i<U+FFFD>d have quite if i had to play in highsec.) but i would certainly do more pvp if the free set of 3+ i got wasn<U+FFFD>t at risk. while isk making with a new char is doable in nullsec its still limited, and with the exception of pi dependent on the goodwill of higher sp characters. so unless you<U+FFFD>re stupid a certain amount of risk aversion is forced on you. (which luckily for me do not apply to loosing ships as the alliance provides these for free.) the way implants enter the game currently also seem a bit opposed to the idea of eve. most other things are player produced. i like the idea of making learning boosters much like combat boosters. they<U+FFFD>ll then be produced by players. and drugs seem not too widely used, so this would boost a seemingly underused industry aspect of eve. if one wants to keep the link to the loyalty points to not deprive mission runners of a ready offset of points, make the necessary bpcs available from loyalty stores. there is also a whole range of possibilities here for different combinations, +3 booster for 7 days, +5 for 24h, etc."
"bad idea.i always have minimal +3's in. have 2 clones, one with perc and will and other with int and mem. depending on what i train i switch jc.goonies are always yapping howmuch isk they have/make. if they can't afford to lose +3's this game isn't for them.just like the saying goes:\"don't fly what you can't afford to lose\"same applies for implants. by heading null sec you also accepted the fact you will get into battle and run the risk to lose your implants. now all of a sudden the goons don't want to lose their precious implants anymore."
"goonies \"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" - abrazzar"
"that last quote is a positive claim that you are making. do you have a proof that it is true, or is what you say self defeating?anyway, you can look up the historys of these items yourself. i did and there are allot of them sold for allot of isk. or you can refuse to see if what you say about \"reality\" is true, and continue to try to talk out of the wrong hole. its your call. make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"this part at least i agree with.please do not make a broad assumption about me based on nothing other than the alliance i am in. check my alliance history if you would like.i have been tossing this idea around among friends and corp mates for more than a year in various similar incarnations. i was considering proposing this change long, long before we app'ed to test.like i have stated before, if you are going to make a negative post in this thread please give me some valid reasons for your disapproval that focus on the topic."
"eve is a social game no matter what profession you choose. if your not a very social person than your newbie experience won't probably be the best. it's all about putting yourself out there and taking whatever the game and community serves you. as well as being a little patient too."
"one of the best learning experiences i had was corp combat competitions in all t1 frig fits. i would recommend it to everybody who is trying to get people into the actual game (as opposed to the game's introduction that is pve).also, there's nothing wrong with missioning in a tengu while they're in a frigate so long as they're doing something useful like webbing/killing frigates etc. it gives an introduction to the various roles required in any fleet that often get forgotten when people have skilled up to fly something bigger."
"enjoying eve is all about being able to set yourself achievable goals. in a game like wow the developer provides these for you; win an arena season, clear the current raid etc. in eve you have to no only pick a long term goal but plan every step of the way yourself. joining a corporation or alliance can help with a lot of this because now you have someone else setting goals and mapping out how to get there for you. i'm not sure this is something ccp can change without a drastic shift away from the non-linearity that makes eve unique (and i personally don't think they should). at the end of the day some people need their hand holding almost completely. or they want a game where they don't have to think very hard and thats ok, its just eve isn't and shouldn't be that game.goonwaffe has a 60 day newbie training guide that lets new players mostly ignore skill training while learing how to fulfill various roles in the alliance, both personal (e.g. pi) and fleet (tackling, ecm, dps). however developing it was not trivial and its very strongly tailored to how we operate as an alliance. on top of that for some people building their own skill plan is important to them. its not really something that ccp can realistically create and keep up to date for every new player so really we're back to making it easier for people to find an in game community that can help."
"there's plenty of stuff newbie can do if they just figure out howother than that those ~other forum posts~ were obviously by guys who just simply don't like games like eve.99% of time you spin ship in station or do some other trivial stuff or just simply do something else than eve while waiting for something to happen, unless you're person who likes to make things happen, of course. there's very little anyone can do about peoples preferences and mindset.i've been dealing a lot with these types who log in go like \"is anything happening\" and after 3 seconds they log out. i can figure eve is very difficult place for these guys."
"just imagined, how i would break into guristas stations bar with a pack of golden medals on my jacket and a bottle of rum in my hand and take surrounding chicks attention when will ccp implement stations walking, pocker games and drunken brawls in a bar? anyway, i'm supporting the idea."
"i do not want to see self destruct removed from the game. however;i do like and support this idea."
"fully agree.(no insurance, you broke it, you buy it)i also think that larget ships should have a longer sd timer.... jint hikaru - miner / salvager / explorer / spacebum in the beginning the universe was created. this has made a lot of people very angry and been widely regarded as a bad move."
"+1 eliminate self destruct for ships engaged in combat.or extend self destruct timer to give time for small gangs to kill them."
"i would also like to see no self destruct.still need to be able to keep the \"kill yourself as a pod\" - on a large timer so nobody can scram you and hold you in space for hours with nowhere to go. -that would be funny however.+1 support either way though."
"hmm. no self destruct in combat, eh?fit an interceptor with some nice light weaponry, tackle a battleship and get a nice tight orbit going. put a single gun on him intermittently until you are sure he's spent all his drones.put a light laser on him and go out to dinner."
"my petition is getting to the point of absurdity. they admit now that i did have a bug, but because the bug is at my end, and not the server, and as a player i obviously used my evil player psychic powers to see into the programmers minds that the bug existed to file a petition about it before it was announced, because players are all scheming liars."
"the gm's are not gods. they can not just snap their fingers and fix every little thing. they need to be skeptical as there are far more petitions from players looking to get something for free than actual valid complaints. i have successfully filed and had solved several petitions. i have found that if you include as much detail as possible making it easier for them to verify the issue is valid, they will respond very quickly. if they can not verify that you actually experienced a bug they will be very reluctant in compensating you for it. many player here about bugs from friends and file petitions for bugs they never even experienced just trying to a free hand out. if the issue cost me something in game i am very reasonable in the compensation i ask for and always stay calm and respectful. i have rarely had a petition go for more than a few hours without being resolved. if you are having problems i would say it is because you are either not giving them the info they need to confirm the issue or you are being an ass hat and getting your self bumped to the bottom of the list just for your attitude.the system works if you know how to use it, and if you use it as intended"
"this is true, but when it takes weeks to get any response whatsoever to something as simple as \"the entire server crashed and i lost probes because of it, i'd appreciate them back\" with three paragraphs of details about the situation, it's a bit out of hand. i understand they do get busy, but a clearly worded and detailed petition about an obvious issue shouldn't take more than a week to get answered."
"a friend of mine got a warning from a gm last night concerning \"can baiting new players\" because he was doing pvp in a rookie system. the thing is, he wasn't shooting anyone less than 3-4 months old. one of the guys he fought undocked in a machariel, and the gm couldn't tell he wasn't fighting noobs. in fact, he was shooting all the guys who routinely do can bait noobs."
"abstract:cloning vat's are not used frequently, and i believe that with a few small changes more people would find them useful and utilize them.at present:currently, there are two shiptypes that can use cloning vats: rorquals and titans.both of these ships are sometimes used to install jump clones, more so the rorqual. however, the main issue, is that the characters whom jump in will have no implants. currently, these ships are more used as a method when a character needs another jumpclone, not when they are deploying to a new site.the proposal:allow the users to instal either a \"fresh\" jumpclone (like current), or move one of there current jumpclones into the cloning vat from another location.this can be done two ways. one way is to allow an offsite (one that you are not currently in) to be loaded into the vat.oryour current clone get's loaded into the vat, forcing you to jumpclone to one of your other clones upon loading the vat.example: i have 3 jumpclones. a) non-implant pvp clone.b) mining implant and +3 sets.c) +5 empire set.option 1i am currently in jumpclone a. my corp wants to deploy in way off npc 0.0 to do a mining op for the weekend. we rendezvous with the rorqual(s) in lowsec. after getting an invite to instal a clone i select from a drop down box which clone of all of my clones to select to install. i then select b as the installed clone.rorqual(s) move to target system, and all of us miners/haulers jump to rorqual(s) in our mining implant set.option 2i am currently in jumpclone b. my corp wants to deploy in way off npc 0.0 to do a mining op for the weekend. we rendezvous with the rorqual(s) in lowsec. after getting an invite to instal a clone, it asks me if i would like to instal a new clone, or current clone. i select current clone. current clone gets loaded into rorqual, and i jumpclone to a or b.we wait 24 hours. rorqual(s) move to target system, and all of us miners/haulers jump to rorqual(s) in our mining implant set.hypothetical outcomes of change:more small corps will use this for \"weekend operations\".more corps will assume the risk/rewards of null/ lowsec.pvpers will have more targets.conclusion:it would be nice to see more versatility and usefulness out of cloning vats. one of these small changes may help pave the way for more corp ops, as well as corp bonding.anyone have any thought's of feedback?-ice"
"-reserved-"
"remove the \"tier\" system that cripples frigates, cruisers, and battlecruisers.rebalance them so they are a viable alternative to the highest tier ship in its class (e.g. rifter/rupture/hurricane)."
"itt jogyn reveals his alt-posting account."
"god...this again? there is nothing wrong with the tier system. some ships are better than others. they just introduced tier 3 battlecruisers...get over it.hell...i don't even pay attention to the tier system. it does not effect my decision to use a ship. a ships stats and it's usefulness in combat does."
"what the hell does tiers have to do with balance?tiers are labels..they accomplish nothing but categorizing the ship..and the majority of them don't indicate strength as it is.learn to think before you post.and post with your main nooblet.================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"according to stats ccp diagoras recently shared with the community, the number of both titans and supercarriers nearly doubled during 2011. whether or not you agree that there are already too many of these ships in game, it would be hard for anyone to deny that this kind of growth is not good for the game in the long term (2-4+ years). many ideas on how to fix the problem have been tossed around, most of them involving re-balancing of hp, dps, force projection etc. while tweaking the numbers could certainly get the job done (no one used motherships pre-dominion), it would be at the expense of all the current supercap pilots and producers, all of whom have a lot invested. with that in mind i propose something else.addendum: a brief explanation of the problem as i see it.there are many different ways to look at the current supercap situation, and depending on how you do it you will find different problems and in turn propose different solutions. in this proposal i'm not suggesting that the balance of the ships be altered, because even though that might solve some problems it also creates a host of new problems (player dissatisfaction, ship / skill reimbursement etc.).so, assuming current game balance, this is the problem as i see it, long term.supercap numbers will continue to grow (based on current trends), as will the size of supercap fleets fielded. this eventually leads to a point where the fleet itself represents so much isk that there is nothing in the game worth risking it for. you may not think that point has been reached, but assuming supercap numbers continue to grow that point will be reached eventually. the situation you have then is that whoever can field more supercaps wins (this is fine), but they will do so without a proper fight. whoever has less supercaps would be a fool to committ them to a fight, especially with new logoffski mechanics and tidi.less fights = less fun. you won't see anything like the cap fight in 3-i.i think there are signs that we've already reached this point (several entities folding rather than committing their supers), but even if you disagree it's only a matter of time. if nothing is done, there will eventually be fleets of 1000 supercaps. if you don't believe me you don't know what eve players are like. at that point, you can be sure that there won't be any super vs super fights, only ganks.proposal:remove all titan and supercarrier bpos from the game.refund current bpo owners with the npc price.introduce extremely limited bpc drops from fw complexes.in-fiction justification:supercaps are weapons of mass destruction, and the empires do not want individual capsuleers to wield such power. therefore the blueprints can only be obtained through theft from military complexes.intended consequences:supercaps will start dying at a rate higher than the rate at which they can be replaced. over time this will lead to more reasonable supercap numbers. alternatively, supercaps will be used much less in which case their presence in the game is less of a problem.side effects:#1 prices of supercaps on the market will increase significantly.#2 nullsec entities without a supercap fleet will no longer be able to build one that can rival existing entities' fleets.#3 it's artificially limiting the sandbox.i don't have a problem with #1, but i could see a lot of people being concerned with #2. however, entities that don't have supercaps today won't be worse off if this change were implemented over night. in the long term i think they would be better off with this change, as the supercap fleets in the game will diminish in size. currently it's almost impossible for a supercap thin entity to catch up in the arms race anyway. with this change they would be able to whittle away at enemy supercap numbers.as for #3, it is, but we as players are ruining our own fun and need some reining in."
"the idea is not to remove them, but to prevent limitless growth.ccp would set the bpc drop rates, not i."
"it must be a really good idea if you can't attack the idea and have to attack the player instead."
"the problem is that there isn't really much of any idea to attack. it boils down to \"i hear this is bad/i don't like this, so it should be made extremely rare\". it's lacking most of the basic parts of a proposal. namely:what is the issue that needs to be fixed? how would this fix the issue? and why is this the best possible solution?and all of those points require strong backing, not just tossing it out there (for instance, the backing for the op's description of the 'problem' is \"it would be hard for anyone to deny that this kind of growth is not good for the game in the long term\", with no supporting evidence at all). if you can't find a strong reason for a change, then you shouldn't post it in the first place"
"the only part missing is the explanation of why supercaps proliferation is a problem.apart from that, the op shouldn't need to defend themselves from pointless arguments such as \"you are in an npc corp therefore your argument is invalid.\" bringing in supercaps pilots to explain why this proposal won't work is like bringing in some nano pilots to explain why nerfing ship speeds would be a bad idea.this proposal only needs to explain why supercaps proliferation is bad. what is the problem? why does it need to be fixed?in the meantime, the adhominem attack are helping keep this proposal in the public eye."
"mate, my jf didn't get hotdropped, i just said it wasn't relevant. fyi i used to fly with probably the most infamous jf hotdropper ever and i've helped kill a couple. still, you just don't get it. this is not about me, it's not about you either with your 0 kills on eve-kill. i'd say you and me seem to be on pretty even footing."
"lets flame out every single poster from this forums section, so there will be just full blown retards left, like drake draconis, talking to themselves.thoughts?supercaps are obvious problem, if you dont see it, or you still need explaination you must be blind or you are just plainly trolling."
"added an addendum"
"what is the issue to be fixed?titans can be produced easily enough to field fleets of them beyond the original design considerations.how to fix the issue?add a step to the production process that involves different content than nullsec sovereignty holding.why is this the best possible solution?does it need to be the absolute best? it was obviously the best that the op could come up with, and it does provide a nice tie in to bring more interest in what many people consider underutilised fleet wars content.there was plenty of idea there to discuss, but since it pisses in the nullsec sov holders wheaties the poster gets attacked instead."
"1. ignore drake. it makes life easier and cleans up just about every thread you will ever look at. frankly i can't tell what he is flaming you about and don't care. just block him.2. i like the idea. limiting how many titans can be produced is a fantastic idea. might end up with one powerblock having all of them but...thats what guys like pandemic legion are for.3. i still think titans should not log off with the pilot. make them highly visible at all times so they are a massive risk and very difficult to own and keep alive.i support your idea. +1"
"feasibility aside, incorporating the major player powers into the lore on at least a cursory level would be pretty neat, yeah.also chairman mittens x empress jamyl celebrity couple of the year."
"normally i am opposed to one word answers in assembly hall but...no."
"only thing a goon npc can drop is gamecredebility."
"perhaps make clone contracts a duration-based system? charge the current amount once a week/2weeks/month for unlimited clone services at the level purchased. encourages pvp because there's no additional loss, passively discourages passiveness because you're already paying for the clones, so might as well use them.it does take out any disadvantage to getting podded of course, unless you charge the base clone amount for a fresh body.yeah, that. you pay for a plain clone every time, with the advanced level of skill support as a rolling monthly fee."
"engjin is right, lowering costs of clones is like lowering taxes in real life, it seems counterintuitive but the reality is it stimulates more growth in the market area affected. lower cost clones mean more people will use original characters to pvp and thus, buy even more clones.even better, newer guys won't be so afraid to go out and pew abit themselves, making the isk sink even bigger!"
"what would be good is if sec status was tied to the activity of the system; if security status went up in over populated areas and went down in areas that arent so much used. if something like this happened...it would open up more low/null systems in empire splitting up different parts of highsec and give more pvp opportunitiesplayers that do highsec missioning/pve/mining would need to keep the highsec systems active to prevent it from changing to low/null. also in null sec sov space the same should apply with activity in pve/mining bring the sec status up higher to that of lowsec, that way players would profit better to spread out more or manage their space better which in turn would cause more conflicts due to the need to move about more.there should be a few constellations set aside for new players that have static sov to let them get to grips with the game, however the sov system as a whole should reflect a living breathing universe where the actions of the eve player base should be able to change. at the minute everything related to sovereignty is static and dead."
"bwahahahahahaha ahahah ahah.no.the sheer chaos and trolling we're putting up on this forum and community is what makes me want to go ahead and cause even more chaos and tears."
"^^this^^ the game is turning into a cesspool of asshats and they all seem to congeal in one spot. not really all that suprising. there are some in every game...just seem to be a metrick **** ton more in eve."
"the only fix i can see actually working to stop afk cloakers would be to make the modules so they do not auto repeat cycle. for this to work cycle times would need to be drastically increased to say 20-30 minutes. you need to click it to activate and when the cycle is done click again to reactivate . or turn it off and back on when you know you are safe to prevent it from ending a cycle at a bad time. increases the logistics of using ships with covert ops cloak and makes it so you can not leave a cloaked alt sitting in a system to disrupt activity without being at least semi atk. i agree there should be a large penalty for dieing in a super, but this is a little to extreme.especially with the recent super cap nerf. and i do not support the no eject idea, in fact i support the idea of allowing supers to dock, at least in station within there own sovereignty space. maybe this should require a super capital docking ring upgrade platform set reducing the other abilities of the outpost in exchange for allowing supers to dock. i agree with this idea i would take this one step further in that you can not warp to any point on grid. even without a probe lock all you need is a single wreck or space junk near the target which does not take long to appear in any battle. this would of course mess up the current mechanics for avoiding gate camps/bubbles as you would not be able to warp to a bookmark 250-300 off the gate and then warp to the gate if clear. these warp bubble avoidance bookmarks would now have to be off grid adding some depth to the logistics of avoiding gate camps and increasing the ability for alliances to defend there sov space.the only change to loot drops i want to see other than some continued balancing of rare drops that have been inadvertently nerfed with recent changes, is the elimination of drone poo mineral drops. when a mission runner can bring in more minerals per hour than a miner by just looting the drone drops, no wonder why miners have so much trouble making decent isk."
"your failing to get the point....this little thing your throwing a fit about is likely ranking at 34253498 of a trillion issues. to take care.its a waste of time. literally.....petition it if its that big of a deal.but no csm will pick this up.guarenteed. (theyd only do it to troll anyway)================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"i have a lot of sympathy with this last comment.generally, although jack isn't guilty of this because i've come across him and his crew more than once in molden heath, the 'boost low sec' threads are written by alt-spamming gank bears who get a little bored when a gate dries up and decide that l4's need to be moved to low-sec so they can resume the hauler/mission slaughter they assume will follow. jack's proposal is reasonable and well-presented and so i'm not surprised he's getting support.molden heath was always fine in my experience as is placid/genesis and a few other places i've been, sure it has its downtimes but there's action there if youre willing to leave bos/osti/gond/antem and actually try and do something other than camp 24/7. the sites/rats/missions in low-sec are okay but if we're going to get more commercial traffic from the braver indy player i'd suggest better ores.for me, outlaws (yes, like myself but i've been on both sides of the pirate divide and will no doubt move once again into + sec at some point) need to adopt a more long-term view of low-sec, a business plan if you like that comes to regard extortion and protection money as viable activities. farm the bears rather than murder them indiscriminately, the population goes up, other outlaws come to murder your bears, you beat them off with a ****** stick and large neutrons, rinse and repeat.when molden heath had 5thc/nmtz/em and infod, mh was as busy as hi-sec at times, with several war-decs and some great fights.so its as much how we play it as much as ccp make it.jack's proposal has some merit but i'd take the sec hit as low as -5 and make it impossible to pod through hi-sec after -5."
"eve needs more frequent, quality, small scale, pvp. its not a question of whether \"low sec\" is more exciting than \"null sec.\" they likely both need more pvp. its a question of whether eve is more exciting than many other things someone can do with a couple hours of time. when the chances are very high that you will spend those couple of hours roaming around with out a single decent fight, eve needs work. i'm not sure what the statistics say, but it *seems* like low sec really took a hit when ccp decided to abandon spaceships for a year or so. but i don't really know if the population went down overall. where i hang out it seems it did. make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"all i have to say us \"duh\"!!!! +1i am a relatively new player (4 mo's active) 2 mo's training before i even played.the first time i discovered i could not go into low-sec and try and fight some pirates (less than 0 sec status) without incurring a security status hit i was like \"huh\"?????that made no sense.this is the only thing keeping me from getting my feet wet in pvp immediately.i have no desire to be involved in large corps, thus most of 0.0 is out for me. i have a small group of rl friends i play with, and we are all just biding our time, training skills, and making the isk we need to get on with the things we really want to do.i simply could not believe that a game that had piracy as an entire subculture did not have bounty hunter as well.having to get a pod kill to get a bounty is stupid. loosing security status for killing pirates is stupid. if they want to fix low-sec, this is at least a good start.i really like the idea though of pirates having bounty's on them that you get just for killing their ship, and people that hunt pirates get bounty's from npc corps, both from killing rats, and from killing player pirates in their space.i don't consider myself a huge role-player, but i try and play games similarly to how i live my rl. gate camping seems like the lamest activity i could possibly think of doing. i want to crash the party's of those that like to crash other people's party's, and it seems like low-sec doesn't want me to play that way, therefore i carebare away for now."
"i had thought that one potential objection to this change would be that the prices of lp store items would fall quite dramatically, hurting professional contract traders (such as myself) however, i would be willing to take this hit so that the true splendour of the lp store can be attainedany thoughts?"
"this may fly in the face of most people's assumptions but a few rl friends and i who play eve came to the conclusion that eve just gives people too many choices and apparently most people hate choice and would rather be strung along like in wow,"
"supported.such little things make game better."
"the reasons that you are complaining about sd is its intended purpose - to deny loot/km! self destruct is working as intended. the guy who dies is still out a big-ass expensive ship, for christ's sake. that's the reason that it is working. no reason to change what isn't broken. i'm sorry you lost the kill, but you lost it through a tactic that is completely valid and there for that purpose alone."
"+1 to the idea of at least making it more difficult, something sort of time depending on the ship size. whatever that will actually give the attackers a chance to pop the target before the timer."
"hmmm disagree with this motion for several reasons.fist this is suppose to be as real as possible to space/planet life in the future. in every movie, show, attribute of history that deals with a captain. a ship has always had a self destruct application. this attribute is meant to do just that. give the aggressor no ability to have the kill or the loot. i say one should be lucky you dont get hit by the shock wave of a ships explosion in eve online. to call something an exploit as i see some of you do is not only false but not factual. captains of past history scuttle their ships rather then have the vessel or its cargo fall into enemy hands. i say if you dont want a self destruct then we do the below attribute as a simple compromise. the captain must push the self destruct button before he/she ship goes into 55% hull. if at 50% hull the destruct sequence is deactivated due to the ships computer being shut down. you need 5 seconds to activate and go through the motions. weapons and other attributes are still working. the other side of this coin of getting this feature is an explosion radius. ships that explode now can do dps damage. the percentage of this damage should be based upon several factors. the size of the ship. what type of power output it has as well as rigs and modules it is using. this to my understanding would be a compromise to the many who wish to have self destruct not working in a combat situation and those who see it as apart of space life and should always be working. even though it is apart facts and apart of human history."
"not supported to fully remove. infact its a viable tactic. ever watched star trek, when old kirk, picard and even janeway self destructs rather than let the enemy destroy them! well same thing here. just because you cant kill it quick enough, well thats your problem you havent brought a bigger fleet. however there lies your solution.make the destruction timer longer, say 10 minutes instead of 2. voila"
"indeed, the ship is still dead, so what's the problem with generating a mail for it? all the current mechanic does is obscure history to avoid pilot embarrassment. and what is eve but the history the players generate? the game is pretty content-free otherwise.also consider this: with self destruct in the game as it is, if an enemy engages you, they think they have enough force to crush you in less than 120 seconds. if self destruct generated a record, they'd be much more willing to engage with more even odds and you might actually save that big expensive ship more often."
"supposedly, the gms can't tell the co-oridinates of a ship in game. but, then again, i was told my corp mates should have seen the war dec even if i was having a mail bug. i'm in a one person corp."
"it's pretty odd that the one instance in which clone vat bays would legitimately be useful in - wormholes- is also the instance they're specifically banned for.that said, i think the best way to make clone vats useful is to have a mechanic for remotely installed clones as above. either by installing a new clone to an active clone vat in a fleet, or a system to move clones from an outpost (perhaps with some suitable outpost upgrade). there also has to be a system to jump back again afterward from the clone vat ship to a station.it should also be possible to change medical clone settings at a nearby clone vat, even if you can't actually respawn there. there are plenty of characters that spend days or weeks away from stations, so the ability to remotely upgrade or move their clones would be very useful indeed."
"i agree that the tier system should be updated a bit, they have already changed the ships so tiers doesn't match much.best example is the cruisers. each \"tier\" of cruiser has a role, but role should be enough define the cruiser.amarr cruisers- maller, the tank ships- omen, the glass cannon- arbitrator, the e-war ship- augorere, the support ship.frigs follow this a bit aswell, with a prober ship and an interceptor ship. i would like for ccp to primarily define the ships on their roles. an augorere doesn't have to have bad slot layouts,hp,speed and so forth, because it's a tier below omen, its slot layout should match its role. i think it would be perfect for the augorer to have bad sensor strength, so easy to jam and adding a weakness. instead it should have cpu/grid/cap enough to fit and run 3 or 4 medium cap transfers. specifics is not the idea here, just concept.frigs could fulfill these roles- scout, a probe ship.- interceptor, for tackling- dps, frig dps is goodbattleships- sniper, the apoc fits this role nicely- cannon, armageddon could fill this role.- brick, abbadon should fill this role, if it's damage bonus was change to a cap bonus (no, not a suggestion, just an ilustration)destroyers remain anti-frigate but battlecruiser i don't really have interresting roles for. could be just a tank and a spank, kinda like they are now.tanks could also be speed tanks, so minmatar remain speedy but with lower hp. the phoon would be the minmatar brick, in it has a lot of staying power through speed.then ccp could introduce tiers within each role. so you could have a 2 \"apocs\", one slightly better than the other but also more expensive. not the best example, but you get the idea.hope i got the concept through, i know it would require a lot of work but ccp are already halfway there."
"who? wn in branch i guess, but who else died without fielding a super even once?"
"i'm confused as to why these proposals are in assembly hall, and not starting in features and ideas, where they belong originally. assembly hall is for well thought out ideas that have already had a positive reaction in f&i"
"really, as any attempt for ccp to limit supply for supers will be met with vehement protests by current super pilots/bloc's that require supers to project its power, i doubt any changes to limit supply of supers by a significant margin will go through (unless ccp suddenly gets a massive pair of balls and just flips super pilots off, which would prolly be a bad, if amusing move) what is more likely is getting a hard counter to supers, be it ewar ships that can effect supers, or a new t2 subcap with capital guns"
"fair point."
"what isk sink? thanks to insurance, ship losses are one of the worst isk faucets.but yeah - the overvaluation of sp and the subjective feeling of having to be stuck in a +5 learning clone alienates newbs from pvp, however i think that could be solved with limiting clone jump timers to 4 hours instead of 24. otoh, training skills was made so easy and quick that removing any learning implants without any replacement would even be better.you know... [morons.]("
"ok why this problem or i would call exploit hasnt been fixed i have no clue its been a problem for a long time nowbut allowing gcc or aggression pilots to dock up into an orca to completely avoid the gcc or aggression is completely ridiculous. people gate camping in alt orcas in low sec with gcc can just dock up in the orca and jump out into highsec.people can can flip or attack some one if a frig, jump in a orca, be safe, jump back out in a legion or something.i mean really!! this should be fixed that if any pilot with gcc or aggression docks up in an orca then the orca should get the same (aggression or gcc) - i mean jumping in an orca is pretty much the same as aiding, like alt repping, alt rsb isnt it...if a pirate gets alt repped/sebo'd etc then the person also gets gcc, so why dont orcas! its completely wrong and to me is a blantant exploit."
"/signed"
"1.0"
"1. this topic was never intended to discuss whether people should be banned for can baiting in noob systems. 8 people out of 20 who posted here are too stupid to read the op that clearly states my only concern was that it should be in the tos/eula not if it should be bannable. so much for eve players being smarter than your average rock 2. almost all games out there put things that you can be banned for in the tos/eula. requiring me to also search for every ccp employee's post (of which the only realistic method is to use eve-search not a ccp maintained search utility) or every page in the wiki (at least the eula has an order to it, the wiki doesn't even have a site map for me to make sure i've read the entire thing) is unrealistic. no other game i know of lists bannable offenses in the wiki like ccp does so any player isn't going to expect them to here. all that is required is 1 sentence in the tos and a link added that points to the wiki page with a more detailed explanation.the quote above is literally all that is required and puts a pointer to related detailed wiki page."
"heck granted i've been playing for ages and i never done the tutorial agents so i decided to do so just so i can say i have done it this was less than a week ago, some people there warn griefers flippers and everything these certain people just don't care they'd hang around this system with a apocalypse hell i saw someone there with a nightmare once in jouv.they would can flip, grief, pod kill and sucker newbie players in, and when the threats came they would laugh, i reckon ccp should make it impossible for pvp item theft or otherwise in these systems but its them that choose how eve work's not me of course.one thing that is highly annoying though is the people in rookie systems are one of four categories:newbiesgriefers(can flippers, baiters pod killers etc)people who are there solely to do training agents(tutorial missions)people who are there solely to moan at griefers and threaten to place a petition against them"
"what i really find amuzing is that nobody understood the irony in the op's proposal to begin with.everything else is.... simply irrelevant."
"bump for more support.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"i think this is a really good idea although personally i'd like to see the tug being able to pull any ship that exists.either way, i've liked the post.i know this is cheeky, but what the hell.at the moment i'm standing for the csm. i'd be very be happy to raise this idea if i get voted in. obviously this is a big 'if'. the first stage of this is making the shortlist. at the moment i'm quite a few 'likes' short of the 100 that i need to get onto the ballot.if you wanted to help me on my way with a 'like' for my election post, i'd really appreciate the support. obviously if other support that you send my way would also be very gratefully received..i've seen things you people wouldn't believe. attack ships on fire off the shoulder of orion. i watched c-beams glitter in the dark near the tannhauser gate. when i die, all those moments will be lost in time, like tears in rain."
"i don't think eve is so different that the dev's couldn't easily work it in. especially with what we have seen from video's of what the carbon engine is designed to do. from what i understand, what we see with our avatars is only a portion of what the carbon engine can really do."
"bigger boobies, smaller boobies, bouncing boobies, rock solid boobies, plastic boobies..... i don't care.i just want boobies, bar counters, music, lights, brewskies, npc mission agents standing in the corners, revealing outfits and patrons willing to pay for entrance.right of admission reserved of course."
"if you just smash the hull, you merely smash the hull, you're not terminating the player which presumably is what who places the bounty is after. i agree that anti-pirates/vigilantes losing sec in the process of offing some horrible scoundrel sounds daft but the issue you have is defining, in way the game can recognise (in its coding) exactly who is the pirate and who is the victim/vigilante in a fight. half the time when i was wearing my vigilante boots, i had a lower sec-stat than the pirates i was having a go at and equally, when i was a pirate i often had a better sec-stat than some of the guys in em and others who came to kill me.as an anti-pirate i'd often fire first so its not as simple as aggression either.jack's suggestion is a simple one, although we can argue about the details of when outlaw status kicks in and exactly how much sec you should lose in low-sec when hull-popping. its worth ccp having a look at and finessing a little i think."
"supportedsomething must be done with bounty hunting. op idea is not bad at all."
"well, it's kinda fixed now. i can see the names for the ones i have already as long as i am in that station...but contracts and assets still just read as generics.close but no cigar."
"i would also like to see more done with the lp redemption!"
"hm. such as? i admit i'm new to the game, but it very much seems that i can make considerably more isk by highsec missioning or mining veldspar than by taking a long flight out to nullsec and... well, losing ships. of course, that's partly a function of low skill; i suppose as my sps rise and i become a more combat-capable pilot, i'll be able to look for a much more rewarding activity, carrying with it commensurately increased risk. it's a shame that incursions don't spawn in high-sec.i don't understand. if the cooldown on jump clones is nerfed that low, when will i ever risk my implants? it sounds like you're also saying you want to remove all risk of losing them."
"implants have never been a problem for me when it comes to pvp, but i see the point you're making in the thread and i support their removal. i think this could lead to more mayhem, and that's all that matters to me."
"the problem with that solution is, that reality doesn't work the way you think it works, it's noob unfriedly and doesn't solve the issues. why noob unfriendly? skill is seen by new players as mandatory before doing pvp, so it has to be trained if you want to pvp. you're putting up new barriers to get people to pvp, when your goal is to bring them down. it takes a little under a week at best case just to be of real use. that's a week of valuable training time thrown down a pointless time sink during a critical time in a new players career, when he is unsure if he wants to sub to the game and just wants to be able to train skills to fly more ships and pew pew. why is teleporting or galaxy hopping bad? well it makes logistics and world travel increasingly pointless diminishing the dynamics of the game and it makes force projection easier. it's the one feature this game doesn't need more of and i'm opposed to any changes, that make teleporting around any more convenient or faster.more importantly your solution doesn't address the actual issue and your objection to addressing it is misguided. you want to say it's risk avoidance instead of mititagtion and therefore it shouldn't be encouraged. that's just stupid, but i see what you're getting at. you're saying they would never risk those expensive implants when there is a high risk of losing them, so if given the option they would never fly them to pvp. you're right, which is why your idea sucks balls. they are never going to risk them in pvp. you either allow them to choose an acceptable risk level and go pew pew or they won't pew pew at all. if your solution doesn't allow them to change to a clone with less expensive implants, they aren't going to play. either way those implants aren't going to be put at risk and you can't force this issue. all you have to and can decide is which system is better, a system where people wanting to pvp don't because you're preventing them to lower(manage) the risks they have take based on an arbitrary timer or a system where they have the same exact options to manage it, but without unnecessary timers to interfere and could pvp every time they wanted to.my view is simply, that the limits to the teleportation needs to stay, but in all other cases the clone jump timer is a detriment to the gameplay and needs to go away. also the more conveneint access people would have to jump clones the better. that is why i would prefer them to be some kind of market items, instead of hidden behind a standings grind barier.i'm not a fan of this idea. it just changes one mandatory thing for another and doesn't solve the same issue that pops up with hardwirings. learning implants cost less on my clone than the hardwire implants i've got, so it doens't do anything for me. it just makes the system more annoying, since i've got to keep popping drugs constantly. so pointless busywork and isk grind to keep up your training speeds and again doesn't really address the issue of expensive implant losses."
"and it doesn't address the issue with other slots, which can be much more expensive to lose. the fundamental point remains, if the cost of loss is too high for my wallet, i'm not taking the risk. it's the first rule in eve: don't risk what you can't afford to lose. it's a good rule in place for a good reason. replace learning implants with job implants is pointless. what does it change? you're going to need them to be competative, so every noob doing that profession will be encouraged to get them making them feel mandatory again, so everyone will get them. leading to a situation where people don't want to go out and fight, because they don't want to risk their mandatory implants, that in most cases are useless in pvp anyway. hello point where we started from, glad to see you again.while this would get slightly more people to pvp it misses the point once again and introduces a massive isk faucet to the game already suffering from too many of them. insurance is a massive isk faucet in this game. implants don't cost nearly as much isk, often non at all, as you would get from losing them. their market prices can be counted in the hundreds of millions per implant, so losing your pod would turn from a minor isk sink to a huge isk fauset. and for what? knocking of the top few bricks of the wall?i can only answer this from my perspective, but i wouldn't be any more willing to risk my expensive clones in combat even with insurance. it simply doesn't cover the loss in any meaningful way and i wouldn't want it to try because of the isk faucet it would cause. the simple fact remains, i'm the one who chooses what kind of risk i'm taking and that isn't going to change no matter what. either you change the mechanic, so that i can easily do that when there is pvp action about or you accept the fact i'm not participating, if i'm in a non-pvp clone at the time. i would like to participate even during those times, but with how things are now, i can't afford to chance it and consequently won't chance it."
"one could just as readily use all the arguments for the removal of the learning implants from the game as reason to instead make them indestructible so that you retain them even after podding.i say leave it as it is, if folks want to shy away from a roam because their implants mean more to them than actually playing the game then that's their loss, or is this just an emo whine thread because no one likes andski enough to come out and play with him?"
"i'm not sure what you are saying wastes a week. training infomorph psychology? assuming the worst-case scenario, that every new player suddenly sees i-p as mandatory to iv to train a cooldown reduction skill, it takes around a day to get it to level iv w/ base stats. i don't think that this will happen, as infomorph psychology is useless to new, un-corp'd players (no reps at 8 or above). as i said, this idea wasn't really intended to benefit new players.sure you can. if the only available implants are only useful while undocked, players will either a) not buy them or b) be forced to risk them by undocking. some players will choose not to buy them; that's neither a flaw with the suggestion nor a fault on their part. the problem is that learning implants are predominately useful while docked. i'm sorry... what? what is the distinction between the two things?again, i'm sorry, but... what? people risk actually mandatory equipment all the time -- namely, their ships. i think you are under a mistaken impression here; i did not suggest that profession implants would get people into pvp, i suggested that they would get them to engage in risk. eve is not a tournament game, like dust probably will be, or like league of legends or team fortress are. pvp happens opportunistically, not necessarily.perhaps what you mean to say is that the benefits of such implants should encourage players to explore low- and null- sec systems rather than staying exclusively in high-sec -- for instance, by offering them benefits to mining low-sec minerals or making it faster to get to and easier to handle low-sec missions. yeah, that's fine. although to be honest, i think the first goal is really just to get players to move between systems at all, rather than camping in a single 1.0 or 0.9 somewhere."
"i would add to motherships that they do not have drones (fighters, or fighter bombers) but have a huge ship maintenance array that can hold a large number of sub caps including battleship hulls. like a super super carrier only without the drones. the drones would be the other pilots ships docking in the maintenance array.this could even be expanded where players can actually dock inside the mothership and sit in a pilots lounge while the mothership jumps to the staging area. so they go with there ship for the ride rather than the current mechanics of docking your ship and being left outside in your pod."
"i think one issue is the shortness of the free trials. i think it takes more than 14 or 21 days for most people to \"get into\" eve enough to want to stay, unless perhaps you have a good mentor. it's certainly too short a time to be able to finance yourself by paying with plex. how about a \"noob plex\" which allows a single 30-day extension for say 25 or 50m isk (but still leaves you in trial status)?"
"one could always leave fleet until they return."
"a suggestion would be have the km always generated, and obviously assigned to the highest damage dealer excluding the pilot of the self-destructed ship itself.no insurance obviously...probability of destroying all fittings, with the probability being proportional to the remaining hp of the ship, so at 100% health you're guaranteed complete destruction, at 10% only 10% chance of each module being destroyed in the blast (think of it as damaged charges failing to blow if the rp-ers need a reason).have a smart-bomb style, albeit untyped damage (since it's an entire ship going up), blast, with the radius based upon the ship size and the damage based upon total remaining hp.i like the idea of flying/suffering a fleet of overtanked ships whose only action in combat is to swarm the opposing fleet's most valuable ships and destroy them using self destruct blasts.i would worry about the impact of such upon the usefulness of short range-high damage weapons though..."
"i totally understand where you are coming from but the problem with the scenario you describe is the server crash. this is not your fault, and your claim is totally valid. but the problem is every time there is a server crash the gm's get hundreds of petitions to restore lost stuff. this should not be a problem, except for the fact that only maybe one in ten of the claims are valid, so they have to individually verify each one. this takes a lot of time. they generally do the easiest ones first. if there were not so many asshats in the game putting in false claims the gm's could be a lot more efficient in getting to the valid claims."
"putting in a verifiably false claim should result in an automatic ban."
"i do understand that after a major event like that, it can take a bit of time to handle everything. but two full weeks (12/7 to 12/21) to get any response at all is a bit much, especially with a report that was fairly simple like that. i'm not trying to rage against the gms, i know they are busy with stuff, but at the very least a blanket \"we're sorry it's taking so long, we're backlogged because of x event that happened, we'll be with you as soon as we can\" would be better than nothing at all. i understand they get busy at times, but i still believe that anything over 1 week for customer service to get back to someone is simply unacceptable. if your support staff can't clear the backlog by then, you should either hire more support people or pay them overtime to get the job done. i'm not trying to come across as demanding or insensitive, but they shouldn't be willing to let support tickets sit there for but so long."
"okay, so -- where should the money for the extra support staff, or the overime pay, come from? should ccp cut their development budget, skimp on ofice maintenance, kill off someone else's job, cancel another project?the money has to come from somewhere.i also have an anecdote about my time in customer service (several, actually, but this one is the most relevent):i was mid-level tech support (tech 2) -- i had the training to handle most things, but really serious issues had to go to 'tech 3'. they were the 'bug hunters' of our company, and if i couldn't fix it with basic troubleshooting steps, i had to send it up to them.sending a support ticket to tech 3 was a very time-intensive procedure. we had to fill out two pages of technical information (sim card, imei, make and model, location and range of error, among other even more obscure information), as well as posting our worklog. if tech 3 saw something that i hadn't done properly, they'd bounce my ticket, and the problem would come back into my hands.i dealt with those tickets one at a time. now imagine twenty- to twenty-five thousand people submitting tickets, with no way to know who's legit and who's yanking your chain until you actually read them.i can't get rid of my darn signature! oh, wait...."
"i've thought for a long time that it would be great to have individual filters xml loadable. for example, have a directory into which [name].xml files could be dropped, and they appear in your \"load overview settings\" list. optionally these files could contain column info, bracket settings and/or tab name. such files could easiliy be distributed, and used without screwing up all your existing tabs.the file/directory paradigm is well understood, and would be far easier to understand than the existing arcane way of doing things. once they were aware of the directory (visible when a setting is \"saved-as\"), it would be obvious to players how to add new filters, update existing filters by overwriting files, delete un-needed filters or move them to a back-up directory, etc, etc. another win would be that all accounts on a machine would share the same set of available filters.even better would be to allow sub-directories, so that an extra layer of the load menu is created, allowing divisions such as pvp, corp, or [character] acording to taste."
"already exists. take a look at the 'import' and 'export' options in your overview.edit: its not as granular as your proposal, but its there. the extra layers would make the 10-20 different overviews nullsec alliances want us to have a little easier to manage."
"no, that's not the same at all. the import and export take the stuff and hide it internally. i want individual filters clearly visible in the filing system. you can't even \"save\" a filter (as opposed to \"save as...\") at the moment. and when you do export or import, it's all or nothing, unless you're an xml warrior and can cut and paste bits from different exports -- which is hard: i've tried it an it wasn't fun. so much easier to drag and drop a file. (of course, in a perfect world you should be able to drop the file from your filing system into the eve overview window, too.)"
"tallian is right, it already exists in the game. no, it's not exactly what you suggested, but the current system has far less overhead since it doesn't have to watch a directory on your pc constantly, it can simply keep the data in memory.what you're probably not understanding is the overhead to a program that disc io takes up. i can't remember the exact numbers, but it's something like 20-40x slower than reading from memory. there's a reason it's the way that it is."
"you are already proposing a perfect world solution. as stated, disc i/o for monitoring like that is insane.try something. open your resource monitor, go to the disk tab, and then start a program that monitors and reads real time, and look at the performance hit you take. i run raided ssds, and i can see the performance hit from apps like that, and even just my virus scanner(which only reads when a call is made for the file)."
"of course. but you don't have to do that at all. you only scan the directory when you are about to open the \"load filter setting\" menu item. if even that is too much (you might be in a hurry at the time you want to change filters) then scan the directory only at session change, startup, or when a file is dropped onto the overview."
"oh just, you know, not break a system that already works?its fine as it is. i'm not saying there is no room for improvement, but i can think of hundreds of things in eve that don't even work, so this falls under 'if it ain't broke, don't fix it'.please don't distract ccp from the things that actually need fixed, plox?"
"hmm. i've obviously got one guy who has a real bee in his bonnet about this suggestion. actually, i think it is broken, in that it is yet another reason why people don't get into pvp. your carefuly crafted mining or missioning overview gets totally messed up when you try to set up for pvp. {edit: ...and then there's the total mystification of noobs who arrive at a tutorial site and see nothing relevent on the overview. but that's mostly a separate fix.}maybe i'm not typical, but i have four accounts, working on three computers, with alts... and i've never got my overviews even halfway sane. [i nearly did once, back when i just had one pc, but then i lost a hard disk...]"
"the overview system in game is admittedly confusing, however you didn't address that. your issue was to be able to do imports in an automagical way, and the import system works just fine. you can export, import, share, whatever you need. i have 20 different definitions because i pvp in nullsec, and there is a standard that set of overviews that cfc fcs use and expect people to have. if this is to hard for you, i'm sorry, but eve may not be for you.i will agree that the configuration of the overview to make those xml files in the first place is one of the worst systems i have ever seen, but once again, that wasn't even really mentioned in the op.this simple matter is, making an autoimport function that fires any more often than at game launch(which would be annoying as hell if you wanted to import in game) is unnecessary, and puts a huge strain on alot of peoples system(especially running more than one client). in that matter(which was the stated point of your thread when you created it) you are flat wrong.if you wanna ***** about the overview creation system, start a thread about that, or better yet post in one of the hundreds that already exist on the issue. pointless tho, since ccp already said they are aware its an issue and its in the mile long list of fixes and improvements they already have."
"i guess the main point of my proposal is to bypass the issues of it being hard to create filters, by allowing you trivially to create your own collection from a selection of other people's work. which is what i'd mostly like to do.and i totally refute your mumblings about the load it puts on the computer. if you care, let's say it is only refreshed when you undock, or drop a new file into the eve window. then there is zero extra load in normal operation, but pilots can trigger a refresh whenever they want. (ok, special case of no-docking play styles; i guess they have to re-log if they edit rather than drop files. but they can always create a copy somewhere else with the same name and drop that to overwrite. and anyway, the existing editing mode will still be there, so no loss of functionality.)seems to me i'm being trolled. you're attacking a minor and irrelevent aspect of the proposal, just 'cos you personally don't like the overal idea. lets see if we can canvass any other opinions."
"a minor and irrelevant aspect?re-read this:that is your whole proposal dude. if you had proposed changes to the overview creation system i would have been all about it. its borked, and no sane person can argue that.you want to to increase system load in a game that already strains some players systems to automate a task that most people do once or twice. ever. you can already import other peoples overviews. there are already plenty of good premade ones available for download, if you bother looking.the only part of your proposal that has any merit is a folder system to sort the various overview types into, and this can be worked around with a consistent naming system.stop fighting for something pointless. if you must fight for a reform to our overviews, make it something simple.oh, and if i was trolling you, i would have been done with it hours ago, and called you mean names. the worst i have said here is that you are wrong, and you are demonstrably wrong.suffer with a couple extra click once a year at most(unless you are foolish enough to wipe all your appdata and docs folders more often than that)until after the truly painful click fests are resolved(seriously, your complaining about this when you have pi to give you rsi?)i'm not trying to attack you, you seem like a good guy. you just don't seem to realize what you are actually asking for."
"the extra load is a simple fix, all existing settings are loaded at client start and a manual import function for modifications while the client is running.i am not aware of any external overview editor. care to point me to one ?anyway having separate files for each tab or filter setup would be great so one can share just parts and not need to rely on editing that can mess things up."
"it doesn't exist any more sadly. it used to live a balss-industries.com, but the domain got bought by a flooring company or something. i wish i had the webdev skills to replicate it, but i will have to leave that to someone with talents in that direction.as far as loading everything at start up, dear god no. before i crashed and lost the past 4 years of backups i had in the area of 200 different profiles in a variety of files. loading all that at startup woulda crashed the client every time. for most people, tho, that would be the perfect balance.and having separate files for each tab would be awesome, as long as they changed the entire system so that it read the files instead of keeping settings in cache. catch the ear of one of the csm with it(i suggest a well worked out single post detailing it, and linking it in the various discussion threads the good csm keep running, like the mittani's ~chill place~) and this idea, fully fleshed out has a good chance of going somewhere, since ccp has said the overview is the next project in the ui, not that the neocom is updated.if you do this, evemail me with the thread and i will come support it with you."
"i support this idea.it should be pushed by the csm. all of them. i heard that a formal writeup is underway. not a single one can get credit for a good implementation since the ideas have been around since...like...forever. i always like to remind everyone of dierdra vaal's good write-up of 2008 \"nil mortifi sine lucre\".one particular idea by malcanis merrits addition : being able but not required to limit who collects that bounty based on standings. that not only is an additional measure effective against exploitation, but is also an important rp factor imho. in other proposals, the bounty issuer is designed to being able to approve of any aspiring hunter. also good, but more cumbersome and might delay the action due to tz and response time."
"agreed. i have always dreamed of an eve where some of concord's function is taken over by the players, just as production has been moved away from npcs. the bounty system is key to this. therefore i propose an extension to this bounty fix:*** allow the bounty setter to specify which alliances are allowed to collect his bounty.***this makes it more complicated (but not impossible) for people to collect their own bounties, but more importantly encourages the creation of a quasi-police alliance to whom bounties could popularly be allocated.[if anyone cares, i have thought out how to calculate what happens when there are multiple bounties with different alliance allocations, and when some of the killmail toons are in different alliances. a bit of a pain, but trivial compared to some of the stuff that gets computed every time a ship flies round new eden.]"
"not sure if i understand your proposal completely, if someone could fill me in here.so if bob has 1bil bounty on his head and lets say he only has 900k skillpoints and he has no implants of value, i basically get nothing for podding him?"
"for podding him right... you would still collect on his ship value for blowing up his ship. if bob somehow managed to get a 1b bounty while being under 900k sp with no implants, he could just pod himself over and over for free and collect money.it is a loophole, but a minor one, as a <900k sp character who manages to get himself to low sec status and bountied would pretty much be a super low sp suicide ganking alt who made people spacemad. such a character is doing it for the lulz anyway; it's probably better not to pay him extra on top of it."
"my version of this is to allow you (at the time when you post the bounty) to select which alliances can collect. similar control, less interaction."
"i remember that one, someone tried do that not that far ago and it ended bad for him"
"after reading this i must say it's a really good idea"
"i actually think this is a great idea.and don't give me any crap about kill board and corp stats, very few players actually post with their active characters. this is one of several markets alts i have.there is currently a big problem with large scale null sec fleet battles.ccp has added the time dilation which has greatly improved the performance of these large battles.however it is getting more and more rare to see these battles.if the other side drops more supers than a retreat is called. and alliances with massive assets and incomes continue building supers getting stronger and stronger and nobody bothers to attack them as they can not hope to defeat such a huge fleet.if super bpo's were eliminated as the op suggests than cap fleet battles would change very much for the greater good. with even the largest alliance not being capable of rapidlty replacing losses of supers there will be a lot more planing and thought put in before risking those ships.they will save them for when they are really needed,or can really change the course of a battle. i would even go to the point of putting a hard cap on the number of supers permitted in the game. once that hardcap is reached no new bpc's will be seeded until a super is destroyed. super were intended to be rare. not the current state of having super cap blobs.this would allow smaller alliances to keep poking away at larger alliances and gradually dwindling their super cap fleets regardless of whether they win or lose the battle. if they pop a super they are one step closer to eventually wining a battle.the idea of titans and motherships was that they would be rare. even a massive empire would only field a few. for there to be hundreds was never the intention.for this to be fair though the super cap pilots will also need something big in return. if super cap blobs became a thing of the past many super cap pilots would sufer as they can not dock the super and jump into another ship. they would be stuck in a ship they rarely used. they can leave it sitting in a pos but that is very risky.i propose a new outpost platform mod. with a fully upgraded docking ring, an outpost could be capable of docking supers. this would be at the expense of not being able to use those platforms for other outpost mods basically limiting it to being a super cap staging station. even adding the ability of docking them at capital ship maintenance arrays.this would make the outpost a huge strategic target once the enemy determine what outpost you are using. which could add more espionage type activity to the game.supers are an amazing idea and a great addition to the game but the super cap blobs seem very game breaking to me. by controlling the numbers and allowing them to dock in appropriately upgraded outposts i think two of the biggest issues with super caps would be greatly reduce. in addition if super caps were actually rare as they were meant to be they could be much more powerful without being game breaking. not only would they not have needed a nerf but they could even be boosted so that if you did risk losing them the boost it would give to the fleet would be worth it."
"this hardcap for number of super caps in no for sure.docking in outpost not to good... those ships are huge."
"i think this is a brilliant idea... a couple of thoughts: 1.) bpo reimbursement: i think just giving back the base isk of the bpo is probably too little, especially since most bpo holder's already have an entire production line setup. i would recommend reimbursing the base cost of the bpo, providing them with a single bpc, and then giving them 1 additional bpc per me or pe level. this will allow current bpo holders to maintain their current production while your npc sources start to get farmed. 2.) i'm not convinced the bpc drops should be tied to fw plexes. part of my apprehension comes from a limited understanding of fw, but i think such fancy drops should be tied to the final room of a new series of escalated plexes. it makes complete sense that the \"npc's\" you shoot are empire npc's, complete with tags, empire standing losses, rp, and the like, but i would imagine the series of complexes would typically be a nullsec feature. whatever the means for the npc drop, it's important the sources are ubiquitous enough to prevent bpc hording."
"[quote=bugsy vanhalen]for this to be fair though the super cap pilots will also need something big in return. if super cap blobs became a thing of the past many super cap pilots would sufer as they can not dock the super and jump into another ship. they would be stuck in a ship they rarely used. they can leave it sitting in a pos but that is very risky.[quote]when the supply of supercap bpc's dwindle, the value of supercap bpcs and hence supercap ships, will increase. current supercap pilots will be inherently compensated, so they don't need anything else in return. if they feel their ship isn't \"used\" enough, they can sell it for an excellent price, or join a new alliance that will use their assets."
"i think the op was mainly looking for a place outside sovereign nullsec to put the bpc's so that supercap production has dependencies other than holding space.this gets more people with more interests involved and adds another potential market layer with fw players selling bpc's to nullsec builders.there is probably a better way to do it, but i can't think of one right off."
"the op is a npc alt who refuses to point out the problems specifically in great detal...only that he wants supercaps gone..removed...nerfed to hell and back.and furthermore...a question a i asked that was ignored...how long does it take to build titan...from the ground up....from scratch.these are one of many things that points to the sheer ignorance of the op.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"i think the bpc's would need to be a rare drop from something like incursions. that is how it is now with the revanant...why not do it the same way with titans and supers? either way it should be something that takes teamwork to acheive. shouldn't be a soloable l4 mission or anything like that."
"it takes a little under 2 months to build the actual titan, but the titan itself is built from a large number of components that also require signficant investment and build times. additionally, titans must be built in sov space, making titan production fairly risky. this is true for all supercaps. by my conservative estimates (i don't have exact numbers), there are 700-1000 titans in the game, there are probably 3-4k supercarriers. i'm missing the post with your questions... and where you attack him for being in an npc corp alt ( which is irrelevant, btw). why is the big supercap arms race bad? one of the fundamental attributes of eve that really perpetuates a dynamic and entertaining environment comes from the inherent rochambeau combat game. by getting in a bigger ship, you gain more tank, more dps, and other benefits, but you also gain weaknesses (poorer tracking, slower, etc). as such, bigger is not better, and no ship or fleet is the \"best\". that is, until supercap fleets. supercap fleets do not currently have an effective counter. additionally, the current sov and pos mechanics create ideal immobile targets that cannot be pragmatically attacked nor defended when your opponent fields the larger supercap fleet. why aren't supercaps vulnerable to non-supercap fleets? supercap fleets with titans and scs scale extraordinarily well because they have enourmous tanks, ewar immunity, mobility, and uitilty rr (sc's). currently, the only effective counter to a sizeable supercap fleet is a bigger supercap fleet. the recent changes to the supercarrier drone bay, the dd, and aggression log-off mechanics represent an enormous step in creating a vulernability beyond \"more supercaps\" by essentially limiting their ability to **** subcap fleets and/or log-off to escape destruction. however, titan turret mechanics and fighters are still effective tools to combat subcaps. with the current in game resources, supercaps will continue to proliferate throughout new eden, unless something changes. this has already been evidenced by the enormous proliferation in supercaps over the last two years. there are few options to resolve the potential pitfalls: limit the number of supercaps in the game. (i.e. this proposal, which does so in probably the only equitable manner). nerf supercaps to be ineffective against subcaps. incarna changes to the sc drone bays, dd, and remote assistance has gone a long way in changing this, but titan tracking and fighter damage is still very effective against subcap fleets. what really needs to change here is a fundamental alteration of the capital ship weapons mechanics (to be more like missiles), such that they are weak against small sig ships. create a new ship/module/mechanic specifically to counter supercaps.... alter the sov and pos mechanics, so supercaps are ineffective in engaging these. all of these options have pro's and con's. i'm personally a fan of just changing the capital (turret) weapon mechanics to make them truly ineffective at engaging sub-bs sized ships. current game mechanics allow a titan fleet to effectively engage even cruiser fleets. truthfully, changing the titans turrets tracking is not an easy fix... the change has to limit the ability of a supercapital to apply its enormous dps to small-sig sized ships, but not nerf its ability to apply dps to capital ships, pos, and sov structures. imo, the ops proposal is one of the few \"fix supers\" that doesn\"t involve nerfing them to \"hell and back\". so why don't you explain your issues with the proposal. p.s. i realize that you have a deleted post which i never got to read, and the op has gone through a few revisions in his post.... however, unprivied to the original discussion, i can only go by what i see now...."
"unlike the op.....you strike me as someone who knows his stuff and actually has a rational explination to it...and i can udnerstand that.i seriously doubt there are that many titans in this game...otehrwise we'd be seeing them more often than not.hes wanting to put a population cap on them and effect the manufactureing abiliteis...this is incredabily shortsighted....he has no concept of manufactureing or deployment....obviuosly this is something he will not see come to fruitition for 6 months to even an year....he will continue to #### and complain about this to no end because he didn't get what he wantted sooner rather than later.as you know and i know...these things take time to build...2 months at best is generous at best...from what i heard it could take as much as 3 to 4 months..and thats assuming you dont have a crapton of resoruces backing you to keep things at full tilt.it takes alot of effort to build super caps.....and while peopel are whining about how hard they are to kill...keep in mind to build them is just as difficult...its not like we're popping them out like crazy left and right.granted only the most well endowed alliances are capable of production to such numbers.....but this is entirely short sighted at best.i can understand...but his lack of \"meat\" and just blah we shouold limit supercaps blah blah is short sighted at best....it is one thing to say you want...to expain why and outline the detaisl and the ramfiications of those desires is entirely something else.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"anyone as anything to say about it?"
"i believe you meant \"intra\" corp (i.e. \"within the corp\") market, rather than inter-corp (i.e. \"between corps\").anyway, you can already do this ... it's just more outside of the game mechanics to be setting the prices and such. corp i'm in actually runs services to this effect for the people via contract. yeah, it costs us 10k isk per contract ... but it's a pittance really."
"i like the idea but it would be a lot of work for the developers for such a small feature. besides there kind of already is a mechanic for having a market only accessible to corp/alliance members. at least for large null sec alliances.every outpost has a market, and you can control who can dock at the outposts you own. basically controlling who has access to the market in that outpost.alliances with several outposts can setup one of the outposts well inside there space, perhaps a factory outpost with restricted access. and then have alliance members place items for sale there at reduced cost. anyone in the region could browse the market but only someone with access could actually pick up products from that outpost. it would involve a lot of logistics but it is possible.the other option is to simply sell stuff using contracts only available to your corp.either way would work."
"being part of \" the source of nearly all player-made content \" (note the quotes) won't allow special treatment from ccp as there is no inssurence that tomorrow it will be still standing, puting together your big ego and lack of general vision, i do believe this is a bad idea."
"blanket decrease to 4 hours would alter game play, because it would allow troops to move across new eden much more freely than at present. but allowing two jumps every 48 hours would be a good solution. you could pvp just for an hour on a weekend, if you wanted to, without significant damage to your training schedule. and you wouldn't have to be sure that you would be available to come back after 24 hours to jump back into your training clone."
"this system seems old and outdated.why, if i am in a 1 man corporation am i voting on anything?you don't have to vote if it is an alliance deccing, shouldn't corporations within an alliance get a say? if not, then why should corporation have a vote.even if there are people in the corp, and shares aren't distributed, members do not get to vote only the ceo does. so, the ceo proposes vote it is mailed to everyone in corp, they get no say in the matter then the ceo has to decide whether he is going to vote yes or no.... hmmmmmmmmmmm.... i just proposed the vote i wonder, i know, actually i'll vote no, thank god for that voting system!"
"actually, you do have the vote in an alliance -- it's just kept to within the executor corporation."
"i have never had to vote as an alliance, i have wardecced dozens of alliances with my alliance and never once had to vote*edit* i just realised i think i missread your message, i didnt realise the option was available as an alliance.either way, i was just adding it to emphasize the main point about mandatory votes for corp."
"your complaining about a system you don't use....yeah...makes perfect sense.go away please.come back when you have common sense to talk about this subject again with rationality.ps: and in-case your nooblet brains didn't figure it out....some alliances do use the system...just because you don't...doesn't mean it needs to be removed. derp derp?================ stop the evemail spam!"
"um lol, i do use it, i have to use it all the time, i have probably initaited over a hundred decs since i started empire wars. i do it as an alliance sometimes when deccing shadow of blueprints and solar blueprints etc but if i want to dec say some randoms or a botting corp i do it as a corp.and yes youre right in that it doesnt have to be removed all together but making it mandatory to vote is just silly. the whole implement sanctionable action thing is broken too, if i have no active decs and hit apply first dec goes through fine and moves to the in effect section. hit apply on the second action and i get message saying too many wars active please remove one you can only have a maximum of three... dec still goes through, two wars are active, second dec stays in the in effect section forever even after it becomes invalid/retracted.and that's just part of it.... seems to me the whole system has been quite forgotten by ccp if it has had those glitches for quite awhile now, im sure im not the only one getting it since i cant effect the games mechanics obviously... or maybe its just broken for my corp since there are so many votes piled up."
"your not making any sense...you said you never had to vote..now your saying you've had to do it every time.which is it?and for the record...i was an executor of an alliacne and a vote was never necessary whilst i was leading a good sized alliance....but i never used shares or any of that crap.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"wardec voting should be something that could be disabled, either by the ceo or by its own vote. having to run a one-man vote for every wardec is annoying."
"it is pointless having a one man corp and being forced to vote on war decs. i have an alt as my ceo so i can come and go as i please. i transferred all the corp shares to her, just to see if it made a difference....it didn't. still have to go through the whole vote bs. ccp, please fix this crap with the next expansion. there are a lot of high sec war dec corps keeping the empire economy strong. we deserve a little love for all we do to keep the isk flowing.the isk must flow!!!!"
"the main problem with titan and mother. is the officier item's + drug + implantsperhaps the best way will be to remove the medium and low slot on titan.same hp on all titan same dps. racial resistance raganarok and erebus mix and shield and armor tanking resistanceleviathan shield ( without shield regeneration)avatar armorguns same then now but without the officer items, the tracking will be more worst then now.for ccp it's easy because it's more easy to balance titan versus sub cap or cap without all low and medium item."
"this again? really? titans should be able to hit subcaps! in particular the perma-microwarpdriving-drakes that are starting to appear. titans have been nerfed to hell already, enough is enough.please stop brining this subject up! its getting very old."
"wow that this is the most stupid idea i have read ever.i wonder how many of the whining cry babys here know how the titans are even set up.what the next whine nerf the mael with its alpha damage is to powerfull my logistic ship can't save an other battleship it can insta pop cruisers"
"the fix is pretty easy impo:remove gun/ship signature radius from the hit chance formula and scale overall damage done by the ratio of (ship sig / gun sig)wallah even if the titan gets a perfect hit on your 90sig scimitar its only going to do around 9/100 of the titans max damage to it."
"asuka solo wrote:i agree, titans and super carriers should not be able to fire on sub capital ships.in the same breath, sub capital weapons should have no effect on titans or super carriers.boost caps!this is actually mostly a logical solution. drastically boost super cap tanks so sub caps have trouble denting them, and offset it with drastically increased super cap damage, with the added nerf that they can not hit, maybe even not target subcap ships.there are a few major flaws in this line of thinking though. regardless of whether it is as simple as just playing with targeting/tracking mechanics.super carriers use fighters for dps that can hit sub caps. making a frigate size fighter drone unable to hit subcaps makes no sense. if a super cap is used for a pos bash against a corp without super cap support they could not defend themselves.super caps could no longer be used for ratting. many pilots would not like this. [*]it would really complicate the mechanics of super caps needing support fleets."
"i agree with pinksupers should be anti-capital platforms/anti-super platforms.remove their ability to target sub caps, but in the same breath make them immune to sub caps and sub cap ewar/bubbles.boost cap hulls and abilities to compensate.i will repeat this until it sinks in!"
"that could work, it would force supers to rely on support fleets to defend against sub caps. a sub cap blob could take down a titan but the titan could not effectively hit back?again supers could no longer be used for ratting. the only use for them when not at war. a big deal considering the pilot can not dock to change ships."
"bugsy vanhalen wrote:asuka solo wrote:i agree, titans and super carriers should not be able to fire on sub capital ships.in the same breath, sub capital weapons should have no effect on titans or super carriers.boost caps!this is actually mostly a logical solution. drastically boost super cap tanks so sub caps have trouble denting them, and offset it with drastically increased super cap damage, with the added nerf that they can not hit, maybe even not target subcap ships.there are a few major flaws in this line of thinking though. regardless of whether it is as simple as just playing with targeting/tracking mechanics.super carriers use fighters for dps that can hit sub caps. making a frigate size fighter drone unable to hit subcaps makes no sense. if a super cap is used for a pos bash against a corp without super cap support they could not defend themselves.super caps could no longer be used for ratting. many pilots would not like this. it would really complicate the mechanics of super caps needing support fleets.very much so.but i can't see why this would be a problem for life. non sentry drones cannot engage towers, due to a shield. be that as it may, the principle remains. there are certain ingame items that cannot be used against other ingame items.i see no reason why ccp cannot create some creative reason for a simple logical restriction on fighter bombers, preventing them from attacking sub capitals, while at the same time allowing fighters to engage sub caps. there are even some npc structures that cannot be engaged by certain drones. so i'm convinced this can easily be applied to sub caps from the super carrier fighter bomber perspective.titans should be easy enough. if ship class <= battleship, then you fail to target ship hull like you fail @ targeting a cyno.the same should apply to sub caps. if ship hull >= super carrier, you fail to target the hull due to its size and or unique/godlike sensor qualities.super carriers are still carriers and those drones are not invincible. they die pretty quickly. and we all know a super carrier without teeth or support is a killmail looking for a timestamp. small corp or not, you damm sure better have enough firepower and or support when committing a super to take out flies. (at least, with the current game mechanics of sub caps online)i am sadly, at a loss when it comes to supers no longer being used for ratting because of a failure to target sup caps. but you know what. if it means keeping their \"super\" status and bringing balance to the force then i'll try my level best not to loose sleep over that facet.as for supper cap support fleets. in my mind, capitals need sub capital support.supers need capital support. if we take this approach and boost capitals sufficiently, then caps will be the new linchpin for fleet fights. blobbing capitals will fail since sub caps will swallow them whole. blobbing supers will fail since sub caps will be immune to their awesomeness. blobbing sub caps vs supers will fail since they wont be able to do anything to the mosters no matter how many they have. victory will only be had by the side that can successfully keep their capitals alive long enough to clear the field of sub caps and enemy caps, thus making the supers vulnerable."
"you nailed it right there. but rather than trying to adjust mechanics to make titan ineffective in blobs i would rather just see them put a cap on the number of titans permitted to exist. there are a few ways of achieving this without pissing off all the titan pilots. i am taking a lot of this from other threads but the idea's would work if implemented in the right way.sorry for the threadnought but i think this is a good idea.-there should be a cap of say 100 titans and maybe 300 super carriers in the entire universe.- existing ships should not get destroyed or nerfed but remove all the bpo's for all super caps from the game. the bpo owner would need to be compensated for not only the bpo but any me/pe research invested into it as well. eventually the numbers would drop down to the cap level as loses could not be replaced until the numbers reached a point where new bpc's would get seeded.- what ever the caped number for each ship would be, it would apply to both the ships and the bpc's seeded in game. no bpc's would be seeded unless the number of existing bpc's plus the number of ships in existence dropped below the cap. the cap could be adjusted as needed to achieve the right balance or if the game population grows or shrinks. - eventually a new bpc would only be seeded when a super was destroyed. possibly add a mechanic where the alliance who lost the super was not eligible to receive the seeded bpc to prevent large alliances from holding the largest fleet of supers. when they use them and lose one someone else gets the opportunity to acquire one. or maybe the bpc auction or better yet a lottery is only available to pilots who have the skills to pilot the ship but do not own one. the higher your skill level for that ship the higher chance you have of winning the bpc. this would even allow former super cap pilots that no longer wish to fly them to benefit as they could win the lottery and sell the bpc.-if you want to fly a super you would have a few options. -train up all the skills and wait to win a bpc so you can build it or have it built by your alliance. -buy a bpc from someone else who won it and does not want to fly one any more. -buy the ship from someone who no longer wants it.- limited bpc's would be seeded in game through a special lotery where all pilots with the skills to fly the ship would have a chance at winning a bpc.if this was done supers would return to the rare battle changing super asset they were meant to be. if you risk it and lose it you may not get it back for some time regardless of how large and powerful your alliance is. regardless of whether you can afford to replacing it quickly or not. they would become far more strategic and guarded assets. this would allow smaller alliances to compete with larger ones as the ability to field super caps would have very little to do with the size of the alliance. although larger alliances with more super pilots would have a higher chance of having a pilot win a bpc lottery.if the number of super caps was limited to a small number there would not only be no need to nerf them but they could be made even more powerful. not being able to readily replace a lost super cap increases the risk and should offer more reward in the way of a more powerful ship. a single super should be able to jump into a battle and turn the tide. this is what they were meant to do. \"oh no a titan just jumped in we are in trouble now.\"an idea i have also had to give something back to the super cap pilots as i posted in other threads is to address the complaint many super pilots have of being stuck in their ship unable to dock. i think it would be game breaking to allow them to dock anywhere but they could add a docking ring outpost platform upgrade that would allow for super caps to dock at that station. this would allow alliances to build up specific stations for super cap staging without allowing them to dock any where.possibly they could also allow super caps to dock at capital ship maintenance arrays just like regular caps can dock at regular ship maintenance arrays. you can dock a dread in a regular ship maintenance array(at least i have seen it done in the past) it just takes up a large amount of the total storage. do the same with supers in a large ship maintenance array. maybe it can hold only one titan or two moms but at least they could be docked."
"this postnaught is filled with \"no\".to even allow super cap pilots from remotely entertaining the notion of rational debate of that without emotional outbursts and outright rejection, you should revise this post with the following facets taken into consideration:don't touch super cap bpos. do not physically limit #s, rather attach a penalty to all ships in system using the #s fielded per fleet/grid/au/system/ly.do not increase building cost, you will whine about more titan tax in a month or 2 demanding further increases to the pricetag because of the proliferation.do not nerf supers by boosting sub caps.docking super carriers is a kewl idea that will count in your favor, but unless super capital docking arrays are introduced into upgrade-able and or bigger stations, this will be a wet dream for ship owners."
"immunities are the grossest hack of game design, and are a sign of structural failure in the design when they appear.moving the signature radius penalty from \"to hit\" to \"damage\" is better design, especially since it can be consistent across all ship classes and not a special case for titans.a sig radius penalty on damage should probably be a bit more than linear, maybe a power factor of 1.3-1.5 so that a titan really just can't be effective against frigates without pulling out medium drones..."
"this actually sounds like it would achieve a similar if not identical effect to what i suggested earlier and would be alot easier to impliment. it would mean titans can no longer wtfbbq subcaps. add this to a removal of fighters and rr mods from supercarriers... and you solve alot of the balancing problems. supercapitals should require carriers as support. as thats what carriers are designed to do.not to mention far better idea involving the ships ewar immunity... changing supercaps so they had sensor strenghs and warp strengh properties.. (say 15 for a sc and 30 for a titan) would mean that any pilot moronic enough to drop a solo super on a sub capital gang will pay for doing what he should never be able to do anyway. while also maintaining their excellent anti capital, andi structure, fleet boosting and bridging roles perfectly fine."
"the orca thing realy should have been fixed by now.+1"
"1.0"
"1.0"
"with how easy this is to pull off i am surprised it is not used more often. especially with the new tier 3 bc's. you got the alfa of a battleship for ganking in high sec. then dump the ship into a friendly orca before concord shows up. concord will not attack a pod so you lose nothing in the gank. any interaction with a aggressed pilot should result in shared aggression. whether it is remote repping, or allowing them access to the ship maintenance array and corp hanger of an orca.it might seem game breaking, but if they really wanted to put an end to ganking in high sec they should make concord aggress the entire corp/fleet of the ganker. you are harboring a fugitive, you are as guilty as they are.not saying this should happen but the ganker tears would be epic."
"avoiding concord is a bannable offense. if someone commits a criminal act and then stores their ship in an orca to avoid losing it to concord, report them. they can get banned for this, as it is considered an exploit. ccp does not want to \"put an end to ganking in high-sec\". quite the contrary.... suicide ganking is a healthy and intentional part of this game. what ccp strives is to balance high-sec ganking by:1.) creating a \"cost\" to the gankers. this comes in the form of sec status, ship loss, and killrights. the insurance nullification was only done to increase the cost of ganking. 2.) providing all players the tools needed to mitigate the risks of being suicide ganked. this comes in the form of criminal flags, reasonable concord response times, tanking modules, different ship types, cloakers, ewar, capital haulers, courier contracts, etc, etc, etc.. really, people have many, many, many options to mitigate the risks of getting suicide ganked. however, most people foresake those options in the name of yield, time efficiency, and/or isk. lol.... the ganker tears would be thoroughly drowned in the ocean of carebear tears your suggestion would provide. awoxers would join target fleets, get gcc'd, and laugh as concord nukes the everyone. @ op: you can't board a ship when its targetted.... if they could extend this mechanic, so you can't store a ship into a smb when it is targeted, most of the ******** ship-swapping could be prevented. it would also prevent scooping aggressed bs's into a carrier, rorqual, etc, etc... your suggestion allows you to shoot the the orca/carrier, but those ships can still instantly dock, activate a gate, or jump to escape with the ships. additionally, they could potentially bypass the assistance-aggression by having the pilot eject from the ship before they scoop it. +1 to fixing the \"store your ship into a ship maintenance bay during combat.\""
"nice shameless plug. sorry mate, i already know what candidate i'm supporting. and let's stay on topic please.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"stop beeing lazy, no a carrier can already move 1-2 battleships in its ship maintanance array, we dont need duplicate ships. especially ships which requires 0 risk!"
"not sure if i've missed a discussion, but will the ship bay be scannable, and if so to what level of information? doesn't really matter unless ships can drop, but my personal view is that it makes gameplay more interesting if it can be scanned (preferably including modules in the ships) -- and this also slightly protects newer players who like shipping their cheap t1 fleet around.can one of these beasts scoop a ship parked in space, like freighters can scoop gfcs?"
"me supports this excellent idea because it's needed.also: -would this ship bay be restricted to only assembled ships or packaged ones too? -restricted to ships only and so no minerals/loot/cans whatever.because if i agree with the first one (assembled) i'd completely disagree with the later. there are already frighters for this purpose and jump capable freighters can also bring package ships.something different and nasty to train for and something individuals as megacorps would want in thier assets?my humble opinion would be that this ship had a single version of it and since it's a very exposed ship (hello cargo scanners) it would be capable of jumps directly in high sec (only 0.5) but at very high fuel cost (high sec *blahblah stuff* increase 500% fuel consumption etc)normal jump abilities in low sec and increase by 25% jump range in null sec - not because of risk because you'll take hundred more time risk undocking at jita than in null sec.the idea is to give alliances and corps an expensive and capable logistics ship to move stuff at far distances without being spoted and open new tactics of invasion or evasion."
"you guys are forgetting that there have been large strides made in brazier technology in the eve universe."
"im getting really depressed that eve null sec is either completely empty - has too man ships for a solo pirate to do didly against, and when you get a system with 1-2 players in one is a booster ><i like the idea of on-grid boosters but how about a compromise?make pos shields negate any and all boosting effects while on grid with them. so if the boosters want to boost thats fine, but they have to be away from a pos - if they get worried about dying they can warp to a pos but their boosts become negated. simply set the activation so if your within say 300km from a pos they wont turn on?so u can scan down the booster and do something to them instead of scan them down and watch them laugh at you thru a shield"
"uh, at 300km with istabs he would still be perfectly safe, and with a bm 350km out, he can bounce back out as soon as you leave the pos area and resume boosting his other toon.plus, at 300km even its a slight swerve to get you to chase him into pos tackled/web range(300km, based on having landed on the most annoying version of a death star ever) and you are screwed anyway."
"have someone probe down and kill the bonus link, no support here"
"if you have ever tried probing one of the damn things down you wouldn't be so cavalier about it .. true that it is no longer impossible, but if it is mobile (ie. ab in random direction) then the 4-5 probe cycles + repositioning needed to nail one has him way off wherever you land ... they are for all intents and purposes still unprobable.either way, it is besides the point. no ship (except maybe titans) should be able to affect anything whatsoever without \"being there\" .. imagine the \"i was there\" crappola video if the pilot used as example was a link pilot .. hilarity"
"i was in the system somewhere!"
"this is true. while the offgrid command ship is handy, it is often an alt anyway and getting a scan down on it was quite easy.- 1 for this proposal. quit whining that eve is hard. combat in the game is about knowing how your opponent fights. if you can't do that then you can't prepare for their strike - which means you deserve to die in a fire.grow up or go play wow."
"suggest you learn the finer aspects of insta-probing.1 cycle or 2 at max. for the love of pvp would you all quit asking ccp to make this game dumber for you?seems like all you want in warfare is to line everyone up opposite each other and shoot. reminds me of the way we did things before the american revolution (where we invented guerrilla warfare).if you really need game mechanics that dumb go to 0.0. get your noobie level pvp done there. we lowsec dwellers thrive on the more skilled combat, and yes that entails the offgrid command ship.of course you want it on field so you can blob it to death. morons!"
"this might need some tweaking.but at the moment i like this idea. the notion of having sec-hits only apply to fights on the same grid as sentry guns has some appeal as well."
"this idea has my approval! +1 jack, and may we meet on a gate somewhere gf's all around!"
"make it so titans cant bridge into lowsec or use their bridge's in....lowsec fixed"
"this would be lovely. but it wouldn't fix lowsec, it would just remove a bit of gayness."
"i used to pvp as anti-pirate. there is this one fc who roleplays and i pretty much knew every lowsec roam with him would trash my security status.which caused some major issues when it came to wardec time in highsec.so yes, i support.good idea!"
"suggestion to embelsih the current proposal is to extend the existing contract system we have to accomodate bounty hunter contacts. as a result you could use a combination of private and public mediums even alliance contracts to afford a sensible selection. in this sense using the contracts mechanics for bh. the i guess when used with a forum for services or otherwise for people who have established reputations. seems to give flexibility to contracts rather than restirciting to corps, alliances or public as a selection. the most important part is being able to optionally avoid the person who a kill right is about of an affiliate simply lifting the contract for personal motivations.also from a previous discussion regarding transferable kill rights, tippia had some interesting ideas also:"
"i had suggested that when you place a bounty you can specify which alliances are allowed to collect, but i like the idea of tying it to the standings system better.you do have to think out how to calculate payouts when multiple bounties are placed with differing rules, and you have a kill mail with players with different relationships to those rules, but an evening with a towel round our heads should be able to work out the right algorithm.supported."
"people dont get killrights when killed by wartargets."
"people already have killrights on wartargets by definition. as mentioned earlier, in theory this could allow warring corps to place bounties on wartargets. depending on how far we wanted to take this, that would give us two possibilities(1) we could limit collection of those bounties to the issuing corp. basically they would simply be a method for a corp member to incentivise and reward the members of his corp to prosecute the war(2) as a further possibility, we could consider allowing \"letters of marque\", where corps could offer open bounty contracts on wartargets. i like this concept because it would introduce a badly needed element of risk into declaring war, but i am also cautious of the possibility of abusenote that bounty contracts on war targets would expire when the war does."
"i don't see why it shouldn't be possible to assign a bounty contract directly to a specific third party corp/alliance, but there may be a limitation in the contract code that prevents this. it should certainly be possible to limit collection of a bounty to one's own corp/alliance in a way analogous to any other corp or alliance contract we can make now.personally i find the idea of a mixed fleet of bounty hunters stalking their prey whilst discussing amongst them selves exactly who will have to kill whom in order to optimise bounty collection rather intricate & amusing"
"firstly, supported. the player bounty system is terrible and needs iteration.this proposal is effectively a transferable killright in the form of a contract. i wonder whether instead of limiting who may accept a contract, the preferred method of providing that killright could be to make a private contract. that is, a person has legitimate grievance from being ganked, finds the forum post of a bounty hunter group, then discusses terms with them (or just makes the contract). this would be along side an open(ish) contract system as you propose.this way the injured party could find a reputable group and give them the rights to kill the bad guy. reputation would be gained/lost in similar ways to 3rd party services are now.also, the focus of your proposal is on highsec, so one addition i would like to suggest is the ability to add nullsec only (because everybody effectively has killrights on everybody else in nullsec) open \"contracts\" for aliance members/allies (based on standings) to collect. it would be useful in wartime to have a system where an alliance can put bounties on all members of an enemy corp/alliance to encourage their members/allies to engage those enemies. if it were paid out as a portion of ship insurance or pod value in the same way as has already been suggested with a player defined pool and cap per kill, it would allow a direct in-game method to take alliance level income and distribute it to members for their activity.i think in the case of marketing the bounty hunter \"profession\", they're meaning ratting (hunting npc pirates for concord bounties)"
"i'm kind of uncertain about bounties and 0.0. the whole point of bounty hunting is to avenge crimes, which are an oxymoron in 0.0 where the only law is lex talonis.still i can't think of any good reason to oppose the idea of alliance a granting all its members an effective bonus for killing members of alliance b. perhaps it would be best to require that a wardec b in order for a bounty contract to be created."
"i love the idea of the bounty-payer stipulating who can collect on the bounty, this is sound and cool in every way. the one concern i have is that there is still a loophole whenever you involve the player economy. let's say there's a 500mil bounty on player x, open to everyone. player x manipulates the market for small t2 sentry drone rigs (or any rarely used module that you like) up to 1 billion isk. player x puts this 200k module on a 200k imicus, has alt blow it up, and wham he gets the whole payout. if this devious mastermind player x wants the bounty gone because it's just annoying, he can do the same thing and just fly around a hub in his \"1 billion isk imicus\" . sure, someone will actually get the 500mil, but at negligible loss to player x.i agree this system is better than the current one, but the current one is a dated piece of trash. maybe the fix is simple - calculate payoffs based on mass of the ship and tech-level. that is to say, killing a bigger ship would entitle the players into bigger portion of the payout, and a t2 frigate is more valuable than a t1 cruiser, and a t3 cruiser is more valuable than a t1 bs, et cetera. when adding a bounty, perhaps allowing the bounty-payer the ability to stipulate how many times he wants the target killed (up to a certain cap) could be a cool tweak.i see a lot of people saying \"now that we have implants on pod mails, yada yada yada\". the bounty system, ideally, would be a low-sec thing. this is low-sec, a competent low-sec pilot only gets podded going through rancer (or your favorite smartbombing pipe system) or when he wants to. we shouldn't base a new system on the foundations of the broken one."
"small t2 sentry drone rigs don't have any npc price that i'm aware of."
"i was wondering about your crazy faction repair chit thing - insane :p"
"ccp will never make adjustment to items, beacuse of their market value and i have always supported that of my 7 years of playingtbh in im for nerfing missions a lot"
"what? are you serious? if you really have been playing for seven years - or at the very least, paying attention to things - then you can't fail to have noticed how, for instance, they nerfed the market value of meta 4 prop mods by vastly increasing the drop ratethis proposal is only to increase the tag supply to make the lp storesyou knowviableplease understand the proposal before posting"
"bump"
"an excellent suggestion, i will add it to additional thoughts rather than expanding the original post.edit: i added it, but after thinking about it some more it occurs to me that this is kind of redundant for a ship with bridging capabilities, were you suggesting this instead of the capability to bridge?"
"fail.there is a best path and ships: minmatar and mining with guns, you can do everything in the game from this.the only tools you have as noob is free noobships just capable to kill belt rats in noob systems.on the other hand vet have the ability/possibility/imunity of gank/scam/steal assets whatever to noobs and they are proud of it, this tells a lot about eve community maturity like it or not. there's a good point in what you just mentioned there, as blizzard having millions of players that of course you place as being uninteresting players but i'm sure their money is as good as yours when it comes to subs, specially if those do'nt use rating/mining bots to pay sub with plex... oupsho, humans had hard time living a few thousand years before but as you see (i hope) some of them evolved in to intelligent humain beings speaking several languages that travel around their planet and can see far than the botom of their nose.you obvilously don't.eve is still noob unfriendly, corporations and players still have two engines to move on: farm km's no matter what you have to do to get those and paranoia, it's a big + if you're unemployed a student being at home more often than at school or retired.(******** might help too)"
"this.don't forget the interaction of self-destruct and skill loss for t3 ships. removing the pilot's choice to self-destuct to save his skills would be sad."
"noesself destruction should get improvements and not just be the laugh it is, i want my ship to blow and make dmg around.what are you afraid of if someone chooses to self destruct and get some of your 10 friends with it? -yes because you'll never engage without at least 2/3 jamers and double neutral reps right?you want to talk about fairness? -e-honour?self destruction should provide the ultimate dmg source for every pilot. this would bring new tactics, more intelligent people and less pawn just good to hit f1.what a joke, guys playing pussie games talking about e-honour....i'm stil laughing."
"the problem is that according to the gms they can't verify the complaints are false, either. apparently qa is so bad on patches to the ui and graphics engine that real, but rare, graphics and ui bugs (such as, apparently, mine) happen regularly, but can't be verified by in game logs. meaning, god help you if you get one and it costs you, because they (now? because this was not the case back in my day) cannot issue a refund based on issues with the game that happen on your computer unless the devs tell them it's real.or by, you know, looking, since it's increasingly clear from gm responses that they fail to do the bare minimum of research into problems at all. my most recent constantly referred back to a previous petitions. out of the five gms that played hot potato with it, only one had bothered to read the previous petition in question without prompting, and only because he had been the one to close it erroneously."
"i posted this idea to my blog, ("
"intriguing idea. and how about having a \"captcha\" type human interface to the special module to make it hard for macro miners?"
"no, god-damnit, captcha has no business in eve, ever!"
"tell you what...you use it...and tell us how it works out for you....for 5 months straight.as to the op - i like the idea...but your likely to cause the market to end off worse than it did before.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"i'd hope that ccp would consider market effects & adjust drops accordingly. the concept is to promote & reward those players that are at their keyboard. you could even use the system to simply increase mining yields of the same ore/min type.thanks for the feedback."
"hi,i would like to propose some following changes, so that eve is more dynamic, and the different aspects and areas reflect better, on how different areas (nullsec, lowsec, highsec & wormholespace)reflect properly on risk vs reward when it comes on the income side.i feel this is needed when 66%~ of the population lives in highsec.this should prove enough of a reason to the population of eve, that highsec is way to profitable to ever bother going to explore lowsec/nullsec/wormhole space.im not saying this to force people to move to another area for us evil pirates/gankers/blobbers from huge alliances, so we have more targets.but as i see it t oday showing on each devblog on how the population is spread. i feel this is a neccesary step so that people properly explore the riches around eve. i know that low sec already dosent have too many things that draws people to it atm, and ccp is addressing this. and eve is a sandbox game where you do what you want, but as it is today risk vs reward, is not properly set.specially is this to level 4 missions.what i want done.readjust the loyaltypoint income of level 4 missions by 25-40%. so that it comes in line with the risk vs reward of the other aspects of the game.and other highsec activities (highsec incursions done properly and etc)some reasoning to this:i am a 7 year veteran (bittervet) of this game.not famous of any kind just enjoy this game, but as i see theres plenty of territory for those who are willing to risk to get reward.when i after 4months of playing back in the \"old days\" i was tired of highsec already ( yes i did live in highsec after my first couple of nullsec lives), i took the chance of going to 0.0 to join the big alliances. and the riches that would come to me for taking that risk.today i feel its another story.you have so much income from level 4 missions, through loyalty points, all agents today has no quality level anymore which means you can spread out evenly and lower the risk even more for highsec ganks/plays, i feel that through this there is no risk except for dieing in a mission, bring a logistics alt and there you go totally risk free income.i would like some of the csm candidates to view this and take a position on this, though alter my proposal as you see fit.cya on fanfest guys!"
"i approve."
"please do press the like button then :)"
"i think the only thing they need to adjust is the mining sector.these days mining isnt that safe at it was. there are too many gankers these days and you can easily pop a hulk with boosts and an orca supporting it with just 2 or maybe 3 low sp destroyers. so the risk has gone up but the reward hasnt. therefor i think there needs to be something new for miners. also you can only mine for 6mill/hour with a decent hulk. this is just way too low.incursions and missions shouldnt get any asjustments simply because they are already good. at the moment you can make around 40-60mil/hour doing lvl 4 missions + salvaging them. this is easily doable without any high risks.incursion require communication skills, a group of people and still has a high risk of losing your ship. also you need to have a good ship + good skills to run them good enough to be able to contest other fleets. therefor the reward is higher and is at a steady 70-120millexploration in highsec still has a high reward but requires the skills to scan sites. so really if you compare it all, the only thing that needs to be adjust is the mining sector. the rest is balanced join -jxt- public for more information"
"40-60mill isk a hour for lvl4 missions is way to high, in a space where you cant really be ganked unless your stupid.for running anomalies in 0.0, you get also 50-80mill isk a hour, where anyone can kill you, which i belivie it is a little to low comparison to lvl4 missions when you factor in the risk.when it comes to mining thats based out of the market price for tritanium and etc. though for highsec ganking, it would maybe be on time for a buff of the hulk for this matter."
"i agree with dipluz. there is not enough people in low-sec and nullsec doing what they do in high-sec: making money for themselves. yes, there are lots of alliances, but you just don't see the kind of economy and traffic that high-sec has created. missions have been drastically noob-erized so that everyone can do them. this has made it impossible for new players to want anything other than easy isk.changing something must be done. don't force people to move, but make it encouraging. theres gold in them tharrrrr hills!"
"good now adjust nullsec to reflect the near risk less lifestyle for huge rewards removing local is a good start there then either cutting faction/ded/officer item drop rates and rat bounty's by at least 30% while reducing the number of faction spawns too and/or making plexs harder to do so no more solo tengusthat should help with the risk free nullsec isk printing machine ps. before you start whining and crying that nullsec had risk remember about those intel channels and the risk free intel local provides at least this way you will have to risk something for your reward.let the nullsec carebear tears flow."
"whilst i am prepared to accept that reward rebalancing may be needed, i don't actually think this will get more people into lower sec space. in fact, by making stuff more expensive to re-equip, it might have the opposite effect.people chose to live in hi-sec because they are that sort of person. avid pvpers may find it hard to accept that spoiling someone else's day is not something that everyone gets off on. (i know that that's not what pvp is really about, but it is what hi-sec folk perceive it to be about. after all, the only experience of pvp that most of them have is when some ganker spoils their day.)"
"removing local is a dumb thing, go to wormhoel space if you want 0.0 without local, its needed for corporation/alliance organsational use like intel channels, fleet ops etc.if you really think that intel channels and local really helps too much, you give up before youve even properly tried catching people in anomalies, belts etc. dont be lazy use directonal scanner etc.we are a small corp in a 160man alliance and we have very large amount of kills even with local. so removing that has no proper purpose. faction/ded/officer spawns is the only thing holding 0.0 people in 0.0, if you limit that you will have a huge spike in people just living in highsec. beacuse its risk free.not all systems is upgraded with super lvl5 ded complex upgrades, beacuse of politics and etc. maybe you should live more in 0.0 before you posted this, you seem very unexperienced with 0.0. ive lived in 0.0 for properly around 5-6 years time on and off."
"arr theres the whining i was looking for trying to wriggle out of the fact your nothing more than a mad emo raging little carebear how pathetic please cry more i will enjoy the day your isk printing press is nerfed"
"making stuff more expensive dosent help anyone, the rebalance of isk income is the thing, beacuse people will take risks if they can earn more money, other places. but it has to be a risk that is rewardring to overcome."
"tbh i couldnt care much abou isk printing, im trying to find a way to encourage the people who makes enough isk doing lvl4's to even bother taking a couple of chances to go out to 0.0 and join alliances,corporations who live out t here. take part in bigger communities than sitting in their 40man highsec corp, do nothing more than do lvl4 missions till they either, gets ganked by people like me beacuse hey, theres no more targets in nullsec. or they quit the game beacuse they grow tired of lvl4 missions beacuse wtf is the point of having billions of isk if you have nothing more to buy beacuse hey bigger ships cant be flown in highsec or hey now i own all pirate battleships my goal in this game is fufilled."
"ofcourse people, we cannot force people to move to lowsec or nullsec/wh space. and i dont see buffing anomaly hunting in 0.0 a solution, but reducing the lucrative lvl4 mission income, is a way for people to look elsewhere. beacuse the income in a game like eve is important (dont fly anything you cannot afford to loose)."
"shut up idiot \"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" - abrazzar"
"the isk vs reward does need to be tweaked a bit i do agree - for me i live in null sec - i cant get into a carrier and short of teamin up with other characters ratting is a first come to belt first get reward situation with me and my ratting bsbut something that bugs me is that null sec is far too safe a place to be unless you come thru into a gate camp or get caught by a fleet there really isnt anything about here that can kill you - and half the time its more dangerous in high sec due to the ganking. i think making the reward a little less is the wrong way to do it, simply make it a bit harder - more scrambling rats, more dps and more randomisation of rat sets so a simple cookie cutter fit no longer is the be all end all in missions. even more distance between sites would reduce the isk per hour on travel aloneas for working on mining the reward isnt as obvious as scrape a rock sell the dust - mining is only less profitable for people in high sec becuase there is no risk at all (from the game itself) and its very time consuming, what with all the bots etc available with a google search the only way to increase your income is to move to null like me and mine here where you can make a lot more isk just out of ores.or go full industry and manufacture things out here with the ore you mine. risk vs rewards -> mining here is risky so its also good for iskiesi can manufacture shuttles out of ore gained by reprocessing other peoples loot they leave with a nocits. then that shuttle sells for 300,000.00 isk - that profit is insane from 20 mins harvesting 1 site giving me enough ore to make 50 with no bother.a couple mil investment like im doing get a pos up in a system and start manufacturing ammunition.in a fleet people pay insane ammounts for ammunition out here -> ur 3m trit might get you 9m isk in high sec, manufacture some ammo out of that and you can get 90m in a day or two from the same ammount of effort.what i want to see is null sec stations offering missions in local space - a lvl3 in null would be reidulously rewarding compared to a lvl3 in high"
"won't this just increase the value of lp?"
"i'll agree with you the day where null sec will be free o absolutely all the null sec rating bots (hundreds and even thousands of those but seems ccp can't do a crap about it)because a single rating bot in null sec in his drake is completely intouchable, and does for about 700m to over 1b a day. where's your risk when you know ccp can't do a **** about it and that your perfect bot docks/kiss the poss if some neutral appears?c'mon intelligent guy i'm sure you have an answer al made for this.now there are hundreds of those in tengus and carriers, what is your proposal about this?so your ols rabble about high sec income not only is flawded but it's once again to previlege those already crawling on billions of isk, the same ones buying characters on toons bazaar very often, most of those have lots of alts since it's easy to pay their sub right?idiot ideas are idiot."
"it's as if you've totally glossed over l4 bots, because of course nobody bots in highsec \"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" - abrazzar"
"\"no he's just running his level 4s very enthusiastically, that's why he doesn't respond to convos and why he's out for 18 hours a day\" \"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" - abrazzar"
"slap sleeper/incursion ai into all npcs, should shake things up a bit."
"i have just one questionhow does the one make any freaking money if not wh's or incursionsincursion lp has apparently inflated also normal level 4 lp stores to nearly bull value, doing level 4's in low or null seems pretty pointless, go figure. it seems botting level 4's in hi sec/null sec is still profitable thoughor titan ratting.wait there might be hidden bonus questions"
"shameless bump"
"thank you for the complements... i based my estimate of titans and supercaps from the q4 qen report. in there, they discuss supercap proliferation. at the end of 2010, there were 472 titans and 1782 scs in game, with 94 and 595 built in the last quarter of 2010, respectively. assuming similar production during the four quarters of 2011, i think my estimates are very reasonable, although the fall of the nc in the north and the wars in the south might have hindered production and increased supercap death more than i realize.the current situation has supercaps entering the game far more quickly than they die. in an ideal situation, their destruction would be on par with their production. this would be a very economically healthy scenario, filled with lots of tears to boot. however, they still aught to be powerful enough to represent the significant investment they represent. imo, balancing them is very difficult."
"i lol'edi am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"+1 because need supcap changes.i totally agreed with first point. need increasing supcap prices.but i think need other changes too. over 4k supercap in the game. that's horrible and ruined the fights. bring more supercaps tactic is a bullsh*t. no chanches"
"i've mentioned in the past that i think the easiest and best way to limit titans is to tied them the the fc position in a fleet. titans are supposed to be the centerpiece of a grand armada, so no matter how many you have, requiring a critical mass of fleet members getting fleet boosts from them should be required to power up more than just their ability to move around. i personally think around 200 people should be required, but that slants things in favor of huge groups possibly too much. a more realistic number would be 100, since if you can't field 100 pilots you have no business fielding a titan.if you do this, any given side could field no more than 3-4 titans in a given fight. and 3-4 titans, while definitely a strong battlefield presence, are not unbeatable without more titans.super carrier blobs aren't a real issue ever since they lost their drones. they are still pretty hard to kill, and thats all right, but they can no longer dominate every battlefield just by being there. if you enemy brings a hac fleet, or bc fleet, or similar small sized hull, then you can just start eating the supers for lunch, one at a time, and all they can do is rr each other(hence being hard as hell to kill)."
"apologies velicitia, my english is not very good. but yes i did ment within the corp.i have though of contracts, but there is a problem for them, - they cost isk to be done, - you cannot make an \"infinite\" amount,as for the outpost system, i like the idea and the concept but it cannot be applied to all corporations, and also to the corporation that does more low/med/high sec stuff. and i do not believe it would be much work to be done, as far as my knowledge in programmation brings me. ccp would have to do a simple category or group, within the current market, this group would only be shown using a certain feature separated from the regular market, pretty much like a shortcut on your desktop, but that shortcut is the only way to acces one file from the market folder.then the corporation could have to spend fees to have a hold into the market, pretty much the same as getting an office. for the corp who gets the market, it is then created a space for them into the corporation category, a price could even be fixed by ccp or even, concord taxes that would be applied on the items since no taxes can be applied from the corp. this would add a little more to the rp of eve. in general, there are realy many ways to modify and adapt this concept, but the only main purpose is to simplify large and small marketing into ones corporation."
"i just had a great reading of this and lols (still laughing now thinking about rats spaming local)just because it's really funny +1"
"eve has like 500k subscribers and was only 360k a year ago.wow has like 13million.rift had 1million pre-launch.swtor had 1.7million active subscribers at launch.as far as the mmo world is concerned eve has poor subscription numbers... how-ever, what sets it apart from the others is that it has been growing continuously since its inception where-as fail games like wow that are just designed at luring and trapping weak soles is losing subscribers now."
"i didn't think to try that yet, thankyou for saving me the time."
"*squinty eyes* cant tell if trolling, or... really really stupid."
"also drake, quick english lesson for you the difference between your and you're with pictures"
"try reading your own posts....do i need to underline your own words?================ stop the evemail spam!"
"ok well for the sake of assuming you're not a troll i will underline your words and answer them for you.you're getting two separate things mixed up ill make it very simple for you:i have never had to vote as an alliance.i have always had to vote as a corp.see the difference yet?also, it is you're not your.... as in \"you are not making any sense\" not \"the not making of any sense is belong to you\""
"how does this beast interact with courier contracts? can you make a contract for moving a ship (or ships) which this hauler can fulfil, and if so, how is it clear which contracts can be done with this hauler?i'm thinking that corps may well want to offer the service of moving missioneers from one agent to another, for example."
"i don't thank you get the idea this support tug ship is designed to be a ship to move around your other big ships so you not have to repackage them and loseing your rigs. yes a carrier can haul 1-2 battleships bit they can't be used in high sec space. before you say drop the care bear act no that i'm not a care bear and do enjoy pvp and low sec but i also enjoy running missions. also i have different battleships that i like to use to make it more interesting to run missions. for that i don't want to jump 20 jumps then go back and get my other ships 2-3 times. this support tug ship is perfect for this. plus it could be a good idea for null as well not sure however"
"for someone like me that is not willing to train capitals with my character to get stuck in some nyx, and believe me i really love that ship, this tug would be the perfect ship.i'm not willing neither to put 5b in a crappy jump freighter that can't hold my fitted ships and cargo (hello nanite paste ccp?)i do have to train for a carrier just for my own logistics because the price is acceptable, i can load 2 fitted bs or several other ships, have a corp hangar etc, so if i don't have the choice but to move i'll be free to do it by my own.this is where the tug ship idea is awsome, just fill the ships cargo with your stuff, put your ships in the tug undock, jump to cyno and dock. 2min logistics = more time to play aroundcould also be a new service for corps and help a lot of players with stuff stuck in null stations"
"it will also create a new opportunity for freight corporations.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"courier missions for other ships would be an interesting subject, as courier packages are a pain in the ****. but seeing as how a fitted ship would be in the courier container, i don't see why it wouldn't work out with courier contracts. but, if there was anything other than an assembled ship in the courier container, the ship would not be able to haul it.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"ah never had your wormhole pos camped 24/7 by a major invader huh?most wormhole corps are small size the current wormhole mechanic is a good thingyou want to stabilize my wormhole so you can shove endless amounts of t3's through it? would you consider letting me moon mine in my wormhole? now that would make you 00 carebears really cryoh and for crying out loud you wanted the 5000+ members in your alliance so you could \"own\" 00 what's the problem? having a hard time supporting all of them?cry harder i'll send some tissues i suggest you figure out how to make 00 profitableotherwise it seems like you're a failure at 00 and just want to mooch off the pro's who specialize in making team work happen in wormholes certainly seems that way with lowsec incursions pathetic really pathetic"
"can't be arsed with changing account ..you need to have combat probes at highest strength, meaning minimum size, to find the t3's that were unprobable before .. so the \"insta-probe\" does not exist unless the booster is dumb enough to hang around the celestial from which the prober drops his load.if you can do it in one or two cycles against a t3 that is not dumb, then you are using a hack but as i have said previously, by all means lets keep the links nice and cozy but then i want to be able use my logis from anywhere in system as well .. the effect is infinitesimal in power and doesn't scale at all by comparison so that should be fine, right?it is just plain wrong that one can project the amount of power that links provide without needing to be anywhere near the action .. makes for bad gameplay. were it to be balanced then a semi-afk client should be able to find the linkship just as it can be semi-afk .. and that is just silly .. right?"
"i like this idea, but i think theres some compromise needed. people pay for alt accounts just to run booster on them. they invested billions in them, either in plex or char bazaar. you cant just take it away from them.i would make it like that: leave boosters as they are (eventually nerf a little if needed - debatable), but increase their effectiveness by 100% if on grid."
"i think removing off grid boosting will hurt more than it will help and puts too much advantage in the fleet that is already on grid i know that an off grid booster upsets people but its the only way to insure level playing field if he's sitting in a pos, oh well, take the pos down if he's in space scan him down and find him even if you don't point him, he must warp and as command mods turn off in warp so the boosters are off also so task organize your attack and neutralize his boosters bring your own boosters to help too, whatever everyone has the same ability to boost in a system, but having to be on grid gives ridiculous advantage to the first on grid (defense) and especially to the already too prevalent kiting fleetsexample, my fleet is trying to catch one or multiple targets in system perhaps baiting, perhaps utilizing a warp in from a cloaky once the scan is achieved the tackler goes in i have interdiction manuevers and rapid deployment on when the tackler arrives we might get the point and lock him down, but only if, and only if, he's not already aligned if he stays and is kiting still, the rapid deployment and interdiction maneuvers might give the extra boost needed to get the scram and web in what would otherwise fail to reach as they burn out of range i cannot accompany him into the fight until the target is locked because i cannot boost while in warp if i have to wait until i pop on grid, target is probably gone as my warp speed is slower if we fleet warp, then its the slowest warp speed ship to the fleet and that negates the warp in to a large extent due to the target having already moved too far already part of the power of the interceptor isn't just mwd speed but warp speed to if he's tied to my warp speed that scan lock is now worthless as the targets now too far if we do it right, once the target is locked down then i bring my mrym in and help with the kill, and turn boosts back on, but i only do this once i know the target/ targets are fully locked downif i couldn't do this, then even more targets would just endlessly warp off/burn away and get away/win often a target will stay on grid and not warp away thinking he can win with just some little tackler on grid with him what do you think will happen if i bring in my bc, or a t3 or a command ship instant running like 90% of people do already plus, often we are trying to do multiple things in the system, like block more than one gate at a time now i can't boost system wide why bother flying it then? instead of seeing more command ships/command modules etc, you'll see lessin other applications, the fleet already on grid will have their boosts running and when the attacking fleet arrives, they may not show up all at once (sure preferred but when warping in at optimals, different ships will arrive due to different warp speeds) you'll have to wait for boosting ships to arrive and then some of the key boosts such as info and skirmish might already be too late - as certain ships have already been jammed or escaped due to boosts/lack there offinally, on grid is too squishy i mean you can play grid fu all day long and exploit the grid to your favor to isolate boosters from the combat fleet if your clever again, favoring the defensethe best way to keep it relatively fair is system wide sure, they can have a pos, but you know what? you rate some advantage for having a pos burn it down, bring your own boosts, whatever them being in a pos doesn't negate you bringing your boosts being on grid only denies the attacker too many options"
"not quite. the whole point of bounties is to avenge a grievance, whether that was from a crime or otherwise. law only comes into the picture when it's a legal autority placing the bounty. underworld crimelords put bounties on people's heads regardless of the legality of said bounty. think jabba's bounty on han solo.hence a wardec being a requirement would simply be a nuisance (outside of empire).if there is a \"rebel\" group operating in npc nullsec raiding sovereign space, then the sov holding alliance would benefit from having the ability to provide incentives (through an in-game mechanism that works) to their members or allies to hunt down said group. if a wardec is a requirement, then allies wishing to cash in on the bounty would also have to wardec the other alliance to claim payment, even though they're fighting in 0.0 anyway.again, tying it to a portion of the ship's value would avoid exploitation, although exploiting it in this case may require burning a spy too."
"true enough, i must have misread. fromi assumed you were gathering destroyed module value from somewhere. if you simply go by insurance payouts, how do you deal with t2/t3? tengus, for instance, are a fairly common low-sec ship and have a 5 million premium for an 18 million payout. so in this proposed system a 600mil fit tengu pays out 12 million. maybe i active tank my tengu and the price jumps up to 2 bil, does the bounty hunter still only get 12 mil?basically: do you make a distinction between fits? and at what point do you bring the player market into things, and how do you prevent abuse if you do?"
"fair enough. it seems like a pretty marginal hole to me anyway - manipulating the market across the entire game in order to reduce the cost of clearing off a bounty seems like a hell of a lot of effort to me unless it's a truly massive bounty. if someone has the expertise and is prepared to go to all the trouble & expense of doing that, then maybe they're entitled to scrape off their bounty.it occurrs to me that we could also further mitigate that hole by basing the bounty value of a ship or module on a 30-day rolling average sale price of the components of that module. that way controlling the small sentry rig market isn't enough; you need to control the drone transceiver, tripped power circuit and burned logic circuit market too. much harder to do!it would be more developmentally expensive than using the insurance price, but this method would also solve the issue of realistic bounty values for t3 and t2 ships.it fails on assigning \"proper\" values for faction/officer mods & ships though, unless you wanted to count them as their own component and just take the rolling average price. theoretically this allows for manipulation, but i think not in any practical way."
"i'm still waiting for a skill that allows corpses to be repackaged allowing us to have a chance at recovering their implants..."
"unfortunately that's the harsh reality of eves current npe. back in the day before ccp nerfed newbie sp, new characters were able to jump into most activities on their first day. nowadays new characters can't really do anything except mission run and mine. believe me, i've checked. the starting skills are a joke and don't allow a newbie to do anything. my main wrote a blog about this in response to the new dev blog the ease of eve at"
"my experience with the gms has generally been positive. what sort of petitions do you make?"
"hmm... mostly mission bugs. since 09 i've made 2 refund requests (3 if you count republic standing loss instead of reward from completing a faction mission successfully), including the most recent, both non-standing refunds were refused, one because the gm informed me that they could not tell where i was in space that the issue happened, and the other because ui bugs are unprovable without a dev reporting that the bug was real."
"all my experience with gms has been negative tbh. on the rare occasion i have had to ask for reimbursement for a loss that is due to serever side lag or issues has always been refused. this wouldnt annoy me so much if it wasnt for teh fact i know several people who have had very similar losses reimbursed by the same gms.i love eve, but the gm system is far to open to easy abuse. ie if the gm likes you or if you are prepared to become such a nuisance that they will give you what you want to shut you up."
"you can't really expect to have a positive result when your most common answer to any issue is a pre-scripted \"sucks to be you\" answer. i have lost a lot of ships to server crashes that were never reimbursed because the \"logs didn't show anything\". i lost a tengu in \"maze\" back when the jump gates were all arranged in a big circle. got trapped dead center of it on warp in and couldn't get out. i was killed by rats. i got nothing on reimbursement because the logs didnt show anything but a week later ccp conveniently made a change to maze that separated out all the jump gates and fixed the issue.so yeah...ccp's track record on gm responses is pretty much **** and due to the nature of the game it will likely never change."
"that does sound a lot like one of my petitions. i was stuck on an invisible object, petitioned while i was stuck, waited for three hours, no response, finally died. no refund either because the log didn't show where i was, or what i was stuck on."
"this will never work. as has been explained on a million other thread about this, you will never get the risk adverse players in hi sec to play in low/null. i have no idea why you even want to force them to.some people are happy to mine all day. some like building ships. others like to dabble in the markets. a big chunk in hi sec like to run missions. more power to them. whatever it takes for them to log in and enjoy eve their way.missions are boring as sin once you've run them for the millionth time and eventually people will get bored and will want to try new things. there's no need to nerf it, just stop adding content to it so it becomes boring so quickly that anything else in low/null will seem really entertaining in comparison.this way you don't annoy a large portion of the players (hi sec people outnumber low/null by a huge margin, don't forget this) that want to continue running missions.i would also take issue with the people in this thread stating there's risk in low/null for ratting and plexing.once you are in a system, there's virtually no way in hell you can die to anything unless you are stupid and don't watch intel channels or local. i personally have sat for a day running plexes in branch with not another soul in the system in all the time i was there. where's the risk there? time to nerf null judging by the op's logic.the only real risk is travelling through the gates but jump bridges reduce a lot of that. as it stands i think hi sec is actually more dangerous as there's an awful lot of neutrals around that may or may not gank/pod you for lulz. mission runners have risks as well from griefers and ninjas.hi sec is safer but not totally safe as you will see if you bother to check stats on the map for kills in the last hour and 24 hours. most of the big red blobs are in hi sec!!tl;dr don't encourage ccp to nerf anything else. just don't add anymore content for missions in hi sec."
"yet it's by far more dangerous to undock in high sec than in null sec, believe me i don't play this game seriously for a long time (1.5 year at better and few try before) but i've spent more time playing missions in high sec than any activity in null sec and you can believe when i tell you null sec is 0 risk if you learn the simple basics that are bm's and watch local.bm's and watch local+ standings, something it's impossible in high sec, you don't even know if it's a guy in your own corp that is going to gank you (npc corps), you never know if the smalest ship in the belt next to you is there to try to can flip you or just the warp in for the gank gang, and what about jita and all the other big trade hubs?those are no mans land and where you can figure easily how concord reaction/coding is a joke.there are far hundreds more faction/officer fitted bs/tengus rating safely in null sec than you will ever see in the greatest mission hubs in high sec all together. then add all the carrier/super carrier/titan faction/officer fit rating dudes and cry me a river about high sec income that needs to be nerfed.what needs to be nerfed in high sec is how easy it is for some risk averse pubbies to gank for max profit with 0 effort. and don't start talking about ss because the one trying to will look like another stupid pawn incapable to understand that in a single couple of hours if you kill 1bs rat per system and move on in null/low your ss raises at ridiculous speeds.gank is a valid tactic but should not be the stupid mongoloid gameplay that is today and ss farming should be a real pain for months on a daily farming basis to get back to normal.what needs to be nerfed is how easy it is to high sec risk averse pubbies that call them selves \"pirates\" to keep their free risk activity whilist destroying the game for a lot of players and also kicking ccp right in the balls because those customers gone will hardly return. kick them from high sec, make them get instantly ganked by concord and local police if they ever undock with something else than their pod, make those risk averse pubbies really play the game and lets see then how much high sec income needs to be nerfed.i can't wait to see those \"elite pvp\" pubbies come to null and have a taste of my auto canons but you know what? -they will probably leave the game, because they are risk averse and everything they like is to fap in front of their kb full of mission faction fited bs ganked freighters at the undocks and awesome pvp stuff alike with the obvious neutral alts for jams and reps. let them leave, hope they get their ass kicked by the door closing.missions are boring in your personal opinion, by the way they're so boring as you say that the richest players in eve did a lot of those gazillions isk they swim in all day long by selling omega implants they got with lp's, and guess what? -those are null sec pirate missions, awesome, it's really boring 1b the implant actually in jita heh?it's the oposite that must be done, lvl5 in null/low no one does them, bring them to high sec, crush the lp's market, people will eventually get bored and start using a lot more faction ships/fit for pvp, isn't that nice?actually who wins something with lp's?incursion runners (that are the sames all the time in high sec and the sames in null sec), they get gazillions of lp's they transform later in whatever empire lp's and so on, plus see their wallet blink like you could only dream of.the issue is that incursions are not for the common player, you need to have a lot of spare time and play with the same dudes a lot, try to join an high sec incursion just like that and see what happens, if you're not all 5's with the pubbie vindicator's fit he wishes and same for whatever ship you can always sit ther and wait, it's wow on steroids but worst.exactly but not no matter how. just nerf tech moon and all moon minerals to the ground and bring those to all players instead of some in the alliance. alliance and corporations wealth should come from the number of rich players in and willing to put their isk on the table to control/keep something, not from afk/passive/whatever stuff any idiot with an iteron quafe plus can suck up just by installing a pos in 10minutes and threat everyone because he can drop hundred titans/sc'ssome are already working on pocos taxes and increasing the taxes to their own alliance mates at 15% (saw this lately in goon space, seems their alliance mates are getting 15% butt hugs, and some other regions in other alliances at 5%)ccp nerf this, if it's not npc pocos then tax should not be possible to raise above 10% by alliances, and i'm quite sure that even at 10% tax rate the monthly income per poco starts at least at 1billion profit.what needs to be nerfed is how easy it is for some megacorp or alliance to sit there and get gazillions of isk out of no where with rents, taxes, pi taxes, bounty tax, moon goo and a lot of more funky stuff. actually high sec and null sec mechanics are so flawded by \"players driven content\", but mostly ability to exploit basic rules, that ccp will not have the choice at some point but to make high sec totaly safe and increase significantly wars in null sec."
"the reason why highsec can be dangerous is that you do missions all at the same place, its a reason why ccp removed the quality level, is beacuse a lot of missioners in highsec is stacked in 1 system, highsec isnt risk free. you will still get concord unless your stupid and play the bait of the griefers. when i did missions in highsec i was smart to not take their bait, even though this is some time ago. if more people moved to nullsec it wouldnt be so risk free. that is the reason i want more people to come to 0.0, that is why i made this proposal. and jump-bridges is not as safe as it used to be, just run around and camp the stargets between the jb systems, which me and my corp has done for a year in drone russian space. and this has fruited around 1700 kills in about 9months time."
"agreed in principle, basically the flow should go like this:lowest income - highest safety - hiseclowsec is very dangerous, income should be substantially higher than hisec in every aspectnullsec is very dangerous but can be made safer by utilising huge amounts of isk and man hours to do so so should have the highest incomewormhole space should be roughly in line with nullsec in income as the dangers and so on are similar in elevel but different in nature.you should never be able to make the most isk in the safest environment, which currently you can. and dont be a **** and tell me how hisec is dangerous, its only dangerous if you are stupid."
"you think nullsec is very dangerous lol pathetic highsec carebears dont have a clue"
"here's the essential problem i see, and it's easily observable. prices on everything has been going through the roof, and it's because of isk inflation. as it stands, with incursions, fw missions, plexing, etc. there is too much isk being poured onto the market with no actual products being added, for the most part. prices go up, and mining becomes less attractive because people see how much money you can make on incursions and the like. mining just doesn't compete anymore as a way to make isk, so less items are being built, making prices go up again."
"i have to agree with tallian on this one. the import/export of the overview settings works fine for the vast majority of eve players who will probably only import their corp/alliance/fc preferred overview settings once.this ain't broken so no need to fix it."
"hmmm..... you all are still trying to limit a game that is not supposed to have limitations.if you want to do something about the \"supercap problem\" i suggest you train up some nice dreadnought skills, find about 50 other friends and do just that.if this is really a problem for you. go shoot them. man up and be a hero instead of whining out of game.and please don't argue with me until you've done the damage projections on how quickly 50 dreads take down a titan. p.s.oh.. and yes you will probably lose your dread. maybe that's too much of a risk for you? i'd risk it for taking out his titan. but maybe here's the real issue: risk averse players who don't want to teamwork with others to drop titans.good luck with your proposal.- 1"
"fly a combat cap ship into highsec, then.just because it's a sandbox doesn't mean there aren't limitations, it just means that the limitations should be applied with as delicate a hand as the designers can manage."
"hey, if ccp will remove these stupid cyno restrictions... i will gladly fly some pew pew caps into hisec."
"2012 jan 14 pl/raiden/nc./evoke fleet with +100 titans and +400 supercarriers."
"i think the easiest solution to this problem is remove turrets from titans. seriously, why do they even have them in the first place? turret damage should come from dreads only as the titans have their dd for capitals and structures. no need for the ridiculous situation we have now with titans instapopping rifters!carriers and super carriers as so ubiquitous that anyone dropping them will be hotdropped in return and as much as fighters do some damage to sub-capital fleets, they are a lot less effective and just like any other drone, they can be destroyed.carriers and super carriers without drones are pretty useless as an offensive weapon even though they can still provide rr.i really do think the problem is not capital ships themselves, just the stupid situation with titans."
"wow...you linked me a photo. big whoop. not impressed unless you get me a pic of the titan pilot's tears when his titan goes poof in under 30 seconds :)ever had 50 dreads siege on your titan? the tactic is sound. it's not a matter of whether the dreads will survive. they won't. and isk wise you may spend more to kill one titan. however a titan is much harder to acquire than a dreadnought. so yes. man up. oh... and you won't have any triage carriers on field for that titan :)"
"this is a simple and easy way to do this, yes teh titan should have to be fleet command position if its in fleet. the fleet should haev a critical mass (100 is reasonable) to be able to even put the titan in it. you coul do similar with supercarriers too, say only allow 1 supercarrier in a fleet for every 50 pilots, so a max of 5 supercarriers in a max size fleet.the only thing that i can see happening is that in peopels home systems you'd get titans and supercarriers flying along with you fleetless and therefore disabling teh limiting factors... so possibly limit that by removing the ability to rep (in any way, including cap) any ship that isnt in fleet with you. this would allow people to field their massive ships in home defence in huge numbers if they wanted to but suffer some drastic limitation. most importantly a travelling fleet would be limited to 1 titan and 5 supercarriers, and only this at a max size fleet."
"again just for you.we realized you dont know what happen in the game. you think it about 30 sec a titan with 50 dread where is 500 supercaps and support fleet ? i realy dont like retards, who know nothing from something but talk idiot things. you cant kill anything there. \"the tactic is sound\". oh my..... man, today the tactic against supercaps is bring more supercaps. no one using dreads again supercap blob, because they are so useless. most of supercap pilots went to the alliances (such as raiden or pandemic legion) which have the most supercaps and those alliances made blueblobfest.the biggest alliance is the goon in the game, they have over 6000pilot but they dont want to bring their dread fleets there, because dread so useless against massive supercap fleets and they dont want to lost them.do you think they or any big alliances cant bring +300 dreads against supercap blobs ? they can, but dont want to losing them and wasting resources over and over.and yes i linked you a photo because you i guess you live in high sec and we know you never see 500 supercaps and i show you, what happen in the present days in 0.0."
"carriers still have drones fyi. its just super carriers that lost them. carriers are effectively unchanged, other than t2 triage(which is much happy times)."
"not many folks here may know of future crew or skaven however they were one of the first well-known demo-scene groups. skaven is the name of one of the group members who produced a lot of music for future crew and he still continues to create music today for computer games. i think that if ccp could hire this guy to create some tunes for eve, and perhaps make the music more adaptive to whatever the player is doing, this could liven up the game a bit. for those of you not familiar with future crew, you can check them out at the following website:"
"bump for more exposure and support. i would like to see this idea taking on a role in new eden.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"+1this petition needs to stay on the first page"
"i saw a great warp effect that was from a scifi game mod/tech demo. light and fabric of space around planet warped and stretched in direction the ship travelled off in - anyone got a link?edit, thinking about it - i remember it was a fan effort. it basically showed a ship entering warp as observed from nearby ships and looked very, very cool."
"o boy what a joke. guys guys why is the price on items that are very easy to gain so high ? o you mean half the npc space will shoot me if i gather those items... o i don't want to do them. why is there no supplies ? why are the prices so high i want my lp rewards .my lp i need my lp. guys guys tags are broken. btw what you propose would make it worst since none in their right mind would run any faction missions."
"whoops! my bad"
"supported"
"wow, you're one of those folks, who completely lost connection with reality. you're so damn stuck in eve world, that you see freedom of others' speech as your own right. what you say is sacred. if ccp will ever add respec, i'm sure you'll still be stuck in eve anyway, or maybe a bit more on forums, trolling about it, but then others will not give a damn about it.if people were not so insisting on ideas, reopening old topics, there would have been very little changes in eve, as they would just disappear with pointless answers like yours. if you're against something state your opinion, and shut up, and don't try to shut up others. also get a life."
"biomass yourself"
"tradiotionally, eve has been a harsh world where \"live with your mistakes\" is the standard mantra. in such a world, perhaps retraining skills does not fit well. it also doesn't fit with the rp aspect -- you can't respec your training in the real world, after all.on the other hand, if ccp see reskilling as an important way to up subscriptions, then this proposal seems a less unreasonable approach than many. you could even imagine a rp scenario to explain, for example, how neural wiping whilst you sleep creates space for new skills to be injected unusually rapidly.i'm not sure ccp would be right to imagine that this will increase subs -- maybe people buy new subs to train extra toons the way they wanted them (as i did for an uber-salvage/reprocessing toon), whereas in the new world they would just respec their existing toon."
"in the interest of prosperity and no pink penis coloured ships i've created a survey on ship customisation to submit to ccp. while there have been many topics on this subject there has been little data gathered from pilots. this survey is light in nature and doesn't go into too much detail and will take you less than 2 minutes. a more specific survey will be created if enough participants take part to make the results meaningful and my final proposal will be based of these results.discourse, comments and suggestions are most welcome and your opinion matters regardless of whether you are for or against. please do so in this thread, or stimulate discourse in your corp and get them to take part too :p"
"current resultswhich of the following answers best describes how you feel about ship customisation?-i'd like to be able to customise my ship's visual appearance but not at the expense of server load(64.7%)-i'd like to be able to customise my ship's visual appearance and i don't care how its done or what it costs, aslong as it happens(17.0%)-i'm not interested in ship customisation but i don't mind if they introduced it to the game(12.5%)-i'm not interested in ship customisation, ccp's time would be best spent elsewhere.(5.8%)customisation options-the colour options you can chose from to paint your ship should be restricted by the hulls class or race so that eve's art integrity is left intact(52.3%)-there should be an unrestricted amount of colour options for repainting my ship(23.9%)-there should be an unrestricted amount of colour options for repainting my ship excluding colour reserved for t2 variants of that hull(14.7%)-paint options should be restricted to pre-designed themes made by ccp staff members(9.1%)customisation availability-i should be able to customise any ship(80.3%)-only t1 hulls should be able to have custom paintjobs(11.9%)-a limited amount of existing ships should be able to be customised(5.1%)-a new type or class of ship based off existing hulls should be created and only those can be customised(1.8%)-a new type or class of ship should be created and only they can be customised(1.0%)payment methods-i should be able to pay for this service directly with isk(56.2%)-this service should not be restricted to a specific model(21.5%)-this service should use a mixed payment method(12.9%)-this service should cost aurum only(8.6%)-this service should use a plex payment model only(0.8%)ship destruction-ship destruction should completely destroy any custom designs applied to it(59.5%)-ship destruction destroys the ship but not any custom designs applied to it, so they can be used on another ship later(40.5%)customisation and design rights-everyone should have the same rights to designs and colouring options(50.9%)-pilots, corporations and alliances should be able to buy the rights to a specific design with upkeep costs(49.1%)client options-pilots should be able to turn this feature off(60.2%)-pilots should be able to turn off some features, but it should still be obvious that a ship has been customised(26.7%)-pilots should not able to turn this feature off(13.1%)the market-customised ships should be able to be sold or traded(81.0%)-customised ships should not be able to be sold or traded(19.0%)manufacturing-i should be able to customise my ship with new items that are tradable on the market, can be fit onto new slots on my ship, and created using normal manufacturing methods.(31.1%)-you should only be able to design a custom ship from within a specially designed menu(29.8%)-i don't know how the mechanics of this feature would work, i trust ccp to figure it out(23.4%)-i don't care how its done as long as i can customise my ship(15.7%)"
"no.you forgot the key part of where is most of the minerals are coming from. hint. it's not high sec :p"
"offtopic posts removed. ccp spitfire | marketing & sales team @ccp_spitfire"
"considering your \"7 year old veteran\" posts are not very insightful or indeed reminiscent of anything like your supposed seven year experience, i'm just going to go ahead and file your proposal in the bin, thanks."
"they should modify all payouts regardless of location with output from an algorithm containing \"residents\", \"visitors\" and \"deaths\" (read: base it on actual risk rather than theoretical risk).but of course, that would mean lowsec gets the best income as it has the most risk with null a distant second so doubtful that such a thing makes it by the null censors"
"i'd like to propose a different way of looking at hi-sec incomes:"
"i fail to understand why so many miss the point.in the balance between risk and reward perhaps it is not the reward that needs balancing but the risk. things stay in high sec because so many players are risk averse. ccp has tried many times (at the whims of folks like the op) to adjust this but far too often they miss the mark.you could move all level 4 missions, ice, datacore production and the like to low sec or 0.0 and it would have a far less profound affect than adjusting risk.case in point?t3 interdiction nullification and sensor amplification modules. the rewards did not change yet far more people were (are) willing to risk sneaking into lower security since there was the perceived chance they might survive more than a few seconds.just a few ideas. make npc pirates more likely to attack new people that enter a complex or deadspace. allow modules that can burst confuse probes allowing for a speedy get away. create tanky industrials and exhumers that can actually defend themselves or at least survive the most trivial attacks. changing rewards will not affect behavior (other than cancelled subscriptions). instead, adjust mechanics that make it more possible to evade and survive in lawless space in a pve ship. no matter how much you adjust rewards a large number of people will find it more profitable to simply do more volume of the activity that is safer than less volume of an activity they perceive guarantees loss.my 2 isksbe careful what you think, for your thoughts become your words. be careful what you say, for your words become your actions. be careful what you do, for your actions become your character. and character is everything. - author unknown"
"decreasing an hi-sec rewards will never ever bring more people to low-sec/0.0. get over it and stop being jealous op."
"jealous ? ehm that i will never be of highsec of anything in life."
"you can't and as far as i know have never been able to dd structures. removing the turrets makes titans into mobile jbs and little else. nerf the tracking, and maybe the damage."
"i dont see anybody crying over the battlecruiser/battleship blobbing issue."
"thats because a bc/bs blob can be countered fairly easy with proper fleet comp. for instance, t3 gangs are a handy counter to alphafleet. the only countercomp to beat the super blob is more of the same.this has been explained so many time only the willfully ignorant can still fail to understand it."
"mid-long term, supercaps should be reconfigured to roles other than direct combat to dis-incentivise supercap blobbing and one-dimensional arms races."
"the skill advanced drone interfacing has always been one which confused many players. it the past, dcus (which the skill allowed the use of) could be fit on any capitol ship, making the old drone moros op. then it became a carrier only skill, but now carriers can only use fighters. the name, which never did what people thought it should, is now completely outdated and wrong. it has nothing to do with drones anymore. it needs to be changed to reflect what it actually does: it give you more fighters. i believe that the name fighter coordination would be more self explanatory and prevent confusion.naturally, the description would have to be changed. additionally, the name and description of drone control units would need similar updates. i think fighter coordination unit would make sense, but i'm partial to fighter coordination link for story/role-play reasons. if we wanted to keep the acronym (dcu) the same, dogfight coordination unit could work, but i'm not crazy about the name. besides, often players just keep old acronyms regardless of what the item is called (e.g. cnr).with luck, this will reduce confusion, the ambiguity between fighters and drones, and requests to put the module on a dominix. sadly, we will get requests for an extra drone module from those who want more drones rather than moar drones. oh wait, we already get those. >:}links for reference:"
"yeah, a better name would definitely be a good thing. i have a friend who trained it to 5 after training drone interfacing 5, but i doubt he'll ever actually make it into a carrier (and i haven't had the heart to tell him how worthless that skill is for him). a name which properly describes it would definitely be a good idea."
"that's supercarriers. regular old carriers can use drones just fine."
"thanks for the correction. i must have misread the patch notes (i do read them, but it's been a months since the change). still, i think the name change would prevent confusion. a note that a dcu/fcu lets carriers use extra drones would say what the unit really does."
"i propose mxzf for csm candidacy. based on his well developed ideas and in depth analysis on the forums i believe he would be one of the most eligible people for the csm."
"probably one of the few people id bother to vote for, but are you mxsf? :/as far as i'm aware you can't randomly nominate people, they have to step forward lol."
"no, i'm not mxzf. and if we can't randomly nominate people then that just blows big salty ones."
"lol, i appreciate the offer. however i have enough stuff going on in real life that i don't feel like i could do the position justice. i really do appreciate it, but i feel i must decline the suggestion. maybe someday, but not this particular csm."
"thread locked (wrong section as well).isd grossvogel (isd <U+043E><U+043E><U+043B><U+044C>) captain, community communication liaisons (ccl) <U+043E><U+043B><U+043E><U+043D> <U+043F><U+043F><U+044B> <U+043F><U+043E> <U+043C><U+043E><U+044E>  <U+043E><U+043A><U+043C> interstellar services department"
"you guys are really getting desperate, aren't you.yes, i have a sense of humour--though most \"normal\" people find it just a bit too black for their liking--but you lot just aren't funny anymore"
"leaders should lead, not hide unless they're leading their pilots into hiding+1whether or not you win the game matters not it's if you bought it"
"+1anything that makes pvp more accessible is a good thing."
"an easier fix is simply to make it so that you can set standings to the bounty. a setting, when placing the bounty, that says only people with a certain standing level or greater can collect. that way, any of your friends can collect, or you can find an actual bounty hunter and set him to positive standings so he can collect.using this system, you could even set it so that you could set bounties on entire corporations/alliances at once. i envision a \"bring me the heads of all (insert your most hated alliance here)!\" scenario. easy peasy, lemon squeezy.+1 to the op for a good suggestion that i support wholeheartedly.whether or not you win the game matters not. it's if you bought it."
"you have my support for this."
"just an idea, not sure if it's realy good.if we talk about contracts, how about the possibility to set a collateral like for a courier contract?if you accept the contract and you don't kill the guy you lose the collateral. would add some incentive to actually do it.feel free to shoot the idea down."
"giant, unstoppable, pwnmobiles are not fun. turn titans into something resembling mobile outposts, and remove the bulk of their combat capabilities entirely. the op's idea is terrible.whether or not you win the game matters not. it's if you bought it."
"can't like this enough. +1whether or not you win the game matters not. it's if you bought it."
"i think one key improvement can be made.provide a way for newbies to reward corps for recruiting them, and have the tutorial explain that they should hang on to that reward long enough to for them to be sure they are not being scammed, because the #1 thing you need in eve, especially when you first start, is a good corp to fly with."
"i think it is an excellent idea.it will increase the immersion a lot, also giving many opportunities for gameplay.i'll put some ideas here:- haulers going from station to station in high sec. manymanymany of them. immersion needs them!- hauling expeditions in low sec. the size of the expedition will depend on the collateral deposited by the player (large to huge). the player will decide the escort's and the hauler's strategy for the journey. the haulers must have lots of hp so as for the trip to have a chance of success. the payout must be also big. other possible awards are corporation standings/lp, or escorting rating.perhaps a new type of agent for hauling missions? or rather a hauling office?- npc factional fleets fighting battles in the border systems seems a great idea. the battles should last for a very long time, with npc reinforcements rallying to both sides as to fill the losses, and players taking place should have lots of fw rewards. also factional police should join in the battle. the final outcome will be decided by which side had the most losses, but after hours - or maybe days - of fighting.to make it more fun, perhaps a warp scrambling field with a range of a few hundred km should be in effect.- npc miners in belts.- new kind of ships travelling, like ambassadorial flagships or solar sail ships having solar flare races.- taxi shuttles! and of course, space liners.- huge space farming/space industry/space recreation etc. ships.- traffic between planets or moons and stations, with special re-entry vehicles. also, stratoplanes for planetary traffic.the players should be able to interact with some of these, with some not.whenever npc ships are destroyed in high sec, the concord dealing with the attacker will also collect the loot, to make spacelane disrupting non-profitable in high sec. perhaps also, for many of these npc in low sec there should be concord response.in general, the space should be -much- less empty than it is right now. take a look outside at the street, and imagine that only hitmen, outlaws and police should pass. that would be much less than the traffic you see, is it not?"
"1.0"
"+1 i think it would be opposite.too much competition would drive the npc's away.. no way to make a buck compared to the capsulers.so jita would be more empty of npc than any other area this would also help prevent the lag monster from showing up there."
"good god, please! yes! a big resounding yes! i've been a serial entrepreneur in eve and have started many corporations since i started playing back in 2005, many of which recruited exclusively new players. the easier we can make things on ceos, and the more smoothly we can get corporations to run, and the sooner we can get new players into good, smoothly running corporations that have ceos that aren't suffering from severe burnout, the better eve will be.this, more than anything, is what eve needs. powah to the people!whether or not you win the game matters not. it's if you bought it."
"+1 anything to make things easier on the players who devote their time to making sure other players have as much fun as possible.whether or not you win the game matters not. it's if you bought it."
"+1 tagging keyboard shortcuts are needed by fc's"
"+9000 tagging is a pain as it is. would love some ease added to the process."
"lol @ self destruct nerf... soo many sci fi films ive seen would be **** compared to the alternative if there wasnt self destruct...scuttling your ship is a long held military decision any captain of something valuable should have. it makes sense on a military and rp standpoint!even so... all u crybabies out there wanting your lil killmails or so callec 'jew gold' for jumping into a fleet for 5 minutes and bridging or cynoing into a system... bring more guys! make friend with people and bring them too!plus omg... who hasnt heard of fraps or the phrase \"fraps or it didnt happen\"??i couldnt give a rats ass about a killmail if i took a super out... id much rather have a vid to post in every forum i know about the supercap death. if ur not frapsing a supercap death (be it a killmail or a suicide) then ur doing it wrong or ur just fuckin lazy, and if its the latter then u deserve no bragging rights if he self destructs b4 u kill him.bt it sounds soooo much like the people who have the problem with the self destruct button are the people concerned with improving their kb efficiency to make up for ****** pilot skills in one 10-15 minute show of co-operation and force.a super killmail isnt a badge to show ur pro, its just a sign that you'll jump onto an opportunity thats gifted to you as and when it suits you. and when ur too much of a \"skilled\" pvper to actually get that little link to the righteous killmail, u come onto here to ***** and moan.bravo."
"i agree with you on most of your post. thing is the vast majority of gamers are casual and can't afford a second toon or biomassing and starting over. i don't think ccp would lose a lot of subs with a respec option just from the lack of needing a second toon. most, if not all of us have a second toon out of necessity. capital cyno's, warfare links, etc. we might see a lot of people ragequit because they simply cannot handle change and think they are losing some sort of advantage if a respec option was made available...but i think that would be the limit of lost subs. would ccp gain more subs with a respec option? i doubt it would increase the rate at which new players try the game...a free to play option would do that. but it would help with retaining more players that would otherwise leave due to the lack of a respec option once they realized they screwed their toon and it would take another several months to catch up to where they want to be.what if the respec option was limited to the skill category the skills are in? in other words...missile launcher sp stays in the missile category. engineer sp stays in the engineering category. navigation sp stays in the navigation category, and so on. granted this would still allow a player to go from being a full caldari toon to a full gallente toon or whatever but at least you couldn't go from being a miner or trade toon to a full combat toon."
"ffs, this topic shows up every other monday.no respec ever, stop kicking a dead horse, we dont need and dont want respec."
"oh look at that....i do believe hes mad bro.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"obviously, if it comes up every other monday then there must be people that want a respec option. if ccp has proven anything, it is that you have to kick the dead horse for quite a while before it gets done."
"so if i keep scraeming like a little 3 year old saying i should get paid 1 billion isk a week for playing eve online every other day then i'll get it?oh wat....================ stop the evemail spam!"
"gms dont exists in eve nowdays. i think its one of devs getting bonus payment for answering petitions once per two weeks, that it."
"imho capcha's are simplistic visual puzzles that are very limited in scope, and although in their more recognisable forms arent really implementable into eve without breaking the feel of rp, the idea of puzzles can be used but has to be created and tested against bots.mining has always been a semi-afk profession. but i think that needs to change, and along with it, the rewards need to increase along with it, else people wont be tempted to explore it as a source of income.mining needs to become a skilled profession, not an afk activity, so much like mining gas clouds now... there should be real risks to all mining. but the deeper you drill the higher the chance of a catastrophic explosion or temporary immobilisation.there should be tell tale signs both visually/audiably and a combination of both and other more abstract forms (offlining modules/change in local mode/behaviour etc... that are warning signs to change the type, depth, speed, duration and intensity of the mining cycle to stave off disaster.these signs should be easily noticable in shallow mining where the profits are minimal... and less obvious/more obscure the deeper you mine for higher and faster profits.now i dont claim to know exactly what form this should appear as to be as difficult as possible for botting programs to pick up upon, but the above does correlate to what may be seen as puzzles/capchas.you could also include warning signs not possible to be noticed by a single player on high end high yield mining to encourage co-operation to get the best results.so:low end low yield - obvious signs (varying wildly but of low intensity/low threat) - low threat penalties if signs are ignored.low end high yield - increasingly obscure/less noticable signs (including hud/module oddities etc..) - moderate penaltieshigh end low yield - increasingly obscure less noticable signs etc... - moderate to high penalties.high end high yield - least noticable signs becoming not noticable to lone miners - extreme penalties.thats how i see it anyways!"
"one idea to work against bots.... why not make all the ore have to be looted from the rock, and not directly drop into the cargo hold?i am all in favor to any idea that make those at the keyboard gain an advantage from those that simply afk mine."
"won't work.....bots are not as restarined or dumb as you think they are.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"bots can easily identify colours - use keyboard shortcuts... click various aspects of the screen and react to things that occur on screen. the advanced ones even sniff out data coming to the client from ccp's servers that even us as human players dont see. one of the main reasons why i want ccp to stop sending clients all the data and then having the client filter the data from what clients should see to what they shouldnt.its horrendous tbh..."
"just get level 4's out of highsec altogether. what on earth are all of the pirate battleships that are hostile to all of the factions and concord doing in a 1.0 security system, anyway?+1 to the op, because it's better than leaving this problem alone.whether or not you win the game matters not. it's if you bought it."
"this would be great, and is an idea that can be expanded on.whether or not you win the game matters not. it's if you bought it."
"this needs to happen. all that's important are the roles.whether or not you win the game matters not. it's if you bought it."
"just allow the person setting the bounty to select what type of ship it applies to. then allow the person to set by standing who can collect the bounty. while you're at it, allow people to place bounties on entire corporations/alliances. easy enough.whether or not you win the game matters not. it's if you bought it."
"ahuh.so when are you not so ignorant gentlemen going to realize the only way to do that is to expand the range of capital ships to allow this?i'm all for bringing in more super cap hulls that would be earmarked as anti-super cap dps only, but that is just compounding the problem by allowing us a wider selection of super cap hulls to counter super caps with.a better solution would be to expand the capital base with t2 items and a wider variety of t1 hulls that could be used effectively in groups of 2-3 to neutralize a single sc/titan (as opposed to the current mechanics of requiring 100s of sub caps and a gang of caps to take down the supers. anti-super-cap hulls will still be vulnerable to sub caps as most caps are now since they will be based on their hulls and attributes. so a solution like that will not force alliances to double the amount of sub caps they bring to a fight, preventing more sub cap blobbing. it will encourage more capital blobs that will even out the playing field and counter the super blob.demanding that sub caps be able to counter the supers without allowing supers to wtfown sub caps is one way pvp, and not very sandboxy or rock paper scissors at all for people who are demanding \"proper fleet comp mechanics\""
"lemme guess, best way to deal with a mouse problem is to turn a bunch of snakes loose in your house?the answer to imbalanced supercaps is not more supercaps."
"imho yes supercaps are imbalanced... this is due to 2 things that i can see.1) the amount of endgame ship types are being determined by an ever increasing userbase. meaning these shiptypes will only increase when titan and supercap bpo's are in circulation. basically the point the op had.2) immunity and infinite variables. you've seen this in the aoe dd, u see it in the current supercap ewar immunity, u see it in the current titan dd as far as trackings concerned. u see it in the infinite amount of moongoo moons have. you see it in some respects in asteroid belts when they instantly respawn after dowtime.problem #2 is a biiig issue because not only in an economic form its equivalent to hyper-inflation. the more stuff is about, the cheaper it becomes. but in a militaristic form the infinite variable has been seen in wormholes with the supergun. and devs picked up on it and nerfed it, rightly so! supercaps have issues because theyve been treated as the exception to the rule of ship balancing. ewar immunity i fear is only an attribute because devs have not truely fixed all ewar mods. so opening up supers to being ewar'd will mean they'll get ewar'd far to effectively. (ie supers with near 0 targetting range, lock times that take till downtime or more to lock another supercap)concerning titans... their old school aoe dd caused serious lag from killmails. one of the major reasons for the nerf. but the root cause was never tackled.. just made obsolete. the aoe affected the entire grid. it was an infinite variable (affect:all) when it never should have been. and now titans dont have it.. they still have a dd with an infinite variable - tracking.only ccp instead of tackling the root cause of the issue pre-crucible they sidestep it and change dd's only to be used on caps and supers, effectively sweeping the problem under the carpet.imho we need to put pressure on ccp to remove these infinite variables. because theyre the ones that are forcing our combat into a mould that we all find both distastefull and uncomfortable."
"technology, entertainment, design"
"easy change to implement, will avoid some confusion and wont change any mechanics.supported"
"hi all,a simple suggestion made by a friend of mine who simply doesn't use forums enough.the broadcast settings should be grouped and toggled like the various tabs/settings/filters of overview.the idea is to eliminate the need to reconfigure the broadcasts you receive/send/see by role. a logistic pilot only needs a subset of the b-casts, so does a main fleet damage dealer, and they are different from traveling filters.let us configure \"tabs\" for broadcast settings, let us save and restore (and pass to friends) to/from xmls, like the overview.another ui papercut.thanks."
"+1. i've got maxed trade skills. keeping track of all my orders can get very difficult.whether or not you win the game matters not. it's if you bought it."
"+1.i second that idea and i believe its pretty straightforward. right now i try to keep track of my orders more easily by using \"typical numbers\" in my orders.... a scheme that feels like stone age.actually i would go even further than this: in your order"
"anyone find this interesting at all?"
"i am definitely in favor of this. it'd be great. at the very least, ccp could add a new column in the market interface to tell you who you're buying from before you buy it. it really sucks when you go to buy that nice expensive battleship, only to discover that you just made a rival that much wealthier.+1whether or not you win the game matters not. it's if you bought it."
"1.0"
"i think this is the main reason why we won't see the change ccp is very happy that people are obligated to create these alt accounts to be competitive in this game i think they probably see all the alts that have been created for this purpose what they miss is number of people who tend to lose interest in eve because they think dual boxing alts, sucks and yet increasingly you must have these alts to be competitive eveagain i think if they gave us crews that we could fill our ships with that would give us the same boosts as the boosters give (no they wouldn't combine with boosters) i think we would have a solution you could either pay isk for the crew in your ship or you could carry around your booster alt make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"that runs into the problem of the perp just not logging on."
"firstly, i support this idea, it's pretty much awesome.===secondly, i think it should be based on market value using 30-90 day adjusted averages of the 'real' markets (using some clever economic stats to eliminate outliers is something ccp knows how to do)anyone who can control an entire market for multiple months is putting enough effort in to permit them to game the system a little.also, given the only way to manipulate the market like this is to throw *lots* of money at it, this would actually more likely cost the bounty target more than they could gain, and would also generate activity on these niche markets, making further attempts to game the system harder.so, in effect, gaming the market-based bounty system would be very hard, expensive, and limited in how many people could pull it off.===i think you need to be able to put your bounty contract out to be visible to these kinds of people:* standing above x* sec status above/below x* whitelist of corps (so you can choose known good-rep bounty hunters)* my corp/alliance* anyone* private to specific person* request/acceptance of bounty hunting rights (so you can individually vet potential hunters, only useful for extremely high-value targets)===i think that an active kill right should be an option, not a requirement. it should be searchable though, so a bounty hunter can choose to only search for high-sec targets.we should be looking to place bounties on as many of the pirates/players in low-sec as possible, to encourage low-sec pvp. people who get ganked slap a ransom on the person who killed them, and then other people go hunting for those players.it may also be worthwhile to be able to place a (kill right-free) bounty on an entire corporation, for example - if someone wanted to harass the b***ards in rancer, they could place bounties on clearing out the dirty pirates. in effect, pvp missions.the more people in low-sec with bounties on their heads, the better and more fun low-sec will be.i also think that the -1 sec status requirement might hinder more than help, although i could be convinced otherwise."
"this is not really possible, as we would effectively removing a ship that some people have invested a lot of time and money to train into. we need to find a way to adjust, change, and re-balance them, without making them not worth flying, otherwise we might as well just remove them from the game, at which point we would still have a lot of upset titan pilots."
"supercarriers - giant corp hangars, capable of replacing losses on the fly. ships only so that they don't step on jump freighter's toes. i'm thinking a couple fleets worth of losses, combined with a megatank to keep all of those expensive ships safe. you get popped, you pod over to the nearest supercarrier and hop in a new ship, already fitted and ready to rock. need to change from your t3 fleet to your bs fleet on the fly? great. easy. remove the drones. your fleet is your drones. still does logi. make the clone vat bay worthwhile. requires subcaps to be useful.titans - jump bridges and doomsdays. buff the doomsdays up to be a reasonable counter to the new style of supercarrier. remove the turrets.and get rid of the ewar immunity on both.whether or not you win the game matters not. it's if you bought it."
"supercarriers are pretty well balanced at the moment, and i don't think they need to be changed up again this quickly. however, speaking directly to your idea, i don't see how this would be any better than getting podded to your station, grabbing a new ship and taking a mothership bridge back into the frey.this goes beyond the scope of my proposal as it would affect fights between subcap fleets more than capitals.(either way, i am not sure i like the implications of this idea.)superweapons are one of the biggest problems with titans at the moment, and making it capable of popping a supercarrier? really bad idea. my suggestion included a damage buff for the superweapon via a tradeoff that turned it into a damage over time ability that slowly increased as you continued to fire at a single target.i would not be opposed to supers losing their ewar immunity, but in exchange they should get fairly impressive stats to replace them. 50 warp core strength and enough sensor strength to require at least 20 subcaps to affect them would probably suffice.edit: if this were to happen i also think that regular capitals should also get some love, say 5 warp core strength and double their current sensor strength."
"evelopedia was probably not around when you were first starting, but it is an excellent resource these days. i wish i had access to it when i started 4+ years ago.the new player experience category includes topics such as:the agent findercan flippingcareer agentsrookie lowsec survival guidepiracy guidefitting shipsakita t's golden rulesjoining a corporationand a lot more. and that's just in the npe category. the guide category has 191 pages in it right now. the evelopedia has tons of great information in it, and additional references to outside materials as well.we only need to point new players to it."
"this would be a great idea. shouldn't be hard at all and would easily fit into the \"thousand papercuts\" category.i doubt it would make an fc's job any more \"enjoyable\"...perhaps easier though.+1"
"start the threadi will support you"
"i don't understand the concept of removing skills. there really would be no benefit that i can see other than you can wave at people going \"hey i got mining level 5 removed!\"it takes like 5 days for anyone to train mining to level 5. if you have been playing eve for 1 year or so, that training time is insignificant. just spend 5 days training the skill you want trained. it seems like it would take just as long as it would take for these \"un-training\" queues."
"this is agreat idea but it will be burned by botters. yeah for sure maybe a bot will be able to do the game but maybe not and it will involve a lot of programming if ccp wants to make it hard for a bot to mine. there in lies the problem ccp don't want to make it hard for bots.ccp wins from bots through subscriptions but hey up rmt is a win for players and a loss for ccp, both stem from the bots so it's a double edge sword for ccp. that is why they have only ever targeted rmt and bots ahve only ever been a colleteral casuilty such as in unholy rage."
"i like the idea...if anything it will bring a little more balance to mining. rewarding those in \"riskier\" areas of eve. as for the \"capcha\" issue...why not just make mining more interactive in general? i keep thinking of something from mass effect 2 where when in your little hover car you can extract minerals from sites but as you hold the button down to do so the site starts pushing your hover car around more aggressively until it either pushes you off the site or you successfully extract the mineral. this would work for mining lazers if done right as well. granted bots will in time find a way around it. they always do. there is quite litterally nothing you can do to stop a bot developer from finding a way but that isn't the point. the harder we make it for them the better...within reason. it has to be fun for the player too."
"other than the fact you think mercoxit is a moon mineral (it happens to be the asteroid type that you get morphite from) ... the idea isn't terrible.chance based is a no no though. make it need modulated deep core [strip] miners to actually be able to mine."
"thanks for the catch... i have changed it to reflect technetium. i should add that my actual blog post starts with me telling folks that i am industrially inept in game."
"while \"more interactive\" would be great, the downside is that if you force people to be focused on that more than on local/dscan/etc, they just become easier targets.with that said, re-working things this way would throw a huge monkey wrench into the mineral market (\"yay!\" for the people who can stay alive ... \"this is bullshit!!\" for everyone buying minerals). it might even go so far as to help draw miners into lowsec, since their defence guys can actually violence the bad guys without concord stepping in..."
"exactly! something like this could be the carrot to draw miners out of high-sec. you could actually make low-sec rewards be equal to or greater than null-sec. imho the low-sec rewards should be a bit higher than null-sec in this system. i see the risk being much higher in low-sec than null. you can't bubble up gates, nor control the traffic thru it as easily as big alliances do in 0.0.i'm thinking the low-sec pirates wouldn't mind hunting for miners or their haulers either."
"i hadn't even thought of that, but i think that's a great idea. :)i dont live in a hole, so i'm not sure if being able to use a cloning vat in a wormhole is game braking, but from what i know about wh's, it doesnt sound game braking mainly because it's only a way in (not a way of moving items out). it sounds like it would help with new recruits greatly. and if you get people in, there is still the logistics of them needing a ship."
"problem with the implant idea is the ships owner has the ability to destroy your jump clone, or the ship could be destroyed all together.i'm sure everyone would appreciate getting their jump clone with billion isk implants destroyed just for kicks. :)the option to upgrade a medical clone would be nice though."
"as a two week old player, i think i possess a unique insight into both the successes and the shortcomings of this game, more so than people have become \"used to the way it is\". as such this is what i would like the csm to bring to the ccp, and anyone who says they are willing to champion this will have my vote for csm, regardless of other platforms (edit: unless you think hi sec war deccing isn't broken :p)- thats how important i think this is, and how much i believe an interface overhaul is needed.-bookmarks viewable in overview not the first time this has been brought up, but this still remains a gaping flaw in the current system.-hotkeys coming from starcraft 2, i cannot believe how lacking customizable hotkeys are in eve. i can't even make a hotkey to enter a wormhole, wtf?? i would like to see a total overhaul of the hotkey system, allowing players to modify almost any command you make in the game into a hotkey. would this be overwhelming to a new player? maybe, but as they learn the game, and they see what actions they perform frequently, this would be a huge asset. examples: -add contact -bookmark location (as is, i have to open 'people and places' select the correct tab, then click 'add location'. (2 uneeded \"clicks\"-other stuff why is the member count of a given corporation under the \"attributes\" tab, but that of an alliance is under \"members\". i have to constatnyl switch between tabs when viewing these stats - unecessary and cumbersome imo.im sure there are many more, but i have run out of time. please add your own suggestions to this thread, its time for eve to enter the modern \"user friendly\" era of pc gaming.additional edits:-\"open cargo\" why is there not a hotkey for this?-close/minimize windows rather than having to click to find a window, then manuever to the miniscule top right corner to minimize/close, why can't i simply click somewhere on the window and hit \"backspace\" to close it, for example.-when hitting 'tab' to minimize all windows, if i then maximize 1 window, hitting tab again does nothing. i have to manually close the window i opened, then hit tab, and all windows then re open. this seems broken and counter intuitive. if i want to view a particular tab i should be able to open it, then hit 'tab' again to reopen all windows."
"because you didn't set one. option is in the escape menu ... can't get in game right now to give you the absolute location though ... because \"backspace\" is used to remove unwanted characters. you should be able to use any other key combination though (see the first point). iirc it's ctrl + tab as default."
"i have been looking for the \"open cargo\" button for weeks, if it is in fact there i will feel like an idiot, but as is i've poured over those settings for the last 2 weeks and have never seen it. additionally, if the hotkey does in fact exist, why is it not displayed under the \"selected item\" tab?thank you for clarifying these several issues, but again, the fact that i needed to come here to have them clarified is a detractor of the current system. i have played pc games for 10 years, and i think i know my way around a settings menu. to have to come here to find this information, rather than having it easily and obviously displayed in-game is a good reason to change these things."
"as velicitia pointed out, there are many many hotkeys in the game which are not bound by default. this is better than having them all bound by default imo because it lets you choose what you want bound and how, rather than every key combination being already bound. for instance, i know that when i set up a new client i have to re-bind about a dozen commands just to get the alt+d,r,e and a couple other keys freed for the commands i want to bind to them; it's a pain, lol."
"you guessed wrong.and poor analogy (runs of fantasizing about ships bigger than titans)adding more super caps will just add variety to your problem. i say your problem, because i have no problem adding more supers to eve. but i digress.what we need is anti-supercap t2 capitals. so it would be like releasing mutant elephant eating jaguars with laser beams attached to their heads.beats the crap out of releasing a swarm of termites (more sub caps) to do a jaguars hob."
"wow. just wow.you changing than animals doesn't make my point less valid. this isn't wow, there should not be 'end game gear' and i am sorry for those pilots who think that eve works that way, but it doesn't.one of the things that keeps people from starting this is the belief they will never catch up to vets. this is true, til you start adding more and more capships. those create a gap that alters the fundamental aspects of eve. one of the selling points is that a noobie in a rifter can change the course of any battle, except that supercaps are completely invulnerable to them. at least a carrier or dread that noob rifter can tackle and hold for his friends to catch up to. a titan or super will laugh and jump out.eve is not supposed to work this way, and you want to make it worse?why, because vets are entitled to being brokenly op? does your ego need that much pampering?"
"no, what we need is balance across the ship classes as a whole, not a \"bring capitals or don't bother showing up\" attitude.pre-dominion we more or less had that, because supercaps were generally not suitable for front line direct combat roles, so there was a place in the game for combined operations where subcaps and regular caps to carry out particular important roles alongside each other. carriers killed bss, dreads killed carriers, and bss killed dreads. the only fly in the ointment was the aoe doomsday marginalising any subcap which didn't have 70,000 ehp. post dominion, the idea of combined ops became more marginalised because the solution to all available problems became 'throw all your supercaps at it\", leading to a one-dimensional arms race to acquire more of them than your opponents. that's where we are today.take away the direct combat abilities of supercaps, get them off the front lines and into supporting roles, and you'll see a much healthier game."
"do you know what is the rock-paper-scissors game ?you can fights against bc//bs fleets with nice tactics. ahac,bc fleet,t3 fleet,sb fleet, other bs fleet etc can kill bs fleets or vica-versa. every fleet has chances against the other one with good setup and tactics and at least 10 tactics working against them.but trying to fight against 500 supercaps with subcaps or common capitals. you have no chance against them and the most important things, all other ship is unuseable too. i have no problem with supercaps , thats part of the game, but their numbers is ridiculous high.so many pilots have over 100m sp just like me. but no matter if the pilots can fly with 250 ships because all useless against supercap blobs if they cant fly with supercap blobs too. wasted sps if enemy just blobing with supercaps.furthermore no tactics working against supercaps just one, bring more supercaps than your enemies.we saw what happened with atlas, they had hundreds and hundreds cap pilots (they used before 400 dreads in fleets), but they could nothing against 500-600 supercap blob and they losing their spaces within 2 weeks.500-600 supercapital such a drake fleet. lol. it's shame for this game.over 4000 supercaps ??? that's really rare ships. lol500 titan ? ccp really read their own eve chronicles from rare titans ?need to change this supercap idiotism. need increasing their value over at least 40-50 billions or more (supercarrier), over 200 billions/titan. the alliance incomes changed dramaticaly in the past years in the game and ccp did not take this into consideration. that's was a big mistake from ccp and thats why their number grew so much.need increasing their building times at least 3 months long period, thats slowing down supercaps increasing numbers and give chances to killing them in the csaa.need change rare moon mineral rules. permanent moon mining materials give advantages for big alliances without fights.and i almost forgot, the other problem is. the supercaps pilots dont want to be lost their ships, because of this they moving to the biggest alliances where is the most supercaps are. somehow need to change their numbers in a fleet."
"based off of first replynewer alliance or new players are put at a disadvantage and it becomes a war of the haves and the have nots.i would rather be please by limiting the number of ships allowed in a system.titian not produce an anti titan attraction field. prevents more than 1 titan from being on the field at any one time, or on the same grid or they may both blow up.this way 1 side as an advantage and but not an overwhelming advantage as 30 titans.limiting super carriers to 3 solar system.but i like the idea of a capital tackling ships or a tackling module for super caps."
"if this means what i think it means(not entirely sure, looks like a bad machine translation) then putting a hard cap on pilots in system is a terrible idea. you do that, and we will put that many pilots in the system, and in all the neighboring systems, any time we want to take anything.you don't seem to understand the numbers that the large coalitions can field.you have to provide a reason not to do that, and hard caps(ay kind of hard limit, actually) are just begging to be abused.edit: you are in the cfc, were you not there when we launched our branch invasion, and had over 2000 people in fleets?"
"the traditional solution is to let cats loose in your house.moar supercaps, and more caps that are bonused to deal with supercaps."
"delete all super caps from gameproblem solved."
"guys they brought a bigger fleet than us, damn blobbers"
"at this point i would almost entirely agree with this."
"expanding the number of capitals in the game isn't inherently a bad idea, like many are suggesting. however, it's not a magical solution like you're suggesting. eve works well because it maintains a rochambeau atmosphere. when you ship up to a bigger ship, you gain many advantages, but you also gain many disadvantages. this forced fleets to operate in diverse fleets. bc fleets die to bs fleets which die to cruiser fleets which die to bc fleets... subcap fleets die to carriers which die to dreads which die to subcap fleets. with the change to supercaps in dominion, dreads were replaced with supercaps, hence: capitals die to supercaps which should die to subcaps which die to capitals. however, supercaps just don't have that vulnerability... they effectively kill both capitals and subcapitals, making them only vulnerable to bigger supercaps... your suggestion of adding a capital ship to neutralize supercaps seems incredibly uninformed, as supercapitals are designed to obliterate capitals, a role that they are exceptionally good at. the problem with supercaps is compounded by their huge ehp and enormous number of utility highs on supercarriers. essentially, they scale extremely well, such that they are impossible to alpha and their turtle tank becomes extremely overwhelming when in numbers. there are two big problems with supercaps at the moment: 1.) the turret formula doesn't scale well to the capital level. essentially, there is no damage modifier when shooting a small target with really big guns, so glancing blows from a titan alpha smaller ships. 2.) capital rr scales endlessly. with their base ehp alpha'ing capitals is unrealistic without dd's, and their officer-level resists allow them to turtle tank large fleets. removing the rr bonus on supercarriers would force them to hurdle, making them much more vulnerable to separation from the fleet. i think introducing a new capital ship weapon mechanics (and probably skills too) so that all capital weapons don't work well against moving sub-bs targets is in order. this would include fighters, so they don't hit bc's and smaller very well. i would change the role of a sieged dread to actually be an anti-bs platform when sieged, but pisspoor against subcaps otherwise. siege dreads should still have poor and very poor performance against bc's and cruisers, respectively. this would leave carriers with its wide array of drones as an ideal anti-subcap platform, and the dread a decent anti-bs/poor-man structure shooting platform. is this ideal? i don't know, but i'll tell you what i do know:"
"ya, this is just a cosmetic change. fact is extra drone control is the exception now; fighter control is what works on both ship classes."
"so we have evemail, calendar, chat, mailing lists, and bulletins. i think it would be an easy and extreme boon to have these exported to imap/smtp, vcal, xmpp and rss/atom. simple and concise."
"you can do that. they're all in the api, just write a program that parses the api and lets you import it into your program of choice."
"you may be able to write a program for it, but the common player doesn't have access to this type stuff. aura is getting close, but i still can't reply to evemail, or check/edit bulletins without being in game, or on eve-gate."
"let's add more fuel to this fire. bumping for exposure.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"indeed, jack. would be nice to see this class of vessel in game."
"not supported as is. i think it's a better idea to transform supercarriers for this role. essentially they'd be like ship hangar arrays in poses but mobile and with the typical supercarrier tank. you can change strategies on the fly with them, and replace losses very quickly. it'd also be even more of a pain to lose.then you could remove the turrets from titans and tweak the way doomsdays work to be a solid counter. two birds, one stone. supercap problem solved. supercarriers function more like carriers ought to, and titans are no longer wtfbbqpwnmobiles to anything but cap ships.whether or not you win the game matters not. it's if you bought it."
"emptyquoting :dread and support: don't mess with our wh's what is your stance on wh stuff?"
"please don't sully the thread with ideas about crews when i first started playing, capsuleers flew all of their ships solo at some point, this changed, and it's not a change for the better it belongs in a different threadleadership boosts on grid only, pleasewhether or not you win the game matters not it's if you bought it"
"crews were always there in some form or another i have been playing since launch and i recall from the beginning asking if there were crews in the ships and having an answer of yes from multiple sources either waywhile i agree that the \"crew\" discussion is for another thread i do think he is on to something with his idea although if crews were introduced and the buff of a crew and fleet booster didn't stackwhat would be the point of having a fleet booster at all?"
"why not have gang links work while in warp? the commander boosts whoever is on the same grid that he's on, even in warp if you're not on the same grid as your commander, you don't get boostedwhether or not you win the game matters not it's if you bought it"
"to respond to that, why not use a recon for that sort of job? an azaru gets nice bonus to point rangeas for the opwhilst i am interested in this change i would prefer see that the bonus between cs and sc be switched, which i feel is more the more important necessary update then allow this change to have some impact on the game first to see if off-grid boosting continues to require addressing"
"i like the idea pretty much. some random thoughts.mitigating the impact of a bounty placed on me by manipulating the market - i see no problem. it is hard to next to impossible to do and will be not 100% effective anyway. if a hunted person wants and is able to do that - props for him. harming a global mafia boss is a harder task than hitting back some street gang schmuck.however, this highlights most serious problem in this idea, how to measure a value of a kill. there are no \"official\" price indices, accepted by ccp and permanently monitored. or rather there are, but completely formal and unrealistic. the only more or less realistic system exists for t1 hulls (insurance), but they will be of a rather small importance.maybe it is a time to officialy embrace the fact that jita price is a best benchmark. but then again, what with deadspace or officer modules, etc. or imagine, i kill my bounty target in a supercap. there is no jita price for it second, multiple copies of a bounty contracts. i should be able to hire a few independent mercs to kill the same person. thus defensive strategy like accepting a contract with an alt of a hunted, or his friend, will not work. it will also create competition amongst hunters. it should induce additional costs however.theorising further, a hunted may have an ability to get some info about status of his hunt - are the bounty contracts accepted or something. something in the line of using locator agents. sure, some standings and payments must be involved.third, further granularity of a bounties. kill right gives you an ability to declare a bounty on anyone, but you also are able to declare bounty without it - but only if hunted has negative status. if it is small, you need to bribe a concord (like a small criminal deserves only a warning, not a capital punishment, but a bribe may change the attitude). if it is -5, or something, you are bounty hunted at will - law enforcement system should encourage a personal initiative. numbers are arbitrary of course.<<insert some waste of screen space here>>"
"my point is that supercaps (all caps, really) ought to be there to provide extremely heavy duty support to a much larger subcap fleet. when they become wrecking balls in and of themselves, we wind up like we are today. the design should be such that it is seldom a good idea to blob capital ships without a much, much larger blob of subcaps in tow.whether or not you win the game matters not. it's if you bought it."
"i always thought the objective should be more about fleet synergy, versus; 1k bs's vs. 300 caps, 500hacs, vs. 100 titans or some other random as number / fleet combo. shouldn't the objective be giving every ship a role to fit the perfect fleet? utilizing different race techniques to give variations and changes of, instead of moar deeps! or moar ehp! speed etc etc. shouldn't we be encouraging 'flanking' with say gallente ships, holding the line with amarr ships, coming around and firing cars up their asses with minmatar, while providing ewar, ranged support via caldari? i would honestly like to see some kind of diminishing return for having a shitload of the same exact ship in a fleet engagement. instead of giving bs's / caps or whatever ship a myriad of roles draw it down a bit. hell a rock paper scissors balance should be in order. i kind of hope that weird random general discussion thread about diminishing returns on focus firing is added, give some ship list, give a job description institute officers, change channel priority and turn this into all those awsome fleet fights we see on the videos, hell that empyrean banner on the website was a nice rendition of what i would love to see. can we work this way?"
"i'll second this. imo it can all be done with a proper balancing of hulls, no need to enforce weird things like diminishing returns on focus fire or weird stacking penalties for having multiple identical hulls in the same fleet. just get the ships themselves right and the rest will follow.whether or not you win the game matters not. it's if you bought it."
"oh really?the only counter at the moment to titans and super carrier blobs is more titans and super carriers.you are right in that the only alliances that will bring their cap fleets to fights in any significant numbers are pl and raiden so no-one else is countering them at the moment.at the moment super carriers and titan's are an 'iwin' button for these alliances. however, that will change as the other alliances catch up with their own capital fleets and can out blob them.let's see who whines about them needing nerfed then.i do think titans are fine as they are with exception to the turrets. they really shouldn't have them."
"problem with diminishing returns in eve is that people will abuse it. ship can only have x incoming locks? everyone lock all but one of your max targets with a friendly. diminishing returns based on how many people are shooting at that ship? everyone lock up the enemy primary and use your one small arty on him to drive those returns to 0.any restriction based on pure numbers can be abused, and in eve we are supposed to be abusing the systems for our advantage, so any system has to be set up to avoid that."
"what would make sense for titans is to have a massive number of small fof missile launchers. if you are piloting a ship that big, individual subcaps should be beneath your notice, and should be dealt with my automated systems.automated systems are always pretty incompetent ;)"
"titans are not broken. a alliance/corporation spend that much time(a few weeks) and isk (about 60bill) + the buildingtime. i really think that the titan platform should be more then a mobile outpost or oversized jumpbridge. they are titans for christ sake. they are tha largest ships and most expencive to by ingame. naturally they should be awsome ships. titan neft proposals we see after the last change is only an attempt to make them useless like the old motherships. seems like some \"super haters\" is set on getting them nerfed so badly that none wants fo fly/build them. the whole idea behind the titans was to be a giant in the playground. look at the current war. you have a large coalition cfc against the smaller tech team. (4:1 ration nornally)what we see is only way for the smaller coalition to win is to field as many supers are they can. we also see the large coalition thinks this is unfair cause they feel they should win since they got more numbers. by nerfing titans we would see that the only way to win a war is to have twise the numbers then the other and viol<U+FFFD>. then we have the argumant that a good fc can counter a larger fleet and win. this is true if the fleet is a little bigger thent the other. this is not the truth if one side has 800 and other has 350. dosent matter hos you \"counter\" the other fleet, you will loose, unless you have something to even out the odds. the much debated titan tracking nerf would mean titans wold not hit anything smaller then a cap or possibly a bs sitting still. yay that would be great. then we have two super cap classes that only can dish out there proper damage on capitals. what a huge waste of isk thouse ships will be then. i say the titan are just fine as they are now. only need a sliglty larger dronebay on sc's for bombers and fighters. then we are golden."
"fyi, some of them beat us on multiple occasions without their supers., while heavily out numbered. and for that we cheer them on, the pilots they have who are not in supers do have considerable skill, and their fcs know how to use ships effectively, and the right fleet comps will eat our standard doctrines with no problems.the problem is some of those alliances don't do anything but drop supers, because no one can beat that. the problem isn't with losing, its with not being able to field a counter fleet other than more supers.titans are supposed to be the giants in the playground, you are right, but there should not be that many of them on the field. did you know that raiden. can easily field enough titans to alpha several enemy titans in one shot? that should not be possible.titans are balanced around being rare, with any given entity only able to field a couple at a time, but we have a situation where entire feels are made up of nothing but titans.either nerf titans, or restrict them in some way so that only a few can be fielded at a time.oh, and super carriers? yeah, they probably got nerfed enough. they are largely ineffective against subcap fleets, and competitive against cap fleets in the same way bses are effective against cruiser/bc fleets."
"since your idea is not about \"nerf nerf nerf\" but structured idea so that supers/titans are diversified enough to counters to themselves i think it's a good idea.it's always better to evolve than nerf just for the sake of nerfing, except ridiculous dread/titan tracking that should be reworked so they can't hit sub caps by any mean other than static targets.+1 good idea for a start"
"i'd vote for this.incursion/sleeper ai in all rats would be awesome to be honest. get rid of solo mission running for good. it's a mmo goddamnit!! i am not sure about all of the things proposed as npc's shouldn't be the focus in eve. however, as the main empire powers are not exactly friendly to each other, it would be nice to see some empire fleet clashes in the border areas that players can join in on should they so choose (with the usual sec hit etc)."
"oh yes please. 1++though just fixing the menu system so you can cut corners without the sub-menu closing (as most modern windowing systems have implemented) would be a huge win too."
"i had recently been thinking about the lack of a dedicated rigged ship hauler.then i thought, why do we need a dedicated hauler?as much as it is useful, it probably isn't the most popular activity performed, so why waste the time making a whole ship just for that?that is what this post has proposed:"
"thanks for the free exposure. pretty much, my idea was a classic take-on of an existing idea, as it would be the tier 2 version of the freighter, with an eventual tech 2 counterpart (jump-capable).anyway, thanks again.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"i'd rather turn supercarriers into giant ship hangars for their corp/alliance. then tweak titans until their major purpose is to counter the supercarriers (likely meaning removing the turrets and tweaking the way doomsdays work.)it shouldn't be a freighter, it should be a smaller, mobile outpost. you can use this proposal to also balance cap ships.whether or not you win the game matters not. it's if you bought it."
"rigs for freighters/jump freighters would be one way to go but i still feel jack's proposal that you've linked would be the superior choice.more ships = more variety and this is a good thing in eve."
"this topic yet again?ok, i'll bite.this is a fantastic idea. it will help me no end with rebalancing the 65mil sp i have so i can fly only the best ships and use all the best mods. i will become epic overnight when i get rid of all of my useless industry, trade and science skills that i never use.i will be able to fly all race's dreads and carriers with the sp i will get back. all of a sudden there will be tons of cap capable pilots in my corp without having to train for the skills. woot! sign me up now!and there you see the problem with respec. it will not! help new players in the slightest as their skills will not be measured in weeks, only a few days. how does this proposal help the new guy that's been playing for 9 weeks? how does it bridge the gap between new players and older players?this proposal will only help older players who will get the most sp back in any respec suggestions, it will do nothing to improve subscriptions to eve.yet again a proposal that is very one sided and does not take into account other sections of the eve community.come on guys, stop thinking of yourselves and at least try and benefit as many people as you can, if you can't benefit all.i don't support this proposal."
"and now you explain us how you will do all of this with just 3m sp?dont make yourself look any more ******** and go read the first post, not just topics title."
"i'd just like to give my credit card number to ccp and pay for sp (limited per year)ccp would win more money instead of those selling ccp's property on the internet like 65/100m sp toons for 1500<U+FFFD> and +look at my right hand ccp, i'm playing with my cc and it has lots of moneys in. do you want me to give you some?now let's read all those nerds whatever blahblahblah about instant gratification blahblahblah, because paying them via pay-pal real money for their toon is not instant gratification, it's due money for their hard work training the toon...that belongs to ccp."
"not supported, you made the choice to train the skills you have same as anyone else live with it."
"this nooblet isn't very bright is he?allow me to highlight your foolishness tekashi....a 65 mil sp toon with 3 mil sp to play with is a dangerous thing...but then you didn't think that far did you?================ stop the evemail spam!"
"i'd use it if it were there, but don't care if it's never implemented. there's the obvious problem of potential abuse that would require it be very limited in scope if it existed at all, that's for certain.i could probably free up 2-3 months of useless skills with a system such as this. the thing for bittervets to remember is that not everyone has the luxury of having all the basics down. it has taken me months of training to get into the proteus that i'll be able to fly tonight (but still need another month's worth of skills to fly well)...and that's after flying a legion for more than half a year.devil's advocate:let's say you started as minmatar and have been training long enough to fly most t2 cruisers, t3s, and battleships with t2 guns. you decide you want to add amarr ships to your hangar. it takes roughly 50 days to train from small energy turret i to large pulse laser specialization i. an additional 7 days for t2 beam lasers of all sizes. 35 days for frigate 5, cruiser 5, and battleship 3.so it takes 90+ days to switch ships and guns to a new race, and that's not counting what it might take for you to train for a new kind of tank. it's quite easy for a player's first cross-training to require 4-6 months. for someone like myself, that represents 25% of total playtime in eve.it's for this reason that i wouldn't object to having some method for freeing up skill points, allowing rookie mistakes and aborted career paths to be repurposed so that players can get on to enjoying the game rather than regretting permanent mistakes. losing a ship, getting podded, all those other mistakes are temporary: i can replace it all through grinding. waste skill points? they're gone forever.edit: this could also be made into a tremendous isk sink if it cost per sp, and the cost went up for every sp you had removed."
"this....problem is...unlike us seasoned pilots....people will abuse this to hell and back.it would have to be very drastic penalties...but the problem is....with how easy it is to get isk....i would still shoot the idea down.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"why do we need the ability to unlearn skillpoints? why do we need the ability to directly buy skillpoints? why can't you just use the character bazaar? this is from the first page of the character bazaar: 15m sp tengu pilot -- 6.5b20m covert ops pilot -- 6b75m leadership t3 pilot -- 20b25m gallente pvp pilot - 9b32m minnie pvp pilot -- 7.5b28m hulk-freighter-tengu pilot -- 7.5b75m all-race sub-bs pvp pilot -- 30bgiven the cost of plex... if you have money to spend, spend it on one of these characters.. then you reward a pilot who's actually played the game for the last several years and needs the isk rather than the character. i see no reason to allow players to redistribute skills, and i see lots of ways it could be abused. either start your suggestions with a valid purpose/reason, or quit posting these threads!btw:1m skillpoints earns you cruiser v... instantly1m skillpoints earns you t2 medium weapons... instantlyassuming you can already fly t2 ships, with around 2m freebee sp's, you can instantly train into any new races t2 bcs, cruisers, and below, with t2 guns and all. given new fotm's only change with major releases (read annually), how does your proposal not equate to:"
"this this this....as much as i despise people who trade/buy chars....i'd rather peolpe do that then manipulate sp's to be quite honest.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"great turn out, keep votes coming and share with corpies and alliance mates please.we've almost doubled the participants since posting.regards,t'amber"
"i'd like to see an area of the hull reserved for corp and alliance symbols (maybe identical to the logo already in existence for each corp, maybe not?), and that area automatically filled in. just like many aircraft have today."
"i would like all (well, at least those that have anything to say in the subject) of csm candidates to state their point of view on wh balancing/iterations/mechanics/tweaks/etc...i would like to know what you think is broken and what works perfectly and should never be changed.what would you like added to wh and what taken away?how do you see wh (as a gameplay style) fits in whole eve gameplay?read and support: don't mess with our wh's what is your stance on wh stuff?"
"who cares of your rabble? - besides bot users or individuals who never step on high sec because they don't need, no one on his right mind will not change this fact simple fact that yes there are probably a lot of bots in high sec but there's not where they are for the most and where they are the most profitable.hello drones regions? -ho boy with mineral prices right now those dudes are doing gazillions of isk per month, they don't need tech craprats (bs) with bounty starting at 650k up to 1.2m in belts, sanctums, heavens, forsakens, faction spawns etc you can kill those indefinitely as long as you have ammo in your cargo and never stop to loot because will make you loose isk/h.all you need is a safe spot bm or pos whenever nutral/red shown up, who can assure it's a bot or not?now tell us all about high sec bots and how you, so smart, identify those to state that high sec is all about bots and more than in null sec. what about start cleaning your own homelands and alliance/corps before rabble about high sec?every one in null knows your null sec alliances politics, you're not cops and it's not your job to help ccp clean bots, you even threat to purge those individuals or corps who might have reported bots. bravo big guy.i hunt in every alliance systems enough to safely say the only way to make far more isk in high sec than rating in null is to do incursions but even then, compare what it can be, null sec incursions are hundred times more profitable and those are done almost 24h/7 just like in high sec (i know a few doing it to pay themselves the titan or the sc and the guy with enough spare time in his day can double/triple high sec billions incursions income easily.propaganda, myths, is all you can do about high sec because you're either the greatest idiot on earth and can't see what happens in high sec or you're just another of those who comes back playing after a few years and think he's back in stone age... wake up dude."
"wait ... are you talking about your cargo, or a wreck? that changes things... anyway, assuming i can get a chance to log in tonight, i'll check through the hotkeys (sometimes they're in weird places)."
"when i read \"interface overhaul\" i thought it was more about those pesky windows everywhere than key binds etc.well, at least has something related to the title: ccp why can't i have an interface looking like your trailers rather than this \"thing\" looking like a mix of \"paint\" and \"excell\"?(was an ingenious work 10 years back by the way but, it's about time to do things differently? )"
"i read that and thought. \"what the **** is this guy on?\" but figured i would read a little further for the sake of giving the new guy a chance...got to that and just stopped. i mean, come on...really? really?! we are gonna go there? no...no, we are not going there."
"why wouldn't we go there? starcraft 2 is an immensely successful game, friendly to newbs but challenging for the most hardcore. to be clear- i am not talking about default hotkeys, im talking about custumizable hotkeys for all commands. -open wreck cargo is exactly what im talking about, its crazy theres not a command for this."
"not sure that's true. it may be for players whose playstyle is to be part of corp action most of the time, but for people who like to dabble in different areas of the game, a \"standard\" setting file is rarely adequate. and if all ones careful tweaks and additions are overwritten every time your corp/alliance/fc upgrades the release version... well, it ends in tears."
"excellent game design here."
"a long time ago dreads used to kill supercapitalslol, dominion \"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" - abrazzar"
"with aoe dd's, you didn't need 50 titans to wipe out a subcap fleet. and before the dominion supercap changes, 400 dreads was considered a signficant military assets, as opposed to the signficant liablity they have become."
"once apon a time, hardly anyone had this thing called a battleship.it was mighty and everyone wanted one.catch my drift?allow supercarriers the ability to carry 20 bombers and 20 fighters.you nerfed their hp and removed sub-cap drone useage.to much!its just ridiculous that \"super-carrier\" cannot even carry a full load of drones.vote 1 drone bay expansion."
"giving supers more fighter bay wouldn't be bad, i don't think, as long as they don't get normal drones back.i do think that fighters should have a 'skirmish' setting where they engage other fighters and fighter bombers without direct commands from the pilot. after all, they are not drones, they supposedly have a person inside flying them."
"this is a supercaps alliance answer. no way. remove their ew immunity. increase their value to atleast 50 billion.siege for fighter bombers etc,etc,etc. keep nerf them or the supercapital blobs will ruin the whole game to crap."
"super carriers were nerfed effectively enough that they no longer pose a significant threat to a subcap fleet. titans are the problem at this point, since with a group of then one of them almost always has you at 0 traversal, and thats all they need to alpha most subcaps(or at least sub battleships, not sure about bs themselves)."
"just delete the damn things, and give back the sp.they were a mistake since day one"
"this.and bring back bs < carrier < dread < bs balance. the simplier the better."
"the issue comes from several points, titans and super caps are mostly in null sec right, so lets see:who can afford those and what's their income resourcewho builds those, how many per month and how do they get the materials needed to build thosehow are those used and what players complain aboutwell i guess we have some questions that clearly need data for serious answers, but everyone living in null for enough time can give some answer.now ccp if there's something they should clearly do is not to take thse away from the game but increase by 500% required materials for start then make sort those titans/dreadnaughts can't hit a single battleship mwd's if he's not in his straight line or static. it's ridiculous how those capital ships can one shot cruisers/bc's/bs in full movement.just go to eve-kill and look at the number of titans/dreads involved in bc/cruiser kills by applying some dps or the number of those where titans/dreads are the only dps. if you're not willing to increase the materials needed to build those, then get rid of their stupid immunity, get rid of the possibility for those to get remote links.why a simple t1 frigate should be able to pin t3's and t2 battleships that should be the most electronics sophisticated ships and can't pin a giant dildo that can even one shot them with enough remote bonus?super caps, titans shouldn't be able to hit one battle ship in movement, they should be defenceless to battleships as battleships are to assault frigs, you can get them but it's a very tricky business."
"ummm come again?think you've posted this in the wrong forums.this is purely for suggestions and proposals for changes to the game."
"well ccp is making these kind of cosmetic changes of late to make things a little more understandable.shouldn't take much to change this so supported."
"yeah this is total horseshit one of mittani's stupid ideas so his goons can ruin more peoples' gametimeccp needs to step on this **** if they wish to retain players"
"ftfy"
"more stuff to blow up, less \"f4ggy\" tactics/signed"
"crews would cost isk and possibly be destroyed just like any other mod an off grid fleet booster typically won't be destroyedit doesn't have to be crews it could be some other form of mods so its not sidetracking to crews in particular its just that crews seem an obvious choice since they can be racial just like the bonuses the thing is i agree that fleet boosters are nice in that they do give you more complexity in how you fit your ships the big problem from my perspective is that i have to now start dual boxing an alt if i want to be competitive doing that would make the game allot less fun if there were some way to buy some mod or crew with these same bonuses so i didn't have to drag an alt in a loki everywhere i would do that make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"i still really don't think that self-buffs are the answer here leadership boosts are special precisely because they require co-operation and teamwork allowing just anyone to have the same bonuses without having to team up with someone else is pretty much the same problem as off-grid boosting in an alt, only tweaked a littlesquad/wing/fleet command needs to be brought back into perspective, and the best way to do this is via on-grid boosting preferably in something that's quite survivable this was the original intention of command ships, and they need to be brought back into that line of thoughtallowing the module to work while in warp solves the problem of giving the defending fleet the advantage people crying about now useless alts should consider that leadership in battle wasn't meant to be something you could do while semi-afk the alts are still useful, just no longer ridiculous what other problems were people having with this?whether or not you win the game matters not it's if you bought it"
"this will never happen with regular capitals as easy to get and field as they are. supers are there to supply heavy support to fleets of carriers and dreads.this.thank you, how would you go about improving on the concept?"
"i've yet to understand how anyone can say, \"fleets of capital ships\" ... or \"capfleet\" ... without realizing how stupid that sounds. sure, maybe it works with the current game mechanics, but it sounds dumb as ****. i really don't think that having entire fleets of them is a good idea, and that they should be changed accordingly.whether or not you win the game matters not. it's if you bought it."
"currently a capfleet(ignoring supers) is set up as a separate fleet to cut down on spies, and other logistical purposes. i usually see 50-100 in a fleet jumping in to support 300+man subcap fleets. while its a bit top heavy with this distribution, it still falls in the range of reasonable because a 100 man strong fleet of carriers/dreads alone is gonna get eaten by a well built subcap fleet. each normal cap has the battlefield footprint of 2-3 similar subcaps, tho carriers are alot more versatile than their subcap counterparts(logistics cruisers) because of the drone bay. amazing how smartbombs make carrier pilots cry tho."
"well actully my experience with those is limited to observations on the field and when i'm a victim in my cruiser/bc hull with enough transversal no battleship would hit me even mwd on but the dam thing can...that was the first wrong thing, the second one is the versatility of those ships and being able to logoff somewhere without being spotted, don't need a pos and once on line in that system you know big stuff is about to happen, then you see a thousand guys show up on your overview in a few seconds...then pouf they're gone, titan is gone, system clear. this is a problem imho, how to improve it?-well take the bridge ability away seems like a nerf so maybe keep it but change this logofski mechanic: pilot will be logfofski, the ship unavailable for whoever try to board it, but the dam thing should stay there at the pos and visible. this would prevent such easy force projection that titans provide.tracking anyone?last but non least, the speeds at witch titans are being build/sold and the whole economics behind needed to achieve this that are obviously in need of deep changes and better control.those are imho some points that deserve to be discussed but has i stated from the beginning, i don't fly one, i don't own one and my conclusions are the result of in field observations/experience as neutral to everyone who shoots everything on the overview (ergh sometimes bues too, zzp !! overview bug omfgpwnlolz)"
"snipe"
"like i have already stated, this will never happen. capital ships and fleets are as much a part of eve as the subcap blobs you are so fond of. even if the 0.0 mechanics change so much that they eliminate structure shoots, (which they won't, at least not entirely) there will still be a place for capitals.#1 tracking is an issue, which they need to fix, without also nerfing dreads. the siege module includes a tracking penalty as well. i think that careful tuning of the superdread, or a re-tune of the titans core tracking stats would solve this issue.#2 this is the point that my proposal focuses on fixing, and in doing so provides an opportunity to get the balancing right on the rest of it.#3 log-off mechanics is a stickier issue. if a titan never disappeared when its pilot logged out, you would have no-where to keep it but a pos, since it cant dock. then all you would need is a single spy to bump it out for his friends to shoot it. to top it all off you probably wouldn't even catch the spy, because he could bump it out of the pos and leave system, before anyone realized what was going on. as a result, no-one would ever fly a titan, because it wouldn't be worth the 50+ billion, when someone could bump it out and kill it with almost no effort at all. if no-one was willing to fly a titan, whats the point of having them in the game? however, since they already exist in game, we cant just nerf them into uselessness. therefore, titans need to have a safe method of insuring that no-one can touch them while logged out. titan pilots have to sleep too. you could add abilities that make the titan un-bumpable, but i see no reason to make the log-off mechanics even more complex to do something that current game mechanics already do. ccp also just changed how mid-combat logoffski works, so i don't think we need to change it up again just yet. i think the real reason you bring this point up is more related to titan proliferation.#4 titan bridges, jump bridges, covert bridges, and the jump drive, all contribute to force projection. this issue is a simple matter of the speed with which you can cross distances. fleets with access to a bridge of one type or another can move much faster than a fleet without. if everyone had access to bridges, and could move from place to place just as easily, i believe that force projection wouldn't be much of an issue, as the playing field would be fairly level. if you look at the additional thoughts section, post #2, you will see that part of my proposal, the mothership, paves the way for putting \"titan\" bridges into the hands of smaller alliances by making the cost of the ship less than a supercarrier. more people able to get to more places = more fights, which is something ccp is leaning heavily towards atm.#5 titan proliferation is a problem, but there isn't a simple solution for it. titans are already hard enough to build, considering the time and logistics involved, so making it harder/longer isn't really an option. i don't really like the idea of getting rid of the bpo's and making bpc's a drop somewhere, think about how much raw isk would get dumped back into the system buying back all the titan bpo's at 50 bil each. as i pointed out in #3, we can't really make it easy to reduce their numbers outside of a fleet either. which realistically leaves us with finding a way to limit the number of titans that can be fielded in a single system/fleet, or finding a way to make sure more titans are dieing when they do fleet up. based on the csm notes, i expect ccp to probably release a new capital ship for dedicated heavy tackle, or at the very least an infinite point for supercarriers. however, i don't believe that will be enough, since titans are currently balanced around being a scarce commodity.it looks as if my proposal would solve most of the issues you presented, but if i missed something let me know."
"doesn't change the idea that entire fleets of \"capital\" ships is a ridiculous notion. titans are indeed the biggest problem at the moment, although they're all pretty wonky imo. cap ships in general need to be tied down more to a role of heavy fleet support. the change that needs to happen is that they need to become excellent support vessels that are more or less useless without a large (and, ideally, well balanced ... but that's another issue entirely) subcap fleet to back them.we can't really control the rate at which people build them, beyond making them ludicrously expensive with long build times (both of which are already true and it hasn't helped much in the long run.) what we can do is make them less desirable to field en-masse, without detracting from how vital they are (in small numbers) to nullsec logistics, structure shooting, and blowing up other caps.basically, make having multiple cap ships redundant. like a stacking penalty, but not as blatantly obvious as something like, \"for every titan on the same grid, effectiveness is reduced via forced game mechanics.\" more like ... how many jump bridging ship hangar arrays and doomsday devices does a fleet really need before it becomes a waste of isk? currently, the answer is that it's almost never an obvious waste of isk. that's what needs to change.whether or not you win the game matters not. it's if you bought it."
"you should check out \"on basilisk station\" by david weber, its the first book of the honor harrington series more commonly referred to as the honorverse. that book doesn't cover much capital ship combat, quite the opposite, but the series works up to it. as a side note, its entirely possible that parts of eve were based on some of the technology in the series. the similarities between the impeller drive and our warp drives is striking.even before the advent of current sov mechanics, there was the pos. you needed a fleet of dreads to siege one in a reasonable amount of time. if we could do away with all structure shoots, you could make a case for not needing a capital fleet. however, given the fact that pos's exist and can be destroyed, you will need a dread fleet. you will need a carrier fleet for repairing a friendly pos after some nasty dread fleet shoots it. supers are there to support your capital fleets. come up with an idea that removes all structure shoots from the game, and then we can talk about making capitals into support for subcap fleets. until then its just a pipe dream. and a boring pipe dream at that imho.edit: anyway... this has gotten way off topic, so i am done discussing regular capitals, lets get back to more thoughts and ideas for titan balancing."
"i for one was extremely happy with corporation bookmarks being introduced; however, since its introduction a glaring security hole has been recognized. with recruiting an ongoing process a corporation, assets including wormhole operations, deepsafes ect. should be viewable to only those with assigned clearance preferably via corporation roles and not to every 1 day in character to your corporation. i'd like to make the simple request that grantable roles be added allowing access to bookmark folders ."
"i wholeheartedly agree with this request. it would greatly reduce security issues within corporations, due to spies or disgruntled ex-corpmates. +1 for the request."
"yay for security. now make it happen ccp."
"*shrug* i see no issue with adding this (besides the fact that the roles system is already screwy as heck anyways). +1"
"excellent idea+1dont mind me, just touching your stuff."
"simple, usefull, perfecttotally for it!+1"
"amazing idea. +1 indeed."
"i don't see any reason why not. +1 if only to make the corp roles that much more of a pain in the ass..."
"omg,i never knew you could be this useful. how about stepping up and doing something in corp everyonce and awhile. your idea is awsome and a big +1black"
"no reason why not. +1================ stop the evemail spam!"
"i hate you more and more everyday."
"hi all,i have been reading a lot of threads about people talking about the problem with super caps.one thing i have noticed though is that very few people are defining exactly what that problem is. so what is the problem with super caps?it can't be their numbers. why would there be many of them and it be a problem? in this particular aspect it would be similar to planets, there are many planets in eve but since they are open to everyone that is not a problem.could it be the cost of scs? the sc is such a useful ship for many purposes that it should cost a lot., so the problem cant be with the cost.could it be the inbuild abilities of the super capital that is the problem?could it be play styles that could be the problem, the way people use them?if the answer is yes! to the two above questions, then ask yourself: 'why are these people using their scs like this?'possible answers may be: - hot dropping juicy kills in low sec space- attack targets of opportunity in nul sec space- sov warfareare just a few reasons i thought of, so lets break them down.- a jf jumps through a gate, starts aligning to a station, his scout has reported one neut in local with no one on the gate. suddenly a ship decloaks 20km away and lights a cyno, 1 second later a titan is there and its goodbye jf + cargo. - you have a super carrier warping to a safe pos after a neut/red comes into system, you have been ratting in it. the system is not cyno jammed so u need the pos for protection. the neut hangs around for a while, you go afk with the sc still logged on. the neut comes up to the pos and enters it with the password obtained elsewhere and bumps the sc out (the pilot has not told to approach, keep distance or orbit the pos, just stopped). the sc is bumped out, the offending ship lights a cyno and blam! several scs appear and the afk pilot is back in a station in a new clone.- sov warfare is perhaps the easiest problem to define. a group uses scs in their majority to counter superior numbers of sub capital ships, the smaller group just can't fight head to head with the other group as the number of ships attacking is the predominant tactic in eve that works.let me say that again: \"he who brings the most troops, wins.\" now this works when all other factors are equal: similar ships, guns, tactics etc. but eve has not been an 'all equal' game, that is why there are various ships, guns and tactics. some tactics and ship combinations/numbers work better than others (ala scs). so what is the problem with scs?as i see it there are two \"problems\":1) titans and super carriers have enormous tanks and can't be alpha'd, benifit from rr very well, and only die when separated from others.2) the pilots flying scs are very experienced in their use and rarely make mistakes.so the problem appears to be an experienced group of pilots combined with epic ships.and people want to \"fix\" this problem by nerfing titan tracking?how long will it be before people whinge and cry about the nerf not being hard enough to fix this problem?the problem is with experienced players using epic ships. not gun tracking on titans.go look at why said ships are used and who faces them.australian fanfest event"
"........or you could just use some common sense and package all your crap you need moved into a corp contract, accept it, and move it yourself. fyi, rigged ships can be send via courier contract. i'm only stating this because obviously you weren't aware of the fact. otherwise, you wouldn't be wasting time asking ccp to spend a metric crap-ton of time coding in your little fix that only affect those who aren't aware of the aforementioned snip-it about contracts."
"no, for reasons as stated above by others. this could only end badly."
"you'll have a point, and a clue, when the game is completely static and nothing is updated."
"not really sure what you're trying to say there, voith. anyways, this idea is overly-suggested, would be game-breaking in eve, and people who suggest this should biomass themselves both out of shame for not knowing how to use the search function on the forums and for failing so miserably at understanding the core concepts of eve."
"actually an good idea. maybe too harsh in some cases, but isk sinks are badly needed. will add it to the first post eventually. firstly none here is talking about buying an sp. secondly, even tho characters trading is legalized in eve, it doesnt change its rmt feeling. its cheating guys and its not any different of buying level capped chars in other mmos. if we could use an *real game mechanics* to fix our characters ourselves, without involving an real money here, that would feel much better from pure gaming perspective.so, sorry, but for some/most of us buying character just doesnt cut it.maybe for a few sociopaths like you and drake draconis. seriously guys, just get a life and stop spamming this forums wtih your anti-everything crappy posts. if you dont contribute, your posts are unwated here."
"it is amazing how its always the same naysayers screaming no for no logical reason at all. just no. stoming your feet yelling no! i originally suggested the unlearning skill point option in another thread and a few people turned it into a massive flame war of ignorance. it is not a bad idea. adding a cost to it is an even better idea since it would provide an excellent isk sink as floppie already stated. there is no reason this couldn't be properly implemented. it would not be a game breaking change. as i stated in a previous thread which also sent drake into a frenzy of crazy...i don't particularly want an sp refund option in the game as it would not benifit me specifically. i do recognize, however, that many other people want the option and it may be better for ccp in the end to have one to appease the majority of average players that could benefit from such an option."
"ok, it looks like essentially you double a persons training speed for somewhere between 16-48 days a year depending on the \"cap\"one queue that trains, one that \"un-trains\"this means that while a person is training for 16-48 days of sp, they will be able to instantly train a skill that normally would have taken 16-48 days to train.most skills don't take long at all to get to at least level 4. even if its a skill you never use, the time you took to train is not that significant.unless you have like amarr titan 5 you want to \"un-train.\"but usually, when you go to level 5 on skills, you are specializing and aren't intending to screw up your character.if you are not liking your skills, it isn't a long journey to train what you want to at least level 4."
"you need to learn how to do math. you wouldn't be able to train while untraining. only one or the other. if untraining takes longer or even half the time it takes to train the skill then you are still losing time that could be spent towards training. you will never gain sp at a faster rate...you will always lose sp that you could have had if you had just trained instead."
"neither of which you have....and if you don't like it...quit.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"learn to read....your assumption that screaming about something often enough getting you something is a waste of time....your no more right or wrong than the guy your criticising.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"first off, (legally) rl money can only buy you isk. you use isk to buy a character, which is not the same as rl money because billions of isk can easily be earned through other in-game means... since rl begets isk which begets a character, i very much understand why buying a character feels like rmting, but it's very different. essentially, buying a character is not cheating. comparing it to other mmo's, it's on par with buying a fancy weapon or armor set with ingame currency. second, what exactly do you need to \"fix\" with your character? you somehow have this flawed notion that your character is broken because you trained some skill that you no longer use. guess what... that doesn't make your character broken... nothing needs to be \"fixed\"!!! training the skills you previously trained allows you to explore a certain aspect of the game... just becuase you decide it isn't something you want to do anymore doesn't mean you should be able to undo your sp's and reapply them to another area of the game. can you undo the experiences those skills enabled? of course not... so why should you be able to undo those skill points? and seriously, either you need to undo an enormous amount of skillpoints or you're just a really lazy player. you should be earning 2k sp/hr, or 333k per week, or 1m sp every 3 weeks (25% more if you spec your attributes). i already pointed out: 1.3 m skillpoints earns you any cruiser v, and another 1m skillpoints earns you any t2 medium weapons! wtf do you want to swap your skills to that you can't wait 7 weeks to do? and by the way, that's not 7 weeks of sitting on your ass and waiting, as it takes only 7 days to train medium guns iv and cruiser's iv. if you're trying to swap from armor t2 bs's to shield t2 bs's, then you need to swap so many skillpoints that you're essentially asking for a complete character redo... the way i see it, the only reason to push for sp redistribution is because you are: really freaking lazy or so anal you can't fly a ship until its t2 fit with perfect skills! shifting your eve play-style so radically that only a huge redistribution will satisfy you, at which point you need to htfu and go to the character bazaar. a power-gaming fotm player that can't stand waiting 2 months to fly the next fotm. remember, sp redistribution does not fix your character.... so now, please try again: why do you want and deserve sp redistribution?"
"so you are saying right here that since you won't be able to train skills while un-training, then you may as well just train the skills you want to train as it will either be as fast, if not faster to train up than wait for a skill to un-train."
"well, actually vertisce's soritenshi respec idea he posted in other topic was a little bit different than mine. difference being that here you can actually double train to some extent, while in the idea he suggested it should be either one or the another.unfortunately not. as long as clone/pod system exists, your character actually can be broken in many ways. any unnecessary skills increases your pods cost (up to 90m?) while not giving basically any advantage, thus gimping you totally. some may say its too little while for others it can be very annoying. still it makes one group of players happier, while not touching the ones that dont care, so whats the problem?that was just an example. theres also an perfectionist type players, that would simply love to have their skills sheet cleared out a bit , then many others potential players wanting to adjust their skills for several reasons (aesthetic being one of them). with fotm rerollers exluded as they basically couldnt benefit from it. btw you mention these 3m refundable sp for a second time (and what you could get for it). read the first post once again then see that i said \"one to three\" millions, which means that it was just an example. keep in mind that this idea is not about numbers, numbers are adjustable. its more about new game mechanics that could be implemented. when we got working mechanics then we can balance it freely."
"using the same assets as tcu logos, the only ship customisation i want is corp/alliance logos on the hull or suspended holographically in the shields. i don't care about anything else, i don't think anything else makes sense within the game.please make this distinction an option within your next questionnaire. while colouring ships could be simple as allowing players to tweak a few specific colour channels in the new textures (and this could be a poor interaction choice but very easy to code) i think alliance logos should be applied to hulls by default whether or not the player wants them and this should be treated as a seperate issue from ship customisation as you see it.more importantly, default alliance logo attachment could become a game feature long before colour customization as many ships are still having textures redone."
"this is what happens when companies outsource to india."
"well, it's what happens too when your gms are given a policy that, no matter how reasonable it sounds, the players are all untrustworthy to the point that if caught telling the truth, would lie about it just to keep a hand in. which is more or less what the gms told me the refund policy is now. even known bugs are not to be refunded if it's at the user's end."
"the ability to tap into and disrupt secure lines of communication is a key element of warfare and intelligence gathering, but this seems to have been overlooked in eve. with a few thought-through innovations, this method of e-war could be a viable asset for fleets and intel gatherers in the eve universe.brainstorm 1: ships and modules: - for sov holders, a 'communications disruption' platform could be introduced, serving alongside the cynosural system jammer. this platform would function by 'garbling' the fleet comms of players marked as red to the alliance. - for intel gatherers, a new covops ship or ship module could be introduced that lets the pilot see the fleet comms of any fleet within a certain au.brainstorm 2: voice comms: - an update to the existing voice comms available in eve is needed. - anomalies in wh systems could make voice comms in eve 'noisy'. - similarly, the aforementioned 'communications disruption' platform could make voice comms 'noisier' the closer a fleet marked as red to the alliance gets to the structure.brainstorm 3: garbling, noise?? - by 'garbling' fleet chat, i mean randomly altering a % of the content as it is posted. correct me if i'm wrong but all chat is stored locally on a client's computer in .txt files. for those of you with the know-how, do you think this is a possibility? - by making voice comms 'noisy' i mean imposing a new level of 'electronic interference' or 'static' above the active voice channel according to the level the player has set their mike at in-game. again, for those of you with more wisdom than me, would this have a dire impact on performance?brainstorm 4: channels: - leave secure, invite-only alliance and intel channels alone. they remain as-is.very rough ideas, but hopefully interesting to think how 'clean' communications channels currently are. fly safe 07"
"your ideas are cool. they won't work.no one uses eve-voice because its already vulnerable to being lagged out if the client lags, since its tied to client server communications. if you were to start garbling text, everyone would just start using their jabber servers for intel channels as well as alerts. it is already used for alot of sensitive communications in most major alliances since it is more secure than in game channels(need an api to access it, can't claim to be an alt).we already have systems to beat that in place, and it would give a sizable disadvantage to those entities who don't have these resources at the disposal.btw, say hi to b'nai for me [:twisted:]"
"thanks for the education. it's a shame that so many features in eve have been written off, it detracts from the game imo. i'll pass on your greetings to bna'i, if you were once a victim of one of his ganks then my condolences :p o7"
"the many, many people who use external voice comms will be unaffected.'x' and 'wwwwwww' still get the point across when scrambled.i like the idea, it just doesn't work when out of game bypasses exist are in widespread use already"
"hehe, i know him from when gima was a 'secret alliance' instead of actually a real one. ganked a corpies orca, wardecced us, and discovered tecmo was a pvp corp when we chased him from ylandoki to itamo. silly boy let me troll him into siccing 7 corps on us the same day our app to spacemonkeys was approved.he kinda was wondering what we were doing before that that was more important than fighting him, when all our stuff was packed into carriers to move out to nullsec.sure hope the past year and half have mellowed him a bit, he had potential if he could just keep his mouth from running off."
"i think this would be awesome but...ventrillo, teamspeak, jabber and everything else make it pointless."
"the problem with eve voice comms is that they're inflexible. on teamspeak we can move in and out of subchannels as needed without messing with our eve chats."
"as well as being obsolete due to reasons outlined above, it doesn't work from a lore point of view either ie. eve comms don't use radio waves or anything like that, they use entangled particles (possible exception being local), which you can't jam.intresting idea though."
"it sounds like a risk for a reward to me.risk, could loose implants. reward, moving and/or deployment.every time you fleet up, you run the risk of corp members killing you. (hell, in null everyone can kill you)ever run a lvl4 mission with a corp member? you ran the risk of loosing that ship. if it was a cnr or other faction ship, you could have lost billions of isk.is there any other counter points to my proposal, or would it just overall help the gameplay in eve?"
"you might also want to propose the idea of \"unloading\" the clone into a station. cause there is a limit to the number of clones that can be in a clone vat, and i am sure the pilot won't want to have to choose which billion isk clone to destroy to allow someone else in the corp or alliance to create a jump clone."
"you completely missed the point the op was making. i don't really care so much about the highsec miners. to me, mining in highsec completely defeats the purpose of mining in the first place.as for missions... i've been running them on & off for the past year-ish taking a break from 0.0 & such... even i agree that the ammount of isk i'm earning in highsec with little risk is too high. i won't even start on incursions...op, i agree with you completely.+1"
"nullsec is boring.quit complaining about overbuffed highsec payouts and make nullsec worth playing in. then look at whether highsec payouts are too high."
"it<U+FFFD>s really the entire reward system, and not just high-sec income, that needs tweaking the system should reward people for: 1) dynamic risks (based on the likelihood of losing your ship/pod to npc's and/or players)2) investment risks (be it raw isk, time, and/or structures in space)3) social risks (reward working as a group, especially if violating the social trust results in losses) most of the time, the risks from npcs are much less than the risks from players, and this needs to be heavily accounted for on the surface, our system attempts the above, but has enough skewed areas to throw the current system out of balance!imo, high-sec incursions do provide too much reward for their risk when compared to most lowsec/nullsec opportunities they essentially break the risk vs reward paradigm that encourages players to venture into lowsec and nullsec for \"bigger\" rewards however, they also provide an extremely beneficial service to eve by creating an environment for teamwork and lets be frank, learning to play in a team is pretty much at the core of living in lowsec and nullsec and i fully support game mechanics that encourage teamplay, meaning there should be definite advantages and rewards for doing so personally, i think the primary nerf high-sec incursions need involve truly randomizing the spawn triggers make it so people blitzing them in the minimum-sized groups have serious risks to earn their dough alternatively, they could run them in much larger groups, maintain their safety, but sacrifice their rewards in doing so! mission running is very much a solo activity it's also the standard pathway for characters to earn money and gain mock combat experience while they grow pubic hairs and venture into the more pvp oriented regions of eve it is also an important transition activity, where players can build up isk reserves while they transition from one area (or corp) of the game to another again, actually randomizing mission spawns and probably revamping the mission tiers so the difficulty levels of missions better reflect the combat and tanking ability of today's combat vessels would be appropriate unfortunately, given today's classes of ships, most missions really have very little risks i have very little experience in lowsec, and don't feel qualified to accurately depict how things should change from how they currently are i think that low-sec rewards should probably be just as profitable as nullsec rewards, albeit in a different manner meaning, i don't think low-sec should have the crazy anom-spawning income of null, but they should have very good-paying missions instead true nullsec rewards should involve significant investment risks as well as dynamic risks currently, the sov upgrade system allows for a nice investment risk, but the ability to capture any system anytime is somewhat out of line the dynamic risks in nullsec also need review; specifically afk cloakers and hotdrops null-bears are typically whiny morons that make high-sec carebears look like hardcore bittervets just look at all the \"wah, wah, afk cloaker in system prevents me from ratting, wah, wah, wah\" threads i live in nullsec, i don't have blues, and a hostile in system doesn't prevent me from ratting dealing with a few nuets in system should be something every nullsec capsuleer overcomes by grouping up and/or flying smart altering hotdrop mechanics so locals can better assess the danger a neut represents is reasonable, but either leave afk cloakers alone, or replace local with an intel tool that leaves some pilot ambiguity before nerfing cloaks then, and only then, should nullsec anoms pay out better than lvl 4 missions! the point i'm trying to make with all these jabs at different game aspects, is that the risk paradigm in nullsec is should be a high-paying, but high-risk the truth is, most null-bears want the pay, but don't want any real risk and they don't want to work in groups"
"dude this is a ridiculous proposal and i don't even live in high sec usuallyone of the biggest reasons that high-sec is full of \"carebears\" is because alliances don't need or want themask goons or pl if they will accept your medium sized mining corp into their ranks see what the response isi have said this many timesif you move t2 production away from moons and into the 00 belts only (not high sec belts at all), then people must therefore mine those belts for any t2 production to go on anywhere, at allit would fix a great many things i feel, from the 00 culture of \"pvpers only\" to the \"highsec carebear zone\" to the inability of many of those industrialists to get into the t2 market because the moons and moongoo is all owned by very fewthere's heaps of reasons to do it, i'm yet to find a reason not to do it"
"when was the last time you saw a heap of hyperions in a fleet?now, when was the last time you saw a heap of domi's or megathron's in a fleet.my guess is you're having trouble with the first one whilst realising it's a tier 3 bs.edit; when i really think hard, i can't find a reason why a silly 'tier' system would cripple another ship. it's really just a state of mind."
"you're wrong.tier matters, take a look at pg/cpu, even the number of total slots can differ."
"would be interesting to hear your idea as to how a super carrier would be allowed into hi sec, or do people only move ships in null/low sec?"
"1.0"
"i think it would be good to have both. currently carriers and super carriers have a good size ship maintenance bay. mother ship would seem to me to be a super super carrier and have an even bigger maintenance array. although the jump portal would cover most of the needs of a fleet to move ships and pilots. it would add the benefit of taking ships and pilots that logged off inside the mothership with the fleet so that if they do not get on in time they will still be with the fleet when they do log on. simply undock and join the fight. this would really make the mothership like a portable outpost. the alliance would have to choose between taking the mom to the staging area, bringing all ships and pilots inside with it. or hold it back in safe territory and portal the active fleet from there. bringing the whole mothership would give the added benefit of extra ships in the maintenance array for when pilots lose there ships. this would also have the down side of any ships and pilots docked inside a mothership when it gets destroyed would also be destroyed. dock in the mothership, log off. and log back in to a fresh clone."
"to carry that many ships and pilots would require the mothership to be almost as big as a titan in terms of mass. which would make it cost a ton, realistically speaking. it would also be classified as another super. this would make it hard for small alliances and non-sov holders to build/buy one of their own. in my proposal i was actually trying to limit the size and capabilities of the mothership to where it could be built like a regular capital, aka not requiring sov and a csaa, and being somewhere between a jump freighter and a supercarrier in price. by making the mothership available to pretty much anyone, we would be leveling the force projection playing field. what i think would be a better idea in fact, would be to add this concept to the titan, making it a fleet transport in addition to its fleet bonuses and doomsday. it would no longer have the ability to bridge, but could take its own fleet with it when it jumps. what do you think of this alteration to your idea?"
"just turn the bloody carriers into this \"mothership\" idea. it'd be more like real carriers that way, anyway. you'd have the regular carrier that functions like a smaller supercarrier. get rid of the fighter nonsense. they're just artificial players, anyway. store real ships in carriers and have them function as force projection ships just like they do in real life.titans and dreads should remain (and be rebalanced towards) killing other cap ships that are in siege/triage mode and structures.that's all that really needs to happen.whether or not you win the game matters not. it's if you bought it."
"did you even read my proposal? please stick to the topic."
"of course i read the proposal, and i nearly fell out of my chair at how ridiculous it is. it doesn't really solve anything, it just shuffles problems around and makes it more diverse without actually fixing anything. the way things are today, in a short time you'd still have the problem of entire fleets of \"capital\" ships that are by and large unstoppable except with an even larger fleet of capital ships. there's no balance in this.i remember when the first titan was built, and when the first titan was destroyed. most of us back then were pretty starstruck by the idea, even (perhaps especially) ccp itself. over time, though, and predictably, the ships have become a major problem and a game ruiner.that said, i do like one thing about your proposal, and it's something i've said from the very beginning myself: remove the immunity in favor of greater resistance to ewar.**edit** even the newest of players should have a viable role to fill in a fleet, beyond mere cannon fodder. how many of us outright laughed at the \"i was there!\" marketing scheme about the noob interceptor pilot? that's what it's really about: roles and counterbalances. over the years, ccp has gotten farther and farther away from the cyclic mindset of frigates < destroyers < cruisers < battlecruisers < battleships < frigates again. cap ships, of any size, should not be able to hit moving subcaps, with the possible exception of dreads landing glancing blows to battleships (which would still be pretty devastating, much like when a battleship lands a glancing blow on a cruiser.) in short ... the game has been getting more and more out of whack as the years have rolled by. i really hope that this new direction ccp is taking will once again bring balance to the fleet.whether or not you win the game matters not. it's if you bought it."
"it's a real pain - when mining you can have say 10 or more rocks at the same distance and you're trying to work out which one you're mining in the survey scan results when using a survey scanner is ****. just stick a little icon on it. please one of the csm's - just poke ccp on this one. it's a small tiny change that would bring huge hurrahs from the boring bunch.i'll post up what yinzer haverford wrote -- again lost in the features and ideas forum:tl;dr - just get this fixed!!!!! it's crazyalso increse the survey scanner ii range while you're there. an orca boosted hulk can shoot out to 26km but the scanner's range is only 22.5km"
"miners gonna rage.....ok ok....i'll admit...it makes sense.+1================ stop the evemail spam!"
"mine it all, and don't worry about what's inside.problem solved (but yeah, op makes sense)"
"seriously, why was it even removed?"
"/quote] i hate you more and more everyday.[/quote]it is known"
"+1 . . . but only because you've said what we all want to say but fear to (because of the great leader's wrath. )"
"bumping to gather more support for the cause. +1 because your corps security is just as important as mine."
"firstly, numbers is a real issue, it is at the point where people can field enough supers to destroy any non super cap fleet with impunity.secondly, this is eve, not wow or any other generic mmo, there should be no 'best' ship, no ship that will beat everything else, right now, the only way to beat a super cap blob is with an even bigger super cap blob, sub caps are pretty irrelevant once supers show up. as it is, most big fights end the same way, sup caps and normal caps fight for a little while, then one or both sides bring in the supers, maybe doomsday a couple of things and then everyone goes home, because there is no point fighting anymore.thirdly, and this is similar to the second, titans can currently track, and pretty much insta pop, battlecruisers and up, and therefore they have no real counter, as they can kill off all the dps of a fleet very quickly, which is wrong, everything should have some counter that is not just a bigger blob. this is why people are screaming for ccp to nerf titans tracking."
"sovereignty is required to build supercaps, supercaps reinforce sovereignty. this is a bad synergy for game purposes because it eventually makes sov holders untouchable by anyone who doesn't already hold sovereignty themselves, closing the club.simply doing away with the sovereignty requirement to build them would fix that without any other changes.however, they also have that pesky ewar immunity. immunities are bad game design because there is no counter for the players to use. adjusting the ewar immunity to a (very) high resist would allow players to counter all the other \"bad things\" people see in supercaps without any further nerf needed."
"^^ this is pretty much it... but i will elaborate with my 0.02 isk worth: one of the best aspects of eve is bigger does not mean better. when you get into bigger ships, you often gain some dps, some tank, some range, but you also limit your ability to apply your dps to smaller targets, you lose mobility, etc. essentially, every ship has pros and cons. to kill a battlecruiser, you can ship up and just out-class it or you could ship down and take advantages of its weaknesses. i've solo'd vaga's, drakes, and ravens in a frigate because those bigger ships have weaknesses i can exploit using a smaller ship. in most cases, the pros and cons of entire fleets scale up. a fleet of abbadons has the range, superior dps, and superior tank to annihilate a similar fleet of drakes. but those abbadons will get dessimated by a fleet of afterburning zealots and guardians, becuase the bs's can't hit the ahacs for much damage. the drakes shred a fleet of ahacs because they can outrun the zealots, and their medium weapons hit zealots for lots of damage. this is makes eve a high-tec rock-paper-scissors game, also known as rochambeau. the rochambeau game keeps gang and fleet warfare very interesting, because winning often doesn't revolve around a \"best\" fleet, so much as a counter fleet. even carriers, dreads, and supercapitals fit nicely into the rochambeau game unil the release of dominion. in dominion, sc's and titans were buffed from fleet support ships into frontline fleet dps ships. with their ewar immunity, their ability to destroy any class of ship (be it frigates, cruisers, bc's, bs's, or other capitals), their amazing tanks, and their ability to rr each other, a group of supercaps hard to beat. their rr abilities, tank, and ewar immunity also mean they scale extremely well. so, with the release of dominion, the superpowers started producing supercaps en mass. by the release of cruicible, the number of supercaps in the game grew from a few hundered pre-dominion to over four thousand. suddenly, 100-man supercap fleets are not the dream of some super alliance, but the standard sov-fight escallation force. a 50+ supercap fleet used to have the power to obliterate any fleet on the field, and there was no counter beyond more supercaps. essentially, the rock-paper-scissors game devolved into rock-paper-scissors-thermonuclearsupercapbomb. essentially, the delicate game balances within eve was ruined, and so ccp stepped in during the cruicible release to tone down the overwhelming domination supercaps were playing in the game. while they made leaps forward, they overlooked titan tracking, such that titans, with their enormous guns, can still decimate any fleet thrown at them. the reason you see these threads, is people feel the game needs to be balanced. it's totally reasonable for supercaps to represent a potent option to the rochambeau game... but they need to have a weakness so they can be countered. if the only counter is \"more supercaps\", then the rock paper scissors supercap game really breaks down and becomes the who-has-more-supercaps game. this is not acceptable. no-one really gives a **** about small groups of supers being hotdropped on people... what they care about is the impenetrable assault force they represent when dropped in large groups, especially during sov fights."
"pretty much this.super carriers are fine as they are. sure they have awesome tank and everything else but their dps comes from drones that can be countered and don't instapop everything in sight.titans on the other hand are near impossible to counter unless you bring more."
"i'll say it again - give electronic attack frigates the ability to apply their ewar to supers. makes them more useful than just filling out an alliance torny fleet's numbers, gives a counter to titan locking/tracking etc... and can themselves be countered with drones/smaller weapons etc... whilst not being counterable by supers themselves. supers with support can counter them. supers without support can be pwned by a fleet containing eafs..add in a cool down timer on super's jump engines to stop them crossing the galaxy in < 5 minutes (no bat phone pl from anywhere to anywhere as long as u pick up the fuel tab) and you are in business.give super carriers the ability to also have a flight of bombers and fighters (still no drones) so they can also engage larger sub-caps."
"all good ways to \"fix' scs!australian fanfest event"
"the problem with super carriers is that we have too many sub cap pilots who can't afford them and then proceed to cry about their awesomeness until they get nerfed into a flying tombstone with the focus on being pure eye and easy pray candy for km jewing cane gangs running around the ghetto looking for \"good fights\" without asking for a fair fight........ban sub caps!give us capital interdictors and t2 ewar capitals!"
"titan tracking and numbers."
"some good points here.some answers i can put forward, even though i may get some heat from my alliance...1) to limit the numbers you first have to look at who has how many titans, what region is making the most and why. i am fairly sure that the drone lands would be one area where sc production is very high. it has the end to end resources to make scs at a very fast rate. other areas are limited to either mining or buying minerals (especially in the tech rich regions).now, do you think it's a good idea for ccp to limit numbers artificially, or to increase the difficulty of making them? maybe the csaas could cost a lot more pi to make, introduce a super rare planet like tech moons (limited to high sec only), that csaas need? artificially limit the number of csaas that can be deployed in a region operated by an alliance. increase the production cost and you will see less scs on the field.2) in regards to warfare, what battles are the scs being deployed at? sov warfare would be the majority of cases. deploy 20 super carriers and a few titans and that ihub is toast in 5 minutes flat. sov warfare needs to change. at the moment the concept is way better than pos spams, but having a few big fat targets sitting in space is a target perfectly matched to a sc.maybe a counter to this is to a) introduce a way for the defender to expend fuel for resistances b) automatically ajust resistances of sov equipment based on the types and numbers of weapons attacking it?3) you have to wonder why anypone would attack a titan with bcs. its stupid. to nerf pretty much the last weapon of a titan to make it no more than a bridging/boosting ship is a waste. people want titans, they want them to shoot people easily. i personally think that limiting the availability of titans would be more than enough to limit their effectiveness in large battles.australian fanfest event"
"i personly think a small change to the way jumping works could help a little. as one of the main problems is that you could find a sc ontop of your ship within 1-4 sec after a sb decloaks and points you :) basicly leaving you unable to defend yourself most of the time.i think they are fine in large fleet vs large fleet, but they have a huge advantage vs people they hotdrop on.so a \"spool up\" time on jumping for capitals could be one way to even the field a little... how long should this take? i do not know, but i would say 5-10 sec would be a start :)that means if you can kill the ship that opened the cyno before the sc (or other capital) before it can jump, it will be canceled... or if you can kill it just as it jumped, but before it loads... it will not land directly on you, but somewhere random in the system (it does that already)also another idea when talking about titans and capital weapons... currently the signature of the guns also affect the tracking vs smaller ships ("
"^^^ sounds like a good plan!it reminds me when fbs were introduced, ccp changed their 'torps' to 'guns' in order for them to miss sub caps. i think a similar rework could be the go there.australian fanfest event"
"i wrote before.do you know what is the rock-paper-scissors game ?you can fights against bc//bs fleets with nice tactics. ahac,bc fleet,t3 fleet,sb fleet, other bs fleet etc can kill bs fleets or vica-versa. every fleet has chances against the other one with good setup and tactics and at least 10 tactics working against them.but trying to fight against 500 supercaps with subcaps or common capitals. you have no chance against them and the most important things, all other ship is unuseable too. i have no problem with supercaps , thats part of the game, but their numbers is ridiculous high.so many pilots have over 100m sp just like me. but no matter if the pilots can fly with 250 ships because all useless against supercap blobs if they cant fly with supercap blobs too. wasted sps if enemy just blobing with supercaps.furthermore no tactics working against supercaps just one, bring more supercaps than your enemies.we saw what happened with atlas, they had hundreds and hundreds cap pilots (they used before 400 dreads in fleets), but they could nothing against 500-600 supercap blob and they losing their spaces within 2 weeks.500-600 supercapital such a drake fleet. lol. it's shame for this game.over 4000 supercaps ??? that's really rare ships. lol500 titan ? ccp really read their own eve chronicles from rare titans ?need to change this supercap idiotism. need increasing their value over at least 40-50 billions or more (supercarrier), over 200 billions/titan. the alliance incomes changed dramaticaly in the past years in the game and ccp did not take this into consideration. that's was a big mistake from ccp and thats why their number grew so much.need increasing their building times at least 3 months long period, thats slowing down supercaps increasing numbers and give chances to killing them in the csaa.need change rare moon mineral rules. permanent moon mining materials give advantages for big alliances without fights.and i almost forgot, the other problem is. the supercaps pilots dont want to be lost their ships, because of this they moving to the biggest alliances where is the most supercaps are. somehow need to change their numbers in a fleet."
"the ultimate solution to the supercapital problem would be the need of a siege module.it's pretty simple. that's why dreadnoughts and carriers don't scale well. when the dreads are in siege. it doesn't require more than *what's required to take down a dread* to kill all the dreads that are currently on the field.here are the supercapitals problems : a siege module would fix this.supercapitals wouldn't require truely massive amounts of ships to be taken down as they won't be able to rr eachother and have their offensive capabilities. same goes for titans. apply a \"no reps if a siege module is active\", a tracking nerf (just like the regular siege module that wreck the dreads ability to hit subcaps (actually, sub-battleships) and a \"committing to the fight\" thing.add the \"supercapitals can still online and offline modules, but the onlining of a module from another ship's fitting service will consume 80% of the ship's capacitor\". that doesn't prevent supers from fitting and unfitting modules in a pos, that's the minimum they should have, it would be terribly hard to manage a super without that. but refitting on the field is a massive problem when you encounter tracking titans. the fact that you can adapt in 10s a ship from being the ultimate killing machine to being the undestructable mastodon is simply wrong and doesn't fit anymore in eve post-crucible.right now, supercapitals are kind of a guerilla supermachine. they can jump somewhere, kill **** lightning fast while being untacklable by anything that isn't a dictor or a hdictor (those will get instapopped by titan guns), they can refit from tracking titans to tanking titans and get out if eventually things don't go their way. this is simply too much for one ship-class.while this is kinda harsh to supercapital heavy alliances, you need to give supercapitals new things to work with. such as a workable clonebay/sma thing. with that kind of things, reshipping from a couple supercarriers in a staging pos will be an actually usable strategy. i don't think i ever saw a fleet reshipping from supercarriers smas. why is that ? because it's hard to use/manage/control maybe."
"<- rock <- paper <- scissor <- rock<- supers <- sub caps <- capitals <- supersyou think in terms of sub caps vs supers only. ccp's only mistake is listening to sub cap loving hobos who dont like losing their canes without getting a kill. they need to expand capital hulls (with new t2 stuff to counter subs and supers) and nerf the **** out of sub caps. not make rocks harder to find or so heavy to pickup that nobody bothers playing it.all these alliances have thousands of sub cap pilots(the true blob), hundreds of capital pilots (the should be lynch pin) and i doubt these alliances could field 3 digit super fleets if they wanted to (since there are only half a thousand titans to begin with). so the numbers are not at fault at all. i just hear constant whining about how hard it is to kill something that's so hard to train for, build and fly from people who hate getting wtf owned by it.and make no mistake, the object of any war is not to die for your country, but to make the other guy die for his. and in a ship that costs 2 kidneys, i wouldn't want to lose it either.now go die in a fire."
"lets not forget the massive bot mining problem thats running rampant and unchecked by ccp. they mine 23-7-365 and those minerals are flooding the market. mass producing supercaps is now cheaper and easier to do than ever. stopping the bots = stopping the mineral flood in the market = increased cost of minerals / decreased minerals available = increases the price to produce supercaps = supercap mass production slows to a steady crawl.as to whom caused what i'm not sure. did the demand for mass producing supercaps drive the mining bot activity up? or is the mass production of supercaps merely a result of mining bots flooding the market with minerals?summary of eves last four expansions:"
"realy ? you realy never know anything from supercap fights.supercaps always has other support fleet too in the fightst, but not need too much.<- rock <- paper <- scissor <- rock = <- supers <- sub caps <- capitals <- supers ??? really ?subcaps cant kill supercapital blobs, you talking stupid things. i saw many times 500 supercaps + 200 support ships how fought with over thousand subcap and there the subcaps never won. last time i fought where was over 1500 subcaps and they fought against supercapitals but i saw just 1 and 1 titan kill from each side.and the most ridicuolus thing the over hundreds titans there killed with their ridicuolus tracking some small frigates during motion.you have doubt these alliances could field 3 digit super fleets. lol man, the supercapital pilots created supercapblueblobfest in the game. hundred and hundred dreads couldn't kill them at least 1 years ago, but you thinking about that, the supcaps can kill them. this supercapbluehordes in the past year demolished mostly the 0.0 parts of eastern,southern and northern territories. would be able to talk about this: atlas,-a-,morsus mihi, init, razor etc.oh my....you have doubt because you talk blablabla, but we can prove it.i wrote 1 weeks before this and i linked a picture: 2012 jan 14 pl/raiden/nc./evoke fleet with +100 titans and +400 supercarriers."
"so this is a simple fix to the amount of titian that are out there. i don't believe that the titan is over powered or that it is even needs a fix for the \"tracking titan\". the thing is meant to be the \"be all and \"end all\" of death.but as many of them that live in 0.0 know. there is just far to many of them now. many players have had time to skill up and get one. so we need a way to reduce the amount of them with out nefting them. and a simeple way is to just increase how long it takes to cook one. if a balance can be found that means that the rate of building one is over taken be the rate they are destroyed. the frequently that the \"titan blob\" would be seen and used will decrease.this is a simple idea. and i am sure there is lots of reasons for it the fail. but i am just putting it here anyway. never know. it might work.}{ side note. to help with titan and super cap destruction i would also like to see dreadnoughts get a buff on warp strength. make it so that a hic is needed to warp scrabble them. then you might see more dreads on the field to help in the cause that is killing titans and super caps."
"titians should be boosted but make them really really expinsive that's why there less titian because no can afford yes????"
"no, isk is not a factor for the likes of pl goons -a- and so on. plus. it's the market that sets the price. not ccp. it is us the players that set how much we want for the building and selling of a titan. there is in fact no way ccp can increase the price of a titan."
"well, i suppose if you raised the construction time to a year and the price to some amount so large as to be meaningless you could probably slow the expansion down, for one year until all the new assembly lines started spitting out their queues."
"you would think that at the start. but if takes a year to make one. then that is 1 year that anybody has time to find a csaa that is cooking on and kill the pos. 1 year to make., 365 days for somebody to abort it it.as for increasing price. this will not work as it is us the players that set the price. not ccp. but i will add that if build time was to increase, the price would go up anyway. you have to remember,. it is players that make titans. not npc's"
"if you have sovereignty, and a bunch of titans already, what are you going to guard those assembly arrays with?who's going to stop you? the other alliances who are using their own titans to guard theirs?"
"hell if i know. but that is what war is for :=)"
"war is indeed for throwing yourself at a spike covered brick wall until you can't stand up again, but how does that do anything about titan production?"
"yes but ccp sets the amount of mins that go into said titans, so the miners/botters set the pricesmaking it harder to built titans is not the way to reduce their numbers, and is certainly not the way to fix the wtfpwn blobs of titans. the best way to fix both of those is to make titans easier to kill, how to do that is up for debate, though there are several solutions that i like.1. make it easier for super caps to kill each other, ie. increase doomsday and fb effectiveness against other supers.2a. nerf titan tracking so that they cant hit faster battleships (but can still hit something like a triple plated abaddon).2b. leave titan tracking as it is, but make it so that titans either can't refit in space (introduce a limited form of super cap docking), can't refit from moms or suffer some form of penalty when doing so, meaning that if a titan pilot fields a tracking death machine at the expense of tank, the can't instantly refit to a massive brick tank once they become primary.3. introduce new capital ships such as a capital ewar ship, capital dictor, capital version of the teir3 bcs (lots of big guns, on a fast, fragile frame), or some other ships that increase the tactical elements of capital warfare.4. (won't make them die faster, but makes them harder to deploy from half the cluster away) introduce a spool up time on jump drives and/or portals.(suck it stupid forums! ctrl c+p ftw )"
"because is what will happen as alliances try to stop each other getting more titans."
"this first statement is utter nonsense. i pvp in a clone that is often worth more than the ships i fly, and with the implants i choose to use, it's definitely worth more than most ships i fly. there are always excess skills that aren't applicable to every ship you fly! the idea that those extra skillpoints \"gimp you totally\" is absolutely ridiculous! there are no truly significant increases in clone costs until you are a very high sp (100+m) character. even then, the cost of implants often outweighs the cost of the clone. \"any unnecessary skills increases your pods cost while not giving basically any advantage, thus gimping you totally.\" --- lol... this is just so ridiculous!! fyi, those \"extra\" skillpoints always give you improved/extra abilities in game, which equates to alternate ships to fly, alternate methods to make isk, improved isk-making methods, etc. with the arguable exception of \"afterburners\", this is never a disadvantage... yes, i pointed out what you could train given a few million skillpoints. i must have been too subtle with my purpose in pointing it out, so let me be blunt. it takes a decent amount of time to setup support skills for shields, armor, navigation, ewar, et al (~ 15 m)... but once you have those, cross training into different races of combat ships does not require enormous amounts of skillpoints or time. so either your redistribution gives enough skillpoints to instantly train into the fotm, or you're just to lazy to wait a few weeks for that new skill. as long as you create a mechanism to redistribute your skillpoints, fotm rerollers can benefit from it. if there are perfectionist type players and the like that need to clear out their character sheet for ocd and/or aesthetic reasons, i have a nice compromise for you: you and i both know that my compromise won't meet your personal goal, however. you want to move skillpoints from low-utility areas to high-utility areas, rather than take the rl time to train-up those higher-utility skills. in other words, you're asking for a skillpoint mechanism that allows you to fly the ship of the moment, build the product of the moment, invent the tools of the moment, etc. you have yet to provide any reason why this is needed in game. finally, this particular proposal, which allows me to simultaneously learn and unlearn, is also a veiled tool to learn less-optimal skills at the fastest possible rate. let me explain: i max attribute map percep/will. i train percep will skills, and untrain those same skills. it doesn't matter the rate at which i untrain them, as my total sp pool is always increasing at the percep/will rate. and given the enormous number of percep/will skills, i will never run out of percep/will skills to train. now, every months or two i take the unlearned skillpoints to instantly learn any skill i want but am not optimized to train. at my current place in game, i would no longer need to worry about other attribute implants, i would no longer need to worry about remaps... i will always increase my total sp by the max possible rate, and untrain occasion quick-to-learn skills to learn the not-so-quick-to-learn skills. sure, i'm capped at 3m of sp redistribution a year, but that's a lot of sp redistribution. are you ready to admit you really just an fotm reroller?? or would you like to try again:why do you want and deserve sp redistribution?"
"firstly, theres difference between skills that arent applicable to every ship and the skills that arent applicable to any ship that you may ever consider flying. you see what i did there? the thing is that these certain sps will never help me nor they will ever contribute in any way. they are wasted, simply. secondly. you pvping in expensvie implants has nothing to do with that, clone costs increases (fact), thus high sp characters are penalized compared to lower sp ones (also fact). wait then how the... could my method which makes you untrain skills at lowest possible speed allow to reroll faster than simply training these (usually perc-will) skills at high attribute based speed? care to explain? if rerolling, as you said, takes just a little bit of time (two weeks) then what would be the point in untraining something at 17/17 (lowest possible) attribute speed when you could simply train them at 32/26 or so? also keep in mind that you dont have unlitmited sp coming from respecs, they are not magically taken out of your @ss. add to this an limited sp pool size (that prevents stockpiling) plus annually capped retrainable sp and you, as fotm reroller, are basically blocked in every way.none of the above is the case. using this mechanism you cant have anything of the moment. as sp stockpiling is basically disabled, it needs a time and it needs more time than as it would by default. \"you have yet to provide any reason why this is needed in game.\" well, i did many times, read the topic.i must admit that this particular problem existed in previous version of this \"idea\" i posted on the old forums. but, fortunately, its no longer the case after i added limitations in form of total cap and pool size. assuming that you can untrain 1m sp (which as i said is debatable and fully adjustable) then you could train whole 1m charisma based skills at 32perc/26will speed, yay thats fantastic! thats marginal amount. now, are you ready to admit that you are just being an really stubborn person?"
"why do i get the feeling the op is a bitter toon who was bought and not trained from scratch.....and this is why he's pushing this foolish venture of an idea that has been rejected repeatedly.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"this is my counter-proposal... it solves all the same issues your proposal solves, without breaking the game: even those skills that aren't applicable to any ship that you may ever consider flying still give you a potential advantage in this game because you can utilize them. just because you choose to not utilize those skills does not mean they don't provide an ingame advantage. and while the you're low-utility skillpoints contribute to an increased clone cost, the extra cost is very small, especially compared to the benefits gained by the extra sp. this is a bullshit reason and you know it, and if you feel otherwise, my counter-proposal gives you perfect solution that doesn't break the game. at 17/17, you earn ~250k sp/week. spec'd you earn 300-450k sp/week. with your annual 3m sp cap, you're suggestion allows for 3 months of highly increased sp retraining. let me explain what the status quo will be with your suggestion: most players will retain their near cap sp pool until they need those sp. they will insta-learn something when they need it, and then restock their sp for the next need. a low stock-cap will limit some of this, but even at 1m sp-storage, they can learn a shitload of skills instantly to v, and every skill in the game to iv. by being able to apply those sp instantly, your enabling anyone that store's their sp to instantly get into a ship, or use a module or ability that they didn't specifically plan ahead for. this is the primary definition of an fotm player, and your redistribution scheme enables it, even with your low cap. prior to any major patch, 85% of eve will start untraining their sp up to their sp cap. come release date, fotm fliers will have those insta-sp's, plus signficantly increased training speeds provided by the unlearn/relearn trick to very quickly get into any new and hot ship. fotm builders will do the same, allowing them to very quickly mass produce any fotm items, etc, etc, etc. this very much marginalizes the benefits a well-rounded player gets from having planned and previously trained the less-than-booming stuff that is now booming. this might seem like a no-big-deal thing to you, but it undermines the long-term planners and players because their sp advantages are quickly negated by your sp redistribution. this is what people are talking about when they mention inst-fotm repseccers, and it's reason number one why sp redistribution is wrong. do you not understand this??? or do you just not care?? you realize that not being able to \"undo\" your mistakes is a core tenet of eve. you don't get money back because you have buyers remorse after buying a bunch of overpriced stuff, or misreading a contract and getting scammed, or losing your ship to pirates, or losing your ship to npc's because you fit the wrong hardeners, or you fit the wrong rig on your ship, or stuck in the wrong implant, or . . . why should you be able to correct less-than-idea training choices? training a less-than-idea skill does not prevent you from later on training a higher-utility skill. it doesn't hinder you from advancing in game..."
"i've read your posts... and no, you didn't... please prove me wrong by qote yourself... here is the list of reasons i've seen you provide: you would be able to correct our mistakes by cleaning out our character sheet. -- but living with your mistakes is a fundamental part of eve it saves on clone costs <- solved by my counter-proposal without any of the negatives listed below. it allows for an aesthetic looking character sheet <- solved by my counter-proposal without any of the negatives listed below. it would prevent players from unsubbing after they realized they wasted a few months training something less than ideal. but it would also reduce the number of alt accounts because people would just respec instead.that's it... all three pages have lots of rebuttles, and lots of explaining mechanics... lots of revisions to try and limit the loopholes your proposal makes, but no good reasons why sp redistribution is a good thing needed in game. your pros are almost entirely centered around the incorrect notion that your caps and limits prevent abuse... by the way, my counter proposal solves your clone cost and char-sheet aesthetics reasons just fine... without the fotm drawbacks. here is a list of reason's you have been rebuttled: it allows for fotm insta- or near-insta- respecing.. i know... you've tried to limit this, but you're still enabling it whether you want to admit it or not. it undermines the sp advantages of already-trained characters.. wating for rebuttle it doesn't fit within the rp scenario. waiting for rebuttle you can't unexperience the experiences having those sp's allowed you to do, so why should you be allowed to unlearn those sp? waiting lost subs from people rage quitting and lost subs from people respecing rather than alt training.. but you keep people that would o.w. unsub w/out respec? it allows you to train unspec'd skills at optimal training times, up to your annual sp cap. but it's capped at x million sp annually... what currently not-so-common skills would people untrain-retrain to learn with your 3m sp cap... by the way, 1m per year is about 5% of your total sp learned in a year. 1m sp earns you l5 and 3 warfares to level v, or cyno v, or pefect r&d, or acct v, or cc upgrades v, or interpalnetary consolidation v, or 2x armor/shield compensation v, or cybernetics v, or infomorph v, or jdo v, or 1/2 of jdc v, or thermo v, or anchoring v, or they can insta-learn lost skills from t3 losses, or . . . there are tons of extremely useful skills that people put off training becuase they aren't spec'd for them, and now they can redistribute 5-15% of their optimal trained sp to learn those more obscure sp."
"sorry, but i got no time to write three double-a4 posts on daily basis, so i'll keep it shorter now.they give me potential advantage (which will most likely never be used) while giving actual disadvantage that is always there. sorry but i will pass and choose something that is used most of the time, or wait, or simply something that *is* used. and no, but ~90m per clone is not cheap. its actually cost of tier2 bs!if 1m sp allows to get shitload of skills then those skills with their low multipliers could as well be trained traditionally almost equally fast. they are non factors. skills that matters, the x8 and higher ones are practically not affected by this mechanism at all. if you suggest that someone getting mining (or some similarly important skill) from lvl 4 to 5 will break the game you must seriously rethink what you say. you keep mentioning these 3m sp in every second post like it was the core of this idea, while its not. i've pointed many times already, its adjustable and open do discussion. it could as well be 1m, 500k or even f*cking 100k. sp in pool could decrease over time so you would be forced to redistribute faster. sp pull could even not exists at all and skill points would be transferred from one skill directly to another, completlely negating every single one of your objections. why couldnt you suggest any of those, but instead you come here to bash everything i say?i came with the \"pool\" idea since its here, already working and implemented in game, linking it with untraining mechanism code parts would make it much easier, but hell lets just scrap it, right? its not, its just stupid mantra repeated by people like drake draconis & co. the thing they made it like that in 2003 doesnt mean its perfect and shouldnt be changed. its game developers, they can do mistakes."
"it's only stupid to you because you can't handle making stupid choices.own up....lifes tough...don't like it? quit.welcome to eve online.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"a 90m isk clone has 264m skillpoints, and needs an extra 80m sp in unwanted skills to bump it up to the next level, which even then is only a 30m difference in price. no where near the cost of a t2 bs (500m). realistically, even if you spent the first year training skills you no longer want, your increased clone cost from your desired skills to your current skills is on the order of 7 million isk or less. this is not a signficant cost, unless your a noob... and if you are a noob, you don't have that many sp, so the cost is no where near 7 million. this cost you point to is very, very negligible for any competent player. lvl 5 rnk 1 costs 256k. double that for rank 2 (512k), triple it for rank 3 (768k), etc. so, 1m sp insta-trains a rnk 4 skill to level v, and gets you 80% of the way to completing a rank v (those numbers are from scratch, it's pretty much exactly 1m sp to train from lvl iv to lvl v with a rank 5 skill). if you think the only skills \"that matter\" are x8 and higher, you're are very ignorant: rank 4 and below: all frigate and adv frigate skills, trade skills, most industry skills, most pi skills, all subsystem skills, all social skills, all armor/shield core skills, all ewar skills, all medium weapons, small weapons, and most weapon support skills, rank 5: any racial cruiser, adv sc, r&d/invention skills, cynos, adv ewar skills, drone skills, large weapon skills, leadership specialization skills rank 6: bc, hac, recon, logistics, awu, warefare specialist, hics, transports, rank 7: capital weapon skills, starbase defense skills rank 8: command ships, bs skills, adv large weapons, capital armor/shield skills, wc rank 9+: fc, bo, marauders, and capital ship skills. 1m insta-trains into a cruiser/bc, 2m insta-trains into a bs, and 3m insta-trains capital ships.scenario: ccp decides to revamp mining, so it now pays better than incursions. i have no mining skills to speak of, but with 1m sp, i can train industry v, mining v, & astrogeology v. now, my percep/will spec'd character suddenly can train mining barge to 3 w/in half a day, and can be in exhumers within 2 weeks. without the 1m in stored sp, it would take me 28 additional days to get to the same spot (half that if i had a couple respecs to use, but i don't). recent scenario: ccp buffed assault ships to be awesome solopwning frigates. with 1m sp to spare, people could insta-train any t2 frig with t2 weapons. people can instantly jump into ships like the hawk or harpy, which were obscure and often untrained beforehand. they could also instantly train assault ships v, since it now fully fleshes out af's into potent little ships. they no longer have to wait the 2-4 weeks to train these, and can do it instantly. optionally, if i was an af builder, i could instantly max my hawk/harpy invention skills to maximize the profits associated with the new ship demands. you specifically asked for \"cons - find one\" in your post. you didn't ask for ideas on how to improve it. not only did i find \"cons\" in your post, like you asked, i explicitly showed how your notion that \"this idea won't create fotm respecs\" is incorrect. by the way, you implicitly ask for critiques when you posted your idea to the forum area specifically designed to debate issues and ideas. i'm trying not to bash on you, nor undeservingly bash your idea, but i am critique your idea by pointing out the major flaws in your idea. sorry if this comes across as unhelpful, but this is not a new idea, nor is your spin on it. additionally, you do not come across as someone that has researched it, nor as someone that understands the nuances within it. this is why you have been met with such overwhelming negativity. if you want to debate this too, we can dig up some dev quotes supporting my notion. we can point out the game mechanics, the gm rulings, and the examples that support my viewpoint. however, i don't think you really want to go there (if you do, let me know). otherwise, given the lack of valid reasons \"why we need this\", i'm ready to let this thread fade away into oblivion."
"double post, i know, but...the gms thoughtfully provided me with this link, which lists a very different refund policy than i remember."
"done a search and only found 1 post that mentions it at all, and that is quoted at the bottom of this post.firstly, i have never had my accounts hacked. i have a decent length password, alpha-numeric with symbols ect.but as added security a lot of new release games are giving the option to purchase a physical rsa style token that when activated means that without the physical token you cant login to the game even if you have the password.i think that something like this to login to the client would improve security on accounts and reduce hacked accounts.things to make clear tho: this should be optional, if you dont want one, you shouldnt have to have one. this should be configurable to allow you to choose what asspects of eve need a token, account managment, forums, client ect. a single token should be used for all your accounts. not 1 token per account. flame on"
"did you actually read that quote?why suggest something ccp are already doing? (albeit slowly)"
"so a users post means ccp is actually working on it? there is no mention of it anywhere other than that 1 post."
"proof please...================ stop the evemail spam!"
"if people would just be smart about their computer security there would never be an issue. the only time a third party has access to someone's account is when they've given their password away, either on purpose or accidentally. physical keys doesn't prevent outside attackers from getting access any more than passwords do, it just makes it harder for the user to give away their password by being stupid.oh, and you can already rig up physical security keys to work with eve with a bit of knowhow."
"users will always be users. thats a given, but if you need a code off a physical device in order to login, how exactly do you propose i get hold of that code without the device?also, care to elaborate or support your comment that this can be done already? (post-it notes with your password dont count)"
"it was announced at fanfest last year :v"
"i was asking for documented proof....not word-of-mouth crap.anyone can say they are working on it(tm)give me a dev blog....or an ccp annoucement saying this.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"one major issue with authenticators or whatever is that it will be a huge pita for people with multiple accounts, which in eve is pretty much everyone. so if they are optional, a lot of people will never use them, if they are not, then prepare for authenticator-gate (any technical issues with getting them to securely work with multiple accounts not withstanding).(also @op it doesn't matter a damn how much you have your numbers, letters and cases mixed up in your password, proof)"
"cartoons are proof ?"
"no, the math within that particular cartoon is proof."
"great idea.complete waste of time.all i'd need is ventrillo/ts3/mumble and your idea is rendered comlpetely useless.not supporting.a+ for effort tho! :)================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"bumpread and support: don't mess with our wh's what is your stance on wh stuff?"
"i think this belongs in the jita park forum, not assembly hall."
"this.================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"make them way more expensive. i mean titan in the 300 bil range (negotiable) same with supercarrier. simple. make them vulnerable to subcaps."
"price is not an issue for mega alliances, only the smaller ones will be hurt by this. and how will a price hike make them more vulnerable to sub caps?"
"like i said. negotiable. jack it so high it will hurt. the subcaps thing was a different thing. make titans rely on smaller ships to kill smaller ships."
"*facepalm* what part of \"price isn't an issue for the mega-alliances\" do you not get?"
"i agree with the posts above. you clearly have no idea how much isk the large alliances actually have. you could charge a trillion and there would still be a ton of titans in game.also, 'make them vulnerable to sub caps' doesn't really tell us what your plan is here? can you be more specific as to how they should be made vulnerable?"
"^^ really? this is your grand slam solution to a problem that you clearly know nothing about? please, make sure the suicide booth door doesn't hit you in the ass as you biomass yourself immediately."
"but need to change their prices, because the game changed after game start. the alliance incomes increased at least 20x bigger ago 2004 and the titan prices (without modules) decreased from 100 billions to 50-60 billions.anyone can buy easily a \"rare\" titan . easily can buy everyone a supercarrier because a ratter in 0.0 can ratting 15-20 billion isk within 1 month. at incurson someone made it 1days/2billion isk.need to change this. the supercaps number dramaticaly increased over 4000+ in the past 2 years. must stop this sh*t.1st: need to change supercarriers prices at least to 50-100 billions. need to change titan prices at least to 200-300 billions. (increase mineral requirements 2x-3x more)2nd: increasing their building times at least 3x times longer. that's ridicuolus if a supercarier building time just short period longer than a carrier building time, even then their hull size 8-10x bigger than carrier hull size. this can be slowing littlebit their growing numbers.and the last need nerfing their abilities, make them more vulnerable against dread fleets etc.need to stop supercap blobs, because i saw bigger supercap fleets than drake hordes. not once, over 500 supercap blob flying in 0.0"
"1.nerd tracking 2.make titan only have bpcs that can only be found once a month in lvl five missions of the titans faction 4.make the price very high like 1 tril5.make them take 8 months to build6.nerf hp dramticlywhile this may seem to hurt small. alliances, i don't think they should have titans in the first place. they are the biggest ship and only the biggest alliances should have them."
"btw nice troll"
"1. yes, needs to be done carefully, but ccp is already working on it2. maybe, but the drop rates will have to be carefully done.3. just no, anything that increases null secs dependency on hi sec minerals is bad, it would barely slow down production, and most importantly, would result in less super caps being killed and bigger super cap blobs, because nobody would risk them by using them in anything less than wtfpwn blobs.5. no, as it would not result in less being built, in a few months production would be back to normal.6. maybe, i don't know how many dommsdays it takes to kill a titan, but i'm guessing quite a lot (based only on the fact that so little actually die in titan vs titan battles) perhaps instead of nerfing their ehp, buff the things that kill them (but only against supers - ie. doomsdays do 200% more damage against titans, 150% more against moms [numbers pulled out of my ass] and the same idea for fighter bombers and maybe dreads)personally i am of the opinion that the best way to kill more of them is with new capitals such as a capital ewar ship (maybe to replace tracking nerf), or even a teir3 bc style ship with 8 xl guns/launchers (instead of ehp nerf)."
"better idea:make them easier to build. allow for building them in lowsec. then challengers to the nullsec establishment can build their own.viva la revolution!"
"no. make it easier to kill them in production. maybe like bombers can slip inside the pos field and bomb them with some special. ombtype..."
"+1, seems fair to me."
"+1 fix this already !!!!"
"does it?i have no gripe one way or the other, but if anything it makes more sense that the bigger the ship the bigger the bomb when it blows.the length of the fuse on that bomb is pretty arbitrary.for purposes of the game-as-written, you engage someone, their ship blows up, you win. who the &*%$ cares who gets credit as long as the ship is gone?"
"+1face it. we can already do this. we choose agents that are near other agents for a reason. making it official would let those willing to run tag missions do so, and visa versa. there is one more thing i suggest:increase the drop rate of tags.that would "
"if standings are so precious then yes, tags are a bother and a half to acquire. but if you do not care much about standings, do a bit of rp or merely embrace the sandbox of consequence then they are rather bountiful.what i proposed (yes, hirana is little old me) would increase tag availability substantially as tag collection is a by-product of fw plexing and giving pilots the choice by way of a button would allow for everyone not in the militias to gather them provided they are not attached at the hip to their standings.the fact that the principal lp earners (high-sec runners) does not want to tank standings with one faction or another is irrelevant to the question of whether tags are dropping enough .. the tags are there, just not free-for-all lying on the ground there."
"first off: until structure shoots are abolished, you will never get rid of the need for large cap fleets.second: while large cap fleets are still needed, you will never get rid of the necessity of having capital fleets and sub capital fleets set up as separate entities.third: given the necessity of large fleets of cap ships, you must make sure that said large cap fleets are balanced.fourth: carriers, dreads, and supercarriers are all currently well balanced around this concept, only the titan is still balanced around the idea of it being a rare ship.fifth: my proposal is focused around fixing the only ship that is not balanced properly for current game mechanics.sixth: if you think that my proposal does not fix the problem with titans under current game mechanics, i simply request that you explain why, and provide a solution to improve the proposal. if you can't do this, please post elsewhere.as a sub note, you will never get rid of cap fleets even if you abolish structure shoots, because too many people enjoy flying in cap fleets. like i have said before cap fleets are as much a part of eve as subcap fleets. even the terminology proves it: sub-capital.i agree that dreads should not be able to hit anything smaller than battleships, and in fact they cant even hit battleships while in siege mode due to the tracking penalty when in siege. so the massive damage bonus of a siege'd dread cant even be used on subcaps. i think fighters are pretty well balanced atm due to their obvious weakness to smartbombs and bombers. the superdread would not get the tracking capabilities of a titan, but from a dread since that's what the new hull would be based on. it would be balanced because it would also use a siege module, making it only able to hit battleships with its guns while not in siege. you wouldn't be able to tracking fit it either, because you would have to fit a tank since you couldn't be remote repped while in siege. the doomsday wouldnt be usable on subcaps either.you want to bring balance to the \"fleet\", by nerfing capitals until they cant stand on their own, forcing them to become support for subcaps. realistically, you have it backwards. destroyers, frigates, submarines and cruisers are all there to provide scouts and support for the aircraft carriers and battleships. you say that a (eve) carrier should launch piloted ships instead of having fighters, which is a nifty idea, but it is not feasible. even if you limited a carrier to launching 10 frigates each, you would still need 11 pilots per carrier, making one of the aformentioned necessary capital fleets require thousands of pilots before you even start counting dreads or supers. eve does not have the playerbase or the server capacity to make this idea possible, hence the existence of fighters/drones."
"bumpwhether or not you win the game matters not. it's if you bought it."
"yup - one little icon on the survey scanner screen on the bridge of a huge futuristic spaceship about a mile long packed with futuristic stuff would hugely make me happy.count me in."
"this is a sensible and easily implemented big thumbs up from me.this is one of the miner's papercuts :if you can't do more tank or new ships then please csm 7 -- please ask ccp to do this little thing ..you buy them beers i'll transfer iskies . i've been waiting for this for years.i mean come on .. look at my face!yes i'm in the same corp as the baldie above me.............................."
"after listening to a huge amount of whining about this on comms last night, i have to admit it's an issue that needs addressing."
"how about making cynos like wh's. 1 sc would cause the cyno to collapse so to speak. so if you wanted to blob sc's it would take a **** ton of cynos instead of just 1. remove ability for supers to fit cynos"
"multipost"
"then attacking a system would be impossible.you attack our home system, we have 500 super caps, we got them there last nightyou take your cyno alts in, you have a few optionscyno all in one spot, cyno all in random spots either way your screwed."
"wouldn't be a very bright idea to go in then, huh? defense is supposed to be easier then offense if you are set up for it.so, you now have 500 sc's in a system looking pretty when absolutely nothing is going to come in. the hostile sc's are now free to hit another system and now you have to re-position to counter it. if you're all holed up in you very last system, it shouldn't be easy to take it.if that's you're only nit pick....lol...move along and troll elsewhere."
"should be obvious, no? its \"the forum area specifically designed to debate issues and ideas\" after all. feel free to criticize, but try to contribute in less anti-everything way a bit at least. and no i didnt mean \"i support this!\" posts by any case. but saying no, because 3m sp, because no is so drake's draconis style. till i proved that you werent right. read all of the above posts and check that you have not showed anything. you keep spamming about some unimportant low multiplier skills being affordable in faster training speed once per year as game breaking issue. then you basically kept spamming this over and over. the only other thing you say is that 90m clone cost means nothing, which is just lol. no point arguing with you. you simply hide your lack of real arguments behind of your wall of text. thats it. i assure you this, in its current form, is new and totally mine idea. though, i've firstly posted it in its basic form an half year ago then reposted here (with improvements). ofcourse respec suggestions pops often here - once per week i heard - (which is quite strange since in your opinion majority doesnt want it, right?), annual respec ideas pops from time to time, seen quite a few full respec ones, but never seen this exact one, well thought, with all best parts of other suggestions merged in, already. as i said, devs changes, their opinions changes and games mechanics changes. thing they thought will work perfectly in 2003 may not be so perfect in 2012. also gms opinions doesnt matter, they say whatever they are told to say. with no offence to gms, but they are non factors in this case.and btw tier2 bs is not t2 bs."
"that's actually a really good question. i don't have a solid answer, but i'm open to suggestions.a couple things i thought of, off the top of my head, which are probably the most obvious answers ..option 1) caps/supercaps supposedly can't use stargates because of some sort of mass limitation on the stargates themselves. by this logic, any ship that is capable of carrying multiple rigged, unpackaged battleships also wouldn't be able to fit through a stargate. therefore, these ships would not work in highsec but still be viable in low/nullsec where their force-projection capabilities are most needed anyway. it may not be the most pleasant answer, but then again by the same token how easy should it be for a nullsec alliance, or anyone really, to cross from one end of the galaxy to the other? something important to consider.option 2) allow them to use stargates, but still not be able to cyno in highsec. doesn't make a whole lot of sense by the lore as far as i understand it, but if it must be done for some reason beyond \"how awesome would it be if ...\" then that's one way.option 3) special cyno for supercarriers (\"motherships\" if you will, like they used to be called.) it'd work in highsec. again, doesn't make a whole lot of sense to me, but you can write it into the lore as a new tech breakthrough or that this new, modulated cyno is permitted by concord. it's still very important to consider the ramifications of giving nullsec quick and easy access to regions far, far from their home turf (naps are already a pretty rampant problem according to some of us, and why bother fighting your neighbors when you can fight someone really far away at your relative liesure?)based on these knee-jerk options, i like the idea of keeping this sort of force-projection ability out of highsec. i am open to discussion and suggestions though, for sure. i don't have all the answers, just feedback as a really old player. :)whether or not you win the game matters not. it's if you bought it."
"letting any capital ships into high sec would be a bad idea imo. carriers are only slightly larger than freighters to begin with, yet they cant use jump gates, which leads me to believe that they aren't allowed in high sec because concord doesn't want them there. a freighter designed to carry rigged ships would need to be bigger than a standard freighter i would think, so why not make it a teir 2 freighter instead of tech 2? then you could always add a tech 2 variant of your ship hauler with a lowered maint bay capacity and a jump drive."
"you could give it a long range, and remove the grid-fu problem it'd probably be easier to code on account of using an existing mechanic as well just make it into a huge bubble effect like an interdictor probably not as dramatically apparent"
"i can pretty much fit my tech 3 very survivable even with 3 command links survivability isn't a problem i also think command ships are still very tough and in larger fights you can use titans or carriers i don't really see this survivability problem anywhere reallyalso this is a bit off topic, but related matter in a sense how powerful these gang boosts are gang bonuses and links scale very badly for smaller fleets and gangs for those smaller skirmishes bonuses you get are very strong like think when you have over 20km webs and like 40km points on your ships this is on ships with no natural bonus on ranges yet add there other bonuses and it's totally weird i would argue that gang links are not balanced at all and in many cases they break natural roles of ships etc"
"from the perspective of someone who lives in null sec, this might make null sec roams also head into low sec. a lot of people in null sec don't like to pvp in low sec because of the sec status hit they take. we have to go to high sec at some point or another, and if we are -10 then we just can't do that.+1"
"this tbh. seems like everyone in low sec has a scout in all directions and bait cyno battle cruisers ready to bridge in a blob. all one can do is try and bait themselves."
"bounties should affect the player, and not just the character. towards that end i'd like the introduction of associates.associates are characters that have had financial dealings with the bountied character. giving and receiving money, contracts, and window trades.using a player defined filter, a locator agent will display all the matching characters, who can then have bounties placed on their heads."
"i have idea to fix loopholes or exploitshave it be that the payout is based half of anything that is 'lost' and doesn't come back in insurance or drop. for example fully insuring a ship and losing it will cause you to lose some money. the payout will be half of the amount that would be lost regardless if a person fully insures the ship or not. . if they have a alt kill themselves they still need to spend twice as much isk to remove the bounty through bounty hunting fraud, and will not gain more then they lose. another thing that can contribute to the payout for a kill is the cost of a clone, half off the cost of a clone. so even if they kill themselves and pod, they would still be out on half the money needed for a new clone. (being something that frowned on in empire, doing so might flag you with a bounty, which gives incentive to do dirty work elsewhere or pay the price of being a outlaw hunter who themselves is a outlaw).same with implants. maybe even mods and rigs can be added into the system too, half the value of the mods destroyed (drop not counting). by paying half of the value that is burned will make fraud unfeasible and unprofitable, compared with paying 100%. also with a new bounty system, tied to kill rights makes greifing others (non-pirates) with bounties unlikely. unlike killrights in current form, bounties should last forever until paid out. only the person who lost a ship or pod may place a bounty on a target with positive sec status in a week window frame, and its a one time deal (no forever additions unless the are negative sec status).they should also allow people with bounties on head to be shot at anywhere without penalty untill the bounty is gone. no highsec hiding for outlaws.player sec status can still play a role, in that if it is at all negative that anyone can place bounties on them at anytime. how deep they are in the negative will determine how chronically they are stuck in it for grinding out of it. having a high sec status does not excuse a person for past crimes, and the still may be hunted by players without penalty (killrights or concord), until it goes away.big reforms in bounty hunting will not only make it be a real profession but encourage those who are outlaws to stay out of highsec (save clandestine incursions). bounty hunters looking for the targets will venture into dangerous space themselves."
"not supported.there exist 3 ways to get faction tags on a semi regular basis: faction warfare missions, faction warfare complexes and npc nullsec. any change to the drop rates would be a boost to high sec mission running and a nerf to fw and 0.0 mission running.there are actual pilots who make a tidy sum from running those missions and complexes and selling the tags. i know this because i buy tags from them in their theaters of operation. i also take the risk of transporting them to empire.want more faction tags? run fw missions, fw complexes, or 0.0 missions on a regular basis and accept the negative effects caused by that activity. edit: there is a fourth way: level 5 missions (no one seems to collect the tags...at least they do not sell them locally)be careful what you think, for your thoughts become your words. be careful what you say, for your words become your actions. be careful what you do, for your actions become your character. and character is everything. - author unknown"
"do you not think that the tag requirements for all items are pretty ludicrous, especially since they were set way before fw and the like were twinkles in ccp's eyes - which makes it all the more ridiculous. additionally, seeing as the distribution of anti-faction missions is mind-bogglingly stupid (anti-amarr missions for gallente, anyone?), something definitely has to be done, and forcing people to go out into low and null who simply don't want to leave high sec will accomplish nothing.ccp seriously needs to look at this situation - it's not a matter of boosting mission running, it's a question of fixing the broken lp stores."
"i support this idea. i don't know how many times i've been grinding missions for fun and isk, only to suddenly receive an anti-amarr mission (funny enough, it's always anti-amarr missions. never the other empire-factions) and have to stop running missions for another 4 hours. it's really annoying when you're already hated by the amarr, and actually want to improve standings with them by working for their \"allies\", until you get access to better amarr-missions...as for the tag-market, i don't know how that looks. i generally only work for soe or buy faction ammo from other factions, because it's just too bothersome getting those stupid tags for the marginally better faction-modules."
"jumpclones are a fantastic thing, but in their current form they're very gimped.there's been a number of people i've spoken with who'd like the timers reduced so that they can be part of more than one cta in a day using more than one implant set, but can't do so due to the 24 hour cool off timer. given the current state of pvp in eve, a lot of corporations are swapping between fittings and gang styles such as going from fast moving buffer fitted shield gangs with logistics support, to heavier groups of ahacs with guardian support. often ctas for corporations are to the point where there's two within a 24 hour timeframe, and people end up stuck in the wrong set of implants for the fleet they want to be a part of.obviously jumpclones with a simple reduction in timer are a bad idea, because they can be used for \"i am the monkey, i can go anywhere!\" style shenanigans, effectively bypassing a lot of travel. the timers however do need addressing as they're counter productive to the operations of a lot of corporations.proposal : reduction of jumpclone cooldown timer via high rank skill.pros & cons :governing the timer via a high rank skill means that those people who feel the need to have a faster jumpclone recovery time have the means to reduce the timers, however it comes at the cost of dedicating significant time to the training, as well as a remap to increase charisma for the duration of the training.making the skill the same rank as a racial titan skillpack means that people who only decide to train it to level iv still have to invest a significant amount of time into doing so in order to get the benefit from it.further benefits mean that small gang and solo pilots can have faster access to their clones to move around and diversify their fittings more without having to wait 24 hours to swap implant sets or move to a new sphere of operations. the move to a trainable reduction in cooloff time between jump clones would empower small corporations to be able to be more versatile with what they can field.if you're feeling the same about the jumpclone system being gimped, feel free to like this post and spread the link around. the more people who see it the better.verone ceo & executor veto corp www.veto-corp.com"
"knew if i bitched about jc's long enough someone would word it right here, +1"
"nice idea, current system needs addressing for sure."
"+1 seems like a good way to improve the current system without breaking it."
"+1this will also serve to encourage carebears to try out pvp. more pvp is good for everyone.twitter blog"
"i like reducing jc cooldown idea, but not so much via adding another skill. theres enough skills in game already. someone said it would take 24 years to learn all of them and the more skills the bigger gap between new and old players becomes.also an x12 multiplier is still nothing hard to beat, i could train it while not logging into the game even once, so?i would simply add an secondary effect to isomorph psychology reducing clone jumps. so yeah i support this, but i still could do it better. :)"
"stop ####ing about sp's and grow up for once...if people really want the benefit of reduced jc's which is likely not going to happen but if it does...it should be a skill book on principle.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"bump for relevence for the million miner march:"
"i think others have clearly stated what is wrong. in past wars it was, it was not rock paper scissors, but gold rock (supers) beating everything else.the inability for the death ray targeting subcaps is a step in the right direction (personal i thought it would be better if it could still be used, just upping the miss chance for how small the ship is, half miss on bs, quarter hit cruiser, 1/10 hit frig).1. a clear issue is the ability for titans to hit anything smaller then capitals and bs. 2. another is liberal use of fitting, a titanic war machine should not be refit on the fly.3. flat immunity to warp disruption and ewar, it should be a tenfold better then a carrier but not a absolute. same with warp strength, 50 for titan, 10 for super carrier."
"just recently i noticed a buy/sell (margin trading) scam in progress and decided to have an underhanded go at it. quickly amassing the proper number of items in an outside market at a normal price, i flew them over to drop on the buy order. and it failed. why did it fail? because the amount of isk in escrow was lower than the value of the minimum buy order. what this means? the buy order was intentionally rigged to fail. knowingly and intentionally placed despite the fact it could never be filled.this issue has been discussed to death, but there's a pretty quick and logical solution to it, one that inconveniences legitimate users only a little, and absolutely ruins the unwatched buy order scam (repeat, this does nothing to the cancelled buy order variant of this scam). when placing a buy order, the margin trading skill allows players to place less than the total amount of isk in escrow (100%, 75%, 56.25%, 42.19%, 31.64%, 23.73%). what i propose is that this number be compared to the isk value of the minimum volume for the buy order (if any) and the higher value used for the amount in escrow.under this process, legitimate users of the margin trading skill can still place buy orders with minimum volumes - one way or another, enough isk to cover the minimum purchase amount will be placed in escrow.for scammers, this means that placing an order of, say, 500 units with a minimum volume of 500 units will require 100% of isk to be placed in escrow regardless of margin trading skill level, eliminating the possibility that the order cannot be fulfilled by legitimate in-game means. (as noted, this does not stop buy order cancellation scams, only those that rely on the order automatically breaking when it can't be afforded from the placer's end.)"
"crossposting is frowned upon; i expect this topic to be locked once a mod notices that you posted this thread in both here and the f&i forums."
"that's what the csm should hopefully do, zero-seven - put pressure on ccp to look at reforming or at least improving their customer service."
"hello ccp team, i wondering what about next expansion of eve to add tier 3 bs`s, i am sure this isn`t the first time you see this idea but it is a good one i think.so after you add tier 3 bc`s, which was very good step into eve world, you can reconsider to offer t3 bs`s.to avoid the repeating effect, my suggestion is to make something like entire new battleship setup for each race.the thing wich spinning in my head is not to make bs for each race, but only two designs, one for armor tanking and one for shield.other things like firepower, engineering, electroncs can be like tech 3 ships with some kind of subsystems.this way every player can choose the right ship for its own tanking skills and other things can be configurable.this is only the surface of the idea about tier 3 bs`s, but i am sure your teams can make it a lot more creative and improved.best regards!nick kavees"
"you know, abbadon, rokh, maelstrom and hyperion are the tier 3 battleships."
"this was a dirty answer hem, tech 2 battleships are already not very used except the obvious and hotdrop 15/1. -titans can bridge fleets of thousands players, so who needs blackops-any silly frigate can equip cyno and use it so who needs recons for that or covert cyno no one uses other than hotdrpers on a poor drake rating in null?they have cloacky speed bonus, nothing that makes those interesting to have/fly for other purpose than hot drops and, sry but this must be said again, sin as gallente black ops makes already all black ops serie bs a joke.so why tech 3 battleships when tech 1 are already crap except for blobs, 1 of 4 races still out witch happens almost in every aspect of eve except gates and undocks.why tech 3 bs when tech 2's are just expensive toys good to pave killboards?"
"mmm ... nope. fix what we have, then add new stuff. meaning, get rid of the tier system entirely and balance things based on role.not supported.whether or not you win the game matters not. it's if you bought it."
"sorry my mistake, so tier 4, not tech 3 because price would be too high."
"do we need tier 4 battleships? or do you just want tier 4 battleships?"
"the tier 3 has 8 gun slots and the best tank, how can you get any higher then that?add to that, for some races its redundant anyway with 3 teirs when they have multiple racial gunship would this new ship be a 8 high slot with double damage bonus, and no tank?or..... in the flavor up upgunning things, give it capital sized guns?add to that maybe have a lower teir bs have lower powegrid, twice the fire rate and 50% boast to range bonus with equipping medium guns."
"bump for relevance for the million miner march:"
"signature id<U+FFFD>s should not change after dt the deadspace signature around wh<U+FFFD>s should be removed shields should be at 100% when boarding a new ship in the smawe should be able to restrict access to the sma by memberallow us to swap subsystems in wh space sleepers should roam wh space (camp wh<U+FFFD>s, warp randomly into grav/ladar sites and maybe attack pos<U+FFFD>s)remove the penalty to refining arrays in wh spacecsma in wh spaceability to repackage items in corp hangarsrename all pos structurespersonal tab for sma and corphangar"
"it is designed to be a tier 2 freighter, so that later down the line, a tech 2 (jump-capable) version can be produced.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"ah ok, it sounded like it would be based on the tier 1 freighter hull to start with, so, my mistake."
"i was being sardonic with that post.what i actually meant was don't just assume that this proposal is for low/null sec as people do still need to move ships around hi sec space as well.this proposal would benefit all. oh and by the way? freighters, jump freighters and orcas are capital ships and they are already used in hi sec. as long as this ship does not have a direct combat capability, it would just be following on from the capital ships already allowed in hi sec.still would like to see a tug class ship solely for moving ships."
"i agree with you in all ways except for one glaring thing no matter how well tanked a thing is, it's not as survivable on-grid as it is off-grid that's what needs to change :)whether or not you win the game matters not it's if you bought it"
"so... you didn't read all the op right?"
"if you support that, like the op captain - the ideas are the same"
"this seems a simple fix, any chance of it ever happening?"
"you know once upon a time people used to travel from system to system and region to region using gates. these were fun times as you had lots of little fights all over the place. small gangs would roam around and run into other small gangs. things would go boom and people were happy as they had fun, win or loose.now, people have jump bridges, titan and to a lesser extent black ops bridging and with this new proposal, jumpcloning (that even a word? if not, should be) all over eve. it's a good idea to get people into fleets but kind of has a knock on effect in actually reducing pvp as it's hard to kill someone that jumps from one station to the next.i know ccp seem to be thinking the same thing when the nerfed (or fixed?) jump bridges so i am not sure if this one would be one that ccp would like.personally i like this idea but that's for selfish reasons as i don't want to fly all over eve if i can just jump clone to a new place instead."
"a better idea would be to increase the timer to one week."
"just make a cool down timer dependent upon jump range and nerf suicide travel ......."
"so in the end with your skill maxed out the cool down timer will be at minimum 12 hours? i could live with that. +1 i think a new skill to train is the right way to do that as well."
"i don't think that jumpclones should be used more than once/day. that would allow for too much instant-travel; you should live with your decision of what you're flying for a day. i would agree with a skill that reduces the jumpclone cooldown period to, say, 20 hours at the shortest to allow players to log in the next day and not have that annoying 30min wait, but i think that jumpclones used more often than that would be bad for the game and would result in large fleets able to move too quickly."
"+1 from me. this has been a need for a long time."
"how about no skill needed, but if the clone jump does not result in a location change, you can do it in just a few hours after your last clone jump. that way you can jump into a clone with different implants quickly, but you still need 24 hours before you can jump across the universe.it could even be fit into lore: sending your mind across the universe is stressful, and can only be done after a 24 hour recovery period. but if you and your clone are in the same station and so can be hard wire connected the stress is much less and the jump can be done just a few hours after your last jump."
"i like the idea of giving more features and optimizing current ones.+1 also the forum rules clearly state bumps can only be made by the original poster. no exception."
"having used the survey scanner once upon a time, i agree that there needs to be something to highlight what you have targeted.+1"
"i watched a comedy moment with an awoxer and a mach the other day because of this very issue. didn't end well for the mach pilot. supported."
"qft!the only problem with supers and titans is that they can omgwtfbbq sub capitals. both types are designed to fill an anti capital and support/command/bonus and doomsday role. because they are immune to ewar means they can't be stopped even by an overwhelming sub capital fleet.i would say..remove immunityremove rr from sc (meaning they need carrier support)add 15 warp strngh to scadd 50 warp strength to titanremove fighters from scadd signature resolution to titan to prevent it blapping sub caps.problem solved."
"supercaps should not have ewar immunity. it's a broken design from the outset. eas have their role, if it is a teensy niche in the eve landscape. just because you don't see everybody using them doesn't mean they aren't used or useful."
"3 years ago, they were alliance-level assets, and seeing one was awesome. today, they are individual assets, and seeing one is meh. hell, even seeing killmails of one is meh."
"should just make a anti-titan frigate that flys into its drone bay and warpdrives into its engine core causing the eventual implosion of the titanor what you guys said, i guess that works too"
"and what are alliances that don't have titans or have half the map napped going to protect their csaa's with? that's the problem. contributer to eve is easy:"
"not just titans but need increasing construction/build time for the all supercaps too.at least they need 3 months build time to slowing down supcap trends. yearly 2k supercapital build is too much.other thing, their prices too low. increase them at least up to 3x."
"wouldn't do much of anything other than make existing supers a lot more valuable. if aim was to slow it down then we are a few years too late as super blobs are already as standard as rr blobsmake the csaa more vulnerable, as in associated pos having 25-50% available space for stront and csaa taking so much fittings that there is a bare minimum available for guns/jammers/etc.allow small gangs/fleets, that are unable to engage the tower directly, to disrupt/interrupt build process by hacking and/or completing some other secondary task.in short, make it much less of an setup-and-forget thing and force super spammers to actually protect their nurseries."
"this has probably been discussed numerous times before; i haven't searched the entire forum.get rid of out of game skill training. now before you all go ballistic hear me out. one of the major faults with the current system is one that has been around the block on many forums since the game first launched; that of new players never being able to catch up with the veterans and this puts a lot of people off playing the game. i myself know three players that actually login to the game no more than a couple of times a month; each time for a few minutes to check their training queue and market. changing the system would allow players who actually play to catch up and remove that obstacle. to compensate for losing the ability to train out of game the training times would need to be reduced accordingly which in itself removes another percieved obstacle to new players; the perception that skill training takes too long.a danger to this of course is that people could just leave their toons logged in all day so i would also propose an automatic logout after 60 minutes of innactivity, perhaps with a warning popup that if not cancelled will result in the logout. this would also take care of a number of other issues such as mining bots etc.who would this measure upset? the people that login for two minutes a month to set the training queue and those that use afk bots or exploits.who would benefit? the people who actually play the game."
"so, you want to completely break one of the core features of eve which sets it apart from other mmos (in a great way). ha!you don't need to 'catch up' with another player's sp completely. first off, the 5-level skill system makes it so that you can be completely even with another player that has twice your sp in certain areas. sp doesn't make you any better, it just gives you more options.your understanding of the skill system is fundamentally flawed, which has led you to post an idea which is, quite frankly, stupid. the skill system already works extremely well as-is."
"this idea is terribad.eve down under - a community for players in the autz"
"how much better can a 100m sp \"veteran\" character fly a rifter than a 20m sp character? tactical logistics reconfiguration provides no benefit to rifter-flying. electronic warfare provides some benefit to unusual fit outs, jump drive calibration has no impact, nor do multitasking, energy emission systems, production efficiency, scrapmetal processing, starbase defence operation, or ethnic relations.you'll find that you max out the skills required for flying a rifter when you can fit t2 modules & rigs of every kind and use 5 percent implants related to flying that ship. heck, with enough isk you don't even need to use t2 modules. officer-fit that rifter for a huge advantage over the competition!why are they still logging in? are they waiting for their characters to get \"enough skills\" to compete with someone? or are these other players logging in various market alts to update the training queue and market orders?the existing system allows people who don't have 12 hours a day to play the game, to play on a relatively level playing field. no longer do the high school dropouts gain an advantage simply because they can grind for xp and legendary items 12 hours a day compared to my 12 hours a month!fixed that for you.this is a classic example of players making very bad game designers. you have reached a point where there are a series of long skill training sessions ahead of you (perhaps 7 days to get from frigate to battleship?) and it occurs to you that the game would be more entertaining for you if you could short-circuit that training time somehow. it doesn't occur to you that the real time training means you have to make compromises. you can't train a character to fly a titan this year if you also want to run a corporation of a few hundred people. you have to choose: battleship 5, or ethnic relations?it is the sacrifices and compromises you have to make on the journey that make the game fun and challenging.if you were able to shortcut the training by staying logged in, so would everyone else. then you'd find that some people would manage to stay logged in from downtime to downtime, far in excess of your ability to stay logged in for a few hours a night.before suggesting changes to game mechanics that you perceive would be to your benefit, just remember that there is always someone out there who has more time and money to spend on the game than you do. imagine how much fun your game would be if the \"veterans\" were able to shortcut their own training the same way you can, except the \"veterans\" also have twice as much time to spend on their hobby as you do.so you might suggest a limit of x hours a day of skill-training-while-logged-in, which would eventually have to be wound back to fewer hours than you play, because there's always someone out there who doesn't have as much time and money to throw at the game as you do. why should you have an advantage over them? after all, you want to be fair, don't you? so ultimately the \"skill training for being logged in\" time gets reduced to the minimum amount of time that anyone spends logged in: for the sake of the exercise, let's say it's about 30 seconds per day. now everyone has to log in for at least 30 seconds a day in order to remain competitive, since the skill training speed is so damned fast that not logging in for 30 seconds means you fall a day behind everyone else.sure, that's an exercise in reductio ad absurdium, but can you see that all these game features have to be evaluated from many perspectives? you are not the only person who plays the game.having skills train in real time is the most fair method of character development short of not having skills at all."
"a few expected responses from long time players i see, afraid someone may actually be able to compete? the example with the rifter was hilarious ( keep the noobs in crappy frigates they don't deserve to be as l33t as me ). i also caught a hint of suggestion that i only want the skill change to benefit myself; far from it considering i started to play eve when the game first released ( check my employment history before assuming ). eve needs new blood as any mmo does and a change that removes one of the major obstacles to new people playing has to be a good thing; why do you think it is that no other mmo before eve or since uses this system?however, i am not without the ability to compromise. i firmly believe that actually playing the game should have it's rewards, so for those that wish their character to get better while they sleep fine, leave it as it is but how about doubling the speed at which skills train when you are logged in? this of course would still require the automatic logout feature to prevent it from being exploited."
"about 4 seconds after this went live, some people would be macrobotting skills, and \"powerlevelling\" services would sprout up like mushrooms. \"veteran\" players are at least as capable of doing this as new players - in fact they're probably more capable, since they're more likely to have multiple accounts and they'll be able to leave whichever ones they're not using right now macroskilling away. a classic demonstration of malcanis' law in action.so yeah no, i'm not enthusiastic.one of the biggest attractions of eve is that you can spend your game time achieving your goals, rather than having to grind skills. you're still stuck in the skinner box of thinking that \"leveling\" your character as the goal, rather than increasing skills to use as a tool to attain those goals. it's understandable, since in almost all other mmo, you can only 'win' by maximising numbers on your character sheet, because no-one gives a crap that you're the 13,896,514th guy to kill naxia or whatever. try and jettison that thinking.it's incredible to me that you've finally found a game which frees you from the grindmill of \"levelling\" and yet you actually want to climb right back on it."
"even without an in depth knowledge of bot programming i can see this creating a new industry over night and gutting a key feature of this game."
"sounds like a wonderful way to turn eve into space-wow. you know what happens to wow clones, right?"
"you missed this bitthe mmo industry are akin to a flock of carrion birds; every really good idea is quickly pounced upon by the flock, copied and inserted into their upcoming games. eve's skill training system has been avoided like the plague and for good reason. i see nothing wrong with rewarding people for the work they put in; if someone works twice as hard as me then they should have twice the reward. wouldn't we all love it if we could sit at home all day watching tv and still collect our pay-cheques at the end of the month? and this is exactly what the current skill system allows you to do. instead we have to go to work to get that pay and that is a good thing because if we all stayed home the world would grind to a halt. i am open to better ideas if anyone has any."
"so are you saying that pre-nge swg was a wow clone? no it was a sandbox and one fondly remembered by those vets that played it; skill based and no out of game skill increases."
"the skill-training system is one of the few things in eve that doesn't need to be fixed whatsoever. why? because it works as well as intended, if not better.as they say, \"if it ain't broken, don't **** it up horribly.\"what you want won't help balancing anything at all. you just want to be able to catch up to those with more sp who don't have as much eve-time as you.if anything, i can point out a dozen things that ccp should rather take a look at revising."
"so you are basically saying that all the effort and years of game play that i had to do should be thrown out so someone new to the game can compete with me? sure, i'll agree as long as my 5 years of subscriptions and sp are refunded to me so we can all start with a clean sheet. seems fair, don't you think?seeing as you like real world examples of why this is a stupid idea, how about comparing this to the 16 year old just out of school (the noob) joins a company for his first job. the company has been around for many years and the guy that's hiring him (the veteran) has been there since day one. now going with your idea the noob should have the veterans job so he can 'compete' in the job market. he shouldn't need to learn anything, or have to grind his way to making money. no, it should be just handed to him because it's 'fair'. that's what you are asking for. never gonna happen."
"no i didn't miss it. you suggest an automatic logout for inactivity - fair enough. but a skillbot/powerlevelling service means that the character won't be inactive.your idea is bad, and it goes against the whole idea of eve. you suggest that people should be \"rewarded for playing\". well they are! they accumulate assets, shoot their enemies, rep their friends, they get to actually achieve meaningful goals in an open world.like i said: you're stuck in the old-fashioned rpg mindset where the object of the game is to maximise your character's stats. eve is not such a game."
"look ma...its a bitter-bought-toon ####ing about skills!ps: my thougths echo every-one-else that says nay for this foolish obscenely stupid proposal.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"the way skills training works in this regard will never change. may as well just give up now on this one. this is one of those mechanics at the very heart of eve that makes it what it is. change this and you may as well just make a new game."
"yes, let's reward those who are able to jog their mouse every 55 minutes by giving them lots of skill points, while the rest of us can only train for a few hours a day at best."
"i could write a simple script that would allow me to circumvent your little attempt at preventing idling. and i'm not that good a programmer.who would benefit? no one."
"ugh ... whatever happened to that proposal that npc-corp toons were banned from posting ideas?"
"this is one of the worst ideas i've read in the assembly hall. a couple of points:1. ****** ideas like this should go to features and ideas before being posted in assembly hall; that keeps assembly hall open for ideas that actually have merit. 2. eve skill training style make the game. you want to turn eve into wow - not going to happen. as has been stated, this idea is stupid on every level3. after you biomass yourself, wow is over there ---->>"
"op is mad because specialising is too hard to figure out."
"*cracks knuckles**chugs coffee*all right... let's du theeesss...there is no such thing as \"catching up\" in eve. at least... not the way you see it.on the skill system itself...- every skill caps out at level 5.- only a certain number of skills affect any one ship/module/weapon at any given time.- the difference between having a skill at level 4 and level 5 is about 2 to 5% per skill... this means that if you have a whole bunch of skills in a certain specialty at level 4, you are operating at about 80% to 90% of the \"effectiveness\" of someone who has all the same skills at level 5 (which is rarely the case because getting a skill to level 5 is supposed to be time consuming and painful).what the skill system does...- by having the skill system time down automatically, players can freely explore the world around them and/or focus on the goals they set for themselves rather than be consumed with the idea of \"becoming more powerful.\"- not having access to the \"top rated\" ships, weapons, and equipment means that a player must think of ways around his/her lacking skills to tackle a problem. hire a guy who can probe? how about fitting this mod here?- by being \"denied\" access to higher level equipment until one's skills are up to snuff, a newbie is \"protected\" in a sense from his/her own stupidity/ignorance. true, any loss a newbie incurs early on is going to hurt... but how much more painful do you think things would be if the newbie spent all of his/her time \"powerleveling\" and then went out in an expensive ship only to lose it?how ships and mods factor into all this...- ships are balanced against each other. battleships may have beefier tanks and higher \"on-paper\" damage potential... but they require a god awful amount of training to use to their fullest potential, are slow, have trouble target locking small ships, have trouble applying damage to small ships. that \"crappy frigate\" that a newbie is flying can last a long time against a fully skilled battleship if the frigate pilot has been taught well (hell... it's entirely possible for a frigate gang to take down a bunch of battleships and a goddamn capital ship..."
"for anyone late to this thread....tl;dranother stupid idea to change the skills that isn't broken and just about everyone hates."
"as a fat, lazy and forgetful meatbag (as evidenced by my virtually non-existent attempt to find out if this idea has been mooted here before) i find it frustrating when my goldfish-like brain forgets to resume my skill training following a clone jump. i've had occasions where i haven't noticed my training queue was inactive for up to a day or two after performing a jump.the actual proposal so there's no confusion:when i open my jump clones tab on my character sheet, select a clone and click 'jump' my skill training queue should pause, perform the jump and then immediately resume my skill training automatically.make it so.eve down under - a community for players in the autz"
"same thing with plugging in implants. yeah, it's been needed (and no reason not to) for a long time; we're just waiting on the devs to realize/get around to it."
"agreed!"
"agreed its a nice quality of life improvement."
"cue the bittervets saying the removal of several clicks is somehow dumbing down the game.i agree completely. there's no point in having to leave your ships, pause your queue, and resume the queue later when it's a required process for every jump. let's assume the pilot did that and get on with the game. and do the same for plugging in implants."
"agreed - there's really no reason to even fake a \"pause\", just let me jump and/or plug in implants whenever i feel like and don't worry about skills that are being trained."
"well, it's a locking issue as to why the game requires a pause, from what i know of programing i'm fairly sure there's a very good reason for the game to need to stop and restart the skill (though it's hard to explain in a simple way, since it uses some fairly complex concepts). however, there's no need for the user to have to do it themselves. whenever a clone jump or implant insertion happens, you will always have to pause you skill and you will always want to resume it afterwards; so there's no reason the server can't execute those three actions in sequence from one button click saying 'jump' or 'plug in'."
"agreed....never understood why we have to go to such great pains to add/remove implants and clone jump.surely this can be automated...hell add a session timer extension at best if its needed.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"they have this. if you fly the freighter and want to move fitted ships, you contract the items to an alt, and have the alt set up a courier contract with the freighter. boom, you can now move fitted ships in a freighter."
"updated:c.1800 participants still required. :)which of the following answers best describes how you feel about ship customisation?-i'd like to be able to customise my ship's visual appearance but not at the expense of server load(65.6%)-i'd like to be able to customise my ship's visual appearance and i don't care how its done or what it costs, aslong as it happens(21.7%)-i'm not interested in ship customisation but i don't mind if they introduced it to the game(8.3%)-i'm not interested in ship customisation, ccp's time would be best spent elsewhere.(4.3%)customisation options-the colour options you can chose from to paint your ship should be restricted by the hulls class or race so that eve's art integrity is left intact(49.0%)-there should be an unrestricted amount of colour options for repainting my ship(25.4%)-there should be an unrestricted amount of colour options for repainting my ship excluding colour reserved for t2 variants of that hull(17.8%)-paint options should be restricted to pre-designed themes made by ccp staff members(7.8%)customisation availability-i should be able to customise any ship(81.4%)-only t1 hulls should be able to have custom paintjobs(10.0%)-a limited amount of existing ships should be able to be customised(5.9%)-a new type or class of ship based off existing hulls should be created and only those can be customised(1.7%)-a new type or class of ship should be created and only they can be customised(0.9%)payment methods-i should be able to pay for this service directly with isk(61.7%)-this service should not be restricted to a specific model(18.1%)-this service should use a mixed payment method(13.0%)-this service should cost aurum only(6.8%)-this service should use a plex payment model only(0.4%)ship destruction-ship destruction should completely destroy any custom designs applied to it(50.1%)-ship destruction destroys the ship but not any custom designs applied to it, so they can be used on another ship later(49.9%)customisation and design rights-everyone should have the same rights to designs and colouring options(53.3%)-pilots, corporations and alliances should be able to buy the rights to a specific design with upkeep costs(46.7%)client options-pilots should be able to turn this feature off(58.2%)-pilots should be able to turn off some features, but it should still be obvious that a ship has been customised(31.5%)-pilots should not able to turn this feature off(10.3%)the market-customised ships should be able to be sold or traded(77.3%)-customised ships should not be able to be sold or traded(22.7%)manufacturing-you should only be able to design a custom ship from within a specially designed menu(33.6%)-i don't know how the mechanics of this feature would work, i trust ccp to figure it out(28.2%)-i should be able to customise my ship with new items that are tradable on the market, can be fit onto new slots on my ship, and created using normal manufacturing methods.(22.9%)-i don't care how its done as long as i can customise my ship(15.3%)"
"as every one know eve is based on a self advancement of character skills that allows us to advance into the game. this mean with time you get closer to mastering the game, but that simple thing takes a lot of time and good knowledge of all skills and etc...now what i real like eve next big thing would be is to allow corporation to train them self giving a small but efficient bonus for all their corp mate. now how does that would work. pretty simple, think of the current eve system. a boss (you) comes in the game and he put skills to be trained on the character. now what if we put this on a corp base, the boss, the ceo as to come on the game and go throught the corp management window and decide what type of sector the corporation should invest time into.wareconomymanufacturingprocessingtheses 4 domains would cover all eve available activitys, that it is from mining to kill people's in 0.0. what is the rp way of that new feature? wel i think of it that way, a corp could invest on buying scientist and placing them into they office at any station, each station could give a bonus to the duration in time the scientist can last. lets give him 3 hours. if i a ceo purchase 300 scientist, this mean i will be able to define how much of them will be working at the same time, so i can decide for a balance between time and long term duration, now let say one scientist work at a speed of 10 points an hour, my current office and all its upgrades allow me to run a max of 3 scientist at the same time. so let's make a review, i have 3 scientist working at 10 points an hour, they will last 3 hours. witch means 90 points over x amount of points for the war sector. this mean they will work on trying to find new bonuses to allow general achievement to all the corp warriors.there are 2 sides to this feature. good, this can allow a vast a new vision of eve to the old players, it can bring their interest to the game as they can get a large feature to explore again. it also add a new way of valorising your corporation as only wealth can influence this feature in a small way. a war focused corporation could have bonuses that could allow lower player to find match in batt le or could help lower corps to get more tactical and find more power to overcome veterans corporation, giving more challenge to the veterans as they will find it harder to b people's with great additional bonus to their ships.bad,of not settled correctly this could unbalance the entire eve online universe making the advantages to big for one side only, what i see in this feature is something hard and long to achieve, i am talking of months before the research progress can bring any advantages to the corps mate. but once done it can be used as a powerfull skill for more advanced pvp player or more hardcore player.there are thousand of ways of seing this feature and modifying it to adapt it to eve universe. tell me what you think and if you think it's way to much text and mistakes into the text consider the fact that i am typing on an ipad and my native language is french. thank you for reading."
"keeping this space for further explanation and structure to the feature.or mainly, reserved"
"why? how would this benefit eve as a whole?"
"i see this as unbalanced and exploitable - let me explain:a large alliance can now afford to put scientists in every station, etc, max levels. now, being part of said alliance means that i train a little faster, become a better pilot quicker, etc. however, one of the core concepts of eve is that the skill queue is not affected by anything - not by corp status, not by length of time you've been playing, etc. the only thing that has any impact is implants, which are available to anyone, blah blah. eve will never have any sp bonuses, respecs, purchasing sp, etc. any of those would be game-breaking in eve and are not needed at all. side note: ideas belong in the features and ideas discussion subforum, not assembly hall."
"before you even consider adding a new ship to eve, you really have to have an idea of which role it will fill.t1 battleships cover just about every role for the battleship classes as it is. t2 battleships are pretty awful for the most part which is why you rarely seem them. exception is the marauders in pve but even those are pretty rare still as yet again, the t1 battleships do the job just as well for a fraction of the cost.a new tier or a t3 version of the battleship would need to do something that the t1 and t2 variants can't and i cannot think of something that would not be done better by t1 ships at this time.better to fix what we have before we go looking for a new tier or t3 ships for the battleship class."
"i thought he was going to suggest bs with small tank and capital sized turrets..."
"much as i know i ought to hate that idea, i can't help an irrational attraction to it"
"i'd rather see an 8-8-8 super-subcap.t1 and t2 variants :)except gallente, of course. they get a new hull with 40k base hull hp, a 6-6-6 layout, and the same drone control system as a dominix. just to be fair."
"cuz you guys turn the topic to \"what we need\"not \"what is fun\", my point was, we say....two tier 4 bs`s, one with bonuses for armor, other for shield, and depending on the subsystem is equipped following bonuses for turrets, missiles, electronics, engineering etc.so that way the only issue player must consider is what kind of skill he has better for tanking.no need to be afraid of some new upgrades in game, after all this is the thing which making the fun from whole gaming.why we must put limitations, around all stuff \"do i need that, or i am just too bothered to be creative\", so please stop making excuses of type-we got everything, or fix the old ship specs, because we afraid of the new ideas, different from our owns."
"its the \"bigger [gun] is better\" syndrome.... i know a great therapist for that. ================ stop the evemail spam!"
"first of, there's this thing called 'grammar', it's pretty cool, you should check it out.and back to the topic. the more intelligent members of the community ask you to provide justification for a need for good reason; if it doesn't have a need in the game, then it's better to not have it in the game.see this quote from the whole refocusing on bettering the game after the incarna fiasco:"
"absolutely fantastic proposal.friendly bump.to the pessimistic csm member: if ccp wanted to leave their game development to their game devs, you wouldn't be csm because there would be no csm, there would be no features & ideas discussion, it would look like all the other mmorpg's out there that are dying. have a little faith in the powers that are.and concerning the comment about how eve's game devs are better thinktanks than the general public may be true in the wider spectrum, but as an artist, and as any great artist will tell you, the best ideas and inspiration come from not within, but from without.surely, i think, if ccp does take on this proposal, it will have to be run through their game developers to fit in with a criteria that we are all clueless about, which may burn the concept down to some core elements, but hell, if only 20% of this proposal gets accepted i will be a happy camper.+1 to eve's evolution."
"i'm in doubt.although i can see the advantages of some of the op suggestions.i have some question.1) wouldn't just end up in pirates that flee by jumping in to high sec?2) wouldn't it kill faction war why join the millitia and be a target all the time (even in high-sec) for other players while you just can kill at random?why not let pirates players connect with some of the pirate factions, for instance ally your self with the gurita's go kill people sec status lowers as normal, though as one of the greatest meneces of the caldari, gelante allow you a safe have in their empire space, they might be a little less happy when you kill gellante pilots though.or leave the pirated factions out and just let people sign up as privateer with a safe haven at the empire that gave him his licence.then you have your way to enter parts of high-sec and there are still concequenses to pirating, you couold still go pirating the old way as well with the current penalties.that is rather simple without wrecking other game mechanics, like faction war that gets a large update comming expantion i believe, what might make it hard to get ccp to go with the original idea"
"as a mining and industy character i should flame you and give you carebear tears. but i sir fully endorse this idea. sounds good."
"as a new player, i so totally agree with this proposition"
"i agree."
"i was wondering why those rogue drones (strong em resist hole) were taking only slightly more damage from the acolytes as they were from the warriors. i can't believe i never noticed this before.ccp should hotfix this, seriously!+2"
"anyone else have some suggestions to improve the proposal? comments and thoughts are welcome if they focus on the topic."
"+1, more immersion is good"
"i like this."
"to me it seems hand in hand with alts, the lesser amount of restrictions on jump clones, the less of a bonus players get from multiple accounts, in some small ways anywayas a person who only uses one account and one character, i like the idea, but i also see many reasons why other players would be oppose to ithowever, anything below 12 hours is pushing it, and anything below 6 would be nearly game breaking"
"i had no idea. still can't find that rule. i guess this makes me a rebel? worth being a rebel to support a good idea, though. whether or not you win the game matters not. it's if you bought it."
"the word minerals has the word miner in it.minerals should mainly be coming from miners, not mission runners and drone poop.if this would cause prices of item's to raise, thus reducing pvp, then buff miners to make up for itminers are in need of a good buff ( or maybe not a buff but atleast an update )"
"i vaguely remembering something about this before and it seems there's very little minerals released from refining loot from missions in comparison to mining and drone loot.again, i am sure there was some proposal from ccp about changing the drones in the drone regions to have bounty and not drop the current loot for minerals.that alone would buff miners as that accounts for a huge amount of minerals in the game.probably best to do a search on the forums about this. think it was in the latest csm minutes."
"not supported. i like the new names"
"new names are better."
"i agree."
"good idea, i am not a mining fan, but when i have to do corp mining ops. it is a great tool.also a current alternative can be to change your overview setting by:-open a new tab-right click the tab-select ''mining\" presetit will show you all the rocks that are around you, and you will be able to know what you are currently targetting....it wont show the quantity of the rock. but by selecting it from the overview it will most likely select it from the survey scanner...voil<U+FFFD>, but +1 for the idea"
"supported."
"this should have been done initially.+1"
"csaa's arent destroyed everyday, adn even if they dotn field supercaps, these alrge powerblocs that can afford these hundreds of csaa's could just rifter-blob any sort of aggression to death, all this would do is ensure that only the largest of alliances woudl eba ble to defend and construct capitals, so only they woudl get them, effectively closing off 0.0 to any alliance/corp not willing to bend over and take it daily from a 0.0 \"slave-driver\". so no, simply increasing the amount of time to build a titan would not help."
"here is the link to the part of the forum the petition is one. all support is appreciated. us linux users need our own client, just like the windows and mac users have"
"no. please no.last time they tried they did a half-%$#ed job and messed it up.better that they mostly ignore us."
"iirc macs don't have their own client either, they're running a win client which sits on top of a variant of wine. the issue is that separate clients require more development work, and they already have enough issues keeping the bugs out without branching for another os. i'm an avid linux user myself, and i understand the frustration, but i also understand the issues with trying to develop for multiple oses in parallel and fear that it would cause more issues than it would solve."
"i can understand every ones fear of this happening in the sense of them messing it up bad and making it more of a problem than a remedy, but isn't that what the linux development community does we strive for things to be accepted in our way to, also to help out in anyway we can in these developments. windows is a primary operating system linux is pushed back into the closet and forgot about. i say give them a chance and one all things have come and they have done there best then make the choice to accept the new client or to throw it away. they have come a long way in many things. lets give them a chance and give us a chance to truly enjoy the way we choose to compute and game."
"as much as this would be great for all the linux users, it's purely for a minority of users so using ccp's time for a new client wouldn't really be the best idea.i run eve on wine and it works well for me so i am relatively happy about this."
"your (above) justification for brining in a different skill/levelling system is fundamentally flawed. the system you are proposing could be as easily used by any veteran pilot as well as a new-starter. therefore, new players will still be behind veteran players in all the same respects as they are currently.i agree that increased activity in the game should bear merits... but it does already. the more i exercise pvp in eve, the better i get at it, the more loot/isk i collect and i learn more about the myriad of mechanics and tactics involved in pvp - making me better than someone who didn't bother logging in at all; the more i watch the market flow, the more profit i will make when i sell/buy at the right time as opposed to those that miss out because they are logged out; the more i shoot little red crosses and rocks in space the more isk i will make by reaping the rewards and so on.therefore, there are clear rewards for activelly playing eve, and no, training skills is not one of them as it shouldn't be. you are playing the wrong game."
"frigates are crappy? have you actually flown one?there you go again entirely avoiding discussion of the main issue i raised: how does training faster when you are logged in benefit a new player more than an old one? this foolish proposal will only aid bot users and people with no lives outside the game.why are you attempting to frame your suggestion as a boon for new players, when it obviously is not? have you considered how many people play the game for more hours than you do? would you be suggesting this idea if you only had half the time to play the game that everyone else does?"
"it takes literally 5 days to train your toon into a competent pvp pilot. not supported."
"is this a troll, or are you actually mentally challenged?or are you enslaved by a korean wow meat-grinder, trying to find new markets?"
"so what happens if i go on a vacation and cant play eve. do i lose all my skillpoints for that period? and there is a way for new players to catch up. its called farm isk and buy a character. only change to skills i would like to see is being able to update skills from a smartphone app. you can already check your mail and stuff so idk why you cant update skills. say your at work and your skill que goes down thats lost points. but who am i to make suggestions."
"your only choice right now is to queue up a l5 skill that will take longer to finish than your vacation (and there are plenty, though you might have to go \"off plan\"), or lose the points.it isn't fair or logical, but apparently that's the way folks like things around here."
"it's called planning ahead. common sense yes?================ stop the evemail spam!"
"ccp has made some noises in the past about being able to update the skill queue through eve gate. i guess there's some internal discussion happening about whether it would encourage character farming bots or whether the utility to players is more important than any ability to \"exploit\" the web-based interface for personal gain."
"dear god this ideawhy have we not talked about this before?"
"supported, this does get annoying.. plz implement this"
"i agree! something like this is long overdue."
"not so complex.they general-cased implants. since a change in training implants may change your skill training time, your skill training needs to be stopped, recalculated, and restarted.they just made it such that the player does this instead of the program...."
"we have. many times. many many times. it keeps coming up every few weeks/month since ccp hasn't gotten around to fixing it yet."
"yes pls"
"minmatar ewar consists of target painters and stasis webifiers. everyone uses them, but the minmatar ewar ships specialize in them. why, then, if they are so popular, do some of these specialized ships never get used?i see some problems with minmatar ewar, and have brought some solutions; both to nerf the over powered and to buff the underpowered, to bring these ewar ships into usage and to smooth out this particular field of ewar.item #1: stasis webifier velocity reduction bonusthe ships that have this bonus to my knowledge are the cruor, daredevil, ashimmu, vigilant, and vindicator. at skill level 5, they have a 50% bonus to the velocity factor of stasis webifiers per level. with a tech 2 stasis webifier, this results in a 90% velocity reduction from only one webifier. considering stacking penalties, it would take 5 tech ii stasis webifiers to reduce a target's velocity by 90% without this skill bonus, therefore it seems way out of proportion. i propose that the 50% bonus be calculated in a different way:target's speed = xspeed reduction factor = y x--- = normal speed reduction y x--------- = speed reduction with level 5 ship skill bonusy * 1.5this would cause the total speed reduction from one webifier on a ship with the speed reduction bonus at level 5 to be 73.3%. this is quite a bit of speed reduction, almost as much as 2 webifiers without the bonus. if multiple webifiers are used with the bonus, the target's speed can be reduced to a negligible amount. however it leaves a potential reason to fit more than 1 webifier, rather than leaving 1 webifier to be the end all be all of webbing, or, god forbid, allow a single ship to web several ships near it almost to a complete standstill.item #2: poor slot layout for the vigil and hyenaanyone flying an ewar frigate in pvp usually does so in a decent-sized group, and will fit the ship for all-out ewar potency, knowing that it won't last long in enemy fire no matter how it's fit. the idea is either to subdue the opponents and not allow them to attack the frigate, or in the case of the vigil or hyena, make sure the opponents don't have time to attack the frigate.the vigil has 3 mid slots, and the hyena has 4 mid slots. this is room for one prop module (always a good thing to have), 1 webifier, and 1 or 2 target painters. and then there are 3 low slots which could maybe be used for some tank, or a bit of speed/agility boost perhaps. they're not particularly useful for anything, really. if they were mid slots, they could just as easily be used for tank. or they could be used for more target painters or stasis webifiers.if they had 5 or 6 mid slots, they could fit a prop module with 2 stasis webifiers and 2-3 target painters. these webifiers can be used to web two separate targets, or (since the ships do not have a velocity reduction bonus) to stack together to really slow a target down. with 2-3 target painters on a target and that hefty minmatar frigate skill bonus to target painters, a ship's signature radius can be blown up even more than double. the vigil or hyena won't last long, but with that kind of power, they can turn the tide of battle in seconds. and that would make them worth fielding. as they are, nobody flies them because it's just easier and more effective to put the odd target painter or stasis webifier on random ships throughout the fleet who happen to have an extra slot handy, and they get no skill bonuses to this ewar.item #3: no rigs for minmatar ewargranted, the particle disperson projector increases the range of target painters as well as other ewar modules, but there are none that increase the effectiveness of minmatar ewar. the particle dispersion projector doesn't even increase the range of webifiers, which given their short range would in many cases be akin to increasing their effectiveness. also, target painter range is so long that in most cases, its range is a non-factor.i propose the following rigs be added:signature projection amplifier iincreases the effectiveness of fitted target painters by 5% at the expense of 10% shield hp.calibration cost: 200signature projection amplifier iiincreases the effectiveness of fitted target painters by 7.5% at the expense of 10% shield hp.calibration cost: 300propulsion jamming projector iincreases the optimal range of fitted warp scramblers, warp disruptors, and stasis webifiers by 10% at the cost of 10% shields.calibration cost: 100propulsion jamming projector iiincreases the optimal range of fitted warp scramblers, warp disruptors, and stasis webifiers by 15% at the cost of 10% shields.calibration cost: 150===============================================================================that's all i have to say about that. i hope anyone who reads this can agree that minmatar ewar could use some looking at, plus a bit of quick and easy balancing. this stuff seems pretty obvious, really. i can only guess that nobody at ccp has taken very much time to examine this particular field in-depth."
"posting in a \"buff minmatar\" thread. albeit one that claims that huginns and rapiers are never used. anyway....six medslots for the vigil? come on, the race with the most medslots is supposed to be caldari. and minmatar ewar is supposed to be poorer because of minmatar's advantages in mobility and sig. all those electronic jobbies are heavy and take a lot of power, adding more will slow your ships and increase your sig, you know..."
"just because you don't use them does not mean they are not used."
"i never claimed that huginns and rapiers aren't used, and i would never do that.i merely used 6 mid slots as an example, and it was intended only for the hyena. 5 would be fine. but 4 is too few. and 3 on the vigil is way too few."
"it's your opening argument.not really. the kitsune has five medslots, the griffin has four. why should minmatar have caldari slot layouts? one medslot fewer on the minmatar counterparts seems entirely appropriate."
"are you kidding me :/minmitar ew bonus is the best in game for catching nano's which are pretty much the standard roaming gangs these days. they are also included in nano roaming gangs to stop tacklers...in no way to they need a buff to their slots or ew strength. they are already the chosen race..."
"[quote=reaver glitterstim]minmatar ewar consists of target painters and stasis webifiers. everyone uses them, but the minmatar ewar ships specialize in them. why, then, if they are so popular, do these specialized ships never get used?never used eh? maybe not if you're a carebear. oh wait... they're popular in incursions and wormhole use which is elite sauce pve for carebears.i think you your are sadly misinformed. the loki, rapier, and huggin are the most dangerous ewar ships anyone can encounter. because unlike the falcon these ewar ships can carry tank and do more than hope to jam something out.- 1 for a poor idea-1 for not researching before proposing a pointless change"
"the only ships i see these days that actually use their ewar bonuses are minmatar ships.any fleet fights will have a ton of huginns and lachesis. massive web and point range are all the in thing at the moment so i would say the ewar bonuses for minmatar are working fine. wouldn't say the same for damps though."
"gallente heavy bomber6 hi slots 4 launcher hard points 2 bomb hard points3 mids4 lowsstructure 782armor 950 resists 50% em 10% exp 83% kin 67% thermshield 677 resists 0% em 50% exp 85% kin 60% thermgallente destroyer skill bonus:10% bonus to torpedo explosion velocity and flight time per level20% bonus to torpedo velocity per levelheavy bomber skill bonus:10% bonus to bomb thermal damage per level10% bonus to torpedo thermal damage per levelrole bonus-99.65% reduction in siege missile launcher powergrid needsable to fit 2 bomb launchersi have thought about this and i feel this is the best way to make it work. skills required destroyer lvl v and bomb launcher lvl 5. this will allow for the fitting of t2 anti capital bomb launchers and these launchers will be able to fit the t2 anti capital bombs. these bombs have some basic guidance and are only able to launch vs capital ships much like the current dd. these bombs do massive damage close to 200k at heavy bomber lvl 5. the explosive range on these bombs is smaller as its is a shaped charge that only explodes out to 3km. these ships are meant to in large swarms take out capitals in a single bombing run or soften up the supers for the capital fleet. it would take a fleet of 125 heavy bombers to take down a super carrier. i think this would be a very interesting way to make supers die more frequently or at least make the alliance commit a sub cap fleet to protect the capital fleet.link to original post"
"crossposting an idea that is contested in the original thread is pretty poor form. stick to your original thread and continue revising it 'till it's widely supported before posting it here."
"to top that off...being able to throw 2 space bombs is overkill dps.when well the foolish ideas will stop?!================ stop the evemail spam!"
"did you read anything more then 2 bombs or was that it. they can only target capital ships much like the dooms day weapon. bomb launchers are only able to fire in 0.0 how is this overkill when your going up against ships with 35 mill + hp?"
"oh i read it alright....i was pointing out the most obvious....being only able ot target capitals is just next step down a slippery slope...no ones going to fly a ship that only targets caps.edit: btw smart@$$...you dont need to target #### to use a bomb...obviously you didn't think about that now did you.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"so making a new laucher you could make it use targeting. and yes i want it just to target capital because like so many people have said it needs to have a defined role that no other ship class can do."
"then you get people who use cap ships as bait....and wipe out entire sub cap fleets with multiple bombs.again...answer is a resounding no.its full of holes...and expoitation is drastically easy on this.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"so you use a cap ship as bait and the fact that the bombs only have a 3km explosion radius and they must lock a target to fire makes them anti sup cap how?"
"as much fun as this would be, i would have to say it's not that great an idea.my reason for this is that dreads are supposed to be the capital/structure killers and lack a role as it is. this proposal will just make them suck even more. why waste a year or more training for a dread when a bomber can do the job?no, let dreads kill capitals as intended. bombers are purely to cause havoc on large concentrations of ships and these roles should remain that way."
"you do not speak for the entire playerbase vertisce... you speak only for yourself..anyways+1 i like this idea, new graphics are movie quality. this game needs movie quality sound effects"
"in space no one can hear you pew."
"i use 180mm autos instead of the 220mm purely because the firing sound from the 220mm sounds like a flatulent mosquito.and then there is the abaddons that greet you with the crackling soundeffects from the 1980's."
"i wouldn't miss most of the weapon sound effects, though i don't think they're particularly bad, either. however i would like to state very clearly that i would not be a happy camper if something were to happen to my giant staple gun sound. (medium railguns)"
"the issue for me is if you join faction warfare then you are signing up basically for the army, for war. so why should you be allowed to carebear and farm high sec lucrative fw missions and be protected by the navy?i suggest you remove the high sec militia boundaries and the navy. if someone has voluntarily signed up for faction war then they should have all the risks of being in a war."
"so if my commanding officer sends me out to go do a mission i am to expect no backup or rescue should i be attacked by the enemy?i really don't do fw but with the way you posted, this is how i would see it."
"*shrug* get over it. eve is a sandbox, they're playing the way they want to and there's nothing wrong with it. if you want to kill them, then go do it, there's nothing stopping you."
"ccp, can you please do something like an automated response system to petitions. i know you know how many petitions you have open at any time. i know you know some petitions take 5 mins, most take 10-15 (for investigation and maybe 5 more for reply) and some take hours and worse yet the q+a that ensues. but you can say a health average is 15min. now say like over the holidays when you had 6000 some petitions it would be so simple to write a program that says.. 6000x15=90,000 minutes of work (holy **** lol) now divide that by how many gm's you have. idk the number but i know yall said it takes somewhere around 6 months to train a veteran eve player to be a fully fledged gm (they better get paid good for this crap lol) so it cant be too many. but lets say you got 10 people doing petitions. 8 hours a day. idk if you even have 24hr support but for arguments sake ill say you dont. so 90k minutes divided by 10 ppl thats 9000 minutes of work load. so 9000 minutes translates into 150 hours. 150 hours at 8 hours a day thats roughly 19 days (18.75) till someone could expect a response. (now it all makes sense.) so have the system say hey dude we recieved your petition, we love you and value you as a customer *ehug high five bro* we are a little behind and you can expect a reply in roughly 19 days. (i would cry, but at least i know your working it.) now i know you dont usually have such a high load of petitions as you did over the holidays due to gm's being home for xmas and drunk for new years and what not. and maybe you got more than 10 ppl working it. maybe you have longer than 8 hour days or more than one shift. idk i hope you do. but that would at least shut ppl up from emailing you multiple times asking *wtf man why arent you answering me i hate this game qq imma go play wow* now after thats said, i would like to say thank you to the gm's i know your workload is astounding and the general eve player has no idea how much work actually goes into this stuff. just a suggestion it probably wont happen but hey maybe if some people read this they will gain some respect for the guys behind the scenes. oh, and kudos to the other departments too like all you artsy guys who make planets look cool and programmers and on and on. wall of text finished fly safe!tldr: make an automated reply for petitions with an estimated response time"
"oh thanks bud. sorry didnt know this was enlish 101 forums. feel free to spell check and ill go ahead and edit it in to the post. otherwise quit wasting my time. oh and thanks for the free bump."
"the place for stupid ideas that are poorly written out is called the \"features and ideas discussion\" subforum, and it's over there:=====>"
"wouldn't their time be better spent actually replying to the petitions rather than writing more code for an automated system that probably wouldn't be accurate anyway?giving people an estimate is a really bad idea because people being people will automatically assume that their petition will be dealt with in that time frame. however, there are many reasons why it may not be and this will generate more angry responses.best just to confirm it's actually being looked at/received and leave it to ccp to decide how best to deal with their workload."
"i agree."
"i would support this if you untrained at the same speed you trained (based on your current attributes + implants), provided you only get half of your sp back to allocate freely.considering it's slow and gradual, i think there would not be a problem with it. if people buy a character and then untrain it into new skills, they could just as easily have bought a character that had those skills instead, thus the arguments against it are irrelevant. it would let you train into a skill faster, provided your total sp gain has been greatly reduced.once again, i only support this if you lose half of the sp you untrain.+1-edit-as you untrain a skill, the sp should be directly transferred to another skill, so you would have two skills at once in the queue (it would end when the first one finishes). this is to avoid stealth skill training all of a sudden with stored sp."
"yes. but the point being that you have the option to use sp you have already aquired towards something else. while untraining you would not gain any new sp. your total sp stays the same. you instead gain unallocated sp and lose a skill. i believe his proposal is to allow both training and untraining at the same time. i would not support that."
"what would be the point of untraining if you could just delete these skills while training something usefull instaed? that makes no sense to be honest. what you want is not \"untraining\" nor any sort of partial respec, but an simple \"delete sp\" option."
"your entire proposal makes no sense. it would be game-breaking in eve and defeat one of the core concepts of the game. this will never happen, so get used to it. otherwise, please biomass yourself and go play wow/space barbies/swor..."
"primarily just to get rid of the skill and use the sp towards something else. the primary reason one wants to get rid of a skill is because they dont use it. well fine...but you should be able to gain from your mistake and you certainly should be penalized for screwing up and wanting to fix it. heck i would just get rid of one or two skills my character started with that i will likely never use. unless i decide to go ahead and train for gallente ships..."
"i support."
"i think that some designs should be bought with plex or aurum, and those or any other very expensive designs should be kept after ship destruction. but i also want cheaper, destructible designs for more on a whim, experimenting, or just trying out a variety.i also feel there should be 3 menu options: show all designs (default setting) show only my ship design show only default skins +1"
"thanks, i will add that to my list of stuffs :)"
"also must have purple rifter for 100k isk or less."
"i agree."
"i have noticed the same thing. i felt that the quality of service and response time of the gms was positively stellar when i first started playing, now it feels like i can't be sure if the logs really are lacking pertinent information or if multiple gms don't know how to read them.i'm waiting on two ship replacement petitions, both of which have been declined and closed. one of these was due to a bug that had been reported in the forums by multiple players and a fix had allegedly been put in the works. i was told that this aggression bug had been \"fixed\" even though it happened to me, and was told that the \"logs show nothing\" by three gms."
"first of this is a proposition of a feature that can be included into eve, if i am wrong i will move this.second, i didn't said it would affect directly the skills, what i said is that it would give an advantage to the member of that corporation, pretty much like a global implant that is applied into the entire corp. third there are ways to balance this, i could write down pages and pages trying to explain you the whole point here, but,in short you can also compare it to a pos, it requires fuel, aka scientist, it requires a suitable location, the office, and what makes you think there can be more than one training, all i am saying is would you be in the favor of having the ability to have corporation trainable ability or not?"
"well, unless someone has rich friends or plays \"pay to win\" the higher level implants aren't available to them for quite a while after they start playing.so no, implants aren't \"available to everyone\" except in the loosest theoretical sense.agreed on this belonging in f&i, though."
"the only \"combat\" capability one of these ship classes would have would be purely defensive modules. modules designed to break locks, and assist in escaping hostilities. and some base tank modules.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"if anything i would think that tech would move away from bras."
"+1 more npc's flying around would be cool too see. lets hope the amarr carry good loot"
"good idea verone but dosn't 10% per lvl is to high maby 5% would be beter ?"
"currently bookmarks are limited to 13k. you can still install more then that but no longer make your own unique ones. some of us have well over 15 to 20k. since a good majority of us have characters that have been in the game for 3 or more years of course we would end up getting to our limit one day. i'd like to see an increase to 25 or maybe even 50k so people can once again get back to making more."
"really? for the love of god...why would you possibly want that many damned bookmarks? you got every pos bm'd for every system in eve or something? how about instead of asking ccp to increase an already insane number even higher, you actually do something about it yourself and clean house?not saying i won't support it...it just baffles me that someone would need, let alone want, that many bookmarks."
"head over to seleene's sandbox where the issue is being discussed :)reducing the value of reprocessing is not a good idea, imho."
"i have heard others agree that drones should stop dropping compounds that reprocess for minerals. as a matter of fact, mineral income from sources other than mining actually outweigh total mining yield, even though most of the mining yield comes from bots. reducing the minerals from sources other than mining will not have all these crazy effects that so many people come up with, they need to think more than one step ahead. les minerals means mineral prices rise means more players mine. the market would find a new equilibrium. mining would be a higher paying profession and more commonly done by regular players, and ship prices would also rise significantly but not dramatically.i'd plus one you but it's already being discussed elsewhere."
"nice short corniel but no that doesn't work i'm afraid -- wished it did though!"
"indeed. thanks to everyone thats bumped up so far and many thanks to csm trebor daehdoow for his support on this topic. more bumps - tell your friends."
"increasing the time for assembling them may be good idea"
"it would be nice if they acknowledged and supported wine as a windows version.that would suffice for support imho."
"won't happen. they stopped supporting linux for a reason. the 0.002% of players that use it just isn't worth it."
"oh, hey! then we've all posted to this thread already and we're done here!more people are playing on linux than ever used the official linux client, and with their new diagnostic tools ccp can probably tell how many of us there really are.more importantly, we are willing to make an extra effort to play the game, unlike those lazy mswindows users who just settle for whatever was packed on their system to begin with."
"fine the idea didn't go down well, i can live with that as this is afterall a place for discussion. what i will not live with is tossers like you assuming that this is a bought toon. i remember fighting through moo jetcan blockades, high value ores in high sec belts, taking the time to set waypoints 10km past the gates as we had no warp to 0 function, a time when it was considered an achievment to get a cruiser instead of isk falling out of cornflake boxes as it does now so stfu; if you have nothing constructive to add to a discussion then don't add anything."
"no"
"all you've done is quote common knowledge.sorry...but we're not buying it.those who have such high numbers of sp's wouldn't propose an obviously stupid/faulty idea.especially with a horrid gap in employment history.the fact you feel so strongly about it and telling me to \"stfu\" llke some 3 year old is proof enough.either you learn to live with the skills you trained (or bought for that matter) or you stfu right back.i don't see any other legitimate old timers throwing a damned fit about their choices...so why do you have a problem with it self proclaimed expert?get over yourself....the skill system in this game is a one of a kind...its what sets it apart from all others. we don't need someone turning it into wow with prophecies of doom and gloom and people leaving the game....complete and utter bs that is.btw - everyone else is waiting on your answer to explain your terribad idea.... since your so quick to answer my little post....well that just tells a bit more don't it.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"well, an active skill training system does work in darkfall, mortal online, it also worked well in ultima online and few other games, so yeah why not.the only problems i see are:- it may be too late - everyone who didnt like passive training (probably majority) has quit long time ago- theres so many people paying for an ability to log twice per month to just switch skills, thinking that they play the game and they are happy with that- why would ccp want to encourage players to actually play, thus use their servers bandwidth, while they can just keep getting paid for nothing?"
"i was told to by the gms!"
"the overall idea is to post in f&i first. get a general feel of how people will react to the idea and if it will actually garner support and then post in assembly hall when you think it might succeed. if people like the idea and assuming the csm members are doing their proper job and reading assembly hall posts, it will be seen and forwarded to ccp if deemed worthy. either way this has been beat to hell in the past and i believe several working options have already been submitted to ccp. whether they do something with it or not is up to them."
"while this will make the margin trading scam a \"little\" less profitable, a \"little\" more tedious to setup, and require a little more funds on behalf of the schemer, it will not in any manner prevent the margin trading scam. this is because funds are first withdrawn from escrow, and then drawn from your wallet. essentially, rather than buy all the units in one transaction, i can set it up to buy all the units in two transactions.... then i just sell the units to myself to clear out the escrow, and then i put those units for sale..... this will double the \"fees\" associated with setting this up, but that's not going to stop the margin trading scam!"
"not if the system pops the order once you no longer have the funds available to fill the minimum buy order."
"there i fixed it, because apparently everyone who viewed this completely missed my focus on the vigil and hyena specifically, and jumped to the conclusion that there was anything wrong with the rapier or huginn. if i thought there was anything wrong with those, i would most certainly have mentioned it here. by merely not mentioning it, i thought i made it clear that i wasn't knocking on them.why should they have a lot of mid slots? because they're ewar ships. amarr ewar ships get away with only a few because they use high slots for ewar, not so with other races.let me ask you this: why should minmatar have gallente slot layouts? for that matter, why should gallente have more midslots than minmatar? the maulus has 3 midslots, just like the vigil, while the griffin has 4. the vigil could have either 3 or 4 and still \"fit\" between the maulus and griffin. but the keres has 5 midslots while the hyena has only 4. now if that's not reason enough to turn one of the hyena's lowslots into a midslot, i don't know what is."
"i never mentioned the huginn or lachesis. my entire discussion about underpowered ewar ships was focused on the vigil and hyena. unless you have evidence that either of these is both popular and effective, you have no statement to make here."
"i didn't mention the loki, rapier, or huginn, and for good reason. i have no gripe with those ships. i specifically focused on the vigil and hyena.-1 to you for taking what i said out of context and basing your whole argument against mine on something i never said-1 to you for accusing me of not researchign when you were too lazy to even read my post-1 to you for fail use of the quote, not editing your post to fix it, and misspelling huginnhow come i can find lots of intelligent feedback in general discussion, but assembly hall is chock full of arrogant misquoters with over-inflated egos who have nothing better to do than point out stuff that either doesn't matter or was never stated in the first place?"
"fyi, those specialized ships include the loki, rapier, and huginn. so, yes, you were referring to them, even if you didn't mean to. if you're specifically complaining about the vigil and hyena, then say so, don't complain about all min ewar ships never being used, because they are. and you are getting intelligent feedback. here in ah we're quite used to seeing tons of terribad ideas on a daily basis and are extremely experienced in poking holes in them and explaining why they make no sense at all. don't misconstrue rebuttal with poor posting. don't make blanket statements about stuff 'never being used', because you'll always be wrong. it's one thing to say \"ships x and y seem underused, and here's an idea that could increase their usefulness, what do you think?\"; it's another to say \"min ewar ships are never used and need a massive buff; i have seen the light and am called to share my wisdom with the forums\". one gets you friendly responses, one gets you laughed at and little consideration.and finally, the min ewar frigs are already balanced compared to their counterparts in other races, especially when it comes to slots. look at the numbers: every single ewar frig has 10 slots. every t1 ewar frig has 8 slots, except for the vigil ... the vigil has 9 instead. they're balanced just fine against each other. the whole line of t2 ewar frigs needs a buff to make them cost-effective, but the min ships are no worse off than any other race's ewar frigs."
"what you said is fairly intelligent, but the rest of the responses i got were not. so i made a small error in my speech. what everyone else did was jump immediately to that error and post that that thing i missed was wrong, completely ignoring the meat of my post for the most part.how many slots a ship has total is not an effective measure of its balance. many hulls find one type of slot has a dramatically different value than another type. ewar frigates used in fleets for the most part couldn't care less about their high slots (except amarr). likewise, low slots have negligible use for ewar frigates and pretty much everything you can do with those low slots you can also do with mid slots. a more important part of balancing is checking to see that a particular hull gets as much utility out of its slot arrangement as other hulls do, or making sure that it doesn't get too much.one of the main reasons amarr ships get a lot of low slots and few mid slots is that they tend to prefer an armor-based tank. it's not because giving them mid slots would make them overpowered, rather it's more along the lines of \"they probably will prefer a low slot over a mid slot\". most ships with a good slot arrangement would only be gimped by changing the arrangement; in most cases where changing the arrangement would make a dramatic improvement, the ship is gimped already and rarely used."
"my point is that the slot layout isn't the issue with either of those ships, that's not why they are currently rarely used. the reason you don't see them much is that they, along with all of the ewar frigs line, suffer from a lack of survivability which makes their isk/effectiveness less than other ships. so the solution isn't to individually buff a certain ship or two, it's to fix the ewar frigs as a whole, because the whole class is widely known to have survivability issues (interceptor-like ehp on a ship that acts as a force multiplier makes them primaries, which isn't fun in a 20m hull). and again, with regards to the vigil, the reason it's used little isn't because it's worse, it's because the tiered ship system leaves it less useful than a combat ship 90% of the time; adding slots won't change anything. also, the reason that people jumped on that \"small error\" in your post is that it completely changed your post from saying that \"the vigil and hyena seem underused\" to \"the vigil, hyena, loki, rapier, and huginn are never used in combat\", regardless of what you meant to say. and that is simply wrong. it may have been a small change of grammar, but it changed the context of the post dramatically. not trying to rag on you or anything, just trying to point out why people jumped on you for it so that you can learn. and people tend to simply reply to the easiest and most obvious thing first because there are lots of terribad posters in here who aren't going to listen to logic anyways, so there's little reason to write out a long and thought out post when they're going to just ignore it and continue insisting on their own idea regardless of how much they're proven wrong."
"i agree very much that the ewar frigates need something for survivability or lower cost. but i'm pretty certain that the minmatar ewar frigates still wouldn't be used even after that happened. i've played around with the tech 1 ewar frigs and i've found them to be fairly useful in certain pve encounters. granted, a battlecruiser usually did the trick as well, but in using these ships i found through experience that i just couldn't get any sort of comfortable fit at all on the vigil. barring all other shortcomings, it still needs another midslot just to even work, two to do anything really useful.so what do you think about my other points?"
"here is part of your answer.anmar prefer armor tanking, caldari prefer shield tanking and ewar, so why would a should a minmatar ship have more mid slots?"
"please move to features and ideas <.<"
"honestly i would like to see torpedo's able to reach out to a decent range again. maybe make them slower so ships smaller than a bs with a proper fit can outrun them but let them go out to 60k again."
"as of now, fleet finder allows filtering by range, with folloving options: any 5 jumps 10 jumps region i would like to add 'currnet region and neighbouring regions' - i find that often fleet is just a few jumps away, but in a different region, and 10 jumps is way too short range, especially in 0.0 where jumpbridges are common.this option would show fleets that are reasonably reachable."
"hehe this is one area that i can't really say i have an opinion one way or the other as i never play eve with the sound on. usually i am in fleet so i don't really want to hear anything other than who's primary and which carebear is looting/salvaging in the middle of the fight."
"12+ pages and no ccp reply on any of our feedback which alot of the players are providing a much better alternative while meeting ccp goals of name changes. mind knocking them on thier head and make them read the thread again and at least address some concerns or concede that maybe thier approach isnt the best?last round of name changes we where completely ignored and this just seems that out of tune that most of the ccp is inclinded to listen to what we have to say while the writers responsible for these name changes are not."
"i don't understand why this is such a big deal honestly. i have seen a lot of people complain over the change, a lot of people state they just don't care, a lot who like the change and a lot of people tell everybody else to just shut up about it. what is wrong with the change? yes...it is a change and things are a little different now but they are just names of expendible items. the naming convention as it is now makes more sense and is more straightforward but frankly i never saw the old names as a problem to begin with. does the name change prevent you from identifying what ammo you need or want? is it more confusing for you than the old system?"
"read third link first and reply there if you want to argue. this thread isnt to argue about the names its to complain how there seems to be absolutely no feed back.dust 514's cpm 1 iron wolf saber eve mail me about dust 514 issues."
"then don't post it. if you don't want to have a discussion, then you shouldn't post a topic. just dropping a post to complain about the devs without being willing to respond to it is pretty weak."
"i am not trying to argue. i am trying to get a more clear understanding of why this change is so bad for people. i have read through a lot of these threads on the topic alread and dread doing so again. i would agree that if ccp really has not given a clear and concise answer to at least one of the threads already then it is about time someone does."
"oh god really? why do you think that every time you guys stamp your feet and throw a tantrum they should listen to you. to be honest its becoming a joke, bitter vets spitting their dummy out demanding they be listened to every 5 secondsat least now there is consistency.. yes you could have fancy names but hey i would love to win the lottery but it aint gonna happen.adapt to change, better still embrace it."
"for start - there is no such thing as high sec fw missions. all fw missions are in low sec and to make it worse they are in the enemy low sec.there are high sec fw agents, but they only give missions in low sec.second thing missioning in high sec while in fw is the one of the stupidest things you can do - for one the fw missions generally pay more than high sec normal missions, and also you are missioning with a war dec on your head. (try searching for jalmon's kill mails and you'll see why this is a bad idea).so the only protection you get is that some people will have to face a couple npc's when they kill you rather than the total concord protection you would get when missioning in high sec without signing up for fw."
