"the op couldn't be more wrong if they lived in wrongville.sure, limit boosts to on-grid. that won't have the effect you think it will."
"just remove the command processor module. hey presto no 6-link ship alts. fleet command ships get back their eminence in gang bonuses. it wouldn't stop possed-up fleet command alts, of course, but it's a move towards balance"
"i think eve has more than enough content to be working on without trying to add new ships, new skills, and a bunch of new items to make scavenging a new mini-profession."
"by that reasoning we should never try anything new until everything in eve works perfectly, dont be daft. this is a well thought out idea with a very simple basic structure 2 modules and some support skills allowing for quick introduction while also giving plenty of options for later iteration.supported"
"any more comments, thoughts, or ideas out there?"
"posting of the mittani's real life address is harassment invitation to mischief beyond anything he said or did at fanfest.threat to his wife is no joke. can never tell who is a sick joker and who is truly deranged, but that's not for ccp or any of us to sort out. that's for the police to investigate.but just as in rl, if you want to run for any kind of office, it's not unreasonable to require that you give up some of your expectation of privacy and that you accept greater responsibility for all your words and actions.you are going to speak for us, be one of our public faces. we should know and be able to verify who you are, not your in-game persona. your in-game self may be a villain; your real-life self honorable. but it might also be the other way around. many good reasons not to want that kind of scrutiny. some bad. either case, don't stand for office."
"exactly, this is either a knee jerk reaction or more liang being a propaganda shill for the mittani. the suggesting is short sighted and silly. these people represent all of the players. you know the risks of losing the anonymity shield going in. we cannot and should not have people with that kind of shield to hide behind making input calls into development cycles. they are still elected representatives. i want to know the man as much as the character he uses in game when i vote for them. the irl person matters more to me then their characters. i cant get and honest gauge of jack crap about a person if they are hiding behind their avatar and the persona of the avatar. knowing the real person matters. people act very different when they think they are anons.when voting for a csm rep, you should be voting for the person. not the character they play in game. since that person is the one that will be making the calls and giving input. not the character. this suggesting is just crazy.**space wizards are real, they can make 10058 votes vanish. \"and for a moment i hurd 10k goons cry out, then silence\" **"
"having their real name isn't knowing them at all, and if you believe that for a second, then you have a learning disability."
"you talk about this like it is real life politics. this is spaceship politics, all this talk about \"accountability\" has an underlying implication of revenge or consequences. if something illegal happens then ccp has the name anyway. there should be no way for a player to be harassed out of game using info from ccp, they shouldn't be forced to mix their eve personalities and real life to be on the player council. in game stuff needs to stay in game."
"your bias is showing.while i can sympathize with not being pro-goon, i think the benefit you get from requiring disclosure is almost negligible. you as a voter could of course decide to only vote for candidates who disclose.the rest should sort itself out fine.as far as crazy, i saw you on twitter raging along and then defending someone posting mittani's real life address. or where you defending the guy who threatened to sexually assault his wife? or are you that guy?do you also defend spike lee's actions posting that address of that couple named zimmerman recently? would you have if it had been the right zimmerman?one wonders why you hate the goons so much considering your own goonish behavior. i think you are overdue for a long hard look in the mirror."
"/signed"
"/signed.one has to wonder why certain parties are so desperate to have public, real life information on people from eve, people who have either sparked controversy or are in positions such as the csm. this adds a very scary, stalkish feel to the eve playing atmosphere. one in which we must be fearful for real life retribution in the form of threats or even someone carrying them through seriously, what's to stop someone just finding this info, go to the address and take action in some violent, malicious way?. people might say goons are horrible, they eat children, punch pregnant mothers, etc. but i've never heard one threaten someone in a violent, real life way, only in ways that involve violencing their spaceships. there is no reason i need to know any of the csm's real names. nor anyone else outside ccp."
"and what justifies that risk?"
"in my opinion, anonymity for csm candidates won't work.at the end of the day, toons are pixels on a screen. the people on the csm are the players, the people behind the toons. since those people are representing the players as a whole to ccp, the players need to know who the people behind the toons are, because in most cases those people are very different from the toons they play.not signed."
"and how does you having his name make that person come out?"
"i don't support this. if someone wants to be among the few representing the entire player-base, and have such perks as an all-expense paid trip to iceland, they can do us the courtesy of revealing such basic information as their name and country of residence. for me, it is more the principle here. i could maybe get behind striking their country, but not their name. i think running for csm should involve opening up to the playerbase enough to share their real name."
"i wouldn't call attending meetings in iceland, a country whose only real attraction for tourism is fishing, a \"perk.\""
"let me quote a piece of the op here, because i think it really addresses your objection on the basis of courtesy nicely:-liang"
"i support this idea. while it won't matter much to those of us serving currently, this is certianly something that, in light of recent events, is going to be discussed with ccp by the members of csm 7."
"its the people who think having the name out there will keep them \"accountable\", with the underlying implication that in game things will be met with out of game reprisals. as if the names are leverage for a disgruntled player. those are the people who genuinely worry me, and i imagine the csm members feel the same. some of you are creepy/unbalanced ******* people."
"how exactly does having their real life names make them any more accountable than if you don't? is this so people unhappy with them can make threats on their pets and spouses?i'm sorry, but that's total rubbish. a name doesn't make a bunch of pixels any more real to you, except if you want to go after them in real life.the negative responses are very worrying. it's a game, you shouldn't have to know what or who these people are outside of it, even for the csm. i don't exactly want to know where my elected politicans in my country live or do outside their official capacity, and i don't think i need to know either."
"wasnt and issue before.all the sudden mittens gets in trouble, and its a jihad to hide from the public. dont want to give up your name, dont run. **space wizards are real, they can make 10058 votes vanish. \"and for a moment i hurd 10k goons cry out, then silence\" **"
"this has literally nothing to do with the mittani because his real name is already well known. do try to stay on topic.-liang"
"more like \"wasn't an issue before, then a half-psychotic playerbase decided to send a sitting csm member actual rl threats\"sounds like a very good reason to stop giving out players' personal info to me!"
"i am eidric and i support this post."
"given some peoples hysterical over reaction i have to support this idea. +1 to you sir"
"this is not about mittens, he has been banned, you can take the tin foil hat off now. you spent days in the threadnaught tearing into mittens for what he did, and yet when he is the victim of far worse than he ever inflicted on anyone else, you refuse to even consider a proposal that will prevent such real life harrassment happening again. hypocrite.and before you call me a goon alt, im not, this is my main. i do like goons though - in the same way i like all major alliances that can have 90 dudes in a system, but are afraid of two dozen noobs in t1 cruisers. all hail goon bravery."
"well most of the time i agree with you liang, but that is absurd. the argument has been abused countless times in history only when convenient ofc. by that logic, all persons somehow exposed to publicity would have to run with pseudonyms. imagine rl politics running anonymously lol. and it doesn't end there. if you want to keep anonymity for csm members you'd have to avoid public appearances or broadcasts at least with voice and image scrambling because someone might identify them. and quite obviously with prominent use of facebook noone seems to give a fck.csm happens in meatspace and the idea to make it work like a virtual space is bound to fail. also, revealing some personal details adds some accountability to the csm candidacy which i find highly desirable.i have to agree with rogueoperator, if you're not ok with that, don't run."
"why they originally chose to release names in the first place is beyond me, but info such as nationality and occupation/education can not be used to identify an individual so can/should be available."
"this does nothing but bring about an obvious exploitable situation.this makes it entirely too easy to run counter \"shadow campaigns\" and pack your voting bloc. oh, that's right. the goons are all for this. makes sense now."
"/signed"
"/signed.wormholes have the best accoustics. it's known. - sing it for me -"
"you really do have an unhealthy obsession with goons... you do realise they arent actually that great?"
"signed, but with a caveat:while i agree that giving real life information about csm members and candidates to the sociopathic collective known as 'eve players' is generally unnecessary, there is one circumstance where this information is relevant.i have seen several candidates attempt to win over voters by telling us about their personal life, work experience, etc. if the csm is anonymous and the voters have no way of verifying such information, then candidates should not be allowed to use their personal life as a platform for election.other than that little caveat, i'm 100% in agreement... video games are not worth rl threats and harrassment, and ccp needs to protect the players who step up to the challenge that is the csm./yargle"
"x singed"
"this is not real life, and these are not real life politicians. please separate the two quite firmly in your mind.-lianged: also, i am extremely concerned about the people who keep insisting that real life information is required to keep csm candidates/delegates accountable."
"ccp is more than capable of providing a vetted and verified biography of each csm candidate. there's no need for any of us to go around calling their irl boss to verify their claims about work in an internet spaceship game.-liang"
"i tend to think of the csm as a more or less public office more more than less where actual people do the job. yes, it is first and foremost a business relationship between ccp and csm reps which does not require full disclosure. but i tend towards wanting to know who i am voting for as the person behind the character, with a history wider than the max 9 years lifespan of a capsuleer.let existing legislation be the protection. most western countries while late in adopting appropriate laws have a solid basis.no representation without realism."
"its pretty easy to clear out anything specific from the bio's and still be able to \"know\" you candidate. also existing legislation isn't enough to stop the creepy people. the mittani is in the us and yet still people are threatening to * his wife to death and kill his dog. now i understand how this is outweighed by your need for \"realism\" but..."
"more or less,note that its goon supporters and pets/alts that are pushing this. it also opens the door for fraud against the voting players.**space wizards are real, they can make 10058 votes vanish. \"and for a moment i hurd 10k goons cry out, then silence\" **"
"no it does notwe get it you want to harass csm members irl when they support things you don't like but that doesn't quite help your case"
"in theory, someone running for csm in his proper person, and not as an anonymous toon, is less likely to simply lie his way into office, and is less likely to abuse whatever small amount of power the office affords him once he's there, because he or she will feel more accountable.one obvious counter-argument is that anyone can turn into a publicly drunken douchebag after being elected. note: this is not intended to be a dig at alex; most people have the capability to be douchebags if sufficiently disinhibited, including me. and yes, politicians lie all the time.bottom line, though, is that i want someone who's campaigning for a position where he will be representing me to feel a level of personal accountability for post-election actions, and i don't feel like making candidates or csm representatives anonymous is a good answer to situations like the recent threats to alex et al. a better answer to those threats is temporary bans handed out by ccp, i think."
"/signingproviding \"real\" names to the public won't make people more or less accountable... but it will open the doors for less than sane people to take... less than \"savory\" action.a good example of this was the system that blizzard set up... the one where the forums would use people's real life names instead of the their character's names so that people could be held \"accountable\" for what they said and/or trolled.guess what... people still trolled and the system was abandoned after mountains of concerns were brought to blizzard's attention.honestly... real names won't grant anyone the ability to really \"know\" the person they are voting for or allow them to hold said people more \"accountable.\" they will still be just that... names. until you step outside of the game and try to do something with that name which isn't really kosher by any standard or rule.and at the end of the day, this is a game. nothing more, nothing less. an election system pertaining to a game should be taken no more seriously than a game of rock-paper-scissors that you play with your friends to decide where your next road trip is going to be."
"they have a level of personal accountability that comes from ndas and contracts with ccp. the player base does not need their real name, country of origin, address, resume, or any other real life information to guarantee this.-liang"
"i never did understand why real names needed to be provided to the player base."
"no. see post #2 by mara rinn. just because your alliance's candidate self-destructed and you don't get to put another goon in his place doesn't mean it wasn't democratic."
"kick amokdot"
"the person who will be replacing the mittani on csm 7 is someone that other players voted for who would otherwise not have had a voice on csm.it might not be fair, but it is certainly democratic.seems to me i've heard a certain group wax eloquent over the inherent unfairness of eve before. i wonder who that was?"
"are you referring to the random blog post on april 1st by some random player claiming that someone who barely made it into the top-7 of the csm is going to be chairing the csm? ha."
"no, i must have missed that one."
"i pay my npc corps taxes and my subscription. i feel at home in my npc corp. why should i pay monthly iskies on top of that?"
"this idea could add a lot to things like mining etc.develop shields that offer extended protection against space phenomena and than you could safely mine in storm for a time, but only with said shields. could also be done for missions.it makes sense that a pirate organization would hide an outpost in a dangerous portion of space as they have developed a way to shield against it. once a ship is destroyed a bpo could drop for said shield tech and then manufactured by the player base.research could also be done to adapt said shield to a pos and allow players to oust said pirate faction and place pos with new shield tech in plasma storm, nebula radiation, etc.as player corps begin to hold these dangerous areas of space it would add a new dimension to wars as the attacking corp would have to develop the same shielding tech before it becomes feasible for them to attack.just my 2 cents anyway."
"ironically the naga is also the tier 3 that requires the least amount of training to get into as its bonuses mean even meta guns are almost as effective as tech 2 when used within its niche. it doesnt need spikes range boost because it has one anyway and javelin just doesnt compare to faction antimattertrain large hybrids to 4 and decent support skills which you need anyway adn you already get 85-90% of the effectiveness of the t2 fit."
"-1the guns exist to deter any would be attacks on gates/stations.you are reasonably safe traveling through low sec if you think before leaping in."
"i disagree that the current system is flawed.those that want to vote, vote, those that want to have a voice, use it, those that want to be that voice, volunteer. thats the way a democracy works, and thats what the csm is supposed to be, a democratically elected body of the players.if you feel your voice is under represented you have a year or so to get a platform and following together for next year, my people on this coming csm have shown that you don't need a 0.0 backing to get on, since of the 14 members, only 5 are from entrenched 0.0 entities.this csm has representation for every single facet of eve, 0.0, wh space, low sec, and high sec, all fairly well represented. your idea is called a lottery, and it can be used for many things, but electing the representation of the player base isn't it."
"just because you only use one char on your account doesn't mean no one uses them for anything except voting or anonymous posting. there are many valid uses for characters. stuff like different specialized characters to keep clone costs down, pi, price checking, holding alts, trying out other areas of the game like a fw alt if your main has good standings, spy alts, and many other uses. don't try and break other people's use of the game just because you aren't using something."
"i also use my other 2 slots on my accounts for cyno alts and trading toons.but this is not the pointl, you will never get rid of the multi-account per person volting in the csm, unless ccp changes the rules for volting. people will always have more then one account as ccp restricts you to be only able to log into one pilot at a time, many players like to multi-box you wont be able to do this on one account. people should be able to vote for each of their accounts as the more active accounts they have, the greater the interest in the game they have. just becuase you own a 100 shares in a coumpany doesnt mean your vote at the agm is only counted once, it is counted for all the shares you have. otherwise you would have the minority share holders dictating what the majority do."
"so the people who cannot afford multiple accounts and a system for multiboxing should have fewer votes than those who can? that doesn't seem like a good idea to me, personally."
"hi, i have 2 accounts, each with 1 character with ~90m sp, 1 with ~30m sp and 1 with ~1m sp.you can rest assurred that i didn't train 30m sp into those secondary alts for no reason.so yes, you may indeed \"be leaving a few reasons out\"."
"there are easy work arounds to this \"i still use those 2 character slot\" issues.a: account comes with 1 active slot and 2 non-active slots, and additional active slots may be purchased.as for multi-boxing: a sub-account system could be put in place to allow multiple active characters to be online at once on the same account.i do not think that people who have multiple accounts should be able to multiple vote, i have multiple accounts yet i only voted for the mittani with one of my accounts. i stand true to my belief."
"good for you.i have six cyno/pi/trade/rvb alts. i use them all. i suppose you'd take four of them away from me?do you not think the sub account system might complicate things a little? or compromise account security? lose one account, lose literally everything, rather than just 1/3 and how about spying? your system would remove it entirely.in short, no. csm voting isn't worth screwing up every other aspect of eve."
"an overly complicated, player-punishing solution to a problem that isn't even a problem?eve-o forums, ladies and gentleman!"
"mostly use mine as cyno alts.anyway, there's a good argument that says if i pay for 3 accounts then why shouldn't i have 3 votes."
"yes...lets break the game in the name of \"fair voting for csm\"...great idea.not.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"best arguement so far."
"just because you are too dumb to use alts don't mean others need to follow.here are a list of important things alts can do on same account1. be ceo or in corp that main is not hold on to that special name, main runs one corp, and is in alliance executor2. cyno alts3. differently trained chars, one industry, one low sp pvp, one massive sp pvp/pve. 4. jita price checker5. trade alt trading is a skill that you don't need to be logged in to make isk and using more alts means more orders.6. supercap char, or alt to hold on to one because being locked in a ship realy dampers paying the rest of the game on the same char7. anything else that is much less important8. planetary interaction even lower sp to max than trading, and can multi-char with itif you pay the game like a pro, yes you need alts. if all you do is run level 4s in empire then by all means biomass alts, or shitpost with them."
"i am against that, since then you could see for example for wartargets if they are really on, or just afk in station or cloaked up somewhere wartargets as in both wartargets and neutrals/red in low and 0.0"
"fof's don't do much less damage than any other missile type. the problem with them is you can't control what they hit so you tend to find if you have multiple enemies, the damage gets spread out rather than focused.still useful if you are jammed by a falcon at range with a dps ship close to you. fof's will hit what's closest or largest then work out from there.totally useless in missions or complexes as they also target structures that can be destroyed."
"idc that its harder to get out of a wardeck. you can still just leave the corp and get out of it in a day. but you should be able to pay for the wardeck to continue if the attacking corp no longer wishes to pay. now your the attacking party and can try to force them to surrender."
"\"i spent more isk therefore i should win!\""
"due to events this past week, we really need this as an option."
"i have somewhat followed the issue, and i keep coming back to the same thought, why would for instance, the u.s. call up the country they are at war with or whomever, and say we need to redesign your tanks? i think that is the whole purpose of arms races between countries in rl. wouldn't it be a better idea to install a sub cap ship that can deal with such things, maybe a variation of a super cap, or a dread type ship that can take em on in the field.i have heard that it is basically the end of training also, getting into your titan and a long investment in time. i just think it should be more of an advance for the game rather than trashing it so to speak to make it more even."
"the problem with introducing a new ship designed to kill a fleet of something that is too powerful at the moment, is that once you have a fleet of those ships, what keeps it from becoming the next op ship. then you have to introduce a new ship to beat your new ship that beats the old ship.if your only going to introduce a ship as a way of balancing an existing ship, you need to make sure that your not just creating a new problem. once you take all of the effort that entails into account, you have spent more time on the project than simply balancing the old ship would have taken.your military example doesnt quite work here, because this is a game not real life. the game needs to be balanced, and each ship needs to have counters, otherwise it becomes a game of who can field the highest numbers of the most powerful ship."
"supported. csm7 should push to get bounty hunting fixed. also you need a system that lets people bounty hunt in highsec without fear of concord."
"i understand ccp soundwave has said this is not on their 1 year plan but this would do more to fix high and low sec than anything else in the game i've seen yet.i also agree, kill rights transfer-ability or something needs to be included otherwise it does nothing to increase the self policing of highsec."
"double issue, maybe merge:"
"tl;dr: the destroying of rigs makes it very difficult to relocate staging points and consolidate pilot assets. not destroying rigs = more fights, straightforward market, member satisfactionpros corporations and alliances can move around more freely; makes it easier to get into pvp action. less boring logistical work ships, modules and rigs can be seeded back into the market in the place people tend to look for them stockpiling becomes viable => more isk poured into the marke freighters become more useful, used more, therefore empire wars have a bigger purpose though easily circumvented with alts lower hesitation to deploy battleships cons less demand for rigs => less production => higher rig prices not necessarily a bad thing ?? as the ceo and main logistical overseer in my corp; i've for a long time struggled with the moving around of the 'war chest' of my corporation and its members. like now, we're looking around to deploy in different areas to be able to find some fights, using carriers to move ships. in a current scenario, i'd have to spend upwards of 45 million per round trip to move four battlecruiser hulls. a fairly hefty pricethe other option is the use of a freighter, which at lvl 5 can hold a maximum of 937.5km<U+FFFD> roughly 4 bc hulls in courier form. this is still a pretty high number if you consider that in packaged form, it's only 15km<U+FFFD>, as opposed to 216km<U+FFFD> in full formevidently, this makes logistics an unnecessary nightmare, while we only want to have good fights without having to worry about keeping strict rules about how many ships to bring, and making it risky to assemble/fit ships knowing that they will add to the volume that will inevitably need to be moved again.though a new shiptype can be introduced with a large ship hangar sans jumpdrives to tackle the logistical issue alone; i think the merits from removing rig destruction completely weigh heavier. i also think that code-wise, this is the easiest and most effective implementation.like this if... well... you like the idea or at least agree that there's too many negative effects imposed by rigs. if you disagree, give thought-through and constructive critiscism please."
"^^ this pretty sums up the reason i am against your proposed change. it is supposed to be a hassle to move your equipment around... especially if you have added the extra \"edge\" to your ships which rigs pretty much are... an \"edge\" that is relatively cheap and more widely available compared to other options.it's already too easy to move around and project power to different locations within a relatively short period of time. the only saving grace is that it is a tedious chore to perform said \"power projection\" due to \"little things\" like rigs and ammunition."
"soooolowering the demand incrase the prices?you better start running, the invisible hand is going to slap your ass."
"well, at first due to installed production and stocks the price will go down, but if the activity goes low volume low price for long, it might become less attractive to builders and the offer will also decrease, wich could either balance it out or put the prices even higher, or lead even to unavailability of some less demanded mods."
"lower volume trades are more prone to market manipulation. if you know you'll not sell as much volume as before, you'll want to raise the prices to compensate for the loss of net profit."
"rigs are cheap compared to everything else you put on this ships. consider them disposable and trash a few for your convenience."
"also, this:equals \"even easier force projection.\"it's too easy to move large quantities of stuff into a fight on short notice right now. let's not make that even easier."
"destruction drives the eve economy. if rigs aren't getting destroyed, there will be less demand. less demand means less production and higher prices. you seem to already have this principle down.however you missed something important. higher rig prices means less players are able to afford to use/lose them. remember when there was only one rig size? yeah, it was very common to see rigs costing more than the fitted ship itself. ccp changed it into various sizes to make rigs available and affordable for everyone, not just the rich with disposable income.non destructible rigs is a bad idea all around.plus i have a substantial market investment in rigs so i'm biasedsummary of eves last four expansions:"
"well, get over yourself. rigs were intentionally made to be destroyed when the ship is repackaged, it wasn't a mistake on ccp's part, it was a design decision."
"i thought personal consequences for spaceship game actions was what got us in this whole mess in the first place?"
"i think you miss my intent. accountability to ccp is all well and good, but that's almost entirely directed at not disclosing ccp proprietary information without ccp permission. i've been a member of a similar body for the past several years; there's a code of conduct we are required to abide by which pretty much boils down to \"don't be a douchebag\" and there is an nda which we must honor. i assume the csm is no different once you're elected.if players are to vote for csm candidates, though, i feel those candidates also have a level of accountability to the players that vote for them. without that accountability, the csm might as well be a star chamber. i don't feel like i need all the little details of the player's life, but i do feel that csm members or candidates owe me a bit more than some random player.as for protecting csm candidates and members, past and present, i honestly think that this is something ccp should step up a bit on. if someone makes rl threats against a csm, then ccp should take some action. i'm aware that ccp's current policy is that out of game communications are no business of ccp's and i know of some sickening rl threats that have been made over the years where ccp said \"contact your local law enforcement if you think they're serious\", but i feel that they do have a responsibility to people who are in the \"public eye\" as csm members beyond the general policy.while i won't argue against the your contention that csm candidates/members need more \"protection\" than they get today, i don't feel that anonymity is the right way to get it."
"umm, no. alex plays the mittani, but he isn't the toon i hope. what he did irl is what got us into the current little mess."
"that's the whole point, though. what mittens did was considered to be bad because it could have caused rl consequences for the wis, and all because of something that the wis did within a spaceship game. all this outrage and not a shred of actual rl info was given - imagine if you will that the target of said comment would have been either a current or former csm member, where their rl info was actually available on evelopedia? guess what? you don't even need to imagine it, as mittens is catching a lot of rl harassment over this. i'm not saying to garner sympathy or anything, just to suggest that the playerbase of this game is not only capable of taking things far beyond the boundaries of the game, but they're quite willing to do it. it's time to accept that and remove the csm's public information to at least attempt to prevent this from happening again. whatever marginal benefits someone might gain from having a candidate's rl info are massively overweighed by the downsides, especially in light of this debacle."
"yeah. i know. sucks, tbh, and i feel for him even though i've never met him. i think he should forward some of the more egregiously offensive stuff to ccp and hold their toes to the fire to help do something about it. a few 30 day bans would be a good place to start.but i think complete anonymity will breed a star chamber atmosphere and ultimately destroy what good the csm is capable of doing."
"i think that the first place you go with him catching rl harassment over this is \"he should tell ccp\" shows that you really just don't even \"get\" what rl harassment means in this case. i'll give you a hint: the people doing it aren't exactly attaching their character names to it, and it's not happening within the game itself.remind the audience again how having their rl names public contributes anything?"
"they do owe you more than a random player, but you don't need their in game name to get it. that you will get what you are guaranteed isn't for you to guarantee yourself, but for ccp to guarantee for you. furthermore, none of us really know much more about the csm members than they've chosen to share with us directly - and even that is mostly us taking their word for it. ultimately, we've stepped way over the line the moment any of us tries to act on the real life information we are currently being given.effectively: the only possible uses you can have for this information are to give you some sense of empowerment over the csm members or to literally escalate in game retribution to real life.ccp takes threats of rl escalation very seriously and i have it on good authority that they don't hesitate to contact local law enforcement. however that's going to be cold comfort when someone ends up assaulted in the real world. what you're asking for is effectively impossible and what i'm suggesting is the only practical response that we can have.we have no need of this information and we have proven that we do not have the responsibility or sanity to be trusted with it. your feelings that they owe you be damned.-liang"
"i support this"
"let us create a hypothetical situation, one where you have won a seat on the csm and have had your name and some details about you, such as your country and such made public.let us then suppose you do something. something controversial. something that stirs up the emotions of several players with a large emotional investment in this game and many do have far too much of an emotional investment in what is just a game. these players are furious, they are angry. some are so angry they're willing to do something about it. they manage to find your information, your address, your place of work. they even manage to track down your schedule, when you're at home, when you're out and the like. they wait until you've gone out, and are well away. then they enter your home, find your loved one let us suppose you have one, if you do not already and then they harm them in someway. they might just assault them, or if they are unhinged enough, angry enough, they might even go further. you then come home, to find your loved one sprawled out in a pool of their own blood.not a pretty scenario, in any way. yes, it's a worst case scenario. but recent events have shown that some players are willing to at least do some of the above, who knows how much more might be done in the future if the wrong thing is said/done by a csm member? let's not let it come to that. let us keep our csm members safe."
"never did and don't understand why anyone other than ccp needs to know personal details to be a spaceship game politician./signed"
"as a player who has suffered my fair share of real life harrassment from goonswarm and friends ever since my real name was provided to the community as part of my successful csm 1 run, i could certainly see the argument for going back in time and reversing this policy. in retrospect sure, the fact my real name was provided to enemies in eve allowed some people to search for my online cv, take my pictures, find my employers past and current and begin an organized campaign of harrassment against my real identity. sites were created specifically to portray me in the worst possible light and links were provided to my place of work along with letters perporting to be from \"concerned parents\" that a person like me should be playing an online game. even today real life photograph is hosted on the goonwiki alongside the accusation i'm putting ghb into children's drinks. so yes, real life harrassment does certainly arise from the fact that csm candidates are required to give their real names because some subscribers to this game are completely incapable of keeping their animosity to in-game only behaviour. at this point i will support your topic to remove people's real life names from the process on the provisio it goes further and makes any unauthorized link to somebody's personal detals, photographs a eula breaching offence punishable by a signifcant ban. out of game harrassment/bullying must be completely outlawed in eve online if this game is to repair its toxic reputation in the wider gaming community and incidently i would like to call upon the administrators of the goonwiki to remove all reference to my rl photograph and allegations of criminal activity otherwise i will again petition the gm's at ccp to take action in this case."
"i could not agree more - thanks jade. i'll hit you up about the rest of your request - i at least have a couple of ideas on how to approach that given the fact that goons have no control over that site.-liang"
"serious question: would you include the eve-o forums as ingame or out of game? as much of the meta gaming happens here. and not just here, but on unofficial forums, where everyone api registers as their main toon - is that ingame, as people are still only displayed as their toon, or out of game, as it is out of the control of the gms?i do agree that out of game harrassment should be cracked down on when proven, but where do you draw the line between ingame and out of game. its a grey area, and i personally do not know the answers.edit: also, the comment on your real life photo page is clearly tongue in cheek, and not a serious accusation - but your real life photo has no business being on that website without your permission, so should be removed along with the comment."
"well i think anything that refers to a character and ingame activities is ingame. anything that refers to a player and out of game activities is out of game. with ingame stuff we can have the cold hard eve online with propaganda, psychological warfare and all that cold brutal stuff. with out of game stuff we have to have respect for eve other as real life players. this would be a significant departure from the way things are done on the something awful forums where the ruie is \"anything on the internet is fair game\". but since we're here in eve online to play a spaceship game i don't see a problem with keeping the interactions to dark and edgy ic and respectful and above board ooc. well i don't think it will hurt to draw the line on the benefit of doubt for respectful decent interactions on an ooc level. nobody should be trying to bully anybody else ooc while playing an online game. yeah and since the picture ended up there because i had to release my rl name as part of the csm process its quite relevant to the op."
"i can't speak for jade, but i can say that we covered this topic while i was trying to get his support for my proposal. at one point we seemed to agree that \"personal attacks\" deriving from rl information are currently a probably barely \"legal\" part of the in game experience, even if they're in poor taste and degrade the overall experience of the game. he'd like to see that kind of attack banned while i think its just in extremely poor taste and should be avoided as a potentially risky move. he also has some peculiar uses of the term \"ic\" and \"ooc\" that really confuse the issue for most of who don't role play at all. :but really, you're right - a lot of eve's meta game does happen here on the forums, and ccp provided some formal precedence for how far the meta game can go on the forums when equating fanfest to eve-o and banning the mittani. for instance, the slide making fun of the suicidal person was in bounds but asking people to harass him out of game in hopes of a rl result was out of bounds.people posting rl information on 3rd party sites is far more questionable and imo should be strongly avoided given how effective the mittani was at leaning on 3rd party news sites. i would be in favor of in game bans for people found doing such things.-lianged: expounding. of course."
"supported.members of the community willing to act as community advocates to ccp do not deserve to be harassed at work by their in-game enemies. this happened to darius johnson, jade constantine, and plenty others. it's time for that to end."
"way to cherry pick the arguments you reply to... at least you implicitly agreed that it would be impossible to guarantee a candidates anonymity.now onto the argument you did reply to: it doesn't suit your proposal, but for most part the line between game in rl is a blurry one. and unless you see it from a rping perspective, the csm are rl player representatives, not of in-game characters. in fact, apart from their interest focus, very little of the csm is not rl.also, tell me more about your paranoia about people that would prefer representatives to drop anonymity. do you think it doesn't add accountability or do you not want that? the latter is only of concern for people that intend to **** people off, in which case you shouldn't be in the csm or do you disagree with that as well?."
"lol!kudos to the mittani for remaining a true internet spaceship spy guy. he has the balls and resoursefulness to turn even his curent sh*tty situation to the advantage of goons in the future.1. get your real life adress which is easy to find anyway posted anonymously.2. get one of your henchmen to threaten raping your wife on eve radio.3. get another one of your henchmen liang the op to spin this into a crybaby story that victimizes mittens himself.4. turn it into a whoring campaign against ccp to anonymize csm memberships - i.e. make csm accessible to hordes of aspie sociopaths from goonswarm.5. ????!!!!6. profit!!!1"
"i'd be really interested to see your thoughts on stage 5. in our experience, the csm is a hell of a lot better when it's got competent, social, sane people on it. just compare the success of csm 6, led by comrade chairman mittens, to any of the other ones."
"tell me more about accountability and anonymity, npc alt"
"as i told jade last night: if i'd had any clue about the rl harassment he went through, i'd have included his story as evidence of how deranged our player base can be in the op. rl harassment over a video game is simply not acceptable - regardless of if its someone harassing the mittani, jade constantine, or you.and frankly, if you want to discount what happened to the mittani: jade constantine's story is enough for me to have made this proposal.-liang"
"why so bitter?"
"its also impossible to guarantee my own anonymity. that doesn't mean i go broadcasting my name, face, and address every time i make a post on eve-o.i don't see it from an rp perspective, but i also have the capability of understanding that we don't elect the players behind the characters. we vote for the players because of their in game accomplishments combined with a bit of freely given out of game context for why they would make a good csm candidate. arguing that having their real life information lets you get to know them is total hogwash and is frankly a little bit creepy. almost any way that you go about using the information could easily be classified as rl harassment.as to your argument about accountability: i contend that the csm members are not personally and out of game accountable to us as players. they are accountable to us to do the job which we elect them for, and if they go about being disruptive or not doing that job it should be obvious from already established methods including csm minutes and dev blogs. if they screw up with ccp for example, by breaking the nda then ccp will remove them and bar them from running in the future.at no point in this is it necessary for you to have their real life information to make them accountable to you... and your desire to have that personal guarantee of accountability is frightening.-liang"
"i completely agree, which is why i think mittens deserves to remain in csm7.i also think ccp is every bit as responsible for the f*ck up at the alliance panel as mittens. the panel was moderated by a ccp employee, who made no comment when mittens was reading from his side about the wis, and did nothing to reprimand mittens when he urged his minions to help the wis become an hero.my conclusion: ccp messed up, but unlike mittens who at least had the decency basic pr awareness to take responsibility and apologize, ccp is trying to get away with scapegoating mittens and make him the only one who has to pay. i still can't see how making csm candidates disclose their names gets in the way of bringing more competent, sane and social individuals in. your own words prove my point: csm6 had no anonymous members and still did a great job."
"if the intent is to curb rl harassment and if you'd be righteous about it, then you'd also be calling for reprimands against the harassor. since it is impossible to guarantee the candidates anonymity, setting a clear policy about this is the way to go. ccp seems to be awakening to this responsibility, tho i'm sure their gonna be lazy about it read: only do stuff when there is external scrutiny. the asymmetry between the anonymity of the harassor and the exposed victim makes this technically challenging but not impossible. in jade's case you should easily be able to apply one of the new cyber-bullying laws. get the wheels turning and deliver the perpetrators details to the local authorities.i don't approve of it, but the fact that mittens is getting what his minions usually deal to others is epic irony."
"you wouldn't be a rougeoperator sock puppet would you? similar incoherence. anyway...exactly how would \"anonymizing\" the csm throw it open to hordes of anyone. the only people you could exclude by knowing their irl names is people whose name you already know. the only real danger would be alts of current or past csm members and candidates plus the few players that have already disclosed their name."
"it makes no difference to the fact you are spinning r/l harassment stories to garner support for some other agenda, one that has nil to do with stopping r/l harassments in evemittens has been known as alex gianturco ever since he started his tenure at csm6. during that time goonswarm staged hulkageddons, invaded space, burned spaceships and made lots of people pubbies shed tears of blissful rage.and all this time, it occured to no one to figure out mr. gianturco's place of residence and threaten to force coitus on his spouse. but now, now he has done it. boy, are they pissed!! when he told everyone to make the wuss off himself, those vile rapists just couldn't help it anymore, they had to do something about it!sorry. nope. not buying. you can back off now and make this about jade constanine or whoever, but the fact you spun this story after the farce on eve radio involing mittens' wife has done your case poor service. it only reminded everyone that anonymity is most often not a shield against rl harassments, but rather a cover to people who are most likely to conduct such harassmentsback to your proposal - i'm sorry, it makes no sense, it's evil, it's stupid and it must die. luckily, ccp will throw it out of the window regardless of how much support it gets.csm members are public figures who willingly chose to make their involvement with the game go past their in game character into the real world. this entails some commitment, part of which is deanonymization."
"i'm not going to bother responding back to you because its obvious that you are a deranged individual. it should be patently obvious that i am against rl harassment regardless of who is being harassed, and i have a long standing aversion to rl information being given out. i am truly frightened that you seem to have such a desperate need to know people's irl information.-liang"
"anonymizing the csm will make it open to hordes of people who would otherwise not have run, because \"meh, i have to tell everybody my name and stuff\".usually those who make a great deal of their privacy and anonymity online, do so not out of fear of being harassed. it surely isn't about their wives being harassed, you figure out why so to begin with, this campaign for anonymizing csm is hypocritical and wrong in the way it spins r/l harassment stories as justification.if you're going to campaign for csm anonymity, at least do it honestly. say that you want csm to be open for anons. for people who like to speak their minds freely online. not having to be polite, considerate or even humanly decent. those who like to vomit all over with all those pesky values and tedious social norms they've been stuffed with since prepuberty. those who enjoy to express their true feelings about helping a blind old lady cross the street - hell, pushing her under the bus for teh lulz is the real thing! btw, if there's anything i respect mittens for, it's his willingness to forfeit his anonymity and run about in this game with his real identity known to everyone. he doesn't mind the accountability that comes with this \"outing\". this is the only thing that indicates a genuine real life personality behind the in game character. this is why his apology as alex does have merit, even though i still adamantly believe he only posted it as damage control vs ccp."
"well since two step was second after mittani, why not make him the chairman since the votes show him to be favored over the other candidates."
"i'm confused. did the leap year throw you off? you missed april 1 by a wide margin.let's face it: the goons would oppose any idea resembling this had their glorious leader not been the one to fall on his face. do yourselves a favor and quit giving everyone so much to gloat about. shut up, have your little burn jita party, and carry on.adapt or die, goons."
"it isnt democratic at all. might be simpler and >> no effort << to ccp. but isnt democratic as it dosent try to maintain the representability of the interests of the voters.in democracies, should a president step out, his vice would come in. should the vice die, some other representative like a president of the senate of something would step forward. not the underdog.theres no sense in the next, less voted candidate stepping in.and see, i am not advocating that someone should replace mittens or a revote, this sugestion is in regard to the future ellections and for the betterment of the process.is this hate-group so blind by hate that they cant have a civil discussion without bringing the torches and the forks? gee.though i get the \"eggs in a basket\" popular simple-minded analogy, it has no bearing in a democratic process. its like saying let democrats/republicans run with 4 candidates..... makes no sense."
"in the current state of affairs, that seems logical. any word on it?"
"not in the face!"
"while people are talking about super capital ships, many have completely forgotten that regular dreadnoughts and carriers exist. regular capital ships are used less and less due to the issue of their reliance of active tanking and that their roles can easily be performed by other ships. lets start off with carriers. carriers' logistics role has been relegated to supercarriers and logistic ships. the reasons being that:-carrier will almost always die to a single dd from a titan making it dead on arrival in a supercapital fight. -3-4 logistics can the do job of one carrier while being cheaper and generally more survivable than the carrier. -supercarrier can do the remote rep job of a non-triage carrier while maintaining supertank and anti battleship and capital abilities with their fighter bombers.-triage allows the carrier to maintain high tank and rr, but at the cost of being unable to receive rr and vulnerable to damage and neuts for 5 minutes. triage mode is fairly risky to use in current war doctrines. the triage will not make a difference to a doomsday. now lets look at the most obsolete class called dreadnoughts. dreads are a class that have been mostly untouched since their introduction. while more damage and shorter siege time helps, its generally not worth using in current fleet doctrines.dreads only have one real role and that is to shoot structures and immobile capital ships. this is a job that can easily be accomplished by super capital ships and subcapital ships. -dreads are rarely used in pos bashes due to the requirement to be in siege mode for 5 minutes.-dreads are inflexible and less used due to it being an expensive battering ram. -a handful of battleships and tier 3 battlecruisers can the same job of a dreadnought while having the capability to engage subcaps and the ability to disengage at will.-dreads are rely on active tanking to survive, active tanking scales horribly in fleet fights. if a fleet catches a dread in siege, its as good as dead.-dd makes it trivially easy to one-shot kill a dread. tl:dr - carriers and dreads are mostly obsolete due to their inflexibility of roles that can be accomplished by other ships at lower cost and/or much less risk."
"rnk seems to be using triage archons pretty well."
"imagine if their enemy had brought in titans rather than supercarriers. would the result have been the same?"
"even if this were true i see far more use of carriers and dreads than supers what does it matter?"
"seems you haven't participated in recent big battles?#1: raiden uses carriers as logistics. what you forget is that 4 \"scimitars\" need 4 people - which is a scarce resource#2: most pos'es reinforced are either through supers or dreads. a \"mini moros\" fleet can reinforce a pos in one siege cycle.just because they don't appear on killboards doesn't mean we is them."
"yeah, dreads excel at pos bashing, i see them used all the time. they are far better at it than any fleet of subcaps, because you would need more than 100 t3 battlecruisers to match the damage output of 10 dreads.i will point out however, that if the doomsday got redesigned, it may fix a lot of the problems that you have just brought up."
"ship balance due this year."
"gate guns are a joke at best. anyone with a t1 battlecruiser and up or a t2 cruiser and up can easily tank gate guns without ever breaking a sweat.to the op;the numerous problems with lowsec are well documented and have been brought to ccps attention countless times. they currently do not have an answer to the problem. all you're really doing is beating the same dead horse.summary of eves last four expansions:"
"relevant"
"ah but you see, this is not a democracy, this is a game. ccp could end the csm in a heart beat, where would your dream of this is a democracy be then. wake up, ccp is here to make money, to make it with pride and honour yes, to be leaders in the industry they represent yes, but here at the end of the day to make money.democracy is born from revolution. not from a corporate decision. ps: anyhow just an idea, like or dislike it, it's all good"
"\"cannot afford multiple accounts\" you mean people who have more irl cash, so can pay for more accounts?you're thinking in the wrong direction and assuming everyone pays for their accounts with rl cash.the truth in the matter is actually that most efficient players actually don't pay for their accounts with rl cash. they make enough isk in game to pay for the accounts with plex which they buy off the ingame market for isk. which in return, was seeded by folks that prefer to pay some extra cash not to have to grind/trade/pve/scam for isk.if you really want to try to limit the amount of votes someone has in eve to the amount of actual players i think you've got a tremendous problem.also, anyone can make isk to pay for their accounts in-game. be it though trade/mining/pve/scamming. so \"people who cannot afford multiple accounts\" is not really a valid issue. i guess time to play the game and not being bright enough to play the game is a limiting factor.. but strangely i still feel that eve is already a game for the brighter soles than some of its competitors so i don't think that's really an issue.any game i know allows votes per account. why would eve be different? do you really think everyone in goons has 100 accounts? if i'm not mistaken eve already limits the accounts that are allowed to vote had to be active for about 6months prior to the csm voting... if you think people are just making bogus accounts to generate an extra vote i can tell you you're wrong.someone once said i was a muppet. if that's so, i'm quite sure the swedish chef is my brother."
"yes. as i stated it elsewhere:"
"purchasing multiple accounts for the purpose of vote padding seems a bit far fetched. however alliance ceos strongly \"urging\" members to vote for them is far more likely.but that's the way it goes in eve. you will never see fair democratic election in eve in the same way you will never see a fair democratic election in somalia. summary of eves last four expansions:"
"i support greater fidelity in the representation of inertia."
"all that really needs to happen imo is flag a smuggler as suspect crimewatch 2.0 when they jump through a gate with contraband, let players handle the rest. there's enough eager trigger fingers in eve to handle it. blockade runers are somewhat immune, but i am going to guess suspects can't cloak based on the feeling given from the crimewatch talk at fanfest, but i have no solid refrence for that, just a huntch.magnates, probes, kessies and which ever gal frig has the fat cargo hold, will be the most likely used, i suspect.necessity is the plea for every infringement of human freedom. it is the argument of tyrants; it is the creed of slaves. - william pitt"
"i like the designs with player policing becoming more relevant, but i have a feeling it isn't a solution to cover all bases or completely replace existing npc systems is my only concern. as such for myself i want to reserve judgement on the new crimewatch mechanics after the implementation, but i do understand the relevance of what your saying and the added options for playability would be a welcome addition also."
"yes, it needs more, but that would be the core of it. i doubt it will be part of the first rll out of crimewatch 2.0 anyway.necessity is the plea for every infringement of human freedom. it is the argument of tyrants; it is the creed of slaves. - william pitt"
"well thought out. works for me. bump."
"name change = yestime = 1yrcost = 10m iskrecord = employment historynuff said."
"hi everyone,is it possible to get a better feel and look on how big ships in eve are when docked in a station and while being in captain's quarters mode. very often i don't feel the proportions in relation to the pilot.i give you following example:when looking at the ishtar compared with the hulk, my first impression is that the ishtar is bigger than the hulk but in reality as eve is real the hulk has a 509m long axis while the ishtar has a 218m long axis."
"initially all ships were at correct proportions - that was changed so people with frigate could actually see their frigates in hangar.and now you want to change it back?"
"now that ship spinning is back, yea it should be changed back to give the sense of scale."
"i agree, the ship sizes are a bit off. however, is this something that really has much of an impact? i can see it being way down the list in the things-to-get-to-eventually column, but i think that there are much more important issues at hand at the moment."
"eve is real :"
"anzacpaul wrote:this. this.24hr timer is impractical for gameplay. 12hr timer makes the gameplay better. better is good."
"reduction of time is ok by me.would let me be where i need to be at every begining of a day."
"this is how i would do it... blocked: teckos pech, sonya corvinus, baltec1, shae tadaruwa, wander prian, daichi yamato, jonah gravenstein, merin ryskin, linus gorp"
"pos modules taking forever to online were also by design initially. just because it was introduced in a gimped form doesn't mean that it has to stay that way."
"you forgot to finish the math problem.the market crashes after prices go up....because there is no demand at that point.in other words.....in economic terms your utterly wrong....but everyone knows that.not supported.i may not like it...but the reasoning is valid as to how it works now.i'd rather support ships that are equiped to tarnsport ships more easily..without breaking the game.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"pos modules were changed to their current state because the long anchor/online process didn't really do anything but make it a headache for people to set up poses. now that pos anchor times no longer have any real impact beyond being a headache, there is no need for them to take a long time to set up. however, in the past, pos timings used to matter more because they were how sov was controlled and how long it took to set up a pos in a hostile system had an impact in sov warfare.however, your proposal would have a significant impact on market dynamics and ship fitting, turning rigs from a unique type of ship modification that you have to put some thought into and live with into just another module slot on your ship.see how different the two situations are?"
"add to that...the pos timers didn't adversely damage the market either.granted they changed the fuel process...but that was for the better imho...and if anything made the market healthier.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"the pos example was the first to come to mind and i agree that sovereignty changes softened the necessity for those timers, though i still don't consider my rig change proposal to be as significant as people say.in its current form, i don't think many rigs are destroyed aside from the ship actually blowing up and i really don't think the market will change much from it. the exorbitant examples given in previous posts do not seem plausible as rig manufacturing costs remain the same.sure, prices will inflate somewhat due to slightly lesser rig wasting on the consumer end, less demand, less production and thus less market competition i don't even think there will be much delay between making the change and the market stabilising afterwards.i propose to make them the same as modules because currently, they are stored in the game as such, act as such and for that reason, are easy to fix as such.perhaps i'm completely missing something, but i don't see these doom scenarios people are talking about already. look at your ship fittings and how often you switch these up. i don't know about you guys, but once fitted i hardly ever change even a single module throughout its lifespan.heck, if what you're saying is true and people do destroy rigs so often, indicating a need to change things up, wouldn't we see an increase in demand as to have spare fitting sets for a given ship?there is one argument that i can understand, and that is power projection. i find this hard to predict and i can theorycraft a long way, both ways. in one, bigger alliance capable of throwing isk around can already run capital transport trains and already do so. in the other, this would enable smaller alliances to do the same and make pvp more accessible to all."
"thoguh really, three or four battlecruisers per carrier/freighter is very, very low freight capability don't you think?"
"no, salvage prices for many rigs are already dirt cheap."
"not supported.logistics and power projection are far to easy these days already, an alliance can deploy in an extremely short time at extraordinary distances as it is. plus if your deploying to attack a target you should be at risk from guerrilla and harassing tactics rather than have a nice easy ride into enemy territory."
"it can be argued that everything ccp has done to make logistics easier in this game has had the effect of making the game worse."
"two or three years ago, there was a dev post saying that they were looking at making it easier to move rigged ships. is this still in the backlog, or was it quietly dropped?"
"flexible? elastic? eve? pshaw!that might lead to fun. we can't have any of that fun crap in eve!"
"totally suported.i would also wish for a shorter timer, but i supose that 23 hours is fine enough.everyother place i saw a \"daily timer\" it usually defaults to 23 hours.24 hours makes no sense, because you know, \"life\"."
"that's okay, buddy. really, there's no need to feel bad, as it can happen to everyone.here's a tl;dr version in easy english: liang says: bring anonymity to csm, so csm candidates don't have to disclose their r/l info which may get them harassed irl by other players of eve. i think that liang really wants to bring anonymity to csm, just so he1 or his friends could run to csm without having to disclose their real names. 1 i don't know or care about him enough to actually find out if he has his real name disclosed anywhere. either way, i postulate that stopping real life harassment has nothing to do with the true agenda behind his proposal.i never suggested that aspies can't run for csm or do a great job on board. i actually think that aspies and antisocial jerks make tremendous alliance leaders and awesome csm reps. i probably wouldn't vote for an aspie who gets off on blowing hulks in hisec but i also accept the reality of these people being fundamental to the success and prosperity of eve and they deserve representation in csm in proportion to their numbers and influence.i just think that if a goon aspie wants to run for csm, having them disclose their real life names is a fair and appropriate bar. it ensures that only those motivated enough to forfeit their anonymity will make it through.regarding possible harassment irl - quite honestly, i already illustrated exactly why this is nonsense. if mr. gianturco could roam new eden for over a year, as one of the most infamous and reviled characters in the game, and yet have his r/l details exposed, i think everyone can do that. and if someone does make real life threats, i think any sensible person would agree that the only solution is to deanonymize and prosecute the offender. not trying to anonymize future \"potential victims\". as i explained above, just because you're an aspie, doesn't mean you can't run for csm. you just need to muster the courage and tell everybody your real name."
"i am not really sure on this one. how far does this go?if csm meet in iceland are they supposed to only talk to other in person using their ingame name? would it be a violation of the eula if someone accidently refered to someone else by their real name?can the csm member insist that they never be shown on camera or have their voice heard? this is pretty bad pr for the game if people on the csm have to basically act like they are in some sort of witness protection program isn't it?that said it is pretty clear that allot of people take this game too seriously. mittani once mentioned in a podcast how some eve playing lawyer kept getting harrassed in real life by goons sending faxes to his office or something like that. make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"just so i can be clear on the argument people have against this proposal:nobody knows that liang nuren = the mittaniliang nuren runs for csmbecause the rl names of the candidates are not revealed liang is elected to the csmmittens can go back to ruining evedid i summerize it correctly?seems to me that unless ccp has some issues with rl names not being released to the playerbase wierd laws or something it should have been in place years ago.maybe i misunderstood the complaint though."
"i support this initiative. real names and passports to ccp, eve char names for the rest of us."
"how was mittens ruining eve, specifically? also, i suspect that if goonswarm wants to get people on the csm in any given term, they will."
"yep, sounds reasonable. it might make sense to require csm members to reveal any \"public figure\" alts, though. at least require that if you have been in the csm before, you run under the same character name again. it would be weird if we could not use information on past performance in the csm while making voting decisions. :obviously, real identities will be revealed when people meet each other for rl, be it for csm or for fanfest or just local meets. but eula/tos already forbids you from posting that information to the forums, ingame, etc."
"empty quoting, for great honor!"
"what do you mean forums ingame \"etc\"? are we able to post it on failheap challenge? what about other mediums that have nothing to do with eve? when massively reports the names of the csm members because the csm showed up at a public event like fanfest will all employees of massively have their eve accounts banned? if people make their identity public by showing up in person with others it is sort of hard to unring the bell. is ccp supposed to police the internet for any mention of somones name and then try to track down who released it and then see if they have an eve account? and why are they doing this again? because someone somewhere said something stupid to the guy who was telling people, who said they were considering ending their lives, to go ahead and kill themselves? make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"i did not expect this particular proposal to bring the tinfoil out of the cupboards like this when i originally saw it. wow guys, just wow. thats some petty stuff right there.another +1 because it deserves it."
"signed.the people that are against this are literally trying to say that rl identities hold someone more accountable because of the implication of rl reprisals. holy **** you mentally unstable sociopaths need to get a life."
"you act like the csm is taken seriously by most of the playerbase anyways... it's not. there's no reason to publish names of the real people."
"if rl identities don't amount to any additional accountability, and are in fact meaningless to your conduct in the world of new eden, why do you support changing the current situation and \"anonymizing\" csm? what's there to gain?obvious projection is obvious."
"considering that you personally said \"well if csm members screw up they get to deal with the consequences harassment lol htfu o7o7o7 irl\" i think we can safely assume that this proposal is completely reasonable, lobby our csm delegates about it and hopefully see it in place for csm 8.thanks for your support!"
"in what way do rl names add any sort of accountability that doesn't involve some level of rl harassment?the only way they add to 'accountability' is by the hanging threat of defamation or rl threats. that's just not tolerable."
"i don't know about you but i knew about this for several months.... why not you?================ stop the evemail spam!"
"given the fact a person can do level 4 missions a couple of hours per day and dedicate a couple of days and pay for the fuel for a small pos i wonder if it would be a good idea to make pos more available to corps ? right now you need a ridiculous amount of standings corp wise standing, not single person to make it more available in low and high sec.right now, pos anchoring works with the average standings on the corp with the faction you want to anchor your pos in. for a single person, this can be fixed in a couple of months or so. for a whole corp, well it works on average so play with the numbers... in other words its nearly impossible because everyone has to work with their standings only missions offer standings afaik.i don't know how exactly how the mechanics should work but i think if a small corp or relatively small corp can easily take care of a small pos then i think it's normal if it's available in high sec. besides, manufacture, research, bpo copying and all those slots are taking so making it available in a pos for a corp would be a good thing if you ask me.i can't think of a bad side to this idea besides the fact that empire space might have way more pos in moons but i don't consider that a bad thing."
"because you have 2 consecutive zs in your name. everyone with 2 consecutive zs in their name should pay extra isk. in fact, anyone whose name doesn't start with \"psi\" and end with \"tic\" should pay extra. seriously, this sounds like a great solution to a non-existent problem."
"mutal can flipping is a way to get agression between two pilots, why not give two people wanting to fight a right-click option to agress eachother without concord intervention? pilot a right clicks on pilot b both on grid and selects the option from the window. pilot b gets a notification stating pilot a wishes to fight, do you accept? if the resopnse is yes a 15 second or so timer activates and after 15 seconds they get a standard agression timer between them. to prevent abuse the following safe guards should be put into place:1. a setting pilots can toggle turn on by default which auto rejects requests without getting the popup.2. a cooldown timer of 10-15 minutes on the person issuing a challenge, but gets reset to zero if someone accepts the challenge.3. while agressed a pilot cannot be challenged, but an agressed pilot may challenge someone wtih no agression timer."
"according to diagorascarriers being flown: thanatos 3243, archon 1716, chimera 1566, nidhoggur 838.supercarriers being flown: nyx 1579, aeon 640, wyvern 296, hel 117, revenant 1. yep, just the one.active characters in a titan: erebus 300, avatar 257, leviathan 98, ragnarok 86.numbers from march 15/16did not see one for dreads. did not really look too hard either."
"ccp was talking about a module that would jam targets if lots locked onto you or something, this could potentially fix dreads and carriers, because there would be no \"primary\" getting hit by 90% of the enemy fleet."
"zircon, the numbers he posted weren't \"flown\", it was \"sit in\". in other words if you sit in your rifter and your dread is in your hangar it won't count.and most dreads are secondary ships you don't hang out in,"
"copy pasta so....if you have an issue with the way he words things perhaps you should take it up with him."
"so the pair of dreads we used in this fight with snuff the other week or the blap dread we used in this fight vs unwilling 3 days ago are obsolete?.oh hey look ma, its another moron who has no ******* clue what hes talking about. that squidgy grey thing between your ears is supposed to do more than stop the wind blowing through your head you know."
"the problem with dreads is, if you put a fleet of them out on a structure shoot, 50 titans will get dropped on them. however they get used, a fleets of 200+ are being used to burn tenal. the price has also rocketed."
"yes i am bitching again. in real life i have a job that i work every weekend. i get every monday tuesday off. however there is no current way to see what days an alliance or corp is most active on.  well not easy lets say.  why can't that be add to the recruitment search function on eve? hence active on saturday sunday, monday tuesday, ect ect. granted it can be abused but atleast it is a helpful tool that can be niche alliances and corps could use to recruit. i am not anti-social. but it is depressing when you hear of all these great friday night actions and when you log on el ziltcho! i cannot be the only pilot on the eve universe who faces this problem.  oh fyi when the boss comes in on monday in a bad mood hungover and bitchy, i am long gone. by the time wednesday rolls around people are feeling much better and there are no boss'es on the weekend, so there!"
"bump"
"1: dont bump.2: its called communication.....if you can't talk to your ceo in your corp...don't bother playing.================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"reading is not your strong suit i guess. no idea what your point is? i simply was suggesting a game tool improvement."
"right back at you....i was being serious.we don't need \"more stuff\" when its quite obvious by telling your ceo just how busy your schedule is.the fact you log in or don't log in is also evident by various methods.even by your actions as well.get the message this time?================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"agreed with drake - you shouldn't be joining a corp without having a conversation with their ceo and talking about when your active playtime is. no need to make the recruitment thread more cluttered.alternate proposal - just post a \"corp wanted\" ad in the recruitment forums - you'll find someone."
"exacto mundo +1!!!!!missed that...thanks for bringing it up. ================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"wormholes being relatively new to eve, about a year, i have seen many glorious things in eve and am highly addicted. one thing that seems to boggle my mind is why we can not loot or take pos , equipment , or items that have laid dormant in a wormhole or area? seems logical. i tend to live by the thought of \"fail to fuel your pos and live with the consequences dear fellow eve addict.\" to many systems i have been in have dormant desolate wastes of items that could be sold for some serious isk , or possibly of some use to the explorer. why not give the bounty to the pirate or the explorer to add to his tales of wonder. i was there ...live it. embrace it. love it my friends.mini eve program - skill manipulation only -so as to not make another thread for the second idea but what about a small or mini eve program that runs on any computer where you can log in and at least set up your skills before they run out? most people do travel or have crappy laptops that the new captains quarters pretty much nuked into a word processor only paperweight... having a mini program would allow anyone anywhere to adjust their training. just an idea to boost the eve fun and it's addictability. shrug. respectfully,gervmeister neub wormhole explorer."
"i have thought this too, i have a netbook that will not run the eve client.rather than a mini program, how about making it web based, thus enabling updating of skills queue from anywhere, without having to maintain seperate windows and mac 'mini' clients.other advantages of web are no need for client side updates."
"coming to evegate soontm possibly."
"this ties into the whole \"pos mechanics are terrible\" issue and has been beaten more often than a red headed step child.the whole pos mechanics system is in desperate need of an overhaul. summary of eves last four expansions:"
"i discovered an abandoned pos worth over 3 billion isk last night. there was nothing i could do about it; i ended up just leaving it alone and moving on.it should say \"that pos is protected by the magic anchoring spell\". because i see absolutely no mechanic that makes sense that you can't remove a powerless pos...except magic."
"i like all those myself, dunno what anyone else thinks... like to hear though. as i've been thinking more about this the los in asteroid belts is the only small-scale example i could think of that everyone could understand. addition of the tesselation and phys-x looks like a candidate to create a situation where for instance a miner could actually get away from attacking pirates by hiding behind a large roid, which blockee their los and therefore their scramblers etc... for just a few seconds as they moved in to a better position to get a clear shot at the miner. just ramp that same scenario's principles up to any scale in any situation and there we have it, the most fantastic game on planet earth with real strategy and tactics... not just a bunch of wannabe's shooting thru a kilometer of rock with their \"magic guns\" ... which to me is pretty low scale but that's my personal opine."
"if rails sucked less, caldari wouldn't be the missile spam race.caldari have a goofy philosophy. they're supposed to be the range race, except they can't dictate range. fix the rails and give caldari some much needed speed and you'd find those rail platforms much desired.necessity is the plea for every infringement of human freedom. it is the argument of tyrants; it is the creed of slaves. - william pitt"
"and/or highlighting any messages containing your name or any variations thereof you can manually set?"
"this is needed. bring it to reality.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"+1 i'm all for this. this would be fun to play with"
"this could break the entire game! the sky could fall right on top of our heads. what's more, it is impossible - like everything else.so what? i want. +1 for more fun."
"it is rather slow going but this thread is getting the love as each day goes by. i figure if they can take the time to make sleeve tattoos then they can probably do the same for some additional \"ambulation\". seriously...one of these days they will come out and say...\"we set jiggle from =0 to =1 and now breasts have ambulation.\"."
"get out of your drake and you will notice that the game requires a bit more effort than simply pressing f1."
"this.we need more pos shooting in eve amirite?"
"i like it. +1this solves the problem in the simplest way possible. occum would be proud."
"thread number 30007 on fixing the alt loophole.now if only people would make a thread about making bounty hunting work as a profession."
"this one is well-thought out imho:"
"it is just another way to fix the alt loophole. if you think the alt loophole is what keeps bounty hunting from being a profession then you probably have never tried doing it as your profession.malcanis has a post from a few months ago up. also look at some of the old, and i mean archived, threads. some of them had good ideas."
"have 200 mill ship.put 30 mill bounty on pilotgank in altrepeat."
"if they proposed it, did they say when it could be expected?"
"ok, how about some constructive criticism."
"one reason why frigs are not used in fleet fights is cause of small drones who powned them.i propose to remove bs ability to use small drones so to limit them to med and large dronesno limitation for t2 bs, marauder need all drones and black op actually don't really need to be nerfedthat will encourage variety in fleets, and will allow low skills players and frigs specialist to join the fightbest regards,panto."
"so you want to make it so that bses have issues running lvl 4 missions. i don't think that's a good idea at all.suggesting changes that break a large use of a ship to solve a small issue is stupid. besides, frigs are already used as fast tackle for fights. yes, they'll likely die, but there's nothing stopping low sp pilots from getting into fights like that and having fun with a cheap throwaway ship."
"you still can easily kill lvl 4 frig rats with medium drones, also u can fit a web in order to help. not a real issue for me, missions rat are way more easy to kill than players..."
"this is complete and utter bull####.not supporting.you obviously have no idea what fleet fights are all about.frigs are frequently used as tackle...drones are a hazard no matter what ship your flying.your proposal would break several mechanics very easily.please don't bother coming up with ideas you don't know anything about.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"-2bs's need light drones to deal with pve and small scale pvp yes pvp exists outside of massive fleets!mediums will have problems against fast frig pvp, even with a web.the poor rokh would be completely boned!"
"more agressive pls"
"i'm sorry....i didn't mean to hurt your feelings....if you feel so offended please go to hello kitty online..you'll find its much nicer over there.in the mean time...stop breaking up the pvp world with your carebear ideas.thanks....have a nice day and welcome to eve online.i'd expect everyone else to fry my little rump with an idea like that...don't expect any mercy from me.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"asking for a 'nerf' to bs, to address a problem that you have with light drones is rather ham-fisted like ccp, so watch this space!.better solution, one that leaves pve as is and solves your problem, is to decrease their activation/orbit range or decrease their orbiting speeds .. either one will make lights mwd burn a lot more, thus making popping them for a frig that much easier."
"@ drake draconiscannot play hello kitty for moment, ur dad using my account.and don't cry for ur pvp, i understand u are scared to see ur bs burning cause of frigs but ask santa for a new one...\"...with your carebear ideas.\" > seriously ?@ ravenesa :true "
"sorry but you have no idea what you are talking about."
"classic carebear come back...please pubbie....keep crying your tears.you should learn to play the game instead of breaking it.out here in 0.0 space we use frigates friequently....typically interceptors....assault frigates....and even the classic rifter ftw.we employ battleships frequently as well...and drones to deal with various situations.in fact our fleets are a mixture of various classes and wide varieties of ships/drones to deal with fun things like conqureing space.i've also been around enough small time fleet fights to know that no fleet worth its salt wouldn't be without a firgate to do some sort of scouting or tackling.if you can't tackle..don't expect to get your prey.i know for a fact you have no idea and likely live in high sec space chewing on level 4's.so please...go away and do some research....dont bother coming back until you know what your talking about.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"if your frig is agressed by a blob of drones... burn away. let your friends do the damage."
"^ this. op is a clueless newbie."
"not supported. the odds of a frigate surviving a large battle are quite high if one knows what they are doing and remain situationally aware.one time, i personally lead a whole blob of drones away from an engagement in a crusader... and by the time the enemy realized what was happening because they we preoccupied with my friends, the drones and i were more than 100km away from everyone. most of the enemy opted to abandon their drones and throw out a \"spare flight\"... provided they had onenow... did i miss out on some killmails? yes. did i point anyone? no. did i contribute to my fleet in some way? hell yes. i led a bunch of dps off field and am i'm still using some of the drones i picked up that day."
"not supported.logical thinking alone stands between me and supporting this absurd idea."
"op has never been in a fleet fight, and thus should not try and post ideas regarding them.i have never been in a fleet fight that did not involve frigates."
"i have.....it sucks....frigates are a requirement imho.....awfully hard to get anywhere without that small nimble ship of various abilties.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"dear ccp:your game is broken. your customers are upset. your attention is needed.please fix kill rights.please fix bounty hunting. please fix suicide ganking and griefing.a functional bounty system solves all those problems.respectfully,[too many to list]"
"jump clones are one of the main contributing factors behind blobbing. anything making this easier is a bad thing in my opinion.operation write down all the things!!! check out the list at"
"this information may be easy to get a hold of, but it shouldn't be any easier because of ccp. supported."
"stick it into the nda, boom problem solved in a manner with legal recourse.supported"
"i see goonthugs everywhere but with that aside, i support this proposal."
"i am going to presume that you are talking about ankhesentapemkah here, if not then i apologise in advance.ankhesentapemkah - eva jobse was banned for a breach of the non-disclosure agreement nda. ccp confirmed this a number of times.if you do a google search of ankhesentapemkah you will find a lot about her personal life very quickly.this was information that she put out there of her own accord. she was not shy about being a member of the csm and if anything publicly promoted this fact as much as she could.after her ban she stated that she did not agree with decision and would reveal why on her blog, she never did.considering eva's background she should of known better then most that when you break a nda it is only ever going to end in a butt hurt load of pain.the only thing i will give her is she never complained that the decision taken by ccp could have real life consequences.in truth she couldn't as it was her decision promote herself at every opportunity that she held this role, from her own personal website to her personal blog.the same should be said of kittens.whilst i do not agree with everything that has happened and been said, it has been alex's decision to promote the link between his real life and the character the mittani. he has never been shy about the fact, from various articles he has written for various sites, comments made on various forums etc. he has actively promoted himself to the same if not greater degree as eva did.by doing this he has to accept that there is going to be consequences, mainly being that you leave yourself open to idiots making personal attack against you external to eve, outside of ccp's control.you can not openly court the media and then complain if people attack you.everybody who runs for the csm is aware that your real name will be made public, if you accept this then you also have to accept that any actions you take as part of the csm can be, and most likely be linked to your real name.the issue is magnified some what due to the character of the mittani and the goons. any fool would realise that being in this position greatly increases the chance that at some point some idiot will make personal attacks against you. throw on top the sheer amount of self publicity he gives himself i am only surprised this did not happen sooner.again i do not agree with everything that has happened and been said, but alex is an intelligent adult who was well aware of the possible consequences of the decisions he has made."
"everyone who watches fanfest needs to sign an nda?should the csm appear with masks on to protect their identities?make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"cearain, you're trying to make this proposal into something it's not. are you really so dense that you can't understand it?-liang"
"i have seen many pictures come out from fanfest of popular players in their natural form. i still have no idea who they are, where they are from etc.you're grasping at straws."
"they shouldn't is the answer.however, in regards to both kittens and ankhesentapemkah, i knew there real names long before they become members of the csm due to their own self promotion.neither have what you would call being shy telling the world about themselves.does that give people the right to say the kind of things that were directed at kittens, of course it doesn't, but if they are willing to tell the world about themselves, then you have to expect at some point some idiot is going to say things that are reprehensible.the risk is greatly magnified when you promote yourself like kittens has done over the years.once again, i want to stress that i do not agree with any of personal attacks that have been aimed at alex, but you have to accept there are consequences and risks with this kind of self promotion.alex is supposed to be a successfully lawyer in real life, therefore a very well educated person. am i to believe that he was not aware that his actions, his self promotion, would risk something like this happening?also other then alex and eva, who else on the csm have openly self promoted themselves outside of eve?do you not find it funny that the only 2 csm members that have had issues outside of the game, because of the game, have both been very vocal, very self promoting, always courting the media outside of eve?i personally believe that in both cases being on the csm had very little to with anything. as i said before, their real life names were already known on the internet because they chose to tell the world, not because they were on the csm."
"if you read the thread, jade constantine has some pretty serious issues spring up without being so vocal and self promoting... furthermore the constant accusation leveled at darius iii of breaching the nda could potentially have rl implications. larkonis trassler also could be looking at similar problems.-liang"
"i was totally unaware what happened to jade and again, i find it a totally reprehensible act, yet i also find it funny how many members of goonswarm were on the forums saying what was said about alex to be terrible, yet them themselves are just as bad.. double standards here i think....as for darius, again the goons have a major hand in this, even thou ccp have stated clearly a number of times that darius has not broke the nda, they continue to accuse him.as for larkonis trassler, before this post i had never heard of him. did a quick google search and found he was kicked off the csm for using insider information to make isk. none of the articles i found including ccp's official statement mentioned anything regarding nda.i am not saying the goons are at fault, but its seems with the examples you have given that 2 out of 3 go back to the goons.perhaps because of the past actions of members of the goons, this is why he was attacked in the manner he was.again i am not condoning it, two wrongs do not make a right , however you can not be surprised when people treat you then same way you treat them.if ccp do decided to no longer release the real life names of the csm members, fine by me.lets be honest here, it makes no difference whether we know their rl names or not, personally i would not.what i would like to add is, i do not know if alex was a member of the goons or was personally involved, or was in charge at the time those personal attacks were made on jade, but if he was, then i would sincerely hope he now has a better understanding of what it is like being personally attacked and maybe, just maybe, he makes sure that whilst he is leading the goons, he does his best to make sure it doesn't happen again to anybody else."
"but their identities will be shared and can be published - and ccp can do nothing about it. the idea of trying to keep the identities of people who are going to show up in person at live events secret is pretty odd. i mean if they cancel the fanfest csm meeting this might make some sense. but even there are ccp devs supposed to always call the men who play \"seleen\" and \"elise\" \"seleen\" and \"elise\" or \"miss randolf\" when they are in a meeting, or at a pub? are they going to make up names?whether *you* know who they are is irrelevant. if the concern is some crazy wants to find mittani or his wife they easilly can. the purpose of the idea is not to prevent people who really don't care about who is on the csm from finding out their names. the idea is to prevent someone who is nutty enough to care allot from getting this information. that wont work. ok so it probably won't work but are there are there any disadvantages?not really. just a few very minor ones as far as i can tell:1csm is not an in game council. they are real people who are discussing possible changes to a game. electing an ingame character to represent you in the real world sort of blurs this distinction. mittani suggested he couldn't keep it straight who he was at the alliance meeting. i don't believe him but he did claimand i suppose some believed he couldn't keep it straight what \"hat\" he was wearing. this would only worsen that blurring problem.2 similar to the first problem we often hear csm members claim they are qualified for the csm due to their real life jobs. how can these claims be verified? is it all just in game bullshit? mittani claimed his experience as a lawyer would help him and some people believed him. how are voters supposed to verify this. is it going to become like spying in eve were people can lie all they want and its just part of the game? 3are we admitting that this game has so many truly evil people that unlike every other game/hobby/sport our csm members need to be treated as though they are in a witness protection program?4 its still unclear what the rules would require. if someone calls someone by their real name at fanfest and someone else overhears it, should they be reprimanded - assuming they have an account? seems like a bunch of silly drama over nothing to me. but really i don't even really understand the rules now. for example i don't know what eula mittani violated. he gave the ingame name of someone - was that the violation? or was it because he encouraged people to go after him in game - isn't that what merc corps do? i really don't know what specific term of the eula he violated. but whatever. i don't really care. make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"i don't know about jade. but as far as the nda, if real life people are violating real life contracts, it can have real life consequences. why is this bad? this is good right? i mean that gives extra protection that csm will play by the rules. if the only thing that happened was some sort of in game thing then csm would be more likely abuse the information they receive right?make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"if its so easy to understand what you are proposing, why not answer the questions i pose?make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"/signed some yadda yadda reiterated reason as to why i support this when others have clearly done so and/or better than i could've said so myself."
"that appears to have happened early 2008. darius johnson ccp sreegs gave the 2009 goonswarm fanfest presentation as the ceo of goonswarm. at the time, the mittani was the goonswarm spymaster, but i'm not sure how much of a hand he had in any of that.notably, i contacted the mittani to see if i could arrange to have that page taken down and it turns out that goons don't actually own that site, but it is a rip of their internal wiki from early-mid 2008. i also sent an email to the addresses on record from whois, but they appear to be mum so far. the wiki rip as a whole is kinda useless at this late date, as even game mechanics have widely changed. there's several other really bad crossovers to rl trolling from that time, too also documented on the wiki. aside from darius iii, i'd say that i haven't seen that sort of campaign from goons in a long time.i didn't say that lark broke the nda - i said he was removed for misconduct. which is linked to his real life name. which could have similar rl implications.i'd say that the game appears to have matured quite a bit since most of the major meta gaming scandals - and no matter what we as an eve community have proven ourselves to be just as goonish as the old goons, if not worse. again: we have shown that we simply cannot be trusted with this kind of rl information.-liang"
"line your questions out in one single post in a concise format.-liang"
"what do you mean forums ingame \"etc\"? are we able to post it on failheap challenge? what about other mediums that have nothing to do with eve? when massively reports the names of the csm members because the csm showed up at a public event like fanfest will all employees of massively have their eve accounts banned? if people make their identity public by showing up in person with others it is sort of hard to unring the bell. is ccp supposed to police the internet for any mention of somones name and then try to track down who released it and then see if they have an eve account? and why are they doing this again?is it because someone somewhere said something stupid to the guy who was telling people, who said they were considering ending their lives, to go ahead and kill themselves?make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"i don't know about jade. but as far as the nda, if real life people are violating real life contracts, it can have real life consequences. why is this bad? this seems good i mean that gives extra protection that csm will play by the rules. if the only thing that happened was some sort of in game thing then csm would be more likely abuse the information they receive right?make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"you are confused. i'm not complaining about consequences for breaking real life contracts. i'm talking about how the csm candidates and members having real life information available implicitly makes accusations of breaking the nda a matter of rl importance. i'm talking about rl defamation, character assassination, and harassment derived from the rl information that's just given out for no reason at all.-liang"
"i gave the questions in a clear format feel free to number them if that makes it easier for you. but most of the questions came in a context so i will not take them out of the context or try to recreate the context for you. sorry.make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"it should be a matter of real life importance. its a real life nda and real life accusations of its breach by real life people. this is a good thing because csm is a group of real life people who sometimes run based on their real life accomplishments. if ccp wrongly defames anyone for violating the nda then they would be subject to the laws of the relevant jurisdiction. i agree with your first sentence. i am confused what your issue with this is. make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"ccp's forums are covered by ccp's eula and tos. this is readily apparent. it's worth mentioning that ccp has banned people for posts on 3rd party sites that claimed eula/tos violations. however, at this point you're basically talking about a systematic campaign of harassment and rl character assassination. i honestly can't believe i'm having this conversation with you. what in the hell makes you think its any more ok to do this about csm members than it is about you or me? its worth pointing out here that media, twitter, and blog coverage of fanfest have almost universally referred to people by their in game names. i suspect there's a lot of reasons for this, but the biggest is probably because rl names are kinda meaningless to us.you seem to be attacking the proposal on the basis that this is an attempt at security through obscurity, but i'm not sure that's a reasonable thing to do. ultimately, there is a lot of information that's out there but isn't easily accessible - if its accessible at all. just because i showed up and had lunch with a member of veto last year doesn't mean that suddenly everyone on the internet knows his real name and where he lives.they aren't, and i'm very confused as to why you keep talking about systematic campaigns of rl character assassination, defamation, and harassment as if it's a reasonable thing for people to be doing.no, there's a lot of reasons that the current proclamation of rl information isn't necessary - or wise.-liang"
"you are confused. again. i'm not talking about ccp accusing people of breaking the nda. i'm talking about players accusing people of it. here in eve, the propaganda machine plays a particularly center role in crushing your foes - and systematic campaigns of in game character assassination are absolutely expected. but people go a bit far sometimes with those campaigns, and can cause irreparable harm when needlessly linked to someone's real name.seriously, jade constantine and darius are pretty well perfect examples of why we should not be proclaiming rl information just for ***** and giggles.-liang"
"i think people are missing the point of liang's proposal. a tl;dr of it is:that's it. no more, no less. these are not any things included in the proposal:ccp not knowing the candidates' names. ccp has every interest in the rl identities of the csm, for purposes of nda, making sure the community is not being deceived by one guy with multiple characters, etc. making it eula-illegal to mention someone's rl identity. by all means, if you want to talk about some bob smith from new york, or to be on real first-name basis with your corpmates, feel free. rl harrassment remains illegal, though. csms can't tell anyone their name. csms can tell their rl identities to anyone they want. the proposal simply means that they do not have to tell the whole internet publicly. liang's secret agenda to get onto the csm. ultimately whether you trust a csm or not is hopefully based not on whether their last name is \"smith\" or \"adams\" or \"petrusson\". it's based on their views and trustworthiness in game and as a player. if liang, or mittens, or chribba decides to run for csm with a no-name alt, that's perfectly fine: no credibility means no election success. no accountability. it is perfectly legal to endlessly harass the csms in game, to blast them on forums and news sites, and gasp even to not vote for them in the next election. it is not legal to threaten them irl, or to verbally or physically assault them. liang's proposal makes the latter illegal behavior harder to achieve, and doesn't do anything at all to hamper the former. no legal accountability is removed. seriously. i'm starting to think most people can type but not read or think, and that only helps solidify liang's argument that the eve community is not worth being trusted with rl details."
"signed"
"seriously, do it. step one: introduce voting system *so it's easy to tell support % from out side thread*step two:there is no step 2"
"your right..there is no step twp.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"bah xd caught me.maybe i should re-title the thread, \"\" is there anything more important? i mean the tool itself we use to bring up abandoned features in eve, is itself, an abandoned featured. :/"
"agreed...i'm still laughing....that is the most sincere/ironic/legit post i've seen in an long time.and i can't help but agree....not even i can troll that! hahaha.+1!!!================ stop the evemail spam!"
"hi guysi had a thought yesterday.i would like to see in the show info of a ship who built it and when. its a simple idea but i think it would just be nice.would work really nice with supers as u could see where it came from in the first place.just a thought dark"
"honestly...i think this would be kinda cool......its harmless to the game...kinda makes it amusing in some aspects.could inspire loyalty and pricing by key manufacturers for grins.got my vote.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"nice idea, older ships could actually gain value! also be cool if the details displayed on the killmail"
"would be nice for the industrialists too, knowing it was their ship that they built that killed that titan or whatever."
"kiling a 5 year old hulk would make me feel more fuzzy than a 1 week old one :"
"+1 for me"
"im giving the go ahead for this. enough said."
"would require some serious changes in a database.also, already discussed like 100+ times.<<insert some waste of screen space here>>"
"hhmm i wasnt aware it had already been suggested.well i can understand how it would be a challange to apply it to ships already made as that data is most likly not stored atm, so they could add it to all furture ships built.dont really think it would be a huge change to the database all it is doing is adding a extra field"
"i must admit that i chuckled reading welsige bemoaning the absence of a fair and civil discussion. how ironic....in any case, the mittani's lead in votes and former position of chair was hardly in the best interests or tradition of democracy.the csm uses at-large voting, one of the more regressive forms of representation. electing at-large representatives magnifies the power of minority bloc voting read goons. while meeting a low bar of democracy voting, it fails more rigourous tests of fairness and substantive representation. it is for this reason that real world voting is geographically bounded by districts or ridings.if welsige is really concerned about improving the csm, he should turn his attention to replacing at-large voting with a more representative system.cheers"
"to use a quote you goons love to use.... \"htfu\""
"originally, i was going to throw this idea out. however, the more i thought about it and 'tweaked' it the more i liked it. then, i shared it with some militia friends, and they seemed to like it to--actually quite a bit what parts i shared--so i revisited portions of it, and fleshed out some of the details i was lacking.a lot of my ideas includes changes that are interconnected, so in the beginning i'm going to give a high-level overview of it. i will probably be posting several follow up posts, fleshing out some of the details on my blog.the big pictureinstead of removing occupancy, i suggest we change it -- introducing tiered sovereignty mechanics that are unique to faction war. each system would have 5 'lvls' of occupancy shared between the warring factions. when one faction has lvl 2, the other will have lvl 3, etc., so that the total occupancy equals 5. this also means that when you gain an occupancy lvl, the opposing faction loses one.instead of occupancy only being tied to plexing, i propose we make it tied to all activity done within that system, giving players many options for defending and/or taking occupancy in systems. missions done by agents in that system, pvp, and plexing would all give victory point payouts that would affect occupancy.your occupancy lvl would directly affect your lp payouts, with missions, plexes, and pvp giving lp payouts. it would be beneficial to take occupancy lvls to increase your income. also, it would be beneficial to defend, as losing occupancy will make your income in that system decrease.once a faction gains an occupancy lvl 4 which will be relatively difficult to do the system goes 'vulnerable' and they can make a final push to take sovereignty of that system. this would include a structure/timer/etc similar to current null-sec mechanics.only fw pilots of the sovereign faction, and the 'sister' facation will have access to the stations in each system. no neutrals in addition to these individual system mechanics, there would also be further overarching mechanics regarding 'the war' as a whole. the more occupancy and sovereignty you take in low-sec will directly affect your 'defenses' in highsec. there is the understanding that as you 'lose' occupancy lvls and sov in general in the low-sec systems, the 'faction police' will be sent to 'the front' to help defend. therefore, the defenses in highsec will descrease, and in some cases, pvp will 'bleed' over into high-sec.in addition to these general changes, i wouldmake it so that only lvl 1-3 agents are in stations. lvl 4 agents would be moved into locations in space, similar to concord agents in null-sec, and would be difficult to complete without a small gang.fix the unbalance in ewar and etc. in plexes, making plexes balanced across all races.repping someone from your faction will never give you a standings decrease, even if the person is a pirate. neutrals repping fw pilots would get a standings hit from the opposing faction. after the 'fixing' and 'reblancing' i would include the following new content features:lvl 5 faction war missions that require largish fleets to get through.randomly occurring fw 'encounters' where npc battles show up on gates and stations, and fw pilots could defend friendly npcs, and kill enemy npcs. the staged 'battle' would complete when all npcs of one side were defeated. these encounters would range in size and scope, from small 'frigate' encounters to larger bs encounters..and could possibly include a good 'drop' of some kind, if a faction 'officer' happened to show up at the end. they would also be extremely dangerous to non fw 'neutrals' who would get shot by both parties. 'invulnerable' systems would be more prone to these 'encounters.'random, wild cool stuff that mostly just relates to fw. in the same way that dictors, bubbles, cyno jammers, and etc, are only really useful in nullseci could get pretty imaginative here, but it's just a rough idea. an example would be a pos module that an 'offensive' party ie: the non sov holding party could put up that 'disrupts' communications in system, making it harder for the defending party to access their lvl 4 agents in space. or, perhaps a faction ship/item that gives you bonuses based on your faction standing. or perhaps a different kind of jump bridge that can connect highsec faction 'bases' to low-sec 'bases' where both sovereignty and a high occupancy lvl is held.anyway, just an idea. i think fw needs more choices.www.gamerchick.net @gamerchick42"
"+1 for the concept of altering fringe high sec system status.not quite sure how much constructive critisism i can provide -- i'm not a fw kinda guy, but i do find it interesting to read about -- regardless, i read through your idea and it seems pretty sol"
"let me point out this is a pre-emptive measure in the long run regarding the availability of items, modules and all about the market. i don't need to go in the details about the market, prices, demands and offers but if more \"slots\" are available more items will be available on the market."
"i somewhat agree with the op. belonging to a player corp incurs the risk of war declarations, to which npc corp members are immune, so it is only fair that a player corp should also have some economic benefits over an npc corp. 10% tax is really not that significant.however, that could be accomplished with buffs to the player corp, rather than penalties to the npc corp. more carrot, less stick."
"prior to the incursion patches, a gcc frig with a good align time ie, not a punisher with a 400mm plate could fly gate to gate while gcced without exploding after 1-2 jumps. in incursion, sentries were changed to always get at least a single shot on every the fastest aligning frigate. this basically means that when you gcc in a buffer tanked frigate, you are pretty much stuck in a system for 15 minutes assault frigates can make it a few jumps, and a few specialized fits can still travel around.allowing gcced frigates to travel around doesnt really affect anyone its not like they can stay on gate long enough to point someone, and this doesnt affect any other ship class, since cruisers and above can easily tank sentries while going gate to gate."
"i'm sorry..but i fail to see how this is a problem.all i see here is an opportunity for more target practice.================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"-1my dramiel, taranis, malediction, crusader, 200 plate rifter, vagabond, stabber, vigil, merlin, scimitar, and everything with a cloak disagrees with you.however my fat ass maller agrees."
"bullshit. my unplated wolf, nanoed slicer and just about everything else takes at least one shot from sentries when passing through a gate or warping after undocking. and yes, i have evasive maneuvering v and spaceship command v."
"well ccp fixed this...if you are gcc you cant warp.and as for jumping in highsec with gcc. its impossible. concord stops you from jumping or docking so regardless of the ship you are flying its going to die"
"get ready to be punished for your crimes!"
"your doing it wrong. i know quite a few pilots who do this sort of thing all the time....heck just post in c&p and watch the trolls roll in :================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"+1 for more fun."
"i can't see why this wouldn't work. great idea."
"so long as it doesn't outright prevent people from \"interfering\" in a fight in some manner, i have no problem with this."
"people can do whatever they want, this is just a way to get the agression timer without the hassle of can flipping or other mechanics. the safegaurds are there to prevent abuse and spamming people to fight."
"+1111111111great ideadissonance is recruiting members:"
"1.0"
"something to shut the smackers up in local with, i like!+1"
"i like it, but what about logistic ships?"
"i came across this topic because someone in corp chat last night said that they added the ability to manage skill queue's via an api key in the last patch. this would mean [if its true] that an app like aura for android could allow for updating your skill queue out of game. i can't seem to find the information via the patch notes so it may be a false rumor.i understand both sides of this argument, but as someone who is already on notice by the feds that i will probably be getting deployed to the disaster zone out in the mid west due to tornadoes; if this happens its going to be impossible to update my skills for at least two weeks. as a month old player, after looking over my skill queue the longest skill i have that i can train is around 8 days. it would suck loosing a week worth of skill points this early in the game.i would love if they made a change that allowed for a player to set up a vacation skill queue for up to three weeks out of the year. this queue could be something you turn on/off which would kick in once your regular queue ran out of skills to train. while turned on it would auto populate your training queue with skills in your vacation queue up to three weeks total in a calendar year. it would be something that can be turned off and/on so whether you are away for a week three times, or one three week stretch, you would have the three weeks total at your disposal.the second addition would be an account hold for active military, red cross, etc. this could be on a case by case basis handled directly through ccp. all discussion about the us-imperial-rome-military-world-domination-conquest-plot aside, if you are out [in theory] making the world a better place helping people you should be able to contact ccp and have your account put on an administrative hold with skill points banked. at the very least banked game time should not be ticking away while you are gone for several months; especially since a lot of times you get the notice last minute. if anything, by not having a policy in place for this kind of thing it makes me not want to do what i did and pay for six months in advance. gaming companies should welcome people pre-paying for long contracts and reward this behavior.i know several other mmo's that allow you to contact the company and have this done, in fact while i will not be mentioning any names, one of the big ones even gives level bumps based off of the amount of time you were away as long as you provide proof of deployment.i do understand that by not having to log into game to update your skill queue, there are going to be people who set up toons that they just ignore, for the purpose of reselling only which is taking advantage of the situation. by having a three week only vacation queue and having to go through ccp directly for anything longer due to deployment, this issue should not be a problem.@ the guy who says that people have to make life choices and work should not be a factor in games; who also mentioned laptops are cheep and can be used anywhere. hate to break it to you pal, but its not true. a lot of the places i go have no power never-mind internet. sometimes i am lucky if there is cell service. just because you work a normal 9-5 job where you are always connected to the rest of the world does not mean its like that for everyone.how about thinking out of that little box you have created where the world revolves around you, your apple ishit, facecrap, and the rest of the media-driven garbage dumped on our society embraced by mindless idiots. i did have a choice what line of work i went into and have no regrets, but am really tired of people who are so self centered they can't comprehend w/o people like the op doing his job, your world would be reduced to hunting and gathering all day. our society has gotten so spoiled its disgusting."
"they didn't, you heard wrong. but they are talking about allowing push/pull api operations once the new api harness comes out in ... inferno i think. if that is the case, then that should be all that's done, no other skill queue changes should happen.oh, and if you have to be out of town for a long period, you can always deactivate your account which will, iirc, pause the time on it so that you don't lose time from being away. there is a system in place to keep from wasting training time, but it doesn't just hand you the sp while you're away."
"very cool, thanks for the information! if you don't mind me asking [because i can't seem to find info on the push/pull] will that allow for updating of the skill queue via a cell phone? i would be totally ok with the skill queue being exactly as it is now if i could update it remotely. even if i am somewhere w/o service, at least when i do get it again i can update remotely."
"well, once droid/ios applications get updated to allow for skill queue management, then yes. but if skill queue manipulation can only be done via eve gate, then you might have to manually navigate there on your phone's browser. so, as long as it's possible on the comp, it'll be possible on a droid/iphone sooner or latter, one way or the other."
"ok nice. i have no problem using the browser, as long as it can be done from a phone. amazing news. ty!"
"well from what i see is dreds are rocking atm. some of my most fun fights have been dred on dred fights they rock there like dig ships of the wall lol"
"according to wiki, dreadnaughts were awesome anti-battleship class ships by design. our dreads hardly even touch battleships because of their design and implementation issues being focused around pos bashes with the current hullsgive us new anti-sub cap role focused dread hulls that will make bs pilots cry with nerd rage.give us new carrier hulls with the same sort of focus and less logistical roles and bonuses. moar fighters, more fighter variety, more deadly awesome win."
"i completely disagree, ccp listens to its player base. if enough people want something, they are pretty good about making it happen. this proposal needs more attention, and i'm sure that with enough player backing, this type of feature could be implemented, with or without the csm's involvement.some great work here asuka. your suggestions will add meaningful depth and complexity to pi and the game overall. i strongly encourage the csm and ccp to consider this for implementation."
"to be sure, i'd not want my breasts to get up and go places without me, but surrender to the laws of physics just a bit, yes."
"this should be ccps number one priority for avatar based gameplay."
"1.0"
"i like the idea, the new skill is workable and the covert cargo and diplomatic pouch mods are interesting but i see no need for a new class of vessels when there are a number of existing hulls that could viably make use of these items. as to a gsc that can cloak itself i think thats pushing it a bit to much."
"seeing as this is falling behind, i think it should get bumped back up. a hacking module would be awesome and would be a great way to clean up the clutter. i support the idea as long as this is easy to kill and the pos had to have been offline for a set time already before being hacked.edit: by easy i mean a good couple hours with a lone bc"
"hey, devs. make it so!whether or not you win the game matters not. it's if you bought it."
"supported as it has been on a number of similar threads over the years."
"+1 because why the hell not?"
"nerf trackingincrease average dps to 15000limit the amount of titans that can be ongrid."
"that is awesome."
"this totally just gave me the mental image of a trollface flying away with a whole swarm of drones struggling to catch up."
"not supported, i think the above statement invalidates the original proposal."
"frigates are used alot in pvp, both as a fleets of their own and in massive fleet fights."
"nerf battleships!go on!make them cry like super pilots!"
"i didn't exactly see battleship pilots crying when supers got nerfed because their boats got owned by bombers...."
"this wouldn't even be a hard fix. we've got new killmails coming in with calculated values. i'm not sure i agree on the whole 60% and 80% numbers, i'd probably go for 90%, and i'd also put in specific rules about only getting money for destroyed goods so you can't just blow up your own ship with expensive cargo at a chance for getting the bounty and subtracting insurance and salvage value from the payout.but besides that, yes, this is basically what i've wanted, what's been needed, what i made a god damned post about in fni, and what was suggested over six years ago but which still hasn't been fixed.i know bounty hunting needs a really big overhaul, but frankly, i'm sick of waiting. poses got a bandaid in the form of fuel blocks. can we please get a bandaid in the form of a bounty hunting system that isn't blatantly exploitable?if i had alts, i'd support you on them as well."
"one reason against, but still many more reasons for. also, it is only a contributing factor, and a small factor at that. if you want to address blobbing there are much more issues to tackle. more to the point: keeping jcs the way they are won't help you solve the problem, nor will changing them prevent you from solving it. i still support the reduction. simply cutting it to 12hrs is the least convoluted way to solve the problem."
"petrus blackshell wrote:i liang's secret agenda to get onto the csm. ultimately whether you trust a csm or not is hopefully based not on whether their last name is \"smith\" or \"adams\" or \"petrusson\". it's based on their views and trustworthiness in game and as a player. if liang, or mittens, or chribba decides to run for csm with a no-name alt, that's perfectly fine: no credibility means no election success.... trustworthiness \"in game\"? surely you jest. mittani got the most votes in the history of csm due to him being trustworthy in game?real life careers and skills have come into play in past elections. seleene, mittani and pretty much all candidates have at least mentioned what they do and tried to spin it as to why that means we should vote for them. how much of an impact did these claims have? i don't know. but it comes up. real life skills are important for csm members. if this proposal works players will have absolutely no way to investigate the accuracy of the players claims about this. perhaps that means players won't get elected unless they do indeed give their real names. in that case this proposal won't change anything.again i don't really care that much. there are allot of odd players here. ccp promotes the game as a way to pursue unhealthy grudges against others. i mean the one ad had a guy plotting for months or even years to avenge the loss of his cruiser that probably cost a dollar. thats not normal healthy human behavior. in that ad the odd player gets his revenge in game. what if his in game plan failed? we are left to wonder what that sort of person does then? make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"why is posting someones name on a forum such as failheap \"character assassination?\"your just getting a bit looney with your concerns about \"character assasination.\"and what is so wrong with real life laws that protect real life people? there are laws to protect people in real life and there are laws to protect free flow of information. the free flow of information is often important so that people can make informed decisions in an election. your proposal won't prevent people from giving their name if they want. it just makes it so people don't have to give their name. so i don't really have a problem with proposal. i think the whole proposal is just overly dramatic.make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"again i don't know what you are talking about with jade. but darius had some unknown people on the internet accuse him of breaching a contract. to the extent they had good evidence to support their claim then darius may and perhaps should have real life consequences. to the extent they had little or no evidence to support their claim darius does not have real life consequences. real life is not that bad. the csm are a bunch of thirty something people who can take care of themselves. make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"the entire context of this conversation is based around the rl ramifications of using someone's real name. you continually make statements like: how in the **** do you expect me to take your comments? you are shifting goalposts like a ************ here and i'm about a quarter inch from blocking all your posts as being from an obvious troll.-liang"
"stop troll poasting long enough to read the thread at least.-liang"
"it means i am a reasonable person and acknowledge some reasons for your proposal even though i think it is mostly based on undue drama. but in the end i guess i sort of wish ccp wouldn't promote the game as something for people who are not healthy enough to simply get over the loss of a spacepixel cruiser. that would be one way to address the issue i raise.your solution is to sort of just to accept that the people who play this game are so unhealthy ccp shouldn't even publish the names of the csm candidates for fear they will be attacked. anything is possible in life. so yes it can possibly happen. but i think you are being overly dramatic with this stuff.i would prefer that ccp encourage healthy people to play the game instead of just taking the line that no one in this game should ever know your real name or you are likely to be attacked. its just a difference of approach.make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"signed.ccp, don't reveal real life names of csm candidates. this should increase the personal safety of the csm member and limit liability for any persons concerned.csm candidates as players can reveal their rl names any time they want anyway.\"rudeness is the weak man's imitation of strength.\" - eric hoffer"
"you're the only man on that sinking ship cearain, 07"
"i am not nor will i ever be a goon henchman.liang just hit the nail spot on. also i would like to see your so-called proof for those allegations else tos 2 is directly applicable to you.you may not use any abusive, defamatory, ethnically or racially offensive, harassing, harmful, hateful, obscene, offensive, sexually explicit, threatening or vulgar language. alternate spelling or partial masking of such words will be reprimanded in the same manner as the actual use of such words. stop hiding behind an alt. or are you just so darn afraid of what the bad goonies might do to you ingame?i post my anti goon stuff with my main. the worst that can happen is i that i need to be carefull as whom to trust in the game. but that has been a reality already since 2004. so nothing new under the sun.they might blob me? heck, they wouldn't be the first and won't be the last to blob me.they might troll me? roflmao. yeah right, i care.and for your information. the mittani would never ever pull his wife into this kind of crap and most certainly not in a manner like you claim. that alone should get you at the very least a 30 day ban.we will see how the report will work out for you."
"the only thing i will add in regards to kittens is that whether ccp posted his real name or not, people would still be well aware of who is due to his own self promting.the same can be said for eva jobse.whilst i have no issue with ccp no longer publishing the real names of future csm candidates, ccp can not have a blanket ban on their real names being announced on the forums if the a csm, such as kittens or eva, decided to release that information on external sites.if they chose to do that, they then have to expect the possible consequences of that action."
"ok i read about what jade wrote. yes indeed what he describes is exactly the reason why i would prefer not to give my real name. basically some people - goonswarm - take this game way too seriously. i mean its not jades alliance that is going to be doing the same crap he describes from goons. for the most part everyone in the game thinks what goons are doing is the mark of being a loser. but there they are being promoted by ccp. what he describes is why i am not necessarilly against the proposal.but here are couple of points:1 this proposal only treats the symptoms not the cause. it says this game is has so many real life losers that unlike every other game i know of, ccp has to basically treat our democratically elected csm members as if they are in a witness protection program. so this proposal is a step in that direction. but i would ask ccp to explore why it is that this game is so unique in the percentage of losers its attracting that your proposal is garnering such great support. are they marketing/promoting the game as a game for shmarmy losers like the people who are likely to do that to jade? eve is a great game i am glad there are scams and all sorts of people playing it but do we have to celebrate everytime someone profits from the most base lie? great ingenious scams from guiding hand yes: great stuff. putting regular ravens on contracts and calling them navy ravens again and again and again - its not really a great thing for the game imo. simple lying for personal gain, not so great imo.i doubt most people who play the game are constantly scamming people. yet eve gives this image. this game has so much going for it why pigeon hole the game as a game for weasels? the single shard, the complexity of the economy, the real loses that can translate to cash and makes pvp exciting. i don't know that any of these things would come to mind from non eve players before eve would be perceived as a game that celebrates weaselly back stabbing. and yes indeed we end up with a high percentage of real life losers. i guess i would much prefer that instead of putting a bandaid on this ccp actually addressed why it is that this game has gotten to the state where it even has to consider these sorts of measures. some things are out of their control but some things are in their control. what are they doing about the marketing and information that is in their control. 2 jade said all this happened to him because he had to give his name to be on csm. well is he really sure this would be the answer. in fact jade said this would have to go further than your proposal. you agreed in the thread but did not add that to the actual op. that is why there is some confusion about what you are proposing. i mean lets assume he didn't have to give his name. lets further assume he could run for csm and actually get elected without giving his real name. now there would likely be goons on the csm. would he always use and allias when talking with them and everyone in iceland? no one would be able to identify him by seeing him? no one in his alliance would get butthurt and tell someone else his real identity? i don't know perhaps this would work, but it seems awefully convoluted. make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"is there any other game, sport, or hobby where democratically elected representatives have thier names kept secret?make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"what other game do you know of that has democratically elected representatives for its playerbase who get insider access to developer resources?frankly, it feels a bit naive that you don't believe that out of hundreds of thousands of players there would be plenty of immature asshats, with some even willing to act out that asshattery irl. the csms can take very controversial stances on issues, and they need to be able to hold those stances without fearing for their personal safety. the spirit of the game inspires no holds barred behavior, and this proposal would help keep that behavior in game where it is appropriate rather than letting it spill over irl where it is not."
"what does access to developer resources which csm really doesn't have have to do with anything? just about every major game, sport and hobby has amature associations with many with elections for offices. they all have controversial issues. this idea would be absurd for them. the spirit of all games and sports is to try to win within the game. why does eve seem to attract so many losers that are eager to go outside the game?make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"my personal opinion on why eve attracts people who like to scam, love the whole meta-gaming aspect, back stabbing, stealing, and many other things which you might call negative aspects is most likely because there is no other mmo where you can these things.you sell a product on its uniqueness and eve's is the fact that you can do things as well as many other things. i also would also like to add that people who you would describe as idiots, asshats etc, are not unique to eve, for from it, but the major difference is in other mmo's they can only have a very limited effect on your game play, in eve they can have a major effect on your game play. i understand where you are coming from. the problem is whether ccp and csm decided to no longer give out their real names, i can see it making very little difference.at some point, with eve being the game it is, the information would get out very quickly one way or another.for me that is the real issue. lets say hypothetically ccp did not release the names of the csm members. both ankhesentapemkah and kittens real name would have still been used simply because they both put the information out their numerous times of their own free will.so because they have done that, can ccp realistic ban his name from being mentioned on the eve forums without looking ridiculous?"
"i'm not comparing it to rl sports and hobbies as there everyone uses their real identity. compare this to other online communities, like reddit. i wouldn't trust my rl details with any of those guys, because people turn into something else when given the anonymity they get behind a pseudonym -- be it an eve avatar, or a reddit username. the game being playable behind this mask from the privacy of your own home means that it is far more accessible to people with few ideas of social acceptability of certain behaviors. all of this is also compounded with the atmosphere of eve, which is competitive to the point of cutthroat adversarialism, to make it a much more toxic environment to give away rl details in than, say, your local fencing club."
"ok i agree with your position to some extent. internet communities tend to be less controlled due to anonymity. but this proposal seems to take us even more in that direction right? i mean instead of saying we as a community of players and game owners will not stand for the crap jade allegedly had to put up with from goons we seem to be saying yeah that will happen let<U+FFFD>s try to hide from it. many groups now are organized over the internet. i played chess for a few years - mostly over the internet. people are very competitive and often socially awkward in that game. yet i didn't think that by giving my name out i would end up with people sending faxes to my workplace along the lines of what jade describes from goons. yes for some sports games and hobbies you show up in person and are seen in person some you<U+FFFD>re not but the csm shows up in person too. so it would be especially odd to still try to maintain that anonymity. make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"we're saying both of those things. it's like saying that you won't put up with crime in your city, and at least want to make efforts to stop it, but in the meantime you also refuse to abstain from walking down dark sketchy alleyways. the former is proper action; the latter is just prudence, as the problem will likely not be solved 100% -- at least, not in the short term.the names of csms may get out anyway leaks, friend telling a friend telling a friend, etc, and that's when it's important for us to not stand for the crap some people do when they take rivalries outside of the game. however, preventive measures to not get to that point are prudent at least, until some sort of change happens in the community. i'm sure they won't maintain the in-game personas and names in person. but that's 12 supposedly trustworthy people knowing your name, rather than thousands of nerd-raging baddies who take an internet spreadsheet game too seriously.when meeting in person and collaborating, a real name is useful to better know the person you're dealing with. in the csm election though, the rl name of candidates is largely irrelevant. i don't care if the mittani's name was alex or bob or jean-pierre, and frankly it's not my business to care about that. i don't see how it's the business of any other eve player, either."
"just want to say this is a pretty damned good post. and yes, it is very important we don't lose sight of the cause of the problem which is lunatics using people's rl details to try to bully their way to an ingame \"victory\" they are not capable of gaining with gamplay alone. neither i nor any other eve player should have to put up with having my rl dragged through the mud because i am in-game enemies with the serious internet spaceship \"goonswarm\" sa crowd. to a large degree ccp have a responsibility in this. they could and should have reacted more decisively when example of rl harrassment have occured and they could certainly have worked harder to differentiate genuine eve shennanigans in game from the kind of taudry something awful forums style ooc harrassment that the game has lately become known for. i do recognize that supporting this proposal is a kind of admission of defeat ie accepting that ccp is unwilling to control the goonswarm abuses against real players so the players themselves need to be anonymous but *shrugs* to be quite honest life is too short to be explaining to one's bosses that the obscene photoshopped pictures arriving by company email are because some basement-dwelling nerds in america are taking internet spaceship wars too seriously."
"it's a matter of revealing true names to people who are hiding behind pseudonyms.this is an asymmetric situation and leads to abuse.i'd like someone to come up with an example of such an asymmetric situation that *hasn't* been abused."
"before i start i do not condone anything that has been aim at yourself jade, nor some of the things that were aim at alex.ccp are in a very difficult position when things are said and done which are outside of their domain.in game then yes, ccp have a responsibility, however outside of the their domain what realistic can they do?all i can say is that those who do such reprehensible acts are nothing but cowards in real life and are not worth a second of your time.going slightly off topic, i would love to see somebody from goonswarn explain how they find what has happened to you funny and how they can be a part of an organisation which allows this kind of behaviour.i either expect to see no answer or something of the lines of \"you always get a few bad apples and we can't control what people say\" which to me just a cop out."
"zero tolerance for people linking rl pictures and contact details in game or on these forums. zero tolerance for ooc bullying and metagaming against the player, rather than the character. if we have another smoske or lady scarlet situation in eve online then heads need to roll immediately and brutally so the lesson gets learned by the sa crew that if they don't learn a minimum standard of respect for their fellow players they don't get to play at all. and of course some more backbone in general when talking on the big 0.0 blocks. i think most people would agree that mittani should have been permabanned from the csm for what he did. actually making that judgment would have done much to symbolize ccp's discouragement of ooc attacks and anti player metagaming/bullying. the current rather silly compromise means we're going to be having these same discussions a year from now when mittani tries to run for csm again.well through the grapevine i generally hear \"its nothing to do with me / i don't control the wiki/email/hosting/server/whatever/\" it is the old defense of \"it was somebody else in the swarm wot did it - i just laughed at it.\"yeah its a cop out. but i guess these guys don't join up with an online bullying community to demonstrate strength of character."
"this has been the primary reason i've never considered running for csm. having any of my real life information associated with my in game information would fundamentally change the way i would be able to play the game comfortably. i have pissed off other players in game enough that they threw a fit and claimed they would hunt me down irl... i am sure most have been on the receiving end of messages like that before. the anonymity of \"being\" a character in eve allows me to shrug and laugh it off."
"+1the support feature of the old forums was rather helpful... unlike the like things we have now."
"this is stupid. everyone who runs a red light should go to prison for life. none of this first offense slap on the wrist stuff.summary of eves last four expansions:"
"i've been a pirate for about a year now, i love being a pirate, but there are things that are broken about it as a way of eve life.gcc is far too long. i get to play for a few hours a day. after any engagement i have to sit in a safe or station for 15 minutes before i can 'play' again. we are a pirate corp, we have an office in low sec, if we declare ourselves a pirate corp, and set up home in low sec, we should get benefits. less or no gcc, no gate / station gun aggression within our own system / constellation. we keep the wheels of industry turning by blowing up ships / being blown up, we pay over the odds for stuff when we want a ship / mods now rather than waiting for an alt to go to hi-sec for it, we are denied safe access to hi-sec, but then get punished for our lifestyles in lo too.piracy is one of the funnest? lives in eve, it's small gang pvp at its finest and yet we are the outcasts of eve, punished from all sides and have to put up with poor under stocked / over- priced markets at the same time.give piracy a break. no gcc for pirates, no gun aggression within home systems / constellations, bonus to market buying / contract accepting skills for those with -5 or less sec status, or something to help us spend our ill-gotten gains.give us something, anything."
"i have a hard time understanding why you should get a free pass for being a pirate.pirates had the same challenges in history dealing with the law...the movies are a misconception...they didn't have it easy either.crying about it isn't going to help either.if you don't want to deal with gcc....then go to 0.0please...keep crying...its funnier than hell.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"ah, i'm sorry. maybe the first paragraph escaped your attention... i love being a pirate. does that sound like someone crying to you? i am merely proposing fixes that would attract more players to both pvp and low sec. i think the 0.0 crowd have been well and truly catered for and pampered thanks to the last csm. and fixing fw isn't the half of life in low sec. go laugh somewhere else : your laughter is just tears in the post for me."
"hahahahahahaha.oh yeah, of course, would you also perhaps like free vindicators and machs? what about being immune to warp scramblers and tech 4 damage mods as well?so the op is either a troll or a dribbling moron. place your bets, gentlemen.on a serious note: the penalties you suffer are the price you pay for attacking people in lowsec. working as intended, htfu and deal with it."
"if your not crying or whining...then why are you posting here?your asking for a free pass to be a piwat.sounds like tears to me buddy....stop lying to yourself long enough to rejoin relaity with the rest of us.welcome to eve online.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"yes ganking industrials is pvp at it's finest"
"i was going to point out all the silliness in the op's post however, you all have beat me to it.my thanks for \"slapping the troll\""
"help push the pirate/mafia themed revamp ideas for low-sec. lobby has been active for a number of years now so finger on the search button and get to reading"
"learn to tank gate/station guns better?don't kid yourselves. most piracy in eve is about the same as a dozen guys standing outside a door and beating anyone who steps through it. i have no objection to mugging people in such a fashion, but to call it the height of pvp is absurd.i'm against a lot of what ccp has done to harm piracy in general, but stopping gate guns in lowsec? that's just crazy talk."
"*slow deliberate/sincere and loud appluase*================ stop the evemail spam!"
"you forgot~deal with it~"
"this kind of attitude leads to bad, bad things. goons have always said they want to ruin \"your\" game not \"the\" game and they have held true to that the entire time i've been playing, just because you don't like it is no reason to call for a cull of the playerbase. edit: by the way i'm fairly sure there is no such word as \"democratical\"."
"no you misunderstand dustie. we don't want to destroy everybody's game, just your game. dustie pyryt. you are the only one we have any interest in messing with."
"i would really like to see random npc battles between the factions at war. to me, little things like that make fw just that much more interesting and fun to be in. ccp take notice of this!+1 susan"
"+1 internets to susan"
"very nice and wise.i like very much the part with capsuleers involved in npc battles: it could be done with a kind of special missions, from frigates to bs. and it looks like an arena, maybe with restricted gates: shiptype and number of people easily solved with an agent that gives you a certain number of tags, for you and your gang, to activate the gate - same for your opposite fw.good jobo7agha"
"the parts about occupancy level directly affecting income and pvp 'bleeding' into highsec sound good. so does the fixes and rebalances part. now, while i see the reason for this alts i'm worried this will turn lowsec too much into an fw-only zone. people will be forced to either leave that part of lowsec or join factional warfare against their will because that's the only way they can get access to stations.i think a good middle ground would be to either allow neutrals to dock or only restrict docking in faction-specific stations such as 24th imperial crusade or tribal liberation force.also to fulfill my role as the eternal dissident... i don't know if more pve and missions is the way to go. level 5 missions will attract more mission runners who don't contribute at all to the pvp side of fw. we already have enough of those. the random encounters may also do the same.i'd tie fw missions to pvp in some way. maybe allow one mission per kill or something similar to avoid too much mission running by people who don't actually take part in fw.just my thoughts, please don't hate me."
"i wish you were on ts3 last night...we had about a 1+ hour discussion on fw, and this would have been a really good point to make, since the biggest discussion point was on whether neutral should have access to stations or not.i'll probably be addressing this on my blog later today, but i think the issue you brought up is not one i've previously considered, and something i'm definitely going to muse on for a while.www.gamerchick.net @gamerchick42"
"+1 i really like the idea of agents in space and random npc battles. this has always been something i thought was missing. some sort of alert for militia pilots in adjacent systems would be pretty cool as well so you could mobilize and have a focus for en"
"there is already a distinct impression that they are going to do this very type of system in the keynote i watched.something about i-hubs for fw.might want to look into it. op.got my vote. :================ stop the evemail spam!"
"+1perhaps if a faction can achieve the very difficult task of level 5 occupancy/sov, they are able to install gate and station guns that shoot at the opposing factions ... or something like that. at least something to make it more difficult to take it bac"
"+1 nice write up susani'm all for adding some changes in over time to keep things interesting. fw has been lacking that since inception. if ccp can change the mechanics on capitals ships, find they are op or don't work correctly and change them again with"
"+1...also, support touching your slaves"
"bots can be programmed to scan you know.and some of us just dont care about rp.so no."
"not that i particularly agree with the op, but do you have any evidence that there is a scanning bot? i've certainly never heard of one.[center]\"i don't troll, i just give overly blunt responses that annoy people who are wrong but don't want to admit it. it's not my fault that people have sensitive feelings\" -mxzf[/center]"
"if they can mine roids or gank rats... they can use d-scan or probes.its all in the config.as for substantive evidence? i have none. but it doesn't take allot of imagination and common sense to see its plausible."
"i especially like the part where you use evidence to support your hypothesis.probing is different from utilizing d-scan or killing rats, due to the fact that it requires intuitive use of a 3 dimensional interface. but if you wish for evidence beyond that, just look at the bots available. none of them have probing functionality.it doesn't take a lot of imagination or common sense to claim that incursion bots are plausible, that doesn't mean it's technically possible or viable. no matter how much imagination you have, technical limitations are technical limitations.[center]\"i don't troll, i just give overly blunt responses that annoy people who are wrong but don't want to admit it. it's not my fault that people have sensitive feelings\" -mxzf[/center]"
"\"i was on the sites that sell botting programs just to do research...... honest!!\"discussing the way someone may go about cheating is frowned upon by ccp."
"bots and their capabilities are well known, discussion of them is frowned upon only when you are naming them, linking to sites or to a lesser degree promoting their use.[center]\"i don't troll, i just give overly blunt responses that annoy people who are wrong but don't want to admit it. it's not my fault that people have sensitive feelings\" -mxzf[/center]"
"i've suggesting this for a while. give barges and exhumers a new high slot expressly built for a new \"mining probe launcher\" that fires specialized probes that only detect grav sites. remove belts and replace them with grav sites that always respawn in system during downtime. it won't eliminate botting, but it will make it harder."
"there are to many abandoned pos's around for me to support making it even easier to establish them in hisec."
"would be nice if by cutting a roid a certain way etc with a few simply commands you could potential cut chunks of it out showing more rarer minerals inside, and have so there is a bit of unluck that you could potential hit a rather volatile mineral to break it up etc. it would add lock times to the strip miner cds etc. can make the process more interactive via warnings etc and stuff you can catch and alter coarse as needed, etc. i dunno, would be interesting to have asteriods and mine sweeper molded in, and for those who don't want it you can keep mining directly into the core as usual."
"having to move more between roids would just **** off actual human beings. bots don't care."
"fix wardecs by removing anonymity from public station services. if a pilot/corp uses a public lab or production slot, put their name up on the science & industry display. if they place a buy/sell order, put their name on the market display. this will allow aggressive griefer corps to focus attacks on productive corps that either have a reason to fight, or have the money to hire someone to fight in their place. it will make being extremely productive carry the risk of someone else noticing. it may even spark conflict, coercion, or cooperation among competitors. this sounds like eve.for those that insist on staying in npc megacorps, make them pay the kind of broker and station service fees befitting a representative of a hugely rich organization. if placing market orders, using station slots, or refining ore/loot carried fees akin to the 11% mission tax, it would allow new or very casual members to give these activities a try, while those that were ready to set up shop, and make a business out of it, would have to join or make a player corp in order to be competitive."
"a simple proposal that the teams working on improvements for avatars give the caldari deteis bloodline the option for black hairthe deteis were able to choose black hair before the new avatars were released and the option was available throughout testing on sisi the final version of incursion removed the optionwe're playing in a universe where people can be cloned back to life and fly ships worth billions with the power of their mind. yet apparently can't pop to the local shop for some black no.1 hair dyeturelus ceo utassi security"
"not that i'm against this...but as per the keynote this seems a bit of a waste of time.its quite obvious they are quite literally bringing a ####ton of new avatar stuff coming and its quite obvious they plan to add many many things.kinda stating the obvious by making a proposal...but yeah.================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"i put it to you it must have affected someone or you wouldn't be gcc."
"logi's would still work as they do now. if someone assists they become flashy to you and you can shoot them, though this will be addressed in future patches from mu understanding. this is basically a mutually agreed upon aggression timer with all the consequences that come with it."
"1.0"
"another idea, since this is pretty much exclusively a hi-sec pos issue, is make them consume starbase charters even when offline. when it runs out, anyone would be able to 'report' the tower to the proper authorities maybe even just a right-click option, which would in turn send a mail to the corp controlling the tower giving them x amount of days to put more charters in or the pos will be removed.this way, if the corp controlling the tower is active and still wants it but maybe has shut production down, or plans to sell the tower, etc has recourse, and anyone who finds a truly abandoned tower can get it out of the way. maybe even add a small standings bump for 'reporting' towers to encourage people to actively clean the moons out. it's also basically grief-proof - which sounds silly to say in the context of eve, but with something like this meant only to clear abandoned moons taken by corps/players which may not be active anymore, it's important imo."
"in my opinion, a lot of people are smoking crack in this thread.... op, your idea is an interesting start, but the idea needs a lot of work, especially before being posted in the assembly hall!!!!you really should present it more clearly, and even link to at least some of the 100 other threads similar to this. until then, f&i ------ >>>> we need a method to remove pos space junk. frankly, pos's have too many hit points and don't drop anything of value to be worth the time and energy of their removal. having the ability to \"salvage\" them is a good idea. the notion that you have to anchor the hacking module is very interesting. i really dislike the idea of having a module do your dirty hacking work while you are away/offline/untouchable. but, if the hacking module is worth enough, perhaps the risk vs reward concept can be maintained. as can be seen from pos aggression mechanics, there is probably a serious difficulty in getting the anchorable hacking unit to \"aggress\" the tower. i'm very weary of how they implement this! this is a form of aggression, plain and simple. you're taking something which isn't yours, and as such, the mechanics need to reflect this. imo, attacking a hisec pos should require a wardec, whether it's offline or not... you tried to balance your aggression by being flagged someone or something like a can thief. i highly doubt you realize that aggression mechanics are changing this summer, so thieves can be shot by anyone, not just the corp from whom they stole. this makes your proposal a little bit more interesting, as anyone could then shoot the hacking module. unfortunately, its only the anchorable structure doing the aggressing, which you're making invulnerable???? the idea of an invulnerable hacking modules is so obnoxiously bad i'm at a loss for words... do you know \"risk vs reward\" is a fundamental tenet of eve??? do you know what that means? if you want that tower, then you have to risk something!!! in short, **** no to your invulnerability idea!!! if you want to claim an offline tower, you need to risk your ****... deal with it!!!! \"but, but... you made it vulnerable when....\" <- no you didn't, your mechanics for making it vulnerable are bullshit!!! these whiners asking for a week for the process to complete.... are you ******* serious??? absolutely not. a pos is a corp asset... and while you might be the only \"real person\" in the corp, the mechanics should be setup around real corps, with multiple real players in them. you don't get a ******* week to prepare for a wardec, and you shouldn't get a ******* week to save your offline tower from being stolen. i find 3 days excessive, but i agree you need a little warning. as such, i highly recommend that stealing highsec pos's requires a wardec, and then maybe up to 24 hours to steal! if you want a full weak, then that hacking module needs to be able to hack online towers too... imo, when you join a player corp, you accept the risks of wardecs. when you anchor a pos, you accept the risks that someone will take it from you.. deal with it!!!"
"this is not an exclusive hisec issue.... there is pos crap littered all over the universe, as taking the time to kill a pos just isn't worth it except under specific circumstances..."
"tracking: ccp already have plans for fixing that.damage increase: why?titan limit: can you think of a method to implement this that wouldnt unbalance something else, while also getting the job done, that also takes less time to code than just fixing the titan/superweapon?"
"i'd actually rather like certain goons to try and \"hunt me down\" in real life. would be an interesting face to face discussion."
"yeah sure, good proposal. i'll support it.not like i care who you are anyways. it's what you accomplish to enhance the game for me anyways.and as to the encounters at ccp. i may be socially misfunctionate or less eliquent but imo it would work perfectly fine to just talk on a firstname basis. it's not all poshy formal crap anyways. it's about a couple of people, csm and ccp alike, to talk about a game and how to better it."
"this discussion is purely academic, imo, because even if ccp decided to stop providing the csms personal details, this information will get known sooner or later one way or another.therefore we should be talking about how things should be dealt with once this information is abused."
"ok i can agree with this but what efforts are they making to stop it. they and we as a community seem to be encouraging the groups that commit the \"crimes\" the community is constantly raving about how wonderful goonswarm and mittani are. so is ccp! i mean come one how stupid are we. we are encouraging those who do this **** and then we complain that it happens and want new rules to protect us. to stick with the crime analogy its like the governement ccp is puting out pr pieces for the worst criminals and and people watching it are sending fan mail to the criminals, but then they complain that crime is increasing. and by the way this topic is not about in game scams or in game treachery. the only real concern i have is the stuff that goons does. i mean sure some murder or something over a game is always possible but i don't really think there is substantially more chance of that in eve than any other sport/game or hobby. but the stuff jade complained - we all know this happens. mittani even spoke about how goons did it to some other lawyer who was a player and if i recall he was saying he didn't want to give his real name before he retired because of this. what do we and ccp do? well ccp and the players celebrate the same people who do this crap. as to what ccp can do beyond not publicly promoting groups that they are pretty sure do this i agree that may be difficult. i mean now you can simply read posts by jade and he will be followed on these forums by goons trying to defame him in real life. so yeah now we can clearly see it is the goons. but if ccp did start to crack down it woudl simply move underground. there would just be alt accounts made doing the same thing. so again i'm not sure an explicit rule needs to be made wich can't be enforced. it may be better to let groups like goons be open about their out of game asshattery so we as a community can clearly identify who it is. but ffs don't keep celebrating the groups that do this. yes people join goons and come into the game from goons. but also other people tired of eve because of the crap they pull. whether this proposal is passed or not i don't really care. but what i would like is the fact that this proposal even gets so much support to be a wake up call for ccp and the community that we shouldn't be promoting groups like goons and others that pull this out of game crap. as far as ingame scams and treachery i dont think the game mechanics should change at all. however constantly marketing the game as a game for weasels is a bit disappointing. perhaps just perhaps all the claims that i am an ******* in game but not out of game aren't really factual. perhaps some people like playing an ******* in game because well they *are* assholes. there are other very nice features of the game besides being able to back stab friends. make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"i would agree to this for any other game but eve being eve i don't think it would even be in the best interest of the candidates to remain anonymous to the broad community. if that happens we'll be voting for ingame characters and not for real people. for instance i voted for alex gianturco for the csm, but i would never vote for the mittani.i mean, i can see a difference and i know others can too. but i also know most can't and that's a shame. and in the end i think that the mittani and really everyone who plays this game have very often contributed to blur the line between ingame character and rl personality and perhaps trying to sharpen and define that more clearly could be helpful. however, to be honest, i think a breathalyser test before any eve player speaks publicly at a ccp sponsored event could go a long way."
"not putting one's rl name out there and instead going only by your in-game name is not the same as being anonymous: it's pseudonymity, and it's more than good enough for csm elections, where one ought to be judged on their eve-related credentials and good or bad name. if some csm candidates feel it can help their campaign and they aren't worried about possible consequences, they should be allowed to reveal their rl name, but surely it shouldn't be an obligation, as it discourages those who want/need to maintain some level of separation between their rl private/work life and eve hobby from running, and in most cases this information is of no benefit to the voters or the csm as a whole.copypasta from sboi, because it sums up my thoughts on the matter."
"agreed - although i think there should be more to it still, such as requirements for even posting here."
"more would be nice. but can't we all agree to at least get it to where it used to be 1st? shouldn't this be super important to everyone using this forum? should have every csm member posting here already.not because i'm important, but because this section of the forum is."
"but there is a two step!!!!back on topic:imo, there should actually be another very important addition to the assembly hall.... there should be a way to insure most of the posts contain fully developed and thought out ideas... far to often the posts are the written form of verbal diarrhea that resulted from someones undeveloped brainfarts... <-- these should be in f&i"
"a voting system serves no purpose over a likes system, why introduce it?"
"running a bot is the mmo equivalent of murder... so yea ban should be permanent. glad ccp is stepping up... i have never seen a game so soft on cheaters then eve."
"lol wut? says who? you? hooooo that's funny.no but seriously, ccps statistics show that over 90% of players who botted and received a temp ban don't bot again. add to the fact that much if not all of their ill-gotten gains have been seized. ccp wants to keep players and stop botting. looks like they found a good solution.we'll see how effective this temp ban really is the next time we see statistics on how many players are botting. if it drops significantly, then ccps method of bot discouragement / player retention is proven effective.summary of eves last four expansions:"
"reported by ccp sreegs | 2012.04.03 19:50:49 | commentsmonths and months and months....you see this ******* has a time machine"
"each of those players can be turned into a well behaved paying customer.whilst i would like to nail each botter and hang them by the larger of their testicles, i completely understand ccp not wanting to ban everybody on their first offence and to try and turn them into good paying citizens of new eden.if i remember rightly only 8.5% of players continue botting after they are first caught, that is a good chunk revenue saved by not intsa banning.if you do not understand this then dear lord never start your own business"
"i'd like to point out that botters get more than just a small banning at least now. now, they get the assets they gained by botting removed, which can be quite a substantial hit. imagine if you won the lottery? how much would you spend? how much of your money would you be wreckless with? then, imagine someone comes along and takes that lottery money away from you after you had a month to spend it. i think the current punishments fit the crime pretty well.... -- loss of their botting profits...-- temporary ban...-- characters locked to their account so they can no longer sell off their characters."
"lol.been watching this stuff for some time....everyone talks about it and thinks ccp is doing nothing...yet they obviously are...and ramping it up quite noticibly.go back in the archives and dev blogs...old forum topics...they have brought this up before.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"wait why do you have to sit in safe spots again?last i checked there were no guns at belts, mission sites, anoms, or scan sites... find another target..."
"as a fellow pirate... no.develop a black market? yes!!maybe allow pirate corps to affiliate with npc pirate corps for lp access maybe? maybe, allow some specific missions lp rewards maybe? something that does not improve your sec status : long shot, not needed, but not a bad idea.the ability to influence a home system? that would be a mechanic for all of lowsec corps with appropriate benefits, not just pirates.gcc timer? deal with it... it does not lock you in place. cloak, agile, tanky, etc. my only issue is the new disable warping in empire for a gcc from lowsec, but apparently that was an exploit they tolerated until people started boomeranging freighters.and no, piracy is not waiting to mug someone on the other side of a door with 12 people. that is boring and no fun at all. best to burst through the door with guns blazing and ransoming the last guy standing."
"i disagree on many points.gcc only effects frigates, destroyers, and idiots. i'm all for shortening the timer based on your ship size, but it works just fine.gun aggression is fine for the same reason stated above.the market is fine as it is. in fact i would say it's better in low sec as you are completely capable of manipulating it all by yourself.the only thing you should \"give pirates\" is the ability to not be kos to npc pirates. i'm all for \"fixing low-sec\" but giving us bonuses to being -5 isn't the answer. pvp should be your reward and finding more ways to populate low sec would be a better use of our theorycrafting time.this is sooooo true. only the three things i mentioned above have an issue with gate guns so you can even travel to a new system if needed."
"as a person who must \"defend\" himself from \"persons of hostile intent\" read: anybody in a combat ship in low sec, i agree that the gcc timer in low sec way too long. sec status keeping pirates out of high sec is enough punishment. shorten gcc timer ccp."
"you are criminal. its not supposed to be easy for you."
"you think it is unreasonable that you might be in trouble for a whole 15 minutes with the local police after attacking someone? what the heck? no. why on earth would you get that?yes? that seems to be a pretty reasonable description of how law works.you honestly expect concord and players you prey upon to praise you for what you do? seriously?no."
"you are makeing it a different item.in the database you have one entry row for dominix standard freshly builtif you add builders you then get multiple rows:dominix built by industrialist_001 standard freshly builtdominix built by industrialist_002 standard freshly builtdominix built by industrialist_003 standard freshly builtalso when you repackage a ship it goes back to its standard entry so will probably loose the makers mark.i hope this makes sence and is correct, i am explaining this pretty basicly, and i am sure ccps databases are far from basic.jint hikaru - miner / salvager / explorer / spacebum in the beginning the universe was created. this has made a lot of people very angry and been widely regarded as a bad move."
"it's a nice idea, but it's a database nightmare to program. some other games can get away with this because the amount of items crafted by other players is small compared to all the items that come from npcs. since the vast majority of items in eve are crafted by other players, keeping track of who made what is a bit too much.summary of eves last four expansions:"
"interesting idea, but not terribly practical or useful. definitely one of those \"if they ever get around to it\" things."
"do you really think they have different database items for every bpo? item 1: bpo with me 0 pe 1item 2: bpo with me 1 pe 1.... in reality, each database item has several fields, and i'm sure there is an me level field, and a pe level field... i'm sure each assembled ship has a field for it's current armor level, or structure level.... each assembled module has a field for it's current damage level... to implement this, they would need to add a manufacturer's id field to every manufactured item in the game, and then they would need to create a manufacturer id table that linked the stamp to the manufacturer's id. they would need to find a method to display this information, such that it becomes known & usable. this is still not a trivial task, and would require an large amount of effort and major database changes, but it's not unimplementable!! the question is, would the effort be worth the reward? what benefits does this add to the game? 1. the ability to identify who built what could be used for meta-gaming: if you can identify the source of the item, you can arrange an attack on the manufacturers to perhaps corner the market and become the major producer. it could allow someone like goons to find more chinks in the economy that they can wreak havoc upon. i consider the added metagaming prospects a huge positive, but i don't think it, by itself, warrants the effort required!2. brand loyalty? -- this doesn't exist unless you can a. see the manufacturer of the item before you purchase it, and b. actually buy from their specific order which you can't at the moment, because, to my knowledge, you always buy from the cheapest sell order at the station, rather than from the order you \"click\" on. without the ability to discriminate whom you're purchasing from, brand loyalty doesn't exist.. 3. game immersion? -- maybe... 4. ???? i don't know... we need more reasons to implement this besides,\"it would be neat\"... someone come up with some good ideas, because i really like the metagaming potential assuming it's implemented right!. finally, this is in the wrong forum.... move it to f&i!!!!! assembly hall is for well developed ideas, and this idea is about as well developed as a toddler's chest hair!!"
"you could store an \"most recently assembled on\" date, but it would be impossible to store the manufacturer or build date without completely breaking stacking or market use. gizznitt malikite got it half right, it is possible to store per-item attributes ... but only for unpackaged items; this is why you can't repackage bpos once you've used them, for instance, and why bpcs can't be stacked. the op's idea, storing the manufacturer and creation date, is flat out impossible with the current database structure. it just isn't possible. an 'assembly date' statistic is possible, but it doesn't mean a ton since you can reset it any time you want at the cost of the rigs."
"i used \"assembled\" because i realize that packaged items have different set of database fields than unpackaged items... i have no idea what the current database structure holds, so i don't know what is or is not possible. imo, adding manufacturer info would probably require a ton of work on the database, and i really think we need to provide justification for this effort beyond.... \"wouldn't it be cook if...\" on another note... i wonder what would happen to the eve database if there was an eve wide unpackage day... where most of the eve players unpackaged their items... how much strain would this actually cause?"
"this idea has been suggested many times before - why didn't you post in one of those threads and look at the comments already posted there before creating this new and worthless post? nothing said here is new. at least, since your name is here, we know who is to blame for the repetition."
"i like a lot of what you put out.im against any denial of docking in any way shape or form. fluff is not rules and usually leads to bad mechanics long run when you try to apply game play elements from the fluff standpoint. there are better negative things that can be done like shutting of station services rather then out right keeping you from docking that could be done. i dont like the push to make low sec fw into null light that ccp is trying to go with. heck soundwaves interview was scary as it came off as if he has no connection to the fw community and what they want. **space wizards are real, they can make 10058 votes vanish. \"and for a moment i hurd 10k goons cry out, then silence\" **"
"already a thread here, which is probably in wrong place: fanfest: faction warfare"
"i have to agree with him. currrently the plexxing mechanics can bring about good quality pvp. steps can be taken to increase the pvp for occupancy, but your proposal seems to increase the importance of pve instead of pvp. for example you just say missioning should lead to change of occupancy but don't explain why. also, as far as adding random npc battles i have to say i hope shooting these red crosses wouldn't effect occupancy. but by and large i just see that sort of like when incursions go to low sec systems. what happens? those systems are avoided. it always sounds good to talk about new ais and new npcs in what if terms. however, when they are actually added to the game people soon realize that playing against a computer ai is never nearly as fun as playing against other players. what are your thoughts on that?other than that i think a graduated system is ok. i do think one side will gain momentum and steamroll the other side if the benefits of joining the winning side are as good as the op seems to suggest. what will happen then? do you think some sort of balancing mechanism should be used?as far requireing faction war players to form groups in order to make isk i am against it. being limitted to level 3 missions when there are others doing level 5s would suck i have very few nights where i can fully dedicate 2 straight hours to eve with headset and mic. when i do have those times i would like to do pvp not mission. i would prefer to do missions on the times where i may only have a bit of time here and there to play eve - and that means solo. i realize i may be more casual than even most fw players but i hope the drive to make fw like null sec doesn't leave me out. make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"the ramifications of removing static belts goes beyond mining and i feel are being overlooked by many who are posting in this thread. there are plenty of people that rat in high/low/null for bounties, rep grinding, isk making, etc. the static belts also give way to pvp in the belts. removing static belts in low/null and requiring them to be scanned with a probe launcher will be a massive change to the fabric of low and null.ccp would need to balance the mining aspect with the pve and pvp relationships of belts."
"already a large portion of pvp happens on gates and stations, and \"waiting at top belt\" pvp would just change to \"waiting at top planet\" pvp. so is your objection that ratters and miners will be too safe from roaming ganks?"
"didn't ccp rework roid spawning specifically to counter stripping belts immediately after dt? seems to me that if there was ever an incentive to bot an \"all or nothing\" mechanic would be a good one. vov"
"a large potion of pvp also happens away from gates and stations. you can also disguise \"waiting at the top belt\" to look like pve or other activities. it is part of the risk factor of low/null. most lowsec combat probers can usually nail anything bigger than a frig in 2-3 scans tops so it's not a matter of tracking things down either. ratting in ships with tight setups that now need to squeeze a probe launcher or pvp setups without a dedicate scout would be most affected. contrary to popular belief the solo pilot is not dead yet."
"i don't worry about solo pilots. \"solo is dead\" has been around for so long i cannot remember the first time i saw it. out of all players, the solo ones are the most adaptive.in regards to disguising things to look like pve: when i find a ship in a belt with dscan i usually think \"bait. can i kill him before his friends show up? can i gtfo if i can't handle it?\" when i find a ship in a mission/ded/anom i am much more tempted to get cocky and be like \"ima kill dis caerbare!!!lololol\". i wonder if making belts scanned doesnt make baiting more effective.your point about ship fitting/ selection changes is true, but i am not sure this is a convincing argument for dev's like soundwave given some of the comments he has recently made. vovanyway i was just curious about the reasoning behind thinking it constitutes a massive change to the fabric of low/null. not trying to argue any point."
"^ thisthere's no mechanic that addresses abandoned pos's. in fact, there are a lot of problematic issues regarding pos's in general. they need to be addressed first.summary of eves last four expansions:"
"pos are very annoying to remove, especially in highsec, even if they are offline. the are also very annoying to get setup, especially in highsec, where you need very high corp standings. both of these mechanics need a review..."
"exactly....and i'm sure the whs dwellers would chime in with this sentiment as well.================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"nothing new here, useless rehash of things that won't happen and have been suggested again and again."
"sounds like you have a limited vision of a mmorpg. this game has mining and trading and building because some people want to do that. if all of that is irrelevant to you then why don't you just play a game purely focused on fighting if that's all you're interested in? why is it necessary - and why do you think you have the right - to try to make others play the way you want? instead of forcing everyone to do at least some fighting - how would you like it if everyone was forced to do at least some mining? eve is permeated by this kind of attitude of intolerance to other people's gaming preferences. no wonder so many people quit this game. who wants to be friends with the kind of people they meet here?once dust starts making real money the cost and hassle of keeping up eve won't be worth it unless more players join and stay. if you want to have a place to play in the future you'd better start thinking in terms of the viability of the game as a whole. in order for ccp to make more money on dust than they do on eve they need to sell about 100k copies/mo. here are the sales figures from some popular console games:1.52m - halo 3: odst / xbox 360443k - wii sports resort / wii290k - madden nfl 10 / xbox 360258k - mario & luigi: bowser's inside story / ds254k - the beatles: rock band / xbox 360247k - madden nfl 10 / playstation 3236k - marvel ultimate alliance 2 / xbox 360213k - batman: arkham asylum / playstation 3211k - guitar hero 5 / xbox 360209k - the beatles: rock band / wiipersonally, i don't really care what people do with their time in eve. the only thing i do feel strongly about it not letting anyone think they have the right to tell others what part of the game they should be playing. stay in your own sandbox and play with the people who want to play with you. think of it this way: if people don't want to participate in your wardec, it probably means they don't like you. you'll have to change yourself - not the game - in order to fix that."
"bumping this. seriously ccp how hard would it be to add horizontal scrollbars?"
"we need to keep this idea alive - at least until it becomes reality. this is will be of great benefit to pilots in null, low and highsec if nothing other than as a target."
"gameplay that's a whole different genre from internet space ships. i'd not be opposed to \"gameplay\" per se. i'd settle for the bounce, though."
"the most you would get from your gank is 30m, therefore you would lose 170m on this. repeatedly.is there something i'm missing or did you not read the op?"
"just few thing need to working bounty hunters rules.1. bounty hunter npc corp.2. no bounty without bounty hunter license and just if someone join to bounty hunter npc corp can grab the bounties from headhunting.3. class system for headhunting after pirate kill numbers. newby bounty hunter can't collect bounty from highly ranked pirates need to reach better bountyhunter class for highly pay. 4. 10% bounty from pirate ship kill, full paying from pirate pod.5. bounty hunt contracts from players to bh corp bulletin."
"ships already don't look like they're centered on the pad when you're viewing them from cq so you could just argue they're parked closer or farther from your cq \"dockpoint?\"anyway...you wanna fix a scale issue? fix the scale of stations...they look way too small in comparison to the number of ships that could potentially be docked inside and some of the ships coming out of the station exit point look way too big to have been inside the station to begin with.i'd like to see stations as enormous things that when you're right up on top of them they fill your screen. i'd like to see a station have several grids that's how big i'd like to see them. spare me the lecture on grid mechanics...just make it work ;"
"apsolutely supported. this is something that has always annoyed me. it would be a very simple change to make seeing as that is the way the view from captains quarters was innitially designed and implemented.please, make it happen.see if you can get some csm support."
"yes, please.at the moment i can't really see the differance between a battlecruiser and my charon. i think a sence of scale is important in the captains quarters, because its almost impossible to get a good sence of scale in space for obvious reasons.and seeing as it would be a really simple change to make, and would hopefully take very little of ccp's time to implement, it should be given some degree of priority. no need to put off the simple and easy changes.i dont see a down point to this one.supported.\"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"becuase you can down vote, and there can be just a simple 0-100% support count. how in the world can you tell the % of people who like something when it counts all of the likes in the whole thread, not just the ones on the op post. and beyond that, how can you trick yourself into thinking the current system is good enough? a simple thumbs up, thumbs down button on a thread, would let people voice the opposite of support. right now you can pump up the number of likes by just clicking like on every single post in a thread."
"good idea. maybe a csm member has to move a thread from features and ideas, into the assembly hall. thus it is used as a tool for the csm to gauge support for a project. why should everyone and their mom be able to post something here? for instance a thread on how to make this forum useful would be allowed in, but some idea about space whales wouldn't.*just kidding forum warriors, i love space whales too :p*"
"remove assembly hallmerge with feature in ideasgive feature and ideas the yes/no/maybe votes things"
"absolutely this - also the manufacturer name has to be on the km as well so that an interested party can track by manufacturer if interested.we'd have shipspotters all over eve haha"
"this is a lovely idea. however... given how many problem this would cause from a programming and database perspective, it isn't really viable.an idea, needs to be thought threw in terms of benefit to the players and ccp, ease of implementation, and load on the ccp team. this would give a small emotive benefit, be practically impossible to implement and take up a huge amount of ccp resources.for that reason, you do not have my support.no support. none.\"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"i see the merit of your thinking, but you will agree this is a diferent topic enirelly.one leads to the replacement of a ellected representative, other deals with the chosing of the representative.wich, btw, considering allt he incarnations the same person can have, might become tricky to separate people in \"districts\". what criteria would be used ? i totally think its worth its own thread."
"u mad?seriously, your post makes no sense. raging much?"
"democraticalthere, dont say you never learned anything from me. ;"
"democracy things on a game that ccp let us have the csm....the bottom line is that the game is ccp's and they make the rules ...."
"after talking to my alliance a bit about docking and sovereignty and etc., i came up with the following idea for the 'docking' issue. a sort of compromise that allows docking in npc stations in empire for everyone, but gives serious benefits for fw pilots to own a station - and consequences for losing it.you can read the whole post here. 1. adding defenses to fw only stations. though anyone could dock because it's empire, station guns would shoot hostile militia, as well as neutrals who have negative standings with the sovereign faction.the station would also shoot any neutrals with an aggression timer of any kind against the sovereign party, as well as any neutrals providing logistics to the hostile party. ie: if a neutral gang shows up and starts shooting the sovereigns who live there, the station will defensively shoot back, and hostile faction militia could not easily get around the station's defenses by parking neutral logis outside.2. the sovereign party would be the only ones with access to agents. obviously3. the station offers free or hugely reduced medical clones to sovereign militia members. in addition, repair bills for the sovereign holding party are significantly reduced.hostile militia pays more for repairs and clones then normal, or are heavily taxed in some way.neutrals pay the same as before.it's not perfect, but i think this solution accomplishes the following things:1. it's simple and makes sense. if you shoot the owners of the station, or at war with them the station shoots at you. this would be an easy concept/mechanic for new players to grasp and understand.2. it doesn't hurt neutrals, but it offers benefits for people living in that station to be in militia.3. it offers consequences for losing sovereignty. higher prices, loss of agents, and having to deal with station guns, etc.4. it impacts pvpers and plexers as well as mission runners. loss of agents alone isn't enough.5. it offers multiple reasons for militia to take systems --whether they actively want to 'move in' or live in that system, or simply deal a financial blow to their enemy.thoughts?www.gamerchick.net @gamerchick42"
"any chance of getting a note tab on corps and alliances, when i show info on them pls? it wuld be perfect to have info needed, where it was needed not in some other detached place.it sure wuld be kewl if it was as user-friendly as the character info interface the notes tab is the perfect place for keeping track of recruitment info, alts, thieves, character forum posts, etc. a blank note tab to add info on a corp or alliance wuld be perfect such as killboards, websites, contacts, former leaders or even info not provided by others in the corp description.tbh, the greatest \"personalized\" thing wuld be a note tab on any interfacing item: show info on a ship, paste ur preferred fits on a note tab there if pvp/pve is the game u play, put ore requirements on that item's note tab if u r a builder by trade, type in pricing and region info on the note tab if into marketing or trading items, log calculated pos fuel requirements for 21 days on a note tab on a specific tower, even a blank note tab on missions nice place for mission reports info, etci added my notepad to my \"avoid\" list, as it got so full so fast as a noob. later, i discovered sorting it was a waste of my play time."
"i support this proposal, although i'm pretty sure ccp has their reasons why things the way they are right now.protip: never use imageshack to host your images, some people cba to register.\"i'd rather have other players get shot by other players than not interacting with others\" -ccp soundwave"
"edit: wait no! just add a real voting system to the assembly hall! this is not a discussion thread!"
"such hate, tsk tskhi sec and o.o carebears; gonna hate"
"since the forum just ate my 4000 letter post...heres the short version:a the 15minute timer punishes the lone wolf in the small ship worse than the stereotype ganker/camper you're potraying by your remarks, where most of the time the timer/gcc is ignored , and b it does not help the victim at all.and another point, virtually all other professions in eve have a game mechanic to support their lifestyle, the 0.0 empire builder with titans and logistical possibilities and conquerable stations, the empire mission runner with missions, the explorer with exploration sites, the roleplayer with faction warfare mechanics etc.. in the last 4 years all that has changed in lowsec is the occasional 650k battleship rats and the inclusion of incredibly poor anomalies...yeeehaw! i want a black market, a racketeering station, i want to take over the helpless commerce stations littered around lowsec just as much as the fw guy wants to blow up the opposing side for great rewards. also, faction war territories only spawn fw anomalies, you won't find serpentis dens in gallente lowsec fw zones...is this a bug or feature? still enjoy my life as a pirate, always has always will, but the fact is that lowsec has reamined unchanged virtually the last 4 years since all other expansions have brought new stuff and things to do for the empire guy / roleplayer and the 0.0 empire builder."
"pointing out that you're a moron with an inflated sense of entitlement isn't hate, it's stating the obvious."
"what a cute little nullbear. must be fun to be one of goonswarm's pets. after raising hell how you would never be a pet. but in typical fashion you bend and spread. quit trying to act hard draconis. you never will be. get a tampon and quit bleeding all over the the forum.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"lowsec pirate tears, best tears"
"im not sure if this applies to the warp disruption script [i'll assume so] but i think hic's should be able to be remote repaired while hanging on to a supercap etc. would make catching supercaps easier."
"invulnerable tackle eh? sounds balanced to me!"
"redefining distinction between two roles eve's pirates - robbers deceptive +0.0 status. eve's bandits - plunderers obvious -0.0 statusit was said at fanfest that the value of your ship and its contents would be reward to the parties involved with destroying it. is this true?personally, i find this logic to be a tad bit lame!suggestion - revised game features:security status rules for high sec all is safe and normal apart from suicide gankers. your low security status = -5.0 neglects you from high sec. players can destroy your ship your low security status = -9.451 banishes you from high sec. concord will attack your ship but not chase yousecurity status rules for low secyou can still change security status in low sec. you lose less security status as you operate in reducing security-level systems = 0.3 systems. this excludes pod-killing! eases pain of losing too much security status concord operate in low-sec! unlike high-sec's concord your good security status rewards you with a level of concord's responsiveness. = 1.0 your neutral security status leaves you semi-vulnerable in low-sec! -0.5- 0.9 concord will protect you only if they're nearby. they don't hang around long. your bad security status leaves you vulnerable in low-sec! = -0.6 concord can not linger in low-sec after their protocol is achieved. too many criminal! d:low-sec firing conditions non-damaging attacks are allowed for +0.0 players: jammers, webifiers, anti-warp, drainers, etc. contributes to piracy key part of whole post: non-damaging attacks are discouraged for -0.0 players: \"same as above\". contributes to deception. sub-sequently reduce security status any physical damage unto a good-status player will have concord jump-in to save them slow-to-medium response. any physical damage unto a excellent-status player will have concord jump-in to save them medium-to-faster response. protection speed in low sec concord response in low-sec is conditional and at their own risk. they can only match the responsiveness of 0.5 high sec providing you have = 9.451 security status. quote:the piratethey have the skills to pilot almost any ship. by captivating a target completely they can demand ransom or demand they leave their ship so they can overtake, and are protected by their security status. their operations cannot be performed in high-sec. however, if they're militia the can perform on their enemy militia. still, if they shoot or assist in a good-status player's death, they will lose status that protects them & standing. the rewards for overtaking a ship is likely to be much more rewarding but equally much less successful requiring a deceptive security status for low-sec and high-sec systems. null-sec is fair game where even the pirate can be in trouble from anyone. this is ultimately more rewarding than being a bandit and reduces the attractiveness of becoming a 'kill player: receive lots of isk' notion.quote:the banditthey shoot anyone anywhere. they are monsters feeding on other's anguish, pain and left-over booty. they turn themselves against the civilized world for their own selfish ways; they don't care of security status! they maraud militia battles, they blockade spacelanes, they devour their prey and rise up to their demeanour without remorse. they are primitive and do not give a ****! their operations cannot be performed in high-sec. their operations can be performed on militia in high-sec as a militant. however, you're also allowing non-militia players or even concord to kill your ship. their operations can be performed in low-sec. however, their target's good security status may discourage them. the rewards are bitter though sometimes can produce nice results from wreck salvages and sustained cargo contents. compared to a pirate, they can get equal rewards but certainly no jackpot results like a pirate overtaking freighter full of valuable quantities if not just a ransom."
"so...if there's a fleet fight in lowsec, say, over a tech moon, concord will join in?"
"true for any single capsuleer above 0.9 security status is damaged.true if all parties are not in a mutual corporate war.concord will protect those worth protecting in low-sec. those not worth it will be ignored.even then, concord could be ill-effective against gangs compared to high sec with limited capabilities allowing for escape. they could be weak and die for a change! additional things not mentioned in the post suggesting... :ultimate goal is to repopulate low-sec, discourage visible criminality in low-sec, define the 'middle-ground' that is low-sec and address an identity misconception bountied pirates and outlawed bandits. by changing these things brings the role of a true pirate being able to hijack a ship, take it's loot and command it to base. the whole sole purpose of being a pirate, which differentiates from a typical marauding barbaric space killer. this allows for it whilst simultaneously addressing the low-sec suggestive conceptions or propositions brought-up at fanfest."
"but it is democratic. you voted this clown into office precisely because of what he is and what he does. and true to himself and you he did not dissapoint. his interests are your interests. his decisions represent your decisions. live with the choices and consequences that you and your candidate made.ffs, you're all part of the same alliance. choose a better less destructive candidate next time...or choose another clown and watch him clown himself out of office again. your choice, because that's how democracy works."
"people who voted for mittens will be represented, just not by him, in the same spirit as the 30k+ votes that went to people who didn't make it top 14 will be represented too, just not by the person they voted for."
"i think it's a good idea. i've never done faction warfare myself and i've been quite interested in it, just one of the many aspects of the game i've yet to divulge into yet. although to think of it, it would make things brutally challenging and both sides would have to push harder, which is nice. :]glad to see you're still flyin' and kickin' susan, ni4ni says hi."
"susan, i flagged your posts as too awesome for this forum.seriously, why can't we have something like this? i like all of it and it doesn't 'force' anyone into a style they don't like - if you enjoy the gurrila style of fighting, then stick with it - the big fights happen regardless, already - just play how you want and make any system work for you.i personally like these ideas, especially the benefits to stations you own and consequences for losing them. + another 1."
"an option to sort items by meta level would make reprocessing/trading easier."
"this.make it happen.supported. \"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"you can sort the items in your hanger my meta level already. it's an option when you look at it by list. one of the columns you can choose to add is meta level. add the column then sort by it."
"i'm totally with ccp on revamping the whole game. any change on a singular aspect of eve's future mustn't be focused on entirely unless, of course if it becomes completely unacceptable, which i doubt things would become.crucible has proven something to ccp and they're continuing that awesomness through the months, to next april's fanfest and beyond!focus on the idea of multiple everything changing and the future of eve will be great. not just one thing.sandbox is a tricky game to change, evidently, and they have already exclaimed that this ship balancing is a delicate matter."
"you do realise that you wont have to retrain anything? ccp have repeatedly come out and stated that anything you can fly now, you will be able to fly in inferno. the rest of your post is just some impotent complaining to add substenance to your core complaint - that you think you have to do more training to fly battlecruisers, when you won't.also, there appears to be a smattering of butthurt from alpha-nados mixed in for good measure."
"show your support! keep the dream alive until it becomes a reality!i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"i just found this thread...why so little support? sounds like an awesome idea.+10000 internetz."
"i'm tired of seeing **** posts and ideas about how to improve faction warfare so i thought i'd jump on the bandwagon. yeah, that's right, i said **** and i meant it. no personal offense to those coming up with the ideas -- at least they're bothering to put the time and effort into them rather than bleating about fw being a steaming pile of used acne cream -- but they are **** ideasa little background, i have been playing this ****** game for 3 years now the vast majority of which i spent in various militias in fw. i have been in them all. i even made a blog once but i stopped giving fucks. i spent the rest of my time as a ****** player in nullsec and have a great interest in the political machinations and meta-gaming of end-game eve, though i adamantly deny that i even understand a fraction of what's actually going onso i've come to shine the light of my ideas upon the mouth-breathing denizens of fw in hopes that the merit and testicular fortitude of said ideas will outweigh my hilariously bad reputation and somewhat abrasive and ~edgy~ attitudelet's begin. there are several overarching themes behind the ideas. these are, essentiallyincentivization - currently there is very little incentive for being in fw and almost no reason to make a \"career\" out of it in which to invest your time. fw missions went a long way to this end but were merely a stopgap, temporary measurerisk vs reward - to counter incentivization, there should be some risk. i'm not talking about nullsec-levels of risk, where you can find all of your space, assets and money generation gone over the course of a weekend. but currently fw is 100% risk-free pvp and this should change.the fw end-game and meta-gaming - combining the above two factors in appropriate and interesting ways will make fw far more interesting and, i hope, promote much deeper player involvement in the end and meta-game aspects of fw. currently, fw has the appeal of a schoolyard ****** slap-fight.so that all said here are specific proposals and ideas that i feel will bring fw closer to this end, and make the fw experience much more fun in general: more pvp in highsec! imho being in a militia should above all else mean one thing -- you are in a never-ending war. currently it is far too easy for militia members to simply dock up their shitfit pvp ships in their lowsec staging system and make the one or two jumps to highsec and go bearing for a few weeks. or worse, an entire subsect of the militia population who have never actually been to lowsec. this needs to stop; being in the militia should mean you are subject to unwanted violence anywhere at anytime. to that end i propose that faction npc military be nerfed beyond recognition. first, they should take an ungainly amount of time to show up when an enemy militia member arrives in system -- upwards of 10 minutes or more if that militia member doesn't shoot anything. if the enemy militia member does aggress a member of the militia whose faction owns that system, then the faction npcs can show up -- but be blatantly weaker than they currently are. much of their effectiveness should be relegated to ewar: webbing and tping from minmatar, neuting and tracking disrupting from amarr, etc. their response should also depend on what they're responding to -- faction npcs should show up in smaller ships if facing a single enemy militia in an interceptor, and larger if they're in a battleship. overall the idea is to make enemy highsec a far more lucrative target, but not to the point that it can be exploited so that some dickholes in instacanes can permacamp enemy militia trading hub stations. they should have to **** off eventually. pve 'plexing to replace ****** orbiting of ****** buttons in space for umpteen minutes, then rinsing and repeating. this is boring unintuitive gameplay. get rid of it asap. instead, require the player to kill off successive waves of rats followed by a single big bad boss who has a chance of dropping awesome loot, especially in the bigger 'plexes. also give lp rewards for the killing of these rats, or just straight-up bounties. make people want to 'plex for reasons other than sov-grinding, like it being a quick way for a noob pilot in a destroyer to make a few million to buy a ship this next idea basically rips sansha incursions to make that the primary feature of a fw system changing sovereignty. after however many of the above fw 'plexes are completed a vulnerable system should go into incursion mode, with a twist. you'd have a similar \"occupancy progress bar\" appear on the ui, with either militia having 50% progress at the get-go. the system will fill up with npc faction military \"incursions\", each with opposing armadas of faction npcs duking it out in a cool way. in order to move the progress bar in their favour, militias will have to go into these incursions in fleets and kill all the enemy npcs. every completed incursion site brings the system towards their occupancy. this should give a pretty hefty lp reward for the militia members doing the fighting, as well as the potential to drop some cool stuff. the problem here is ensuring that militias benefit the most if not solely from doing these incursions as otherwise it may promote other non-militia entities becoming actively involved, so lp reward is the best bet the current occupancy bunkers need to go, but they need something to replace them. fw garrison outposts. similar to nullsec outposts these are solely owned by the militia that owns the system. it provides a 100% safe harbour for that militia, with no neutrals and especially no enemy militia being able to dock. the station should provide greatly reduced if not completely free services to the owning militia -- free clones, free repairs, free offices, etc."
"continuing... the flipping of a system to enemy occupancy will of course prevent enemy militia from docking and gaining access to their stuff. this change should take effect at the next downtime after a system has been flipped. this is part of the risk vs reward system. they will still have the ability to jump into a clone in the station, however, and will still be able to contract-firesale their ****. also, it's not like they can't just keep it in any of the other normal stations in the system -- which will and should not change -- if it's too important for them to ever lose. also, i personally think that capital ships should blatantly not be allowed to dock in this station ever, for a variety of reasons. this next one has already been proposed by ccp and i like it: allowing militia members to donate their lp towards building infastructure in a system. some of this will be defensive in nature -- such as, perhaps, cyno jammers even if they only affect enemy militia, an increase in the number of npc rats spawning in 'plexes in that system, etc. otherwise there should be a strong \"investment\" component to this, such as the ability to spend an outrageous amount of lp to invest in upgrading fw agents in that system, seeding npc markets with cool **** skillbooks and the few things that are actually left in npc sell orders, reducing cost of lp store items, providing r&d agents, bonuses for invention jobs, etc etc. making fw a profession: on both an individualistic and collective corp/alliance basis, fw should be more lucrative as a profession. owning a system should have the potential to bring great wealth benefits to its owners via specific bonuses like aforementioned agent upgrades, reduced-cost lp stores and so on, and the ability to get good payouts from offensive pveing via lp rewards from 'plexing and doing fw incursions. making fw able to generate a sizable, stable income will go a long way to providing incentive for players to put the sperg-effort into it as you see in nullsec. currently there is only one prospect for isk-generation: mission-whoring. these missions are dumb and stupid but i am also dumb and stupid and i made lots of money on them. a combination of massive lp rewards for missioning, lp rewards for 'plexing, lp rewards for system occupancy change \"incursions\", and ridiculous tax-breaks and leeway for r&d passive isk generation and low-cost invention jobs, as well as any other money-making endeavours you can throw onto the shitpile, will go a long way. and that does it. i hope you like."
"so you made lots of money in fw running missions, but people need more in order to come to fw? do you think that the datacore move assuming that the mechanics of datacore harvesting do not change will bring in lots of people since it is thier passive isk generation device?the only way i can think of pvp being risk-free is if there were no consequences to the pvp or the income to loss ratio was greatly decreased lost more than you make. but as you said, under your proposal people can still keep thier stuff 100% safe in normal stations and income generation would be higher. where does fw lose its \"risk-free pvp\" status with your proposal?would this variety of npc navy be fw specific? or would you have all npc navy ships follow this paradigm? for example, would a -8.00 sec character not be shot at by the navy when jumping from low to .7 space?"
"having fw generate more isk \"as a profession\" will bring more people and hopefully lead to players becoming more invested in those aspects of the game. and yes i'm sure datacore moving to fw will bring people.the way it stands now members of fw can never lose all of their assets, money or isk generation. all they stand to \"risk\" is whatever ships they fly into fw fights. this is what i mean by \"risk-free\" and is in stark contrast to nullsec \"life\" where everything you know and love can be taken from you.1 \"bringing the war into highsec\" will allow enemy militia to prowl the entirety of their space to hunt militia members down wherever they are. i can see entire corps dedicated to permanently living in enemy highsec mission and market hubs.2 given that owning a system can bring upgrades to lp payouts for activities in that system, losing said system should be a punch in the stomach to how much money you can make there; such as losing access to datacore generation, having lp payouts for mission agents reduced, losing low-cost manufacturing/invention capability etc. those npcs already are fw specific and differ from the npcs that go after lowsec players."
"-"
"don't be denouncing other ideas. this is a sandbox game, remember, and a human mind capable of pinpointing each causalities is likely to be the most clever-minded, probably autistic eve player contributing to a better game. for now, the general populace probably isn't autistic being all-awesome with finding solutions for eve's new future so instead, i guess, they collect multiple stand-out ideas and make a multi-transformer machine out of them. on-topicfirst, faction warfare could be the 'e-sport of eve' like how dust 514 gladiator arenas will be the 'e-sport of dust'. with this in-mind, you set about making this happen whilst, still, effecting and effected by the sandbox gameincentives is very much something that faction warfare could benefit from. free reimbursements of ships with selectable pre-defined fittings modules for different roles. t1 improved militia-standards. you do not get advanced ship reimbursements important: free incentives must not destabilize the economyrisks you take for being in militia is being a target of enemy militia every second. while this may be ever-so incredibly not-so risky, by having the game attract pvpers and focusing battle-locations, that risk increases. the rewards of constant successful battling ought to be some incentive to simply discourage idle militant players from being do-nothing lamers basically manipulate risk & reward, and freebie incentives, to focus combat into masses making it an entirely more interesting continuum for everyoneend-game faction warfare isn't really entirely necessary as, ideally, you'd be so captivated by the immediacy of never-ending warfare; a persistence requiring so much brain-power and team-work that you'd probably forget end-game as you'd be enjoying yourself so damn much end-game can happen but i doubt it's something urgent. maybe a whole empire falling to bits may receive some external support or have been planning a massive resurgence to reclaim their world end-game faction warfare reset. fw garrison outposts:quote:the current occupancy bunkers need to go, but they need something to replace them. fw garrison outposts. similar to nullsec outposts these are solely owned by the militia that owns the system. it provides a 100% safe harbour for that militia, with no neutrals and especially no enemy militia being able to dock. the station should provide greatly reduced if not completely free services to the owning militia -- free clones, free repairs, free offices, etc.free services for militia. this is important to faction warfare and can be merged into the sandbox. ccp dislikes 'trade capitals' and so by bringing-in an idea of militia effecting local stations would be beautiful. if faction warfare was to send a solarsystem or constellation on full alert, the alert would enforce a 'faction warfare tax' on every sub-sequent market order after the tax for militia to receive free services from stations, and erect & service garrison outposts that can be overtaken by enemy. even an automated npc 'militia cynosural field' that can be exploited by enemy whilst open-door to an incursion. jita 4-4 would be devastated! holy **** how cool is this idea?!----------------------check me out. i got three posts here:"
"yes"
"bloody well wish they would implement it, really. with the current fuel costs, i can save myself time by just insuring every ship and blowing them up. the cost of insurance is the same as the cost of the more popular rigs when destroyed, as is the cost of fuel."
"in order to counter the cloaking abilities of ships, could we get a module, and possibly new ship, that similar to a heavy dictor can deploy a field which decloaks nearby ships?this would be a good way to balance cloaks, and i would be glad if ccp would trade this for giving black ops the ability to warp cloaked."
"no it wouldn't....your presuming that the cloakie is even close enough to you.anyone cloakie worth his salt would only need to be within visual range...that means 75 to 100km or more.the only time one would be on your ass putting it midly is to pop a cyno and even then it won't matter because they intend to do just that caught or not.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"we already have a field like this. it has a range of 2,500m around every ship."
"right because gate camps need a buff and the already pre-gimped cloak ships need another nerf."
"seconded.fwiw: compare with many ccp employees keeping their rl names from the public and going by ccp whatever instead at least until they have to give a video interview or fanfest presentation.it seems clear ccp groks some of their employees prefer to keep some level of privacy within practical limits, so why not extend the same courtesy to csm delegates, who may have another primary job and reputation to care about ?\"democracy is the theory that the common people know what they want, and deserve to get it good and hard.\" [h.l. mencken.]"
"i'm not against merging it with f&i, however, the new forum lacks even more features for proposal management than the old one did. since forever i have been asking for improved forum tools.the csm expressed that they see ass. hall as a legacy tool that isn't needed anymore. while i can imagine other systems, we have to have something that works, and imo f&i doesn't fill that role, not in its current form. going by the csms stance on the issue, the only way to get an issue raised, is by bugging individual csms, essentially doing lobbying work. i don't think that is a good way of handling this. i much prefer the open, democratic and self-documenting nature of forum based approaches."
"my last lengthy post has been eaten, and it's too late to start again. drink the tears, troll away. whatever. thanks eve forums for eating my post. try having a fair fight when you've got gcc and people are playing gate and station games. there are so many gangs in low sec that only engage whn they've got gate/ station aggression on their side, if you try to get people to fight away from those they often refuse. we all know the corps who just play dock games. most of my corp and i are flashy red, there is no penalty for shooting us near a station or gate, and yet so many gangs just play the yellow box games so they have gate / station guns on their side. anyway 3am, bedtime, good night imaginary tear drinkers and trollers."
"get more hic's.derp derp.================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"what i see is you losing hauling ships to lowsec denziens, including a blockade runner. i fail to see how you not knowning how to cloak should result in concord being introduced into lowsec.not every system you want to mission in should be protected by concord. lowsec dwellers going on a hauler shooting spree is more effective at dealing with mission botters than ccp at this point."
"the new ok not so new anymore backgrounds and nebulas look awesome, but when cloaked it's really hard to see your own ship now. please fix so i can see wtf i am pointed at.kthnxbye"
"haven't had a problem with this, and i spend most of my time in eve cloaked."
"your post had a purpose until you said \"kthnxbye\". now it is pointless drivel.yes your cloaked ship is difficult to see. not any more difficult just because of the nebula changes. i always manage to find my ship when i need to."
"train reading and comprehension to i before you come back please.it's quite obvious you don't know how to read or to type.================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"its sometimes difficult to tell in which direction my ship is heading, esp in bright nebulaes. would be nice if the cloak would get a predator like effect since its current cloak effect is quite primitive/dated."
"edit: nvm. wrong thread.but, whilst im here. i suppose the cloaking affect could use some love, although not for the reasons stated above. but, just because its not a great effect."
"this wouldn't even be an issue if the csm took the proper position of representing the entire playerbase of eve and not just their \"constituents\". the entire constituent point of view proves that the csm is being used as nothing more than a meta-gaming tool for one large alliance in nullsec. if you make it onto the csm, you should be taking ideas and points of view from everybody and considering what is best for eve and ccp as a whole and not just what would benefit your alliance the most."
"these forums need a :wtf: smiley. or not. it would probably be the only content in half the posts. anyway... :wtf:mad? why would i be mad? other than field far too many badposters in these forums, the goons have never done anything to anger me. i rather like some of you...which is why i suggested you guys shut up and quit pulling this very public hissy fit. it eats away at your credibility. now instead of fearing you, the pubbies are laughing at you. i've got no reason to be mad. how about you?oh, and don't let us down on 4/28. i'm looking forward to shooting all the gcc ships."
"sorry welsige....your gonna have to eat your foot now...you just got owned.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"the only good idea contained in this thread is having fw agents in space, and only because it would make getting missions easier without the need to dock. i'm not sure but it seems you're implying all stations in any particular fw system will be locked off to anyone but the owning militia. this is ******** x1000. it would instantly send thousands of players into homelessness, severely **** up pretty much every aspect of the game outside empire and doesn't make any logical sense.a far more sensible idea would be to replace the current bunker with a special fw-oriented \"garrison outpost\" that only the owning militia can dock in. this replaces a stupid worthless piece of **** structure with something with viable benefits without causing an uproarous calamity to the thousands of non-fw players who live in lowsec."
"these suggestions are pretty bad and those that are not are just copies of what ccp announced at fanfest"
"paying more/less for station services, restricting access to fw agents rather than completely losing docking rights seems to be the way to go. glad to see there is some consensus on it."
"i got a different take on this to make whole thing more awesome sandbox-style.bio <3"
"nvm.fakeedit: susan's ideas are pretty much exactly what fw needs. it promotes competition between the warring factions while not punishing neutrals for being in the warzone. the tiered method gives something with a more 'grand' feeling for fw people to work at, while not encouraging nullsec blobwars in lowsec. i like it, and fausty is just bitter - thus joining test. enjoy being a pubby, mate."
"ty!"
"proposal based on this, from one older thread with some my edits:there are and anti botting things included- make belts so that you must scan them with probes... its also anti-botting thing - i dont think botts can do probing very well... maybe add some more statics on scans too so that you must have brain to see its only static also, probing is now in starter profession agents so and noobs must learn to probe things.- static belts have only very small roids for new noob players strips dont have use if it... and they are objects in space so that space is not empty... - when you left scanned belt its gone after like 5 minutes... you must scan again... so that botters cant scan all in the morning and and make bookmarks so that their botts can mine all day long- make fleeting with other players and making real ops more rewarding then solo mining orca boost better - botts dont fleet- boost rats and make them smarter - maybe give them scram and let them escalate - botts have more problems with defending themself then real people - and it would be more involving.- make exumers the way that they cant fit active shield boosters but give them more ehp - you have more time to react before rats kill you but you must kill them - no more active tank fits where you don't even pay attention to rats - and mining ships need more ehp overall, they are just too easy targets."
"since they revealed at fanfest that the idea of ring mining is the intended goal in the \"nearish\" future...i think it puts this thread in the \"no longer relevant\" box."
"avila cracko wrote:proposal based on this, from one older thread with some my edits:there are and anti botting things included- make belts so that you must scan them with probes... its also anti-botting thing - i dont think botts can do probing very well... maybe add some more statics on scans too so that you must have brain to see its only static also, probing is now in starter profession agents so and noobs must learn to probe things.- static belts have only very small roids for new noob players strips dont have use if it... and they are objects in space so that space is not empty... - when you left scanned belt its gone after like 5 minutes... you must scan again... so that botters cant scan all in the morning and and make bookmarks so that their botts can mine all day long- make fleeting with other players and making real ops more rewarding then solo mining orca boost better - botts dont fleet- boost rats and make them smarter - maybe give them scram and let them escalate - botts have more problems with defending themself then real people - and it would be more involving.- make exumers the way that they cant fit active shield boosters but give them more ehp - you have more time to react before rats kill you but you must kill them - no more active tank fits where you don't even pay attention to rats - and mining ships need more ehp overall, they are just too easy targets.i know carebear's get a ton of **** and i'm outing myself having flown as one and with many bears in the past, but i can't agree with that change bolded. sometimes i'm just tanking little rats and don't really care enough to kill it and risk interrupting my entire operation on a re-spawn. i like the idea of making mining more fun, but i don't see how nerfing exhumers will make for a better game."
"for those \"carebears\" out there like me, the mission enemies abound part 5 lv4 can be a nightmare, and possibly a death sentence, especially for amarr flying toons such as myself. this mission has a timed spawn, and is anti-faction vs minmatar republic, this means that they npc ships have a very high em, thermal, and kinetic resistance. this missions spawn system is a timed spawn, the player has approximately 3 - 4 minutes before the next wave spawns. now the issue here, is that the first spawn group deals approximately 815 dps, with the following spawns piling on even more dps as they go, this means that a player would need a substantial tank to even be able to last long enough to destroy the first spawn, witch in my case, cant be done in the time frame due to my races damage types. due to the high level of dps incoming, it is required that the player warps out to avoid destruction, however, this also means that the player has even less time to dispatch of the npc ships before the next spawn appears, and eventually, the dps in the room reaches levels that are un-tankable by any player. my proposal is that the spawn system either be changed to an elimination spawn, the next spawn is triggered by the destruction of the entire first spawn, or that the time between spawns is increased in order to give the mission runner more time to eliminate the npc ships, reducing the amount of em, thermal, and kinetic resistance on the npc ships could also be a possible solution.hope you people support me, maybe we can get this changed."
"perhaps you should have been around when there was no limit to the spawns. the only way to make them stop was to pop the stargate. as it is i find no issue with it."
"if a pos was any easier to set up in high sec i wonder how many moons would be left free. i am not sure making them easier to set up would actually make them easier to set unless you are one of the first xx00 through the door. there are already plenty of systems with often abandoned pos's on most or all of their moons, at least from my experience trying to find one for another corp.on the other hand it would almost give high sec war a purpose, fighting over moons."
"i'm bumping this thread because ccp is now really getting to work on fw. i do not think plexing needs a huge overhaul just a few tweaks. once some consequences are added people will start entering the plexes and fighting over them more often. and the plexing mechanics are pretty good already.it especially does not need to be turned into a system were we shoot red crosses ftw.i would also point out that there is a bug where minor plexes will often stop spawning. this needs to be fixed. the plexes should spawn in a timely fashion because that is what brings some urgency to defending a system. make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"the biggest things they can do to help fw plexing is1. build a better in-game militia tab. that thing is worthless, and offers nothing of value.2. update the map. a. use absolute and not relative value for deciding size of contested dots on maps. b. refresh map more quickly like every time a plex is closed.3. fix respawn bugs. get a dev to talk to damar to figure out what is happening and get it fixed."
"you late a littlebit. :p"
"a distinctive sound you make when decloaked, that is different from regular decloaking when jumping into system,."
"there is....but its bloody quiet...i think they kinda nerfed a few patches ago.making it more distinctive.....would be nice. ================ stop the evemail spam!"
"i'd support the audible alarm idea, but only when something is actually close enough to be decloaking you. not sooner than that."
"no afk alarm."
"meh.i just wish my ship wouldn't decloak when warping to a belt because it happens to past through the roids."
"blatant bump"
"to much fail economics, price of rigs is determined by,,,,,.......value of materials they are made from, salvage!surplus of materials for rigs, not being used not trashed means,..... they cost less.if people make less then the prices for rigs will still go down,, maybe even more because less rig manufacturers burning into supply of salvage."
"get money and buy new rigs"
"this would be the last thing that we need for cloakies. forget all that you ever learned about cloaking, grab a bomber and actually fly one through hostile space. after you do that for a while and run a few gate camps, imagine the nightmare it would be to have to run camps with no cloak.come back to this thread, tell everyone that you were wrong and that you feel bad for even thinking this way and was dumb enough to post it up for all to see. apologize publicly and biomass yourself. oh and before you finish the job, give me all your stuff.mmos come and go, but eve remains. -garresh-"
"cloaks are an extremely powerful tool in this game. they have pretty much 2 purposes: 1. to safely hide from an enemy. regular cloaks2. to safely navigate through space. covert cloakif you negate either of these aspects with a new game mechanic, you make the cloak nearly useless. as such, any decloaking tools need to be balanced such they don't impede the primary role of the cloak. your decloak field completely negates covert cloaks, ******* over the balance of covert ops, stealth bombers, force recons, and various t3 configurations. you need to think before you post. your idea has no drawbacks, and essentially negates several classes of ships. do you comprehend how bad it is? why did you propose it? perhaps you can redeem yourself by explaining why you think a mechanic like this needs to exist, and what you're trying to accomplish... two more points: 1. assembly hall is for well thought out ideas.... brainfarts like this belong in features and ideas.... 2. ideas exactly like this have been proposed many times before... do some research before regurgitating craptastic ideas on the forum!"
"hello everyoni did not find this idea trough the forums in this way tough the general idea is the same to get more tech 2 blueprint originals into the gameso my proposal is based more on playing the game than passive income. we all know that there are talks that the current research agent system is going to change in some way and like my self i have trained alot to get the skills to use the agents and i would hate it to go to wastealso i read few threds that the current tech 2 bpo owners control 1/3 of the tech 2 market. thats alotso from these i came up with this idea. i will not go into figures cause thats ccp:s thing and if this idea would be accepted it would be their job to balance it so i will not go into figuresidemaking tech 2 blueprints originals trough hard worthe excisting agent system would be modified so that you can use agents to do the datacores or you could research tech 2 original blueprintsmaking an original would requite minumum of 3 reseach agents combined effortforexample astarte is made by duvolle labs so you would need an agent from that corporation starship engineerin then you would need the 2 other agents mechanical and gallente encryptions that can be can be from any other corporation. also you would need the required standings naturaly. you can boost the research by adding more agents of the same types up tho maximun of your skillsthe actual research is done with the agents and they will give you missions what you need to do, ask for material and so forth. if you do not provide the agents with the materials they ask the reseach is halted and is on a stand still. they will not ask materials every minute but every now and thenthe print would be done from same material what invention uses and tech 2 blueprint research uses. all the materials put into the reseach would be consumedto balance this with invention so that invention would also be viable option this sould take alot of time and effort."
"complete waste of time.its cheaper to use invention.your doing it wrong.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"sorry did not read op post"
"we don't need more t2 bpo's.... if anything, just balance invention such that the me and pe levels of the original bpc are transfered to the invented t2 bpc, albeit with a penalty.... for example, maybe the invented bpc's me & pe levels retain 0-5% of the original bpc's me/pe levels... with different decryptors offering different percentage levels. consumable items are much better for this game than static items, hence bpc's are much better than bpo's..."
"i have used my amazing paint skills to demonstrate how we might make hovering modules a bit more productive. currently when you hover a gun module it provides information like which f-button it's assigned to, if it's on overload or not, ammo type and whether or not it's active. i feel that overload / active status is covered fairly well since when on overheat it is flashing or solid bright green, when the module is active you have the green rotating ring. i don't have much trouble determining which button it's assigned to either, and have never once had to hover my module to see which button to push.that said, i present to you my masterpiece of graphic manipulation..."
"1.0"
"pirating is working, in eve your supported fine to do it. hell, you can pirate in highsec as well using game mechanics have a alt in orca supply your ganker with destroyers and blow up exhumers worth hundreds of millionsas to if things are not supported, or how to actualy improve things, like a 'black market' or a racketering station, could you explain what the damnation those are, or would be in a player driven game and economy. less vague ideas, and whine."
"it's a lack of scanning skills, or the lack of scanning at all, fw low does hold those anomalies."
"robbing heavily armed warvessel with no loot is piracy?hi, i wouldn't shoot anyone for few hundred million with current isk value. it's just not worth of time."
"ohno another urban legend about long gone pirates in low sec."
"i haven't pirated since 2006, although i tried in 2007, 2008, and 2009... but found there was no longer any profitability."
"this sounds like an overly romanticized view of piracy. blowing things up and taking what isn't yours is...blowing things up and taking what isn't yours. one may be government sanctioned with a letter of marque or one may be part of one's government's regular military...or one may be flying a jolly roger and yelling \"yarr!\" at anyone who will listen but not one of these instances will likely make the victim feel less victimized.this isn't sherwood forest...every capsuleer can be king john.\"rudeness is the weak man's imitation of strength.\" - eric hoffer"
"dafuk you talkin about?this is also speculating what they're doing for low sec changes;and reasons to how they may be going about that.this is also suggestions what they're hearing-out for;on redefining the middle-ground that is low-sec.this isn't ignorance. this is stimulated discussion;and not a typical 'rage-mongering' ignorant bullshit.god damn.... it's all good. relax and be constructive."
"yea i can tend to piracy. i don't play as it in-game though. :i had another thought that all this ship revamp and faction warfare revamp could bring about changing low-sec, too, and not just what this thread is about. militia could blast through and while they're busy fighting, they could decide to clear enemy player-pirates of lowsec and claim bounties. this is all assuming faction warfare becomes so densely popular."
"really? how so? move along troll.also, train 'contribute to the thread or **** off' to level i before posting again."
"i'm sorry....i didn't mean to hurt your feelings.if your really that \"butthurt\" feel free to go to wow or hello kitty online.welcome to eve online.ps: maybe you should start with your graphics card settings or brightness because i can see my ship just fine.================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"troll harder. 1/10."
"don't worry, this is largely the case.the csm doesn't dictate what ccp does or doesn't do, we explain why players would react the way they would to things that are proposed, and while specific groups have specific needs, there's people around to push for just about everyone."
"exactly how?i am here trying to discuss an alternative method about replacing candidates for whatever reasons they end not being able to assume the charge, being it a punishment, getting ill, rl issues, or any other reason.i am not the one bringing up the especific issue that happened at fanfest. while i try to look at the bigger picture, some people come and focus on its personal vendettas and rage - wich just serves to prove my point - that players are not being represented.while i certainly hope that all interests will be represented, one must realize candidates will most often than not push for changes that benefit their voter's base, thats just how reallife works, and thus the csm. sure, they dont hold any real power, but their input can sway ccp to one side or the other."
"given what you want is to be able to apply your 10,000 votes to another candidate under the mittani's control, it would invalidate removing the mittani from the csm entirely.when you consider that goons are already cheering about how banning mittani from the game has no effect on his ability to run goonswarm, perhaps it would be silly to put him/you in a position to make the same boasts about the csm and it's chairmanship?you guys are your own worst enemies."
"susan i think that change makes allot more sense. so the opposing militia could dock in non-occupying militia stations without station guns right? it would only be the fw specfic stations. i think hans had basically proposed this idea before.if we are happy about how the occupancy mechanics currently work then adding some consequences alon these lines is ok with me. personally i think they could be improved but by an large after the down time change they work pretty well. i am still curious why you apparently want to increase the importance of pve in faction war occupancy. see my earlier post in this thread btw: great blog. its one of the very few blogs that i actually enjoy reading. make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"back to the top - fix the lp stores, fix eve! :"
"we've already got t2, faction, deadspace, and officer tags on icons, so why not add an item's meta level to the other side?i figure this will be infinitely more convenient than going \"right click\" -> \"show info\", especially if you're wanting to check multiple items.here's a mockup i worked up i suck at this kind of stuff, i'm sure ccp can do infinitely better. i chose the color by randomly flicking the hue shift setting.actual size:zoomed in view:"
"i support anything that will stop the 'prototype' 'limited' 'upgraded' everything bullshit that they're doing. add this and restore the original names, even though i hate this idea because it'll clutter up the nice-looking icons."
"simple suggestion, is handy for all players, no drawbacks. you have my vote."
"this sounds fantastic."
"i like it. make it so."
"you've got my support. i hate when i'm trying to figure out what meta level certain modules are and have to show info a bazillion times. like katalci said too then we can have the original names back with all their flavor and charm."
"names are meaningless don't bother changing them back. the new system makes more sense anyway, especially to a new player. the op's idea is good. that part i support."
"i no longer look at a module and read its name, i look at the meta name and see 'shield recharger meta 4' or whatever. this idea makes a lot of sense, and would help, well, everyone."
"eve has sound? the only time this would be useful is if you were afk.afk-cloakers aren't dangerous but they should be probe-able in some way. perhaps an ultra uber probe launcher and probe."
"insurance. insurance payments would also need to be blocked when a bounty is collected. this doesn't seem like such a great leap anymore either now that concord doesn't result in an insurance payment. now if only there was a way to track down your mark and force them out of station/pos shields, but that would break too many other things..."
"i think this is actually the first good suggestion i've ever seen for bounty hunting. the only things i'd change is that the pod bounty should be capped at the cost of the current clone plus implants and that insurance shouldn't pay for kills where a bounty was collected. how would forcing people into npc corps help bounty hunting?"
"how ?for game mechanics. the npc corporation give to you, the bh license, nothing else. the npc bh agents give to you the works nothing else lvl or class system after kills: lvl1 10 kills etc and bounties. so , u can't kill your pilot with your alt for headprice without works for bh. just as the third rule:\"3. class system for headhunting after pirate kill numbers. newby bounty hunter can't collect bounty from highly ranked pirates need to reach better bountyhunter class for highly pay. \""
"dps increase needed because titans should always be able to do more dps than anything else in the game. i like the idea of titans having to log on to something in system, but maybe make it more like a sbu that anchors and onlines at the tcu in 1 minute. in low it oils go around the control bunker."
"i agree that the titans need a damage boost, but it should come at a penalty just like the dread. why not just let the titan use the siege module instead of outright buffing its damage? this would be much easier to implement than your suggestion, and would do just about the same thing, while also providing a penalty when it does use its massive dps.this is starting to sound alot like the superdread portion of my proposal..."
"i disagree on the siege. titans shouldn't become a tech two dread."
"rumor has it this is where suggestions should be posted.i'm making a wishlist of trade features.link to the m&d forum.apparently there is a format i need to follow; i'll work on that.in short: traders haven't gotten love in forever. please give us love. see link for suggestions."
"advanced cloaking: science skill int/mem x8requirements: cloaking veffects: reduces targeting recalibration delay after decloaking on ships with cov-ops cloaks by 1 second per level. except on bombers which get 1 second reduction in cloaking reactivation delay per level instead.goal: make cov ops ships better ambushers, there's no need for the 5-6 second targeting delay on covops frigs and recons. give a reason to train cloaking v, more specialized training for players to do."
"hmm, instalocking arazu with 60km point and 0-1s targeting delay. methinks this could be abused."
"its bad enough we get cloaky whiners and ####er's all over hell....now you wana buff the cloaking device.i sense a bad bad omen over this thread.not supporting.*runs like hell*================ stop the evemail spam!"
"why would that be an issue and say warp bubbles on gates not be an issue? you can't see what's on the other side of the gate anymore than you can see a cloaked arazu, the bubble instantly stops you warping unless your in a nullified t3 or something.drake,whiners will whine regardless, there's players that just hate any form of stealth mechanics, and players that hate any form of non consensual pvp... or even the potential threat of it. afk cloak whiners often display characteristics indicating both. who cares what they think, they don't belong in a game like this to begin with."
"a bubble is static and doesn't follow you back through the gate while you are attempting to escape. bubbles don't stalk you while you are flying through a system. cloaked arazus can't be d-scanned from a distance and avoided. bubbles don't employ debilitating ewar and shoot you.edit: outside of black ops ships, cloaking-specialized ships are more or less balanced as they are imo of course. no need to tamper with them.not supported."
"kills an isk sink. not supported. what i would support however, is making all modules work like rigs in that they are destroyed if removed. the only way to get them off the ship once placed on would be for that ship to be destroyed and the module drop as loot or perhaps salvage instead."
"i realize my idea is not perfect, the purpose of this thread was more to toss around some idea to counter them. i'm sorry, i was did not really state that earlier. now i for one love cloaky ships, i fly falcons and stealthbombers, i think they are fine as arehoweveri live in a wh with friends, and we have noticed the inordinate problems a single sb pilot can have. they can site in the hole indefinably with no way to find them and simply wait for the moment when an indy ship such as a hauler is without escort or is otherwise vulnerable even for a moment.this is simply ridiculous. one can just sit somewhere with virtually no personally risk for an infinite amount of time. i do not personally have a perfect idea for how to solve this problem, thats why i brought it here."
"you mean there is someone that takes his game time to sit and wait like a trapdoorspider waiting for hours until there is someone passing by.respect!!easy to counter though, make sure you're in a fleet that can come to your aid and make sure your hauler can substain some damage. or make the hauler faster and more agile, keeping aligned will help as well."
"try harder....its an easy thing to counter.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"i emphasized the important part of your post. if you want wh space arguably meant to be the most unsafe place in eve to be safe for a lone hauler you're crazy.if you cannot figure out how to counter a ship with literally the worst ehp in the game then a move to high sec might be in order."
"your decloak bubble won't stop a sb from harassing you in a wh, as you can't possibly control the entrances enough to prevent their entering. instead, you suggest the ideal gate camp device to prevent cloakies from traversing a gate camp..... for gate camp decloaking, try a fast interceptor... it's harder, but you don't deserve easy-mode decloaking hax... as for your rogue sb, try a bait ship..."
"would quickly become as mandatory as bubbles themselves and represents extremely easy/cheap protection from cloakers.if anything should be done, then treat them like contemporary subs and have sub-hunters that 'ping' local space for an approximate vector to target .. accuracy dependent on type of cloak and range from ping'er. actual decloaking would still require you to move within the required range.ideally, hunting for cloaks, should be a team/group effort."
"good lord, i know that we need protection on things, what im trying to say is its ridiculous someone can just sit cloaked for weeks and we pretty much have nothing we can do to get rid of them. i like wormhole space for the danger, but one person should not have it this easy.we protect haulers or miners ect.. we have set traps, but either he does not engage know we have people cloaked or something or he reclaoks beofer we can lock onto him."
"what's ridiculous is your statement above.please hop in a stealth bomber and go and go try doing this yourself, then come back and tell us what a great productive use of your time and effort it was. you should also note it's only risk free so long as your just sitting watching not doing anything, you know kind of like sitting in a pos or a station."
"so you have already countered the sb. /thread."
"definitely not the best idea making the csm's real info public."
"yup. supported."
"i heavily support this but i wouldn't remove the hotkey info. both the hotkey info and this information are much more important than how many charges are there considering that is present already when just looking at the module. at the risk of making this game too easy, these things would save many pilots time and keep us from getting carpal tunnel."
"i have my volume up and have to go to the escape menu every time i dock to mute sound cause it's really loud louder than warp easily. can we get a volume slider for station sounds?"
"well i just tried all the systems in the obray constallation and i found no non-fw anomaly using my prober....? tried obray constallation, woenckee constallation. lots of gallente stuff but no serpentis port, hub den etc...tried 4 systems not a single serpentis anomaly. got plenty of serpentis ded plexes there, but no anomalies the ones you can find with the onboard scanner."
"making pirate scum suffer is a honorable business.continue doing so"
"this.catching supers with hics is already easy.titans should not be able to hit you after the nerf.in case of super carriers, primary the bombers first.in the event of sub cap agro, bring more deeps bro."
"no point considering all the items are the same anyway. if they gave us the ability to customize the stats of the things we made like in beyond protocol or old school swg it's a different story."
"rimase wrote: concord operate in low-sec! unlike high-sec's concord if i ever see you in-game i'm going to kill you on principle.rimase wrote:yea i can tend to piracy.a ridiculous claim considering you want to end it.rimase wrote:i don't play as it in-game though. :obviously."
"great suggestion, support this change. and as discussion, adjusting drop rates for certain tags and reducing negative faction impact of anti-faction missions, would both help loads as well. all three would be total problem solved, and the faction lp rewards market would suddenly become functional.such a simple change!!! come on ccp...."
"the tags are actually a nice aspect of the lp store. the lp stores used to be one of the better self balancing methods of pay for pve in eve.however i think there were 2 hamfisted things that ccp has done to throw this nice system out of whack:1 they increased the faction mod drops in null sec which in turn can drive down the prices of the lp store items since they compete.2 they gave incursion runners \"super lp\" that they can use in any lp store thereby destroying the self balancing aspect of the lp store.the items in the lp store have stayed about the same and maybe rose up in price a bit. but the tags have increased in price more than the increase on in the item price. hence the profit margins are slimmer. the reason the tags have increased in price is the demand for them has gone up due to incursion super lp but the supply has not. now the supply of these tags may start to go up from faction war and more people taking these missions but because of the huge amount of \"super lp\" incursion farmers have accumulated the lp store will remain a place with very tight margins. not only that the tags have a limit as to how high they can reach because of the faction drops in null sec. dread guristas shield hardeners keep caldari navy ones from increasing very much. and this is what keeps the value of tags low. normally what would happen is if the tags go up in price but the items aren't going up in price much you could run missions for a different corp. but incursion runners get so much direct isk on top of their \"ultimate lp\" that they continue to dampen the best lp markets. make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"fewer n00bs in topic.n00b. what is the collective noun for n00bs?\"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"please...train reading and comprehension to level 1 before replying....your an embarasment if you don't.think of the children!!as for afk cloakers...well for crying out loud...anyone with half a brain could figure that problem out with current mechanics....so afk wise its irrelevant.it could even be a quite alarm...or a little beep noise or whatever....something thats already present..like \"hull breech eminat\" warning you get when struct is gonna go \"boom\"================ stop the evemail spam!"
"oh i forgot i killed you, so many times. but i'm really, noob yes. :pbut just as i said. not need afk alarms for noob like you, when accidentally decloaking the afk cloakers someone or something.keep eye on your ship, and problem solved."
"the titan is a mobile outpost with the abilities to destroy other mobile outpost titans, it shouldn't be able to hit a subcap even if said subcap were in the barrel or silo of the titans main weapon. moving an xl weapon barrel should be extremly slow, otherwise the barrels would bend from inertia and stress due to their immense size. shooting a battle ship with a titan should be like shooting a bumble bee at 5 miles with a 120mm cannon.dreads are made for combat, titans are made for support."
"then how would you implement a damage increase, while also providing a risk in using that boosted damage?"
"a titan is not a mobile outpost. it is a fleet boosting, force projecting, superweapon equipped, capital weapon combat machine. which in my opinion is too much, hence the proposal to divide up its capabilities into separate ships.yes i agree it should not be able to hit subcaps, but like ive already said, ccp is working on a fix for that.as ive already pointed out, the titan is not a support ship. they are made for combat, even more so in fact since they have multiple combat roles that synergize together than dreads do."
"it isn't but it should be, an can in fact be turned into one. titans are conceptually incompatible with eve. you can't make them a powerful enough combat ship to be worthy of what they are supposed to be without unbalancing the whole game. they should never have existed, but they do now. best approach is to redo them completely in a non-combat role, since just deleting them is not a viable option."
"i read \"most\" of your original post and i support the general idea.+1 -selection of multiple orders for cancellation, etc -modification of the range, expiration, and quantity of existing orders-optimize market interface and/or ui; faster loading/refresh/etc-a skill to decrease the delay order modification timer -fix \"margin trading scams\" -set threshold for wallet blink -option to limit buy orders on sec status-make it possible to adjust an order within the market window it would also be nice to have your own orders highlighted in the market window.^^ just a few of my favorite. \"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"deployable warp disruptor bubbles can't follow you through a gate, but an interdictor or hic can, unless just like the arazu they've already aggressed. you can't dscan the other side of a gate, and all the debilitating ewar plus so much more can be deployed alongside a deployed warp bubble. so, as i stated there isn't anything to be abused as mxzf suggested that does not already exist in gate camps. so i ask again why are gate camps ok but an arazu with no targeting recalibration after uncloaking not ok?"
"ok...you have me there...and admitedly the idea isn't terrible....just might not be favored as far as mechanics are concerned.i'll keep an eye on this thread to see what people say for now. ================ stop the evemail spam!"
"as soon as the hic/dic deploys a bubble it becomes aggroed. so no, it can't follow you through the gate. bubbles also do not disable mwds or make you go slower unless a web is applied. yes, but a mobile bubble needs people. otherwise it's useless. even a solo hic or dic is pretty much useless by itself and can be outrun by almost any ship while using its point, save for battleships."
"same applies to the arazu if it puts a point on someone. if it's disabling someones mwd it isn't from 40km away.the arazu needs a person as well, and as a force recon isn't exactly a powerful ship alone either.anyway, my key point still stands, possibility of suddenly being unable to flee by warping away already exists with gate camps as you cannot see what's at the other side of the gate. so, that cannot alone be a reason to reject the idea, unless your also being consistent and address the gate camp scenario."
"this seems like a very valid idea. do it! for the love of god!"
"i'm sorry... i vehemently disagree with your suggestion!!! why do you need to be in \"different clones\" for different ctas????? jump clones have two major benefits: 1. they allow you to travel across the universe, instantly... to a completely different location. 2. they allow you to \"store\" clones with valuable implants for use later. your suggestion, while fairly conservative with a 12 hour timer, wont solve any of the \"issues\" you raised. your primary reason for wanting a reduced jc timer is so people can join multiple cta's within the same day, using different implant sets. here are the some major flaws in your reasoning for the change: a. implants don't hurt you.... as such, you never need to switch implants for a gang. the implants you have might cost more than you wish to risk, and there are often better implants you could use, but you don't need them. there are two cases i foresee where you can claim i'm wrong here: fitting implants and mindlinks. this brings me to point b. b. you can already use different implant sets without waiting for the 24 hour timer. you find the implant under augmentations, right click, and hit \"unplug\". then plug in new ones. sure, you might not want to do so with a billion isk pirate set, but the inconvenience of implants is the only drawback they have. most implants do not cost an exuberant amount of isk, and if you can't afford to unplug and plug in new ones, you're either flying with too expensive implants, or you're too cheap. eve is a game of consequences.... and the consequences for using expensive implants is you cant stop using/risking them until they get stored in a jc. that is the price of using implants, why should this be reduced???c. if you have \"multiple\" cta's to attend, do you really think a 12 hour timer on your clone is going to solve anything? most players don't play enough to attend cta's 12 hours apart. essentially, what your asking for, is the ability to jc out of your clone at at the end of the day, and clone hop back at log in. this way you can maximize your training without risking expensive implants, etc, etc, etc.... if you want to have your implant sets for modern day cta's, you would need a jc on the order of 2-4 hours... but then why would anyone fly anywhere, as they could jc all over the known universe.....essentially, i understand your desire to be able to jc more often, but you haven't given any reason worth a damn!!! the results of your suggestion would have the follwoing effects: -- reduce the \"oppertunity cost\" of implants.... part of the cost of having an implant is that you can't unfit it. by making jc'ing between clones easier, you are effectively reducing the impact his will have on your character. -- remove the importance of location. by reducing the jc timer, you basically encourage jc'ing as a \"mode\" of travel. while it is currently used as one, the 24 hour timer limits its effectiveness. there is also suicide med bay traveling, but the destinations you can reach are far more limited, and the cost is signficantly greater than with jc's."
"why do you need to jc between regions? you can just as easily set your med clone to the new destination, undock and suicide your pod. sure, you don't get to keep your implants, and it costs you some isk to upgrade your clone... but do you really think its good for the game if you can move around the entire universe without some type of risk and/or cost?"
"well if you think this way then it would be better to remove tech one print also?<U+FFFD>an idea about generating more items to the game should be considered. they would be player made. everything else in the game is also player made so this way you could start to produce something you would like to have. tough it would consume alot of time and effort. it would be something for those that like to do research. not everyone likes to shoot things up you know."
"t2 bpos were removed for a reason. i suggest you find out that that reason is before deciding to undo it.also, those t2 bpo holders, for the most part, are still trying to break even on the cost of actually getting it. last i heard it took at least 5 years before you actually hit the break even point."
"well ccp. can you tell us why did you remove tech 2 blueprint original lottery?and so what if someone is breaking even after 5 years. the game is changed constantly and when ccp was seeding t2 originals they did not cost anything. you got the originals trough a lottery system a loong loong time ago. thus the current system is faulty where we have a fixed amount of originals and copies with horrible me levels and competing with the originals is nearly impossible.and thats why i had idea was to make a new system where people would need to work towards getting bpos and not just randomly get them trough a lottery. this would also add new content to the game for the players that do like carebearing and stuff. and also i'm not saying they should remove the invention system but they should make a system next to it where you could get originals as a reward.oh here"
"i understand you<U+FFFD>re trying to balance manufacturing; however i just don<U+FFFD>t think this is the right way to do it. truth be told, there are several reasons t2 manufacturing has such a low profit margin. t2 bpo holders always take the ire, as they can always produce items using fewer materials, but there are other ways that t2 markets have been cornered. many people have cheap sources of moongoo materials, which is why they can produce items far more cheaply than the random indy corp. other people have very cheap sources of minerals<U+FFFD>. these are just as important at creating highly profitable t2 items as the t2 bpos and more-so in many cases. here is the major problem with your suggestion: you crash the t2 bpo market.... --while you feel like t2 bpo's give an unfair advantage to those with them, we are no longer in the environment were people came upon their t2 bpo's by chance. it has been five years since the lottery ended, and the majority of holders have them as investments. your suggestion doesn't slap the face of some lucky veterans; rather it castrates the industrious players that have spent years accruing their massive wealth. your belief that most players that have t2 bpo<U+FFFD>s do so because they won them in a lottery is just plain wrong. most players that have t2 bpo<U+FFFD>s do so because they built a financial empire, and bought them with their hard-earned isk. these are the players you<U+FFFD>re ******* over, and frankly, they don<U+FFFD>t deserve it!! if you bothered to examine my counter idea, you<U+FFFD>d see that it helps balance the me/pe discrepencies between inventors and bpo holders, yet the bpo holder still retains a significant advantage and hence value. it gives a major boost to exploration, and it rewards people for taking the time to get high me/pe levels on their t1 bpo<U+FFFD>s which straight up boosts pos research. your suggestion adds very little to the economy, relies on interacting with annoying npc agents, and is very short sighted in whom it hurts<U+FFFD>"
"i do not see it as a problem if the tech 2 bpo market would crash. it realy isn't real market cause the prices are stupidly insane.tough if the bpo idea is silly i'm open for discustion. i just feel something needs to be done to invention.mayby make copies researchable."
"i know countless t2 invetors....and everyone of them tells me t2 bpo's = waste of timewhat the heck is driving this?================ stop the evemail spam!"
"thats like saying the diamond market isn't a real market because the prices are stupidly insane. just because a market has a high barrier of entry doesn't mean that its not a real market, or isn't valid.additionally, if you had read the link you looked up, you would see that they wanted it player driven, not something you can get out of an npc. you are aware they are taking as much away from npcs as they can, right? if ccp could figure out how to do it, they would remove t1 bpos as well, since those and skillbooks are just about the only things that are sold by npcs on the market.next you are going to want faction bpos in the lp stores."
"i completely agree with this.yes, i know people will say but you have to trust everyone and blah, blah, blah. but if that was the case then why have any security roles at all. it is just beyond crazy that just because someone can run some factory slots that they can cancel every single job ran by every single player in the coporation. it is just beyond crazy. i just can't understand why this hasn't been fixed yet.has ccp every repsonded to this issue? i have searched around but haven't been able to find any ccp resonse to this issue at all. it would be nice to know what their stance on it was."
"yes. this one of the many issues in the morass of corp management that needs to be dealt with. i really can't wait for the time when they completely overhaul corp management *wistful sigh*"
"what would one need to do to get an official respnse on this. you would be surprised what i would do to get said response. this one issue is probobly the only thing really keeping me from really getting into this game.if anyone, anywhere has ever seen any official response on this issue, please post a link. i would be your friend forever!"
"iirc the best way is supposed to be to get in touch with the csm. i keep meaning to do that about one of my threads, but i just haven't gotten around to it, lol."
"my understaning though is that the csm has people who really don't care about this sort of stuff. they are more into the bang bang zap zap features of the game. which is cool and all, but really i just don't know why this hasn't been fixed yet. it makes my head hurt thinking about it."
"so whilst i was looking to help a friend who was trying to get involved in faction warfare i came across a problem:when you do a search with the \"faction warfare\" tag selected in the recruitment search it returns a whole slew of results, and very few of them actually have anything to do with actual faction warfare i propose that the \"faction warfare\" tag can only be used in corps that are actually a part of fw."
"i will argue that this would also add an element of distraction for female players when shooting people in the face becomes a reality in wis. but in all seriousness this is purely for that bit of added immersion in the game."
"i am happy that they posed the question at fanfest and ccp responded favorably in that they want gang links on grid as well. i can't wait to start popping me some command ships!"
"i missed this. where/when did this come up?it seems ccp is reading what the players want. i am glad to hear it. make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"i don't remember which panel it was on but during the q&a someone asked if ccp ever intended on making fleet boosters be on grid. i believe it was torfifrans that answered and stated that they did want fleet boosters to be part of the fight and on grid. i will see if i can find a link."
"just a small idea to this.cause this is based on killrights so as some people know someone will want to add bounties to people with no killrights on them so how about if you could buy killright and add you bounty to it from concord.buying more killrights against the same player would be more costly like 2 times more every time. and yes this should be insane expensive to players like 500mil / killright for the first one plus bounty. this would be for those that you realy realy hate someone and want them to suffer for their deeds.just an idea.the high and increased cost would limit griefing and so on.but i still like the base idea anyways xd"
"500 mill isn't nearly enough - people will pay that in a heartbeat to be able to get killrights on a jump freighter pilot for instance. it's just too open to exploitation imo."
"i agree. don't make it more complex than it has to be. just make killrights transferable via contracts that don't payout more than the cost of the kill."
"completely no. killrights are issued on a chracter and granted to another. they may be granted/transferred to different characters, but under no circumstance they could be issued to people who didn't calle don themsevles with their unlawful actions.bounty hunting is a utterly useless and broken retaliation system, not another venue for free griefing as if eve needed any more of those!"
"thank you for both of your suggestions and support - i really do wish ccp would look at tag distribution and give it some more love :"
"little chevrons for the metalevel.it's a tiny effort, much easier then the whole renaming nonsense with ccp gnauton butchering module names seriously, that guy has absolutely no clue what he's doing.operation write down all the things!!! check out the list at"
"dear ccp,thank you for letting us create our own playlists in the in-game jukebox. it's a nice feature and i really love doing missions to the soundtrack of the firefly series, etc. but why oh why does the player have to switch to the in-game \"action music\" every time you pass through an acceleration gate? it completely counters the idea behind having your own playlist if every time you pass through a mission gate you are reverted to the client's own music.i know this is a small thing, but that also means it's easy to fix. two simple solutions come to mind: when going through an acceleration gate client does a check to see if you're playing normal eve playlist or if you are playing custom playlist. if the latter client doesn't load mission music. a checkbox in the escape menu that allows you to select whether you wish to have mission action music or not. thanks!/yargle"
"but u can. limit the amount of ingame titans, then u can make them very powerful without breaking the game."
"who get to keep their titans? are you suggesting ccp take titans away from anyone who has to many? how exactly would you propose to do this with out creating a potential situation where one side has an overwhelming number of titans?if you limit it to say, 10, at least 7 of those 10 will end up joining the same alliance because titans are much safer with other titans around. do you understand why this would be a problem?"
"they should be support ships. as long as it's a combat ship we will continue to see fleets with dozens of titans.titans should be mobile stations with full docking, logging on/off capability for docked players, upgradable station-services, and corporation-owned and operated in the same way pos are.their role should be forward command-posts for big sov-alliances and mobile hq's for more nomadic smaller alliances.operation write down all the things!!! check out the list at"
"with as many roles as titans currently have, you are correct that they unbalance the whole game. however, if we were to cut down on the number of roles they were able to perform in, they become much easier to balance properly while still being appropriately powerful.all of the methods of limiting titans i have seen thus far are unsatisfactory to downright terrible from a coding standpoint. an adjustment of the superweapon and the roles a titan can perform would be a much easier fix.i don't see a problem with large fleets of titans, the problem i see is that said fleets of titans have no counter, and that's what needs to be fixed. they are currently far too capable and fitting them into a more focused role seems to be the easiest and simplest method of fixing it that i have seen.i kind of agree that you should be able to dock subcaps in a titan, but not capitals. you should not be able to log out while docked in a titan and i dont see any purpose for station services in a titan other than perhaps a repair bay. titans should not be associated with a pos in any way shape or form imo. if you want a station, build a station, you can buy 4 of them for the price of a titan."
"limit titan pilots can only join corps that are in alliances, and these corps can only have one player with one of the titan skill books injected in corp. a alliance could only have one tiatn capable corp at a time. all exsisting titans would be kept, however it you owned a titan u would be forced to drop corp."
"yet another terrible idea.... what about corps with 15 people with titan skillbooks injected, even if none of them have the ship to go with it, are you going to force them to not be able to play together?edit: corps that build titans need several people capable of flying them, and will also need at least 1 of each skillbook, so your limit on titan skillbooks would need to be at least 10 or more per corp."
"eve is a pvp game period. whoever does not pvp doesn't know how to play eve, right? instead of wasting time, money and tears about how to \"fix\" wardec, incursions etc and to be sure empire carebears do not earn more isk than peeveepeers i propose to turn safe empire to 0.0 or better to low sec. edit: empire as we know it now should be only for npc corps. the moment you leave the npc corp you leave empire.p.s. be nice"
"obvious troll is obvious. 0/10."
"it's called a proposal. it says get rid of empire entirely."
"this proposal will go far."
"i hope so because it would solve such \"problems\" entirely"
"sure...right after your permabanned.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"lol sure anned for what?"
"i answer with stupid/riduclous requests with an equally stupid riduclous request.if you want something that outragious...then i expect an equal payment in likewise for my/our support.forcing people to play the game your way will never work here....if your going to do that...i demand to have you forcefully removed from the game as a fair price tag.permantely.don't like it? then don't make stupid requests.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"thanks for your anwer. first of i dont force nothing. i think i have the right to make a proposal, if it's accepted or not thats a different story. now."
"re-read your proposal and tell me again your not forcing people to play to your so called imposed style.also...ccp has not really changed much at all. the current mechancis for dodging war dec is still the same it was.whats changing however is the exploits currently available....that is the difference.so please...with all due respect...get off your pvp highhorse and come back down to reallity eh?================ stop the evemail spam!"
"lets add this to the \"flux system security due to pirate/missioner activity\" take a few months of ratting and ganking, blob and plexing statistics, and transform every system with x number of rats killed into a higher sec system, and every system with a x number of player killed ships into a lower security system, vast swaths of null would become a hi security and parts of empire would become lowsec, jita would of course become nullsec in a day. as no missions happen there and they dont have belts to rat. this would be very very entertaining. mission hubs would remain little outposts in otherwise low security space. concord sov would stay hisec, because its concord sov space. it would still be empire sov so no jb, or ihubs, but you would have to actively defend your research towers as the wardecs would fly for those hisec moon spaces, and reaction towers would need you to really defend your space. lest it turn back into hisec and all your stuff get unanchored. this would in turn really entice people to move out to alliance hicesec, and revive those regional market hubs, unless someone really took the time and effort to maintain those trade route corridors to jita, they would all fall pretty fast into lowsecurity. and nullsec."
"unsupported. cloaking is already too overpowered."
"gonna have to go with the crowd and say no to this one. cloaking needs to be balanced out properly before any more crap is added to it."
"yeah, this was easily the best bounty hunter fix i had seen on the forums. i had an idea that was similar but this was a hell of a lot more refined and in my opinion pretty much solves the entire problem."
"doh..."
"the reasons are billions of isk. maybe my money is not \"worth a damn\" to you, but i feel quite differently about my money, pal.i can understand being opposed to something because it risks a small amount, but you want to throw billions of my isk down the drain like it's nothing??? well if throwing away large sums of my money is just fine with you, then i probably don't need to tell you what i think of you and your opinion do i? what a jerk!"
"rule #1 of eve: don't fly what you can't afford to lose. and that goes for implants as well.if you're balking because you're too scared of losing your head of billion isk worth of implants, then perhaps you should stick to cheaper ones. i really dislike the idea of people using jump clones to simply keep their precious implants safe all the time whenever they like to roam in low-sec instead of say... risk-free rvb brawling. i'll say it again though: with titan-bridges, jump-bridges, warp-to-0, warp-speed rigs, jf, plenty of remaining high-way gates, eve is like a global village where everyone in empire can shop in jita in less then half an hour and null-blobs can easily gather the population of half a dozen regions at once and it doesn't take too much effort for capital blobs to travel to the other side of the map and back in a single evening.jjumpclones are only a part of this problem but slashing their timers inhalf is certainly a huge step in the wrong direction.operation write down all the things!!! check out the list at"
"i disagree. the rigs are ok as they are, but players needs some better options that don't involve millions of mining skills to haul assembled ships around.operation write down all the things!!! check out the list at"
"a smartbomb-like pulse with a long timer that deactivates cloaks for 1 or two seconds. long enough to spot and bump it with a inty or lock it with a booster. but not long enough it means automatically death for any cov-ops coming close.operation write down all the things!!! check out the list at"
"well ok lets refrace abit what i said. the market is not stupid and i know some a small portion make their living out from it but it's getting old it needs a change. plus i want more content into the game like pvp players want new ships i just want more industrial content.and what bad is there in static items? someone has them and someone don't. it's all about balancing anyways.the idea is to increase player content in the game. and why not faction bpo's also. as an idustrialist i would love to have one, it would make my life easier when i don't need to pay insane amounts if isks to alliances to get something i want to do.and also the dev blog also said: looking forward, perhaps the solution is simply stopping this original work and allowing reserarching of the copies from invention to make the them efficient after the invention process? perhaps reverse engineering should be the mechanism to allow you to further increase the runs of an invented copy at the cost of less efficiency?. you can think that also as lets make bpcs researchable and that would also crash the tech 2 bpo market you seem so keen to keep."
"contradictions are bad mkay?================ stop the evemail spam!"
"static items are bad because i can't take them from you. in eve bpos are about the only thing other than sp that you cannot lose to anything other than gross stupidity. if you lose a t2 bpo, you are a moron for the same reason people getting blown up with plex in their holds are morons, and people who don't keep up to date clones are morons.did you know you can affect the me, pe, and runs on a bpc produced by invention? look at what decryptors do beyond changing the chance of success.but i really see no significant balance issues with letting the stats of the bpc you are inventing from change the stats of the t2 bpc you are inventing. its a shame that no one has every suggested that before"
"not this thread again...the assumption is wrong.for all but a few items, demand is far greater than what could be supplied by bpos. therefore the market is perfectly able to balance based on invention supply vs. demand.introducing new t2 bpos is out of the question.improving the me of invention bpcs would screw over bpo owners because of the reduced margins they wouldn't be able to brake even in their lifetime, instead of 5-8 years as is currently common.therefore the best solution is to leave the the system as it is. slowly t2 bpos are removed by more or less natural means anyway: they explode, accounts get inactive or banned..."
"it's not just \"wrong\", it's an outright lie. there was a qen once that showed that 97% of all t2 jobs were invention based.'t2 bpo whiners like to ignore that and instead pretend that items like t2 armor plates are representative of the whole market."
"wrapping duct tape around my head!!!ahhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh!!h!h!h!h!h!h!h!h!h!h!!hh!h!h!"
"so they still doing temp bans for botting? or they changing that, i dont see anything wrong with a temp ban than full ban on 2nd offence."
"no, rmt is murder.botting is just speeding... excessively...anyway, nothing wrong with a temp ban first, as most banned botters stop and sometimes innocents do get hit. personally see no need for a 3rd chance."
"i and some others have mentioned how a hull-cost based payout could work really well. i wrote an autistically long post about this a couple years ago the tldr because it really is too long is that low-sec is actually a failed ecosystem, and on it's own increasing rewards will never work without introducing another predator species. and the way to do that is to include this kind of a bounty system.it's been a while since i've thought about this, and i doubt i agree with everything i wrote in that post. i know one issue i've thought of since then is that with this system there is very little impetus to add a bounty to someone if they already have one that is substantially high enough. but i don't know if there is a way around that, or if it's even a problem.there's also a part of me that wonders if the bounties couldn't be placed on the corporation as a whole, instead of just on the pilots.edit: re-reading my original post i just noticed that it got necroed 3 months after i originally posted it and continued on without me knowing. that's kind of neat."
"remove tags completelylet them drop in fw playersif i have 200 kills and i get killed my wreck should have a tag depending on my factionmake it dependant on ship class or market value of the kill... make the amount random 1-5 tags."
"killmail or it didn't happen.yes you are.learn to read.\"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"during my time in the corporation dark shadow industries who managed a very healthy balance between pvp and industry, ie building capital ships, one of our directors created a corp exclusive website that managed capital ship building projects. essentially, it worked out how much ore of varying types was required to build a certain ship, and you could add the ore you mined to that project and the required ore would then go down. it would keep track of what each person had contributed to the project so that when the ship was sold your contribution could be calculated very easily and the isk could be paid to you with little to no hassle. having since run a corporation and tried to do a similar thing without the website, i can tell you it<U+FFFD>s pretty much impossible well... its possible, just incredibly time consuming. keeping track of who mined what is difficult. so, i propose the following two changes.1 that fleet logs should have options for sorting the information by player, by ore, etc. this will mean that at the end of mining operations orca pilots will be able to see what each person has contributed that day/op and pay them accordingly.2 that a new contract type called industrial projects be created that allows people to add ore they have mined to a project. to start a project, you would require a blueprint which would calculate the required ore based on the project starters refine skills and the station standings of the station that the project was created in, as well as the blueprint stats. what everyone had added to the project would be visible on the contract and you could see how close the the project was to having the ore required to build the item. the ore when added to the project would be added to a corp hangar in the corp office of the contract owner a corp office or a pos would be a requirement to creating an industrial project.this is a loose idea, and obviously may require some changes or adjustments.please throw your support or criticisms my way. if you like the idea, i have also posted it up in the features and ideas discussion. please show your support there as well "
"stupidest, most ridiculous and least thought through proposal of all time.-10,000,000 internetz\"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"doublepost"
"[/quote]do you mind enlighten me why is it that?for a noob corp or an industrial corp that is wardect by some griefers isn't empire turned to at least 0.4/0.0? why not turn it for everyboddy to low sec or 0.0 and only for the wardeced corp?\"q: how long will wars last?a: as long as the aggressor pays every week and no one surrenders or no surrender offer is accepted, then a war can last forever.\""
"pretty ironic considering your in an npc corp yourself smartass. for someone who hates being immune to war decs you are the pinnacle of a hypocrite.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"drake drake, 1 this is an alt, 2 i am at your side you just do not notice it. read again what i wrote. ok englsh not my favorite but still. some arguments would be nice. thanks."
"there is no argument.eve has a wide variety of play styles. many many people enjoy the relative safety of highsec. i myself often use my alt to make isk in highsec to fund my nullsec antics he runs a small corp filled with new players that has rarely had problems with war. you will have thousands of non-pvping players and many of the pvping players unsubscribing almost instantly. the relative safety afforded in highsec is where 90% estimated of t1 production occurs. if you think prices for ships is high now, just imagine what it would be like with no safe place for miners. just imagine jita for a moment. it would be bloody horrible chaos. war decs don't even come into it, they are such a small part of eve compared to the vastness of high security space. new players would die instantly on undocking, or best case scenario at the exit stargate. some players will never ever pvp, and you will take that choice from them. they wont want to play anymore, and its those carebears that fuel most of the economy, and provide the ships for us to blow each other up in. if i wrote out everything that was wrong with your suggestion, it would take me days to write it all out.i can't believe you couldn't think of these things yourself.it is beyond my ability to even imagine how another human being, intelligent enough to type, can think this is a good idea.\"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"thanks for the feedback."
"your welcome.\"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"hello,would like to offer the idea, to make it possible to find permacloaker in a system.people login, fly on a safespot and take look every few hours.he had a hugh bonus, but the systemuser have no way to find him...whats about a \"effect\" when the ship stands for about 30 minutes cloaked at the same point.some interferences may be found when a ship is cloaked so long at the same pointcombat scanner probes may find a signature after a time and you have the chance to warp to the cloaky and decloak him.this will reduce the amount of afk cloaker in a system and may reduce it to pilots that really want to get a kill or pilots that chance the position every xy minute"
"yes because reposting the same idea every day is going to work....================ stop the evemail spam!"
"if they are cloaked they can't shoot you."
"how does this come up so often? cloaks are fine."
"just gonna throw an idea out there: if you're worried about cloakies in a system, then secure your system better, have more combat ships ready to warp at any second, bubble gates and drop random items that will decloak a ship and have people watch."
"little overpowered i think. the victim needs a chance to react and escape for simple balance reasons. that said, cutting the time by 0.5s per lvl would be reasonable. it would still keep a 2 second delay on top of the already lowish scan res of recons."
"thanks for your comments.i still find it curious that a number of you view this as over powered, but somehow existing mechanics of gatecamps is considered ok. unless some of you actually do also think gate mechanics should be changed so that players always have a chance to escape when they jump into a system?"
"i want advanced decloaking ship and skills against the afk cloakers."
"i believe there is a general sentiment around eve that moon mining, in its current state, is unbalanced. i'm not going to go into details about it -- that can be discussed in separate threads. instead, i would like to propose a change to how moon mining worksthe proposal is simple: as the moon goo is mined, it accumulates at the poco at the moon. it is then shipped to the pos at regular intervals lets say every 6 hours. the 'shipping' can be done via npc haulers/freighters/containers/etc similar to the ones near high sec stations. during this phase, the moon goo is vulnerable to be intercepted. a hostile fleet will be able to scan it down and attack the cargo ships. once the ship reaches armor, it goes into rf mode with a 30 minute timer. after the timer is up, the hostiles can destroy the ship and claim the loot for themselves. the cargo ship should have enough ehp for a small 5 man gang to be able to rf it in 10 minutes or a 10 man gang in 5 minutes.what would be the impact of this change?first of all, moon goo is no longer free money. it will become something that can be potentially stolen by small gangs. the rf timer is to give the defender an opportunity to come in and save the cargo after it has been attacked.this will also give some strategic purpose for roaming into hostile space. imagine a raiding party going into a whole region and stealing all the moon goo. the owners of the moons will have financial incentive to form up defense fleets and chase the raiders out of their space. it also creates flash points for small fights -- when each of the timers runs outi believe this favors small gangs over large blobs. the targets are small enough that 5-10 man fleets can take them out with relative ease. bringing in large blobs to attack/defend does not make a lot of sense since the drops are relatively small: lets say a pos mines 240m isk/day. each cargo shipment will be worth 60m. a small gang can sweep through a constellation, attack all the moon goo haulers and make a reasonable amount of isk doing it. with larger fleets, you get diminishing returns and it is no longer worth it.on the defensive side, this will make large alliances work for their passive income. a small alliance should be able to defend their space pretty well -- everything will be near by. large alliances that are spread out and deployed else where will become targets for raidersthoughts?"
"its a very interesting proposal. i wont lie, i like it.however, i think it would take a very large amount of ccp resources when a much simpler solution to the \"moon goo\" problem could be found.\"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"that's the point of jcs, so you don't have to fly with implants you don't want to lose. no, you should use a jc that doesn't have implants."
"omg psichotic; you come across as obnoxiously entitled..... just because you spend billions of isk on something doesn't mean you should be able to store it safely away the moment you're done using it! what are the benefits of a billion isk worth of implants??? 50% betters shield boosts, or 50% more armor, or 25% more speed, or 450 more sp/hr....... these are game changing boosts, especially when coupled with fleet boosters and drugs... so, what are there drawbacks to using implants?? .... let's list the drawbacks of your biillions in implants??? 1. you lose them if you get podded or unplug them.... hmm... that's not exactly a drawback... it just means that, like everything else in eve, you can losing them. 2. you can't plug them all in... so if you have to chose between them.... omg... pirate implants interfere with +5 learning implants!! i hardly call this a drawback, but i listed it anyway because someone will certainly view this as the loss of one boost to gain another boost.... that isn't a drawback of the implants, its a drawback of your choices.... 3. so, what other drawback are there???.... uhm... uuhhh.... maybe.... uhh... hmmmm..... oh... that's right.... there are no drawbacks to using them.... none... none what so ever!!!!!! so, these things don't have any drawbacks, and yet give game changing boosts... so what if it costs you a lot of isk to get them... the effort and/or rarity, which causes their price tag, is the only thing preventing all of eve from using them!!! so, you have a clone, implanted with game changing implants, that have no drawbacks..... and you're complaining because you have to wait 24 hours before you can safely store them in a jump clone.... really???? i mean really??? if you want the awesome benefits they offer, then you have to risk losing them. and yes, you should have to deal with risk of losing them for more than the 2 hours of a cta during which your alliance blobs out the sun... worrying about your clone for up to 24 hours is a small price to pay for the awesome benefits those implants provide. you do not need them for a cta; certainly not pirate sets!!! what your thread comes down to is: fly what you can afford!! don't fly what you can't afford --- and guess what, this doesn't refer solely to isk, but to your time as well!!!"
"rigs are in no sense an isk sink. an isk sink is something like taxes, or npc sell orders, where isk is actually removed from game. rig destruction and ship destruction do not remove any isk from the game, in any way."
"this would be nice. more options, more variety... and for those that are into such activity, a chance for a nice, fully assembled $6 billion isk mission ship to drop when they ganked the carrying ship?"
"i think ccp should introduce a racial transport ship that is tooled towards moving assembled ships. perhaps a small bs-sized 'industrial' with about 150k to 200k m3 hangar space for explorers and wh people that like to 'live out of a suitcase'. and a larger orca-sized one with about 500k to 750k m3 hangar for frontline re-shipping and bulk transportation.both with a good tank and enough defenses to handle some tacklers.added to this ccp should remove the lead plates around the corp and ship hangars in ships that disable scanning, and make it so the contents show up on the killmail and the insurance isn't voided when transported ships blow up.operation write down all the things!!! check out the list at"
"supported 100%23h gives some flexibility without actually changing the spirit of the mechanic at all."
"i'd even be happy with 23 hours 30 mins, just give us some fllexibility to jump daily without the inevitable creep forward."
"actually.... i think ichn has a very good idea!!! if they increased the jc timer as he suggested, people would quit using it for everyday bouncing.... leave it as an every other day thing...."
"really.... why do we need to jc every day???? what, you can't be asked to fly, in a flying in space game??? jc's are one of the reasons eve is sooo small.... i hardly think you need to encourage more jc'ing.... if anything, quite the opposite!!!"
"i like that idea, though to really justify having it as a new module as opposed to using the curret day smartbombs it would have to have some other kind of attributes, like no damage, longer cycle time and increase range for example"
"or decloaking bomb with 30km area effect"
"this again..."
"remove t2 bpos and replace with enough max run copys at perfect me to make ships for a year."
"hi csm dudesi came up with an idea and have posted it the ideas forum but some one said i should post it here to so here it is"
"we need a two tier forum before you can bring something to a vote. something on assembly hall should be a well thought through idea, that has taken a battering, gone through refinement and iteration, and taken account of objections in f&i.you shouldn't be allowed to post a new topic in ah unless you can link a discussional thread in f&i that shows at last a reasonable degree of support"
"so ecactly in which expansion will fw improvement be implmented. it seems ccp keeps saying the next expansion but it doesnt happen :"
"they said, fw upgrade will come with inferno expansion."
"i dont think anyone here would say that they want wh space to stay the same no matter what but, what was suggested and agreed with by these members of the csm was purely self interest or ignorance of the mechanics. either way, the ignorant should of just stayed out of what they didnt understand all that well mittens and the selfish meissa should of just shut the **** up and kept his agenda in game and not on the table of the csm."
"i haven't read the whole thread. responding to op. i read your proposal and i find that you underestimate the abilityof pilots to be stubborn. if i go by your system i will buy the contract and contact perp. we will split the profits as ipop him in his noob ship 1000x to collect the bounty. so i gotta grind a little to get all the cash! the system oftying what the hunted flies and has in his head goes down the drain."
"pretty much the whole proposal - and the following thread - is about trying to make your doing this as difficult as possible, and me defending the consequent complexity on this basis.i don't think there's any way to make it completely impossible to do that, but i have tried to make it so that you'll need to put in some real effort to do so. you'd need to join or get an alt into the bounty corp that gets the contract, or else get +ve standings to the guy issuing the contract. that means that you or your alt would need some kind of working relationship with other players either exactly the right bounty corp or you managed to infiltrate the guys you ganked to achieve the result you're after. if you've been foresighted or socially skilled enough to achieve this then i think that you will have earned your right to spend your some of your time and isk \"scraping off\" the bounty placed upon you."
"if this system has been broken or not 'working as intended' for years then why hasn't the past or present csm's or even ccp done anything about it i agree with op lets just put this to the front pile lets get this pushed through"
"if i recall correctly, every single csm has asked ccp to rework the bounty system.ccp's answer, when they troubled to give one, has been that the tangled and undocumented state of crimewatch eve's standings and aggression management system basically made it an impossible job. per this year's fanfest presentation, ccp are finally reworking crimewatch, which gives us an opportunity to get some kind of bounty hunting system introduced that isn't merely a cruel joke on the new and ignorant player."
"this ^^anything else is unnecessarily restrictive. the proposal linked below is better and simpler."
"so you're ok with me spending 50 mill isk to negate a 500 mill bounty? i personally would be pretty reluctant to place a bounty on anyone on those terms."
"skill reading and comprehension to level 1. once you have skilled that up, read the link i posted.this thread is a terrible idea. killrights as a necessity would make bounties almost as useless as they are now. seeing as you can't read properly, allow me to explain in moron terms. percentage of damage done in isk minus insurance, would be payed to the killer and deducted not negating from the person's total bounty. if your hypothetical person with with 500m bounty was killed and the killer received 50m isk, their new bounty would be 450m. give up on this ridiculous idea and start supporting the other bounty thread, the one that has been written and rewritten over and over and always gets lots and lots of support. linked below for emphasis."
"supportedif they really want simplicity they could do 'enhanced item name grade x' x being meta level for the items.a icon would be even better than any name change, being that you could quickly see it without going through a name, or a click info."
"supported with emphasis. paying people per amount of time for mining is daft, and this seems like a pretty good solution. the corporation i run does, or has done, a great deal of mining and manufacturing. trying to mine as a team is difficult to balance and largely a waste of time.as i see it there are currently a few ways of running mining ops; all of which are inadequate.- paying miners per amount of time mining more skilled players, people who are afk less, and with better ships are penalized- creating everyone ships and not handing them out until everyone's ship is created.  people who contribute less benefit more- dividing up how much everyone mined and paying them for the ore currently immensely time consuming and difficultcorp members largely contribute to corp projects out of charity in the current available systems. it would be nice to be able to measure their input and actually pay them like a real spaceship corporation would."
"1.0"
"my suggestion would be to think of very lightweight ways that the client could help support 3rd-party tools that would implement the features you want. the simpler and easier it is for ccp to implement, and the more possible uses it supports, then the more likely it is you will get something implemented that you can use.for example -- and this is just off the top of my head:* client logs of stuff you move, and stuff that is moved into your ship. you could then process the log file to generate the report you want.* drag and drop integration with the in-game browser, so someone could drag something into a cha, then drag it from there onto your web app, and the app would get told \"person x dragged y from location z\" or something."
"the way i see things in corporations is they're motivated by all members working the corporation wallet in order to claim credit from their shares value;or have corporate contracts set up.projects are like a partitioned agenda and when a corporation has a solid agenda comes about tasks for members. by using a system of contracts, a type of project will detail to the manager the contribution compositions required to fulfil the project. management of projects then have to decide those condition's values, calculate payment and watch them be fulfilled within selected time.not only that, it encourages cohesion even further within a corporation. this is great!to make things less complicated: these projects would be isk rewards only. 'external' corporate project contracts would be public-shared contracts like an employment vacancy that cannot be excepted by internal corporation members. a single person or fleet, or even a whole other corporation could accept the contract and fulfil it. risks exposure of corp's strategies 'internal' corporate project contracts would be shared contracts where the most contributory capsuleers receive highest partition of the reward. 'private' corporate project contracts would be assigned to one or multiple corporation members, shared yet limited to those selected characters.types of corporation business contracts isk rewards only:- relations measured by corporate standings earned of target-npcorp to target-valuecondition: 'private' contract minimum contractees: ##- production a blueprint bill of materials. auto-builds upon completing contract.prefix: blueprint, runs & contractor predefines the material quantities- reserves selected quantity of selected materials or any items to be met- security a recurrent daily contract! - selected solarsystems are purged of hostile npcs, standings-based targets, singular & collective targetsedits: contract subject to changes & cancellations. won't negatively impact your contract history- logistics multiple items from one station's corporate hanger transported to another station's corporate hanger- trade items from/to corporate hanger sold/bought and credited/debited into corporate walletbonus: efficiency of trade grants an increased partitioned-reward isk value.partitioned reward corporation project/business contracts only:+ partitioned rewards means involved parties receive a percentage of the contract's rewards based on their level of contribution.with the introduction of new contracts coming in the future, why not have some more business-focused contracts?"
"support +1"
"support +1"
"i supose this system could just as easily be implemented as a contracts system as the alternative. it would certainly keep the corp window from getting too cluttered.updated op.\"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"only thing that could happen is faction warfare, the meta-game of eve, becoming a true friendly e-sport working with dust 514.this friendly meta-game of empire sovereign wars would differentiate from corporate business warsthe ideal eve meta-game may be an alternative fun and friendly balanced and controlled genre with a relentless constancy and tactical advantages of advanced equipment that debalancing because of their superiority above standardised equipment - sandbox's influence of winning battles and wars.:: disattached from sandbox yet still mildly connected.i like trader stuff in eve and so this thread sucks."
"thank you for your raisoning. i like your post very much. in fact that are similar thoughts of mine and therefor i made this proposal. because my proposal is what is gonna be when inferno kicks in. inferno with its war agenda etc turns empire into 0.0/low sec, just for a few corps and \"a few pilots\". the question is should it apply for only a few corporations or should it apply for all corporations. and since inferno is comming me thinks that the 2nd case should be applyied - for all corporations.why should it be possible to grief only certain corps? inferno turns empire to a griefing and harrasing environment for those \"carebearers\". same environment and same rules for everybody therefore instead of empire -> 0.0. with inferno how many new players gonna unsubscribe if they have to a sit in station b abandon assets poses and go back to npc corps cpay tons of isk for either be able to surrender if acceted or geting mercs to fight for them and d fight back.if we want to keep war ongoing in empire than it would be better to turn empire into 0.0. equal rules and environment for all."
"i don't know how you thought that post was in any way supporting your idea.i'm going to stop feeding the troll and stop bumping your topic. because if you cant listen to reason, why bother doing any reasoning? just let the thread die mate, you haven't had one supportive comment.\"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"and how does that not make you an hypocritical moron again?you detest npc's hiding to avoid war-decs yet you use said mechanic yourself.seriously...get out and stay out...================ stop the evemail spam!"
"i apprechiate your comments. well this proposal shows just how ridiculous the changes in inferno gonna be. and since this proposal do not seem to work out that will lead soon to my new proposal. \"make empire entirely safe and scrap wardecs\", i hope you gonna support it.p.s. alt as forum alt."
"yeah and pay playre for being 24h around just waiting for a cloaky ;the part that cloakys have such hugh bonus is something special. what other tactic or typ of ship has a so big advantage.permacloakys can't shoot u, thats right, but you have to live with the threat all the time and when systems are full with permacloakys most of them just want to be a threat and bring down the live in the system. just with being there and afk..that this point is discussed so often, shows that it needs some work.i don't say \"lets easy scan for the cloaky and kill them\", the cloaky must have his \"cloakybonus\". but not for those who stand only in a system, and maybe engage you every 3-4 days.the most of them has a safespot and they stand still all the time...so why not add a effect, like a spatial distortion that comes up after some time maybe 30 or 45 minutes and is scanable with probes. the permacloaky has to warp away, he has to play not to be afk, just moving or orbit all the time would not help because his cloak is disrupting the space around... maybe 0.1 authis will leave the cloaky advantage but gives pilots the possibility to do something against afk permacloakys.you can still camp a gate with cloakys, who comes to a system and scans the gate with probes ^^ ?and when you are a sci-fi fan ^^ in every space sci-fi series there is a way to find cloaked ships that stand around. by tracking his warp signature or because of a spatial distortion or many more ^^"
"you left out the bit that ccp and everyone else always gives a resounding answer.that answer is no.learn to read....seriously...you people are an embarrassment.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"congratulations! you just clicked on another afk cloaking thread....... sort of.so the argument that keeps popping up is that under the current mechanics afk cloaking is the only way to catch people ratting. and that's true.imagine trying to catch someone in the slowest ratting ship in the game a carrier with a traditional nano shield bc roam, or even a t2 frig roam.first the carrier pilot undocks and scans down a newly spawned sanctum. since it's new it spawns in a new safe spot that nobody has bookmarked yet. he warps in at 10mk and then begins full aligning back to the station. and then he starts ratting.now the roam gets one system out on the gate ready to jump in. the most effective way to catch people is by shotgunning a system. everyone jumps in, hits their system scanners, and everyone warps off to a different anomaly.as soon as the carrier pilot sees the first red pop into local he pulls drones and warps to the station, or if he's got fighters out he just warps immediately and recalls his fighters.the roaming gang on the other hand has to sit there for a few seconds while their system scanner cycles, then wait a few more seconds while their ships warp to each anom.under the current mechanics it's very difficult to catch people without having a cloaked ship sitting in the sanctum with them.and before we start talking about fixing afk cloaking which i imagine is frustrating and boring for both cloakers and carebears alike we need to make traditional roams a more viable option for catching people.we could look at getting rid of the system scanner timer. you should just press the scan button and bam instant warp in spots on anomalies.maybe up the warp speed of interceptors a little bit more. also i'd up the warp speed of heavy interdictors since they have interceptors as a skill prerequisite.and look into putting more scramming frigates in the higher end anomalies.i honestly think poco based sov is a good idea"
"you sure, i believe people have lost ships before ratting, without afk cloakersthough give it they might have been afk themselves or unattentive"
"i want to sell you reading and comprehension for 2 isk to help you learn to read.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"would be nice to see a little more support in this thread.for some reason people seem to flock towards the massive game changing or frankly stupid threads. when its the little and quick changes like these that need the support because there is actually a chance of them being implemented."
"i very much support, sometimes it feels like some immersion is lost due to this. every ship looks equally big or small+1"
"this bugged me ever since i got into my first battleship. later it was ridiculous that my raven dwarfed my chimera.also, the stations need fixing even more than the ships, as detailed by the above poster...stuff just looks so underwhelmingly small in eve."
"this thread deserves more attention. it seems to get so little attention because there is little to say about it. its just a good idea. no discussion required really."
"semi afk cloakies are annoying enough already, how many semi afk bombers do we really need outside of valuable moons? i cant see this as anything other then a way to spike specific prices. technium would be camped 23/7 by people that had bought up a supply of bombers before this change was implemented. way to further **** up the moon goo markets.considering that pos's are anchored the same way that poco's are and generally perform the same function although not with the same free cargo space, poco fuels? why add the structure in between? doesn't the player driven logistics operate in much the same way? or do you really just want the automation of a npc hauler out in space? it seems like a way to just get the goo without having to take the effort of putting up and paying for your own tower. with a regular spawn time you can bully smaller lowsec groups even better as you can either expect a fight and prepare, or steal their goo without much effort or cost."
"this does not attempt to fix the \"moon goo\" problem per se. i believe the solution to that would be to re-balance the consumption of r64 materials such that a more reasonable profit per moon per month is achieved. getting rid of passive isk from moons will disrupt a lot of the larger alliances and will be a much more impacting change. that is exactly the goal. the main purpose of this change would be to induce fights over small-ish resources. the semi-afk bomber example can be taken care of via ehp and other mechanics. if one of your tech cargos is being attacked by a single stealth bomber for an hour and you can't send a single guy to defend it.. you probably don't deserve that isk. to prevent attackers from just cloaking up when a defensive fleet comes into the picture, a mechanic that allows the target to warp off and recharge shields unless it is pointed can be introduced. that way if the attackers decide to cloak up, they will lose all progress and have to start over. in the big scheme of things, losing 1 shipment will not make or break an alliance. the point of this would be to create a way of 'stealing' resources from any entity that engages in passive isk making activities. it creates an element of risk and responsibility in order to ensure their passive isk flow. my favorite aspect of this is that it creates a pvp-oriented way of making isk by attacking the passive income operations of other players. i would say that most isk making activities are pve oriented except merc work, ganking, scamming, etc."
"so if your alliance is, say, australian, you automatically lose a good chunk of your income? it's hard to defend against some guy and his five bomber alts when you're asleep after all."
"it jsut seems like a really really lazy way of nerfing dreadnoughts, cause you dont have to kill a tower anymore. and they arent exactly good for much else. a single cargo isnt going to break an alliance, but two bombers and a cloaky dictor will keep ~50%? 25% of shipments from coming through. no need to reinforce that tower though, cause you can disrupt its functions without having to do anything to it. and while you got several ships guarding the tech shipment, those guys are hitting the platinum moon or the vanadium or the ~ other goos you have in system. without having to reinforce anything. ~small corps with a foot hold in lowsec. get pushed out of lowsec from roamers that just want to mess with something. when you can log in once a day for 4 hours, how many shipments are you missing? and how much fuel are you paying? this idea breaks a lot of things."
"well... yes. moon production happens 24/7, regardless of your time zone. from a big picture, does it make sense for your alliance to be making risk-free isk with no presence in other time zones? no. if this actually does happen, recruit a us/euro pvp corp and tell them there are plenty of targets to shoot at in their tz :also, this works both ways. if you are autz, you will have free reign to raid us/eu tz alliance space. look at it from the other perspective.. this allows for moon production to be attacked without resorting to grinding through pos shields day-in/day-out. using dreads to siege the pos is still an option, no one is taking that away. cool, sounds like you should get a couple pilots into a fleet and engage them. i believe that only high-end moons will actually be targeted -- mainly due to the cost of the cargo intercepted. i highly doubt anyone will be chasing after cargo spawns with 5m worth of cargo. unless, of course, they have something against you. in which case, this change will make things much more interesting...a couple people have brought up cloaky sbs as a counter-point to this proposal. a mechanic can be introduced to keep 1-2 sb away. off the top of my head, there can be a small npc escort perhaps upgradable via ihub/sov to deter solo small cloaky ships from being a big nuisance. also, expect a reasonable amount of ehp on the cargo ship/container/etc. it shouldn't be something a solo pilot can polish off quickly. 10 pilots x 5 minutes x 500 dps = 1.5m damage. so maybe 1m ehp before rf, and 1m ehp after? everyone is reading into this thinking they will be under siege from hostiles 24/7. if that actually does happen, i would call this change a success because that means that there will be more targets in space to shoot at. remember, this works both ways.. while the enemy is raiding your space, you can raid theirs."
"repackaging ships with rigs."
"[proposal] require x amount of likes in f&i before being allowed to repost here."
"this already exists.its called creating a drag bubble and putting a can on the edge. not supported.\"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"long setup time, little to no mobility with such a tactic."
"helping ccp decide what to do.helping you to understand, too.[fanfest video 6:25] ccp ytbritrumin ?:ccp ytrbymium says that ccp doesn't really know about this one thing, and so i had a contributional idea fitting-in with current plans! helping ccp's pre-planning. what i think this presentation also suggests is a real gigantic change in whole of eve's spaceships even to a point where some may disappear forever!readers, 'open your miiind!'____________________________________________________________new brandimprovement|new militiaimprovement|t3 generalized ---------- t1 economized ------------ t2 specialized|other...alien?|limitedpromotional____________________________________________________________economized t1ship hulls at value-level prices that fulfil the market, which also set standard for more specialized or generalized variations. these economized variations are for aspiring manufacturers, traders and even corporate businesses. because they are economized means they potentially yield more profit than specialized and generalized. but how?economized will utilize almost any modules and appropriate rigs on the market except specialized modules and rigs. this allows them a multi-purpose prerogative yet their singular hull constricts them in becoming fully adaptive in their role like generalized ships. because they can utilize so many modules and rig on the market, this contributes to financial prosperity of traders and corporate businesses.new brand:- \"spaceships are serius biznus\"economized ships are so versatile and excessive that they become branded by corporations including your militia, npc corporations and player corporations. this encourages marketing strategies of corporations though the act of branding cannot be varied. you develop a brand and use it or sell it. a player-corporation's brand is used to manufacture pre-installed fixated rigs unto a t1 ship. a player-corporation's brand can be sold on the market to other corporations. a player-corporation manufacturing a branded variation of a t1 ship will have their logo painted on it. a branded variation of a t1 ship will have pre-set rigs. this allows repackaging of that ship with rigs! a player un-branding a branded variation of a t1 ship will remove corporation logo, deduce to 'standard t1' and deny rig-repackaging. a player-corporation re-branding a branded variation of a t1 ship is fraudulent re-branded cannot be sold in high sec.new militia:-the war requires an budget solution. economized ships are the option! faction warfare pilots are reimbursed a non-marketable improved variation of economized t1 ships based on their militia rank. upon reimbursement they are provided with multiple options of pre-defined ship fittings to suit that player's role. these modules are also militia-branded and are very much non-marketable.these ships are patterned with camouflage and are property of your militia. you cannot and must not reprocess nor sell. free for faction warfare! limited reimbursements!!! cannot sell on market. cannot create contract. cannot reprocess. can trade with other militia players!specialized t2enhanced singular hulls of their economic counter-part granting one or multiple unique bonuses from their collaborated hulls designed specifically to be exceptional in a role. their hull exclaims its differentiation from all other ships being easily-identifiable. they allow for specialized modules to be fitted! these ships are worthy of a well-commanded fleet of multiple diverse compositions of roles, making fleeting battles most successful. specialized ships are efficient in a purpose they are designed for. specialized ships do no apply to grandular capital-sized vessels.generalized t3multipular hulls. extremely adaptive yet inefficient. a very much expensive ship but comparable survivability to full-modulated, full-rigged and well-fitted economized variations. relying mainly on conjunctive modular subsystems instead of singular versatile modules they are at risk of being tactically-countered by not being adapted against a particular threat! exposure of weak spots! ideal for the solitary player. generalized ships are inefficient in their adaptive shipline purpose. they look different with their interchanging hull extensions! very few-to-no accessible module fitting slot, maybe?thanks. please no flame - help ccp instead!"
"liang, a well thought out proposition, as always./signed"
"that's only because they're buying the fool things for 10s of billion of isk. naturally it's going to take awhile to break even for them, but the original owners had no such issues and then profited greatly off the resale to those unfortunate suckers.zubzubzubzubzubzubzubzub"
"this is more what we need. it's not the tech 2 bpos or lack of them that is the problem; it's the unfortunate inability to produce a decent tech 2 bpc that it is worthwhile to manufacture from. decryptors and their availability and cost and all that nonsense aside, the real issue is not having a reason to research a tech 1 bpo before making tech 2 bpcs from it, and not benefiting from the research you have done. also, there is some issue with the difficulty to actually get a tech 2 bpc on invention tests, which is a lottery in itself. saying, \"you're doing it wrong,\" at this stage is sort of ignorant as one person may get the luck of the draw and regularly produce tech 2 bpcs with great success, where another might continuously get failed attempts all other things-skills included-being equal.invention is over-rated and underdone. it's like a half finished project that nobody ever quite got back to.zubzubzubzubzubzubzubzub"
"you just ruined all your arguments on that first quote and yes i did know you can effect the bpcs me level with decryptors but it realy is not enough.this game mechanic is faulty and still needs a change even if it would screw the current t2 bpo owners up. that also will effect people i know personaly."
"actually, i think having two independent fleets merge as independent fleets is better than two fleets merging and becoming one fleet. having more than one fleet commander is actually a good thing; particularly when members of a fleet are accustomed to taking orders from their fleet commander and don't know jack about the other guy.better to just have a system where you can merge multiple fleets as far as overall effect is concerned, but still have them as seperate entities. simple answer is they all get puplr backgrounds and color coded tags, or better yet, somebody actually makes a fleet icon and tag that would be visible in chat and elsewhere in addition to the fleet color coding. sort of like the little tag with the skull and crossbones for outlaw, but only visible to fleet members.communication between fleets could be restricted to fcs in a separate channel, rather than having everybody using overlapping communications too.edit: one thought is that merged fleets could get a separate background color like white to immediately identify them as allies, then a fleet colored tag and icon, and perhaps we could add an additional smaller color tag in the top left corner that identifies their true affiliation: grey for neutral, blue for ally, red for enemy, etc... that might be useful elsewhere too.edit2: while i'm at it, i'll just add that it would be nice if players could choose which color tag was shown. i.e: for that top left one, whether it was in relation to them, their corp, their alliance, or their fleet.zubzubzubzubzubzubzubzub"
"1. what are independent fleets mergingg but staying independent mean? 2. separate entities such as wings? or a way to tag the entire other fleet as friendly rather then each character or corp standings adjustment.3. this is often taken care of in out of game voice comms."
"thanks for your feed back mars and some good points there particularly about pilots being used to taking orders from there own fc which is why i think once the merger is complete the joining fleet is put in its own wing. that way the joining commander can still control his own fleet independently when it comes to comms if the two fleets are using ingame comms to co-ordinate there efforts the tools are already there to join them as well but the chances of this are slim unless they are a incursion ratters. in other words if they are using mumble, vent or ts3 then there own arrangements should be madereminder this should be initialy for small gang war fare at first then developed for larger fleets in the hundreds , thousands in another patch / expansion"
"..you mean this isn't there already? zubzubzubzubzubzubzubzub"
"..and container access/removal from corp hangars. can hardly call that security...and roles in general. what are these anyway, besides ambiguous unconfigured and undefined without a lot of work, and then they lack a great deal anyway...and more roles would be nice. how about directors not being equivalent to ceos unless the ceo wants them to be. i.e. not immediately gaining full access to master wallets and 1st division hangarshangars so why not have categorized roles? director-like role capabilities currently unavailable outside of director positions, soldier roles/titles, and whatever else. essentially, what i'm suggesting is there should be a more divisive structure there. ceo and chairmen/directors, then top-level member roles/titles which are configurable, general member roles/titles, also configurable, and finally more rank oriented roles/titles which may also be partially configurable. the latter would of course be compatible with any of the others or could stand alone by itself. the former may exist without the latter, etc.. ..and why do we have to have 'corporations'? i never really got that. i understand you have to call it something generally speaking, but should we be restricted to that sort of structure or havibng that label? alliance is fine, and some may want to have corporations, but why not other options? ..and why shouldn't they have some bearing on internal structure?..and why do alliances have to be democratic? it actually says dictatorial? and answers it with no. we don't even have the option. what sort of absurd joke is this? of course i want it to be dictatorial, i don't trust anyone. zubzubzubzubzubzubzubzub"
"your insulting post does *exactly* what he says. if you think that *simple* idea will actually encourage bounty hunting, you're delusional.malcanis' idea works within the existing structure of bounties and killrights to craft a reasonable \"bounty\" system in eve. why don't you inject \"reading and comprehension\"... let alone train it....."
"i read it. i am utterly opposed to insurance payouts being stolen and used for bounty payments, for exactly the reason i said earlier: the idea is to promote in-space pvp, not station tanking. additionally, without a killright, a bounty is almost meaningless: the perp can hide in hi-sec, and if you suicide to attack him, you don't get an insurance payment on your ship. not very enticing.transferrable killrights are so obviously the correct answer that i hardly know how to explain something so clear and simple to someone who claims not to understand. it's not even that complex a concept. all that \"complexity\" is actually additional flexibility in how contracts can be assigned; using the contract system enables new modes of player interaction and creating a valid bounty hunting profession in eve for the first time."
"just so we're clear: i deeply believe consequences for player actions should always and primarily come from other players. the point of a bounty system in my worldview isn't to stop crime!!! but to promote gameplay. 3rd party punitive mechanics like taking ship insurance are regressive, short0sighted and wrong headed. it's not for ccp to say that this or that player lifestyle is \"wrong\" and should be \"punished\", it should purely be the perogative of players to do so; it is ccps place merely to give them effective and balanced tools to do so."
"because of the versatility of our fair mmo, the eve universe is one where there are many niche or concept corporations which provide specialist services and so on and so forth. at the moment, advertising these services or even entire corporations is limited to naming cans and anchoring them on gates, spamming local, or futilely hoping someone will read your bio.i think the corporate landscape would infinitely benefit from some way of advertising. i'm not proposing any specific method, i just want to get everyone's opinions on how eve players and corps could advertise services.a few examples;- adverts on concord billboards.- limited slots per system for anchorable billboards. destructible and replaceable in lowsec like customs offices- adverts on the cq screen. - new shiptype holographic billboard projector.- alliance logo hologram mods.- posters in corporate offices once we can walk around them.- and many more.how would you want to advertise?if you like the idea, please click the like button at the top right of this post and post to show your support."
"first: iterate on shares.- have them securely transferred to other characters.- bring a shares market.why? - to attract investors and members!cool! - and... bankrupt corporations go into administration under eve central bank. these corporations appear on a universe-wide tab on the market browser under 'corporations'.-next: this thread's idea, maybe.well, we can already have our corporation be advertised on login screen. but...how else could we advertise? - how would i want to advertise?have your corporation be advertised in solarsystems, to constellations up to region-wide advertising!- stations: your corporation would appear on the player-viewer's holograph television with their shares value.- office: if walking in stations wis ever happens, the station with corporate office are freely auto-advertised within the wis zones.- space: additional 'npc commercial ships' rotate around solarsystem's populated areas advertising your corporation.so yea i totally agree - api: somehow third-party applications can see these advertisements, which then can be shared. act of sharing is common. find any article on a popular games informer, read an article and find 'share button'.- api: social media intergration. you corporation's social media website can use an application for advertising, maybe.click screen > open corporation info window > press shares tab > purchase."
"what legitimate reason do you have for this feature other than being afk and/or having your client minimized while cloaked? go ahead, i can wait. there hasn't been a justifiable reason to have this feature written yet.it would stand to reason that if you were at your keyboard, you would notice your ship decloaking.i would support this if it were a visual alert instead of an audible one. an audible alarm is a poorly disguised buff to afk cloaking.summary of eves last four expansions:"
"there's only one.... as far as i'm concerned.dual boxing/multi boxing...but then most could wave that off as well.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"actually that's a pretty good reason. didn't think of that. i can admit when i'm wrong and this would be one of those times. however this is also a major buff to afk cloakers and for that i can't support this.summary of eves last four expansions:"
"not really a buff....i'd classify this as an ui feature thats no different to it screaming at you when your shields are about to drop more loudly than usual.granted afk cloakers would be extra lazy but in all reallity this isn't a damaging feature in terms of mechanics.and that stupid argument will never go away anyway.but i get where your coming from...as always.ps: and yes...you have to be braindead to miss the fact your not cloaked anymore but most people are that dense/stupid unfortiantely. and you know who you are================ stop the evemail spam!"
"regardless of the \"need\" for such an alarm, from a general roleplaying perspective it's stupid that we can't adjust the alarm tones and settings on ships we are literally living in.i'm sure most of the people posting in this thread have a custom tone of some sort waking them up in the morning."
"i agree with the guy that posted about 3rd party tools.a simple api to track who put what ore into the orca, or into a corporate division would solve a lot of these problems and with very minimal effort from ccp"
"all quotes are from this post.this is just terrible. now not only is it stupidly expensive to wardec larger targets, it becomes cheaper for multiple corporations to wardec smaller targets. yes, this will make eve much better for new players and \"the little guy\" who will be much more likely to ragequit.allow me to provide some insight from what most people would call a \"griefer\": we are looking for fights. most of the highsec war corps and alliances i know aren't wanting to sit behind jita in tornados with neutral rr on standby. they're actively out there trying to provoke fleet engagements. that's easiest when you're up against hundreds of players instead of dozens. that last sentence is going to make this rather stupid. really? you can just call everyone in for free wars? i understand that warfare previously grossly favored the aggressor, but this is a swing so far in the other direction that, combined with the cost changes, will represent a huge reduction in the number of wars. when the dev blog starts out by calling the war system \"underused\" it makes me wonder what exactly they thought would happen with these changes.here's an alternative: limit the number of allies that can be called in, let's stay the defender can get 2. at that point, the aggressor can call in an ally, allowing the defender to call in 2 more. this will create a sense of escalation to the war rather than defenders being able to call in everyone in highsec looking for a fight so they can all pummel the aggressor.what makes it even more stupid is that nothing is done about the ability to evade wars entirely through the use of npc corps. i've always had the impression that ccp intended for alliances who are fighting for sov to extend their wars into highsec. that's a moot point when they can just protect all their trit miners, freighters, suicide gankers, et cetera by putting them in npc corps with absolutely no penalties at all.this paints a rather interesting picture of how things can go. let's say goonswarm runs another round of industrial ganks after this new dec system goes live. the victims can't retaliate with wardecs because it is cost-prohibitive. this plus the use of npc alts prevents any efforts at preemptive attacks. when they do finally scrape up enough cash to hire mercs who can wardec the goons and mount some sort of defense, the goons can just let anyone who wants join the war as allies so they can mob the mercenaries into submission.i like most of the proposal, but these three things could make for a game world where superalliances are completely protected from wardecs. aggressors will be so vulnerable to blobs of allies that even today's typical wars would become unlikely, and the end result would be an overall chilling effect on warfare. and of course npc corp alts will continue hauling and mining and running missions with no fear of anything bad happening besides being ganked...by someone else's npc corp alt.so what should ccp do?1 make wardec costs based on more than the size of the defender. if a 15-man corp wants to wardec a 1,000+ member alliance, it shouldn't cost them absurd amounts of money. the big alliances should be able to swat them like flies...and if they can't or won't defend themselves against those 15 guys, then they should reconsider their approach to eve. htfu, as they say.2 change the ally system so that it doesn't wholly favor the defender. allow an escalation of war where the defender calls in allies, the aggressor responds with their own, and they go back and forth until one side or the other runs out of backup and/or money.3 make npc corps have real drawbacks besides a marginal tax."
"i suppose i shouldnt have jumped on that suggestion quite as hard as i did, but please put some thought into your suggestions before you make them. its hard not to respond aggressively to a suggestion that has that many holes in it.edit: altho, i would much prefer some suggestions on how to improve the current proposal, rather than all the individual ideas on what should be done to fix titans."
"i think you are reading too much into the wardec changes. they are not going to turn hi sec in to the warzone you obviously think it's going to be.as far as i am aware, the changes are just to make the wars mean something and to get rid of a few exploits that currently exist.but i suspect you knew this and were probably unhappy with these changes because it does get rid of exploits that the griefer corps use."
"you have to use an alt to post on the forums?pathetic.you loose.next!"
"stop afk cloacking today"
"strangely this makes me want to afk cloak the opmmos come and go, but eve remains. -garresh-"
"and what happen when the afk cloaked ship is aligning something ? 30 minute enough to reach another grid easily. so what is the cloaking in same point ? :pbut we know need something against the risk free afk cloaky fags.maybe the best one, capacitor or something fuel consumption for cloak modules. huge comsumption for not cloaky ships, and smaller consumption to covert ships."
"obligatory:removing local fixes afk cloaky \"issue\""
"why don't we save you the bother of doing any work to catch people and give you a free km just for showing up in system? so you are proposing that we penalise people that are not afk, read intel channels and take sensible precautions when ratting? lots of ratters die all the time without afk cloaky ship. these are usually the inept/asleep/afk ratters. shouldn't need much effort to catch and kill them. nor would you need a cloaky ship in the plex/anom with them.not supported."
"spoiler - they're all in incursions"
"confirming only newbies, the stupid, and the non botting afk should ever die pveing in null. i'm not sure what it is your not supporting as the op didn't propose anything other than a discussion.the answer to the op is the removal of 100% flawless effortless intel that is local chat. intel should require more effort than opening your eyes and looking at the chat chanel."
"i find it ironic that you are complaining about free killmails on a \"wouldn't it be nice if people could go roaming instead of afk cloaking\" thread.actually no i'd just like to take away the 10 second or so head start ratters get to warp out. you'd still have a competition between weither or not someone can warp to your site faster than you can warp out as soon as they pop into local.the mortality rate in nullsec is just out of balance right now. in my previous example a ratting carrier can be 100% safe from getting chased down by even a t2 frigate roam as long as he notices them and clicks the warp button in under 10 seconds.actually i left out intel channels from my example on purpose. i really like intel channels as an example of emergent gameplay.no matter how fast someone can warp to your site, if you are watching intel and you see a bunch of dudes saying, \"hey bro there are a bunch of drakes headed right into your ratting pocket\" and you don't dock up and get in a home defense fleet then you deserve to explode.yeah but i'd like to be able to kill something more than just morons.i honestly think poco based sov is a good idea"
"some interesting idea's but i feel like there isn't enough variant when it comes to the issues. you could set a 30 sec delay to local keep the scan timer and still effectively have the same thing, just a different way to look at the same picture. also i would like to see covops cloaked not posted in local, as this defeats the purpose of black ops operations and guerrila warfare. essentially, covert ops and black ops aren't really living up to there name if the locals have 100% intel on you all the time. if things indeed need to stay the way they are with local, i suggest a rename of ship classes.covert ops -> scout shipstealth bomber -> bomber with cloakforce recons -> electronic assault cruiserblack ops -> glorified mini titansmmos come and go, but eve remains. -garresh-"
"reading these threads always makes me laugh. so let me paraphrase this a bit. blah blah blah blah carebear all need to die. i want to becoming a \"pvping carebear\" and not have to do anything special to get a kill. i want to be able to come into a system and push an iwin button and create carebear tears. you are no different from the people you want to kill. like others have said in this thread if you are not able to get kills now you are doing something wrong."
"reading these threads always makes me laugh. so let me paraphrase this a bit., \"i want to ride out hulkageddon safely tucked away in pet /renter space\"look this all comes down to one question, \"what should the mortality rate of nullsec be?\"in order to live in a space you need to be able to get more resources out of the space than you sink into it so that you can grow. so let's say hypothetically that in order to run a sanctum you'll need a 500 mil ship faction bs, or pimp fit ahac. and let's say that each sanctum pays out about 50 mil each. so in order to break even on your 500 mil ship you need to run a 50 mil sanctum 10 times in peace without blowing up. and let's say we want to give they player a 50% return on investment for willing to live out in null, that's another 280 mil and now we are up to 15 sanctums run in peace without exploding.now if on average your navy dominix did blow up and need to get replaced once every 15 sanctums that's still ok because every time you fit a new ship for 500 mil it's going to give you 750 back before going up in flames.now i can prove that the mortality rate of ratting mining in null is way off, based on two things that exist.1. ratting supers + titanswe've all seen these things. you warp to a haven sanctum and there is a nyx with 20 fighters out, or a titan sitting 100k off blapping battleships.the fact that people can buy a titan, which last time i checked went for around 50 bil, and looking at the payout of a sanctum say to themselves, \"yeah i think i can run 1,000 sanctums undisturbed before i can make my money back and make this thing a profitable investment.\"2. renterstrue carebears are the most risk averse people in space. your average empire carebear won't go into lowsec, and won't even undock during a wardeck. but they are willing to pay someone to live out in null. that's because of the whole nullbear phenomenon where a lot of people feel that certain areas of nullsec are safer than highsec.even if they did think of losing ratting and mining ships in pure terms of return on investment then there is still the incredibly high renter fees that their owning alliances charge them to live in null.and just to drive this point home, here is a ratting titan in a renter alliance"
"what i like to do when trying to catch ratting bots is to anchor a bubble at the 0 warp in point at a belt. then i leave system and standby next door. give it about 15 minutes, then jump back in. you'll find the ratting bot stuck in the bubble, attempting to warp out and failing.summary of eves last four expansions:"
"get rid of local, then your prey doesn't know you're in system until you show up on dscan.seriously though, you're complaining about someone having 10-15 seconds' warning that a gang might be inbound and you want to take away their ability to escape in the event that they are actually prepared to escape. a cloaky alt on the gate would give them the same amount of warning. seeing the gate flash would be the signal to pull drones."
"honestly thats one of the dumbest ideas i heard in a long time.try to think about it this way:moon mining plays its biggest part highest value goo in 0.0 space.that is where alliances are fighting over each other techmoons.alliances that can easily bring several hundred battleships or plenty of capitals and supercaps on the field.these wont care about the npc haulers or whatever you try there. they just blow away the entire tower an place their own.in lowsec where the lesser value goo is found its an entirely different story.you open up every harvesting tower to interdiction by every prick with a gun unless your corp covers all timezones with a decent pvp presence and can motivate your players to guard the towers all the time. this imho doesnt qualify for actively playing the game either.that in turns means that you threw all small scale corps that run their own t2 production business some of which dont have a pvp wing anyways that cannot cover 23.5/7 out of the t2 production business. increasing t2 prices might be the result.i think we already have enough powerblocks and huge corporations/alliances.i think encouraging smaller scale operations is the right way, rather then to make it increasingly harder for a bunch of 5 friends to do anything in this game as you need a 24hour coverage for any serious undertaking.next thing you complain about is that the skills keep training even while beeing logged of and not doing anything in-game.so they generate free sp 24/7.as you can see from the moon material prices complex reaction its hard enough at the moment to make a profit out of your pos unless you own a high-value moon such as technetium. but even in lowsec you wont hold your tech moon for long if you are unable to defend it against one of the major 0.0 powers.flame away!"
"yes. as evidenced by what happened in venal this weekend, alliance tech moon combat has turned into a whoever-brings-the-biggest-blob wins. i am trying to introduce a mechanic that would allow combat over tech moons which favors smaller gangs over large blobs.let me answer your question with an example. consider a moon that makes 600m per month. that puts it at about 20m per day, or about 5m per cargo shipment. with the proposed ehp, a 5 man gang can take it out in 10 minutes, which comes out to 6 cargo shipments per hour. 5m per shipment * 6 shipments = 30m. this works out to 6m/hour for 5 people for grinding structures in the ideal case. they will probably end up spending more on ammo than they made in profit. bumping up the moon profit to 1.2b/month will yield 12m/hour. with 5b/month moons, theoretical profit goes up to 50m/hour. once you factor in travel time, scanning time and availability, the expected return is going to be much lower. of course, these numbers should be balanced to achieve the desired result. doubling/halfing the ehp will modify isk/hr potential.i *highly* doubt that anyone will be chasing low end moons for profit. to be perfectly honest, i'm not sure what the impact will be to t2 production. the way i see it, if they operate in low-sec, they are accepting the risk that comes with the territory. this will actually hurt larger powerblocs more than the smaller ones. they are the ones with the high-end moons that are the intended targets. there is no financial incentive to target the lower-end moons. a small 5 man corp would not be able to hold any of the high-end moons anyway, so i fail to see the point?"
"the first problem with your post: this belongs in f&i until it is well thought out and ready to present to the csm for discussion. now, onto my thoughts regarding your idea: i like your line of thought.... additional small gang targets are always a huge plus!!! this fits in very well with the farms & fields discussion that ccp raised old forums right before the forum change around incarna's release. stealing tech would become very much a worthwhile activity.... however: 1. it makes no sense that they travel to/from a planet's poco's. the mining laser is at the pos which orbits the moon, and its mining the moon.... hence, why is there any interaction with the planet??? 2. for the purpose of logic, you would need to move the mining array, which gathers the materials, away from the storage container i.e. it's silo. but, both of these are not only located inside the pos, which is powering them, but are also connected to each other... do you see the logic problems here??? for these transport ship to exist, there should be a need/reason to transport the materials from point a to point b. 3. the only reason you'd want npc's to move the materials, as opposed player characters, is so it's easier to snag.... are you planning on providing npc escorts? do they web, scram, rr, etc, etc, etc? taking from an npc is rather shady imo... 4. rf timers suck.... don't add more of them to the game!!!!!! i would suggest that making a lot of changes, both for the sake of gameplay, and for the sake of sanity.... here are a couple of thoughts: a. defending a pos structure sucks... and requires time for a response... hence the stupidly large ehp and rf timers... b. the pos owner is putting his money and equipment at 24/7 risk of being attacked..... imo, if you're going to steal the moongoo from the pos, you should be putting something at risk too and shooting an npc doesn't hack it!!!!!! a much better alternative, imo, would be something like the following this is a very rough idea that just popped into my head: a mining ray deflector..... something you anchor between the moon harvesting array and the moon that deflects a portion of the harvested goods into your secondary collecter. every harvest cycle, the secondary collecter steals moongoo not necessarily all... --- only allow it to hold 2 hours worth of goo, --- make it easily deployed under 5 minute anchor/unanchor time and about the size of a medium warp bubble--- make it easily destroyed around 100k ehp... --- make it inexpensive i'd aim at a1m price tag.... --- have it create a km when destroyed a. to record the theiving alliance, b. to give a defender proof of his efforts. --- it needs to be deployed on-grid of the pos but not necessarily within pos weapons range... --- when anchored, have it send out the standard pos is under attack notifications..... the benefits of this: 1. by remaining out of range of the pos weapons, a small gang can maraude any moon. 2. only a small response is necessary to remove the threat.... leaving this a small gang activity... 3. a pressence near the moon mining tower is suddenly necessary in order to maintain a valuable tower.... this mechanic would be a huge boon to lowsec dwellers, as while major nullsec alliance typically wield the power to control ownership of these moons, they lack the local pressence to keep them from being marauded!!! they might just pay a lowsec pirate group to do just that!"
"i want to know if you have ever managed a mining tower chain or single tower. im not saying that your idea doesnt have a certain logic to it, im saying that its not realistic for this game. there are a lot more people in lowsec that would kill a goo hauler just to annoy you and not for profit. saying that there isnt a financial reason to do it, isn't a reason in itself for people not to do it. it means that you have to have someone around 23.5/7 or whenever the goo spawns. or you dont get paid for that time period. larger alliances will mess with small holders just to mess with small holders. where as they wont necessarily get the manpower to kill a tower. who volunteers to siege a lowsec tower over a roam? there is no incentive for a small holder group to attempt to mine goo in lowsec if they cant have some security in their investment. that security is in the rf timer. they have a way to make sure they can respond to the threat. with your hauler idea they cannot. rather this just means that t2 markets will get even more messed up and those that have stockpiles of t2 mats will become richer, or those that have deep null towers. powerblocks who can defend their space vs small lowsec holders who cant 23.5/7 secure their space. who wins this isk war?"
"1. allow alliances to set 2-3 systems as \"capitals\" or even a region. 2. this region would be the \"carebear santuary\" and industry center of an alliance.2. alliance capital stargates must be sieged by fleets inorder to access them by any neut or red.4. reds/neuts would be rejected upon trying to enter unless the gate had been attacked properly.5. constructive feed back please."
"we already have that i think.@shah fluffers, or in response to him at least: power projection being bottlenecked by rigs is something i wouldn't have considered an issue. in my view, logistics for one person to move things around is already a pain in the arse without adding rigs to the equation. what really happens is people either get annoyed and repackage the ship anyway-destroying the rigs-or it sits in some station for ages waiting to be moved. generally, medium or smaller, it gets repackaged; at least thats been my experience. that doesn't mean you go out and buy rigs either. actually i think the opposite is true: you decide not to bother buying rigs for larger ships anymore unless they're cheap and easily aquired. that means no trimarks, shield extenders, or anything on the high end of rediculously expensive.being able to repackage rigs would actually increase the market for these things and put more in the game. as it stands, there really doesn't seem to be enough salvage to make all rigs viable for manufacture, and quite often the market is bare of a number of varieties for various reasons.given what i've seen with rig production, i don't believe it would hurt at all to make them repackageable.zubzubzubzubzubzubzubzub"
"this \"proposal\" has already been struck down by reason and common sense. why do people continue to post here?summary of eves last four expansions:"
"i don t know much about null or wormhole and well low is just plain fail. but high sec is way to crowded. i remember being able to go mine in peace. now local looks like a subway system in new york city everywhere.  no i am not trying to mine in jita. you really want to get more players end this constriction. eventually it will thin out as people drop out of eve."
"stopped reading there....not supporting.================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"would it surprise you to learn that there are hundreds of systems that don't see a single player? sometimes for days. highsec is crowded because over 80% of the playerbase lives there. they have little to no interest in lowsec/nullsec/wormhole space for various and valid reasons.there's plenty of space out there for you.summary of eves last four expansions:"
"there are plenty of systems in the game that have few, if any, people flying through them. oh wait... they are not high-sec.not supported."
"highsec also has mission agents that spawn infinite missions for everyone. give it, that's just for missioning and the belts and rats don't grow with the size of people. interesting, i wonder if it is every system that is packed in highsec, because highsec regions tend to be the largest one highsec region is close to 4 nullsec ones, compare venal to domain/forge. not supported."
"we can currently add sp.why not make it so we can readjust our sp 1 time and only allow 1/2 or 1/4of it to be redistributed?"
"no. search the forums and you'll see many copies of this same thread with all the myriad reasons why it's a completely and utterly broken idea."
"because anyone with half a brain can see its a bad idea if you do a little research on the subject.not supporting.================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"i support the notion that this thread is not worth supporting.\"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"no."
"do you have any idea how gamebreaking it would be to have 10 or 15 or 20 million sp to instantly redistribute? why do people always ask for this?????????????"
"i think i lke ccps proposal better; in fact, i know i do.problems:economized variations lack the ability to fit a full range of modules and fittings? i don't think that will help matters here. players already place restrictions on how ships are fit, and quite often that limits t1 ships to tech 2 modules for cost related purposes. also, capital ships are all t1, as are battlecruisers and battleships which make up a large number of the fighting ships. your suggestion seems to be that t1 shouldn't have access to these fittings. you might want to clarify that, and if not that, then what are you referring too? militia ships are free with limited replacements? so militia guys just fly to the local station at which they have a weekly allotment of prefit hulls they get to destroy and can trade around. so no ships really get destroyed in faction warfare, nor can they be repackaged and sold? also, they're prefit so no module purchases are required? that's going to go over well. one guy with 10 alts could have a lot of free ships by this method. corporation branding? good in essence and i'm sure many like the idea. problem: you're configuring the ships with rigs that repackage with the ship. at a basic level this isn't so bad, but it's got very limited diversity and you'll end up with 20 corporations selling the same thing anyway. i'd rather see research produce unique bpos that the researcher can adjust for final product which can then be fit with rigs and various other modules as normal. much more variety that way and provided it is implemented with some care, could be very useful and a major asset to roleplaying and content in general.i still don't see tech 3 as a generalized ship except in terms of the base hull. once you've spent the isk on the various subsystems and fit it all together you've made it specialized. i think it's sad that players feel it should be this way. tech 3 has a lot of potential and it seems the playerbase wants to marginalize it and make tech 3 ships second rate and barely improved over t1 versions that fill the same roles. they're expensive for a reason and the wwhole idea is that they are a technological advancement.zubzubzubzubzubzubzubzub"
"i always thought it was a bit weird myself and saw no need for it. we are talking about the internet here. even ccp covers most employees real identities up with ccp yournewnamehere. given, not all of them enjoy that luxury all the time but it is there for a reason.not all of us would threaten or harm anyone on the internet for any reason but there are those who do and those who will. the internet is also such a place that it is very easy to be paranoid. personally i applaud the csm for having the balls to stick their names out there. all benefits aside, it's still a risky move. given the representation the playerbase of eve provides for itself on more occaisions than not, maybe too risky. who am i kidding, it's always too risky. honestly with the amount of hacking and tracking out there, i don't think hiding your name is enough anymore and i'm near the point where i believe the only thing you can do is unplug from the internet. seriously, when are they going to get some decent software to protect peoples computers? given everything they have and how simple such a task should be, you'd think they'd have done it already. of course, that would prevent the government and law enforcement from snooping too, and that's probably why they haven't. microsoft could easily have built this into their operating systems by now if they had wanted to. they haven't of course, because they like looking too.err.. that is.. supported. zubzubzubzubzubzubzubzub"
"@malcanisi really like your op, however i have two questions:1. would the hunted party be made aware of the fact that a bounty contract has been placed/accepted on them?2. would the hunted party be able to veiw who has accepted the contract on them?"
"i don't immediately see why the hunted party should be able to know either of those things. i'd be interested to hear the case for them to if you have one."
"lets say player x decided to invite an enemy fleet into the middle of your fleet consting you the loss of your whole fleet? does that not require retaliation?anyhow it was just an idea and make a point that there are deeds done in the game that need retaliation. also the 500mil was just an example.and i would also like to know will the player whos head is on the plate recieve any information who can shoot at him. or will it be more like \"now you died and don't even know what hit you\"should the bountyhunters at least be \"flagged\" with a icon like a green skull or something so that you know who they are when you see them on the gate."
"we covered this on page 2 of the thread i think: there will be player \"crimes\" that definitely merit retaliation that are not suitable for bounty hunting to deal with. i believe the example i used was \"how do you create a mechanical system that allows for a bounty to be put on a corp thief's head that doesn't expose a corp director who legitimately expends corp funds?\"basically the only way you could differentiate would be by gm intervention, with all the problems that entails."
"well splendid that i has been on table also then :"
"it is not really case...more of an opinion.id say maintain the wanted stamp from the current system but do not provide the current isk figure. we dont want the \"dirty scum suckers\" to know now much you dropped on them....i.e. let them sweat how long they are going to have to be looking over their shoulder.id say no to this one. if we assume my suggestion for question 1 is used the wanted party is already aware they may be hunted. let them find out the hard way that someone was hunting them ...although eve is risk...so if the bounty hunters catch them the bounty hunters should receive the normal aggression flaging to the wanted party and the wanted party's corp."
"although i've had this debate with you before, i really feel i have to get you to see the sense in my argument. i really hate to end up bumping this thread but i have to say something. the system you propose will be useless outside of highsec or lowsec. because you never get killrights outside of either. i dont even remember the last time i had killrights on someone. also, no one wardecs people in low-sec, so your idea about using it within wars is, well only useful in highsec. so basically, you'll turn it into a highsec feature.who said anything about stealing insurance? i hate to say it, but i think you may have misunderstood something.all that is required to fix the bounty system is for bounties to be paid as a percentage of the person your hunting's over all isk loss, with all things accounted for. and then that value needs to be subtracted from their overall bounty leaving the rest to be claimed at a later time.i know what your going to say. \"but without killrights it will be used to grief people\". yes. yes it will. but there are much much more isk efficient ways to grief people. suicide ganking, war deccing, scams, corp infiltration, pay mercs to wardec etc etc.then the bounty hunting system will be useful everywhere. and before you say \"i dont get how you dont understand why killrights needs to be a requirement\". there is nothing not to understand. i understand perfectly. oh... except neither of these bounty ideas will effect whether you fight on a station, on a gate, etc etc. so i dont understand that statement.also, \"my idea is better than yours\", is not a valid argument, before you try that one again.\"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"\"station tanking\" is a euphemism for \"staying docked\". just so you know.stealing insurance isk for bounty payouts is explicitly taking sides in a capsuleer vs capsuleer dispute. it's about on a par with giving the defenders a 25% resist bonus to armor and shields in their own sov space.so: no."
"oh, i forgot to mention that with the simpler system you wouldn't even require contracts.\"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"as soon as i get +ve sec, i laugh at your bounty. what now?"
"doesn't make any difference what your sec status is in the simpler model as far as im aware. do explain. \"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"that's the goal we're trying to achieve. if you are low or null your are fair game and deserve no killrights. people can fight each other in low and null all they want already. modifying the way people fight in low and null is a sticky matter and another discussion entirely. besides, it is a solution in search of a problem. there is no need for killrights in low or null."
"i think there is a way to solve everyone's issues.use the simpler solution, on the current bounty system. then introduce bounty contracts as a separate feature with optional killright transferal one step at a time and all that. best of both worlds.edit: will post more tomorrow, need to sleep damn the necessity to sleep!.\"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"lets get this \"it will help afk cloakies\" rubbish sorted shall we?no one really likes afk cloakies. even they themselves don't enjoy it. would an audio notification of cloak failing help them? no, practically never. i hate to have to explain why, but here we go.if they are truly afk, the audio wont reach them. that's a pretty obvious one. if they are in a safe spot cloaked, no one will ever get near them, so their cloak will never fail, so no help for them there. so lets take a situation where it on the face of things appears as if it may aid them in their afkness.so.. idiot in a cloak is sitting 50km off a station afk, because for some reason he thought that would be a good idea. he is alt tabbed and doing something else. his alarm goes off, he hears that he has been uncloaked and so he alt tabs back to his client to save his ship. alt tabbing takes a while, and he stumbles to find something to warp to on his overview, aligning takes a while too of course, which is too bad because by that time they had blown up his pod some time ago. i can personally think of no instances where it would help someone who is afk. now, a few of you are saying \"who needs it? its easy to tell when you get uncloaked.\" if you find it so easy, you have no reason to post here. i know i will just get a load of \"your a n00b\" comments following my next few sentences, but oh well. good pvpers in general have their camera zoomed out to get a good idea of what the battlefield \"landscape\" is like, so you cant visually see if your cloaked anyway, your ship is too small most of the time. you can watch the cloaking mod, but frankly when im counting hostiles on overview and making sure i've got it right for reporting intel and that im not too close to anyone, i have more important areas of the screen to look at. never mind the whole host of situations where plain forgetfulness comes into it.it should always be perfectly clear, even without looking at the subtle green flashing of that mod, whether your cloak is still intact. i say again. if you don't have a problem with this, then you have no reason to complain that people might like an audio notification. if your worried about afk cloakies getting benefits, then your.... misinformed to be polite. if your screaming \"ah, just don't be a n00b and it will be fine\", well what if you actually are new? it would be nice for it to be more intuitive. this is a clunky ui issue, and that is all it is.\"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"can't agree with you more in this case floppie. its insane that it costs more to dec a larger corp than it does a small corp.if you ask me the charge should be based on the size difference of the corps.small attacker - large deffender = small costeven sized corps = meduim costlarge attacker - small defender = large cost.if it was possible i would also factor in the corps total sps, so a group of vets would have to pay more to dec a bunch of noobs.jint hikaru - miner / salvager / explorer / spacebum in the beginning the universe was created. this has made a lot of people very angry and been widely regarded as a bad move."
"this is probably the single biggest problem with the current wardec system and a major barrier to long-term subscriptions...and ccp is apparently planning to do nothing about it."
"mayby a new ship type thats bigger than a titan?"
"i would go with two ships, actually. split the bridging, clones, and fleet bonuses off the titan for a mothership hull. titans in a pure combat role makes sense though. i think the whole titans shooting subcaps thing will be a thing of the past soon. ccp seems to be on the right path to fixing them, post fan fest."
"hmmm, but with the fleet bonuses on the mothership, you would have to bring it into the combat system to take advantage of them... which may not be a bad thing, more of them will get killed. the other thought is that if you are putting the fleet bonuses on the mothership, you need to have 1 for each race, or give all 4 titan fleet bonuses to 1 ship. alternately, allow the mothership to fit 1 or 2 of the possible 4 fleet bonuses at once. given these options i think i would still prefer the fleet bonuses on the titan.i also think the capital weapons should be given a dedicated platform, and the superweapon buffed to compensate. what would be your reasoning for keeping them together?"
"1. a new ingame spreadsheet window. this will allow spreadsheets to be made in game and with the ability to share them to other players accordingly. this will allow traders and directors alike from having to switch between windows. the ability to format the spreadsheet to automatically update itself from the personal/corporate wallet wallet, journal, transactions, bills, and some the features requested in this forum like my weekly income, expenses, and profit calculator, market prices, planetary interaction, and industry.2. new contract ideas for loans, investing, and insurance.2a. loans should include the principal, interest over time, and the collateral.2b. investing should include amount being invested, interest over time, and payout date.2c. insurance should include is the insure item, cost for the insurance, and the time to expire.these loans are not to increase trust, just to make keeping track of these and advertising your service or need a lot more easier. 2b should be able to be issued from the investor and the investee.3. a new feature to the corporate wallets to calculate income weekly and profit weekly. this will make it easier for ceos to calculate the dividends. a total weekly costs should be add to help ceos know how much is being spent vs. how much is being made. these features might be able to be accessible to shareholders.4. a new feature to make day trading corporate shares possible through an option of corporation types of private and public. shares of a public corporation can be value at two options, value or demand. value will place the share value at the value of all items if instantly sold at it position plus the wallet divided by the number of shares not owned by the corporation. demand will value shares by how many are not in the corporate wallet, and the minimum share value, when no shares are being sold, will be the corporate value per share. to prevent exploiting, a corporation cannot go back to a private corporation without shareholders giving 100% vote approval. starting share value of a corporation share of a public corporation will use the value divided by the shares already not owned by the corporation.5. shareholders should have more abilities with the shares. they should have to fight to get into a corporation to claim ceo-ship. this should be able to be done from a npc or another player corporation. if there is no stasis period preventing the ability to leave from a player corporation an option of being able to appoint individual directors of 6 of the 7 divisions would be appreciated, considering the vice ceo being the director of the 1st division and should be be appointed by the ceo and approved by directors. this will maintain the ceo's and if ceo is not present, vice ceo, the ability to be tie breaker and the ability to execute passed votes. if this last idea of individual directors and a vice ceo does come about, shareholders should be able to should be able to replace the ceo with the vice ceo if the ceo has been absent for more than 1 to 2 weeks and default to replace ceo with the vice ceo if the ceo resigns.6. for share to be valued like this will require a new feature of corporate owned ships. so all ships owned by the corp not in hanger can be used to value you a corporation and allow the corporation to own its own fleets and assign ships to members. these ships value will include everything fitted on the ship and the ship itself. to refit one of these ships should require fitting manager or a new role for fitting the ships in the corporate fleet.7. if a ship is stolen out of the corporate fleet specified earlier, as in leaving the corporation with it in you hanger, insurance should pay the payout to the corporation. a stolen ship is no different as a destroyed ship. a stolen ships should go through some process of being shot by concord and deemed not able to be sold in high security space or in systems that are owned by that corporation and its alliance, this include to the robbed corporation as well. concord should have an arrival delay to give some chance of making it to low security space or out of the original owner's sovereignty, just not enough to use it for what is is meant to be used for, like mining and combat. that is what low security space is for, outlaws. alliance should have the option to respect each other stolen ships. the theft should be able to pay the insurance back to the insurance firm for the ability to sell the stolen item back to the corporation for ransom.this list has been updated. may 3, 2012; 1749 utc"
"yeah and cocaine addicts won't hit you unless they notice you, it should be legal then, right?"
"just need remove afk fags from game which happened in 2004 the game disconnected them after 30 minute inactive play and the afk fags issue is solved. :dbut what i said : \"maybe the best one, capacitor or something fuel consumption for cloak modules. huge comsumption for not cloaky ships, and smaller consumption to covert ships.\"the risk free afk cloaking is a crap. it's time to add to cloaking more risk."
"what is all this about cloaca bots now?oh, and to the op...: \"no\""
"yes. afk cloaking should just be banned / removed and so on. no need to talk about that. :"
"they don't need to read intel channels, they see +1 neutral, they warp.hell if the ratting carrier wanted to it could keep ratting till someone warped in/uncloaked and hit warp.however the suggested changes wouldn't change ****, scramming frigates get blown up in seconds and faster warp isn't gonna be fast enough unless it's 50x faster. if you want roaming to be effective local needs to be delayed 30-60 seconds."
"please, do not forget to remove tier for mining barges in your balancing project !few exemples of role for mining barges* the procurer could be the \"industrial\" mining barge low yield, high cargohold but less than a rigged hulk of course* the retriever could be the \"combat\" mining barge medium yield, good ehp, low cargo* the covetor remains the t1 mining barge of choice, the \"mining ship t1\" high yield, medium cargofew exemples of role for industrials * wreathe the \"attack\" industrial very fast and agile, low cargo* hoarder the \"support\" industrial bonus with shield transfer, energy transfer, bonus with scanner, etc, medium cargo could be use to support mining barge in belt or even in a combat fleet. the battlebadger can be used as reference for \"support\" industrial.* mammoth the \"combat\" industrial good tank, high cargoabout the survability of exhumers and mining barges, i think a little buff in ehp could be nice to compensate the increase of ganking capability introduced with crucible -> destroyer.[proposal]what a mining barge need is an active tank especially in 0.0 and not a super buffer to protect them from gankers.using deadspace shield booster should not be mandatory. so, they need a buff to their capacitor and more pg even if it might open the door for a lse ii. that could be the way to provide them more ehp. balance between tank or yield will be limited by the cpu.a full tank \"combat\" retriever able to survive in a 0.0 belt against npc should be the reference. the hulk will be the better version, more expansive but with a better yield.[edit] btw more pg is also the ability to fit a propulsion mod instead of a tank"
"i'm sorry....but i can't help but laugh at this proposal.i dont know what to say...but something is horribly wrong here.maybe someone else could take a crack at this. but not supporting. xps: battle-procuror anyone? *smirk*================ stop the evemail spam!"
"no"
"you need eat antitroll drug, for free your troll soul, because you dont understood irony."
"again you fail at reading. but i suspect your not capable of it anymore. oh well.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"noif you do not know how to counter the drones it realy is your own personal issue. some players spend alot of time to skilling up drones cause they can be used aas an defensive weapon. your proposal will render most of their training and also make some of the battleships useless. also gallente fawors drones as an offensive weapon. should gallente abandon their combat doctorine cause you don't know how to attack a battleship?best would just be that you would learn how to counter the drones. after this the bs is relativly easy target for you.so no point changing the game so it would be easier for you."
"let's just remove drones entirely. nothing in combat that isn't flown by a player.i was kidding, but... that could make fleet comps a lot more diverse."
"clearly you don't know how to fly frigates if you're getting shot down by drones.also, just shoot the drones. unless your enemy is in a dominix, they're gonna run out of drones before you run out of ammo."
"i just want to note, that the carebear community rejects the idea that the op is one of us, we wish to distance ourselves from the op."
"thank you for your feedback. this is my first proposal. if anyone can move it to the appropriate subforum, please do so. thanks! i am not attached to any of the specifics here. i believe the best place for this encounter to happen would be somewhere near the moon, but off-grid. if someone wants to fill in the blanks with all the finer details to make it fit into the universe better, please be my guest. the point of the npcs was to counter cloaky sb gangs. there is nothing preventing them from shooting at the target and then cloaking up when the defense arrives. that was the original intention of the npc escorts. that can be replaced with static defenses/etc. or if ccp deems sb harassment to be valid, then we can just skip this all together. i'm not a huge fan of this, so if anyone has better ideas of how to achieve the similar results, i'm all ears. i'll explain the need for rf timers below. a i'll explain the need for ehp/rf timers below.b risk is balanced vs reward, not attacker vs defender. with the current design, moon mining poses are not at risk from small fleets, only large subcap fleets or dreads/supers. and with this model, the largest fleet will generally always win. this favors the larger coalition -- which is why cfc holds something like 50 tech moons."
"my concern with the deflector idea is that a single pilot can go through an entire region, anchor the deflectors on all moons, come back in 2 hours and profit. any deflectors that are destroyed can be written off at no big loss. this will impact moon miners and hurt their profits, however i don't think it will achieve the goal of inducing fights.the large ehp mechanic is designed to force a group of pilots to be at fixed point in space for some non-trivial time. a group of 5 pilots, with an average of 500 dps, can deal 1 million ehp worth of damage in 6-7 minutes. during this window, the entire gang has to be on grid and is vulnerable to counter-attack. the rf timer mechanic is designed to give the defense an opportunity to form up and come defend their assets. with the current pos model, structures have extremely high ehp and long rf timers. this works great for high-value strategic assets eg csaas, but as i mentioned before, it does not fit well into small gang warfare. by creating a smaller target with lower ehp and shorter rf timer, we would be allowing small roaming gangs to use the same mechanics to get fights -- just on a smaller scale.one of the imporant things here is that i want to put the defense on equal footing as the attacker. this means balancing rewards they are both shooting for the same 'prize', as well as timing opportunities. the defender has to be given adequate time to form up to defend, while at the same time keeping the timers/grinding reasonable for a small roam."
"i have never managed a mining tower chain. i'll be the first to admit that i have limited experience in that part of the game. as i mentioned in my last post, i want to make sure this is equitable for all sides of the equation, so please continue to provide feedback from the pos owner sidepeople kill haulers in lowsec because its a quick easy kill which can potentially yield a juicy kill mail. haulers die in a matter of seconds, making them very good targets. in my experience, towers are shot for several reasons: 1 financial, 2 to provoke fights, 3 you don't like somebody. i believe the first point is addressed via diminishing time/isk returns. as you mentioned, if no one is around, the second point is moot. as for the last one, i think the proposed mechanic would make the game much more interesting. its really no different than wardecs or ganking hulks in high-sec. nothing in eve is safe from such things, why should moon mining be any differenti believe this fits into the overall eve universe design. there is no safety for investments in eve, and definitely not in low-sec. right now, moon mining is protected from small gangs by way of huge ehp buffers. this encourages large fleet/blob warfare at the cost of small gangs.that said, i have no idea what impact this will have on the t2 market. i believe the closest mechanic that this relates to are pocos. yes, individual pocos can be shot and taken out, but does that really have a huge impact on the pi market? my gut is telling me that this will have no real effect on the market excluding speculation. and if it does, it give mining/production bears financial motivation to get involved with pvp recruit off-tz pilots, hire mercs, etc. either way, it makes the universe more dynamic, volatile, puts more pilots into space, and hopefully creates more pewpew opportunities."
"i'm confused with your above statement: a cloaky sb gang will rf your npc hauler long before the moon miners know whats happening.... there is no way that a response gang can get into system before the cloakers rf the npc. once the npc is rf'd, the cloakers cloak up, and stay cloaked until it comes out of rf. if no-one comes, they decloak, pop the hauler, and scoop the loot. i don't see how your npc's counter cloaky gangs at all!!! in fact, it makes a cloaky gang virtually risk free and unstoppable... as they just stay cloaked if you bring ships they can't deal with!! all they lose is ammo!!! nothing forces people to be on field during the rf phase, and nothing keeps them from cloaking!!! i think you have a very big misunderstanding on how things actually work regarding moongoo....1. any alliance worth their salt can rf a large moonmining pos within 10 minutes +/- 5 minutes depending on their size. this is not enough time for a response gang to form up, and hence the reason for pos rf timers. rf timers essentially are a tool to allow people on both sides to cta up for a big fight. rf's are tricky... if it's too long, you get big gangs, if it's too short, noone will respond... 30 minutes is very short... 2. the valuable moons in a region are rarely close to the owner's home constellation. if you look at where the valuable moons are, and where their population of the owning alliance resides, you'll find they are quite often 10-40 systems away.... 3. if it requires a decent size gang to take down the tower, you need a decent size gang to fend them off. 3. moongoo is an alliance resource... sure some of its income trickles down to average members as ship replacements, cap loans, etc... but, especially for large alliances, the only benefit a moon provides to average joe is the opportunity for a fight. so, your goal is to create a fight for small gangs...questions i think need answer: a. how are the defenders notified of the attack??? a pos-is-under-attack like mail as soon as you shoot the npc? b. do these npc haulers show up on scan? how does the attacking gang know when they are there to attack? what kind of time-window is there to engage the npc??? it's one thing to look on dotlan and see which systems have a tech moon, and setup a mining deflector on your own time, its another to be on an npc's schedule.... c. given it's very easy to blueball the defenders, why would anyone come to defend? if they arrive, and have nothing to shoot, they will quit coming... d. why would anyone come to protect the npc hauler? just blow it up and loot it yourself! who would know?the goal is not the loot... the goal is the fight.... in order for the locals to fight, they need a reason to come."
"additional points with my suggestion: --- while a lone cloaker could setup deflectors around a region, a lone defender could destroy them all.... --- coming to defend the mining pos gets you a km, meaning you can be rewarded with pretty blue explosions, you get to loot what drops from the deflector, and you're efforts might even be rewarded by your corp... even if you don't get a good fight. --- the deflector creates a nice staging point for a fight.... since there isn't quite the same immediacy that your npc hauler creates, there can be planned ambushes on either side, and only a minor force is necessary to start the fight... --- fights escalate on their own.. all big hp structures do is set a minimum number of ships to start the fight... by leaving the number of ships extremely small 1-2, you get more kitchen sink rather than organized response gangs. this creates much, much more entertaining fights!!!! realize, if they report 5 bc's are rfing your hauler, people won't come with less than 5 bc's, and you're far more likely to get blobbed. if they report 2-4 frigates, defenders are much more likely to come with a manageable and engageable response..."
"i always see lots of \"remove empire\" or \"nerf low sec\" posts. eve strives to be as real as possible, whens the last time you tried to hop a plane to syria or iraq? not going to happen right? there are borders and officials that keep everyone \"safe\" by restricting movement both ways. lets apply that to eve in almost the exact same manner! this would help keep the carebears as \"safe\" as they choose to be  see part 2  and also add some more manufacturing to low sec.1 passports: treated as a removable augmentation that allows access to gates in and into empire space. a passport system will fundamentally change the way everyone plays the game. to access any gate in or into empire space you will require a passport with sufficient ratings to travel empire space. the ratings would be based on two things, your concord security status and your personal standing with the faction holding sovereignty in the system.for example if sec-stat < 0.0 - no 1.0 system access if sec-stat < - 1.0 - no 9.0 system access if sec-stat < - 2.0 - no 8.0 system access if sec-stat < - 3.0 - no 7.0 system accessetc etcif sec-stat < - 5.0 - no empire access!!! this way gankers and roaming low-sec people cannot access higher level systems at all after messing up too many times. there is already a system to repair your sec-stat if if falls to low so i will not go into that topic. the second rating would be with the faction holding sovereignty, if they don't like you, they don't let you in based on the same number scheme as above. making corporation standing factor into this may or may not work but the idea can certainly be explored. this would mean that if you are heavy into factional warfare and have picked your side... guess what, the people that you have been shooting at take offense and you will have to repair that standing before going into their space again. there may need to be a system to repair this standing but it can be offered in terms of missions and the like. for all the low/null sec people reading this and deciding that this will do nothing but protect the carebears even more please pay attention to the rest of this proposal as it has explosions. like all passports, yours can be forged. treat it as an implant that can be researched, manufactured and built at any non-empire pos  think boosters  the better standing you want, the most time / cost involved in forging the documents. they would be illegal to have in your hold in empire and would face the same restrictions that contraband does now. also there would be a chance, based on the quality of the passport, that you will be caught and it would be removed and you will be treated as having -10.0 status / standing. also traveling with out one would be the same and -10.0 as only really bad guys travel with no passport. a replacement original would be avaliable for free from any concord customs office as well as at entrance gates to empire space. now on to point number the second. apply the current sovereignty system to boarder systems 0.4. if a large empire based corporation wants to mine better minerals they can join the empire faction of choice and attempt to take control of neighboring low-sec systems. think of it as fighting for your country in contested areas that need attention. there will obviously be systems that concord holds fast  think the u.s. boarder  and areas that everyone can fight over. if the factional warfare people can claim control over a system for more than a month the security status goes up slightly  0.4 -> 0.45. if that control is maintained for enough time concord stations guns at the gates and the passport system comes into effect. the no mans land systems will be static! the minerals / ores will be the same so empire will never have full access to low-sec resources using this method. this means with forged papers you can come in, swap to your real credentials and wreak havoc on everyone and bring the system status down and drag the system back to low-sec with all the people in it. this means that he carebears of empire will have to either stay home or can try and bring civilization and order to the low-sec areas with bigger guns.that is all! please discuss and put mind in motion before mouth in gear.michael loneyp.s. additional points / thought- passports will be destroyed if you are killed by concord. so you get one gank per passport  bring extras - addition of new skills or modules to make boarder crossing easier  bribery?  or hiding contraband more effective  secret compartments - all factional sovereignty structures would be avaliable via or discounted by lp stores.- war-decs would not be required to fight in no mans land systems but a security hit still happens- concord will never take over a 0.4 system! i will leave it to ccp if they want the players to be capable of expanding empire space."
"it sounds like you both want to make a hard limit forbidding people bad sec status from going into specific highsec systems by making the passport and make it easier for people with bad status by letting them make fake passports.i think that it greatly takes away from the sandbox to do anything like this. the current system, where faction police attack people with poor standings, works better than this.and if you insist on rl analogies, the current system is more like rl. in rl, you're not physically prevented from entering a country without a passport, you'll just be arrested if you get caught just like faction police attacking people in the current system.also, lore wise, i don't think the empires can actually control the gates and who they allow through because gates are old tech that no one understands, they can only react after the person enters the system by shooting the person.tl;dr: i believe the current system is better for eve's sandbox and there is no gameplay, rp, or even rl basis for adding this."
"for those who are \"tldr\"no. and i agree with the above quoted sentiment/statement of coursejust no.the whole idea of eve online is \"sandbox\"do as you please.right now you can show up in a -10.0 sec rated toon and freely fly around high sec without much trouble....in your pod.but no one said you couldn't do that in a frigate...or any ship for that matter within reason obviously.this would put too much restriction...i appluad the idea of making a sec rating count for something which is why i'm being nice...yes don't die and have a heart attack!...but this tilts the balance a little to far to the high sec peeps.not supporting.================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"simple concept - be be affraid of change. plus you provided no justifiable reason its a bad idea."
"it makes areas of nullsec into invulnerable carebear sanctuaries. that alone is enough to make it a bad idea. nowhere in eve is supposed to be safe."
"i'm not sure i like the specific mechanics you've mentioned but i do like the idea of capital systems which are in some way different to or upgraded differently to standard sov systems. even something as simple as being able to handle 2 jump bridges or a specific type of csaa maybe.alternatively it could be the only system to be able to hold a csaa. that would cut down on certain ships being made."
"yeah....complete and total noob making suggestions shouldn't be allowed to be quite honest.================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"not really, there are arguments for and against, and only by a handful of players."
"you mean zero likes and a whole lot of pointing the preverbile stick in your general direction indicating you don't know what your talking about?yep.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"damnit, you may be right!"
"how about a new sciance skill that you could train up and the skill would reduce the cooldown time up to what ever ccp thinks is right thinking about balance. tough jumping between clones isn't in my own opinion a huge thing even if you could do it every 12h.aka this:"
"how do you figure?"
"why keep a thread up that was made <1 month later than another active frontpage thread on the same issue?"
"it's not the only thing making eve feel small.. but it's certainly one of the contributing factors...when i first started to pvp, i would jc to empire regularly to buy ships in jita and move them to our logistics base, i would jc to our empire base to help out with pvp-u courses, and jc back to venal all the time.... currently, my indy alt manufactures, invents, and trades in highsec, while also doing trade and pi in nullsec. without jc's, it would be far mor treacherous to move between my highsec bases and my nullsec bases. essentially, i don't have to spend time traveling much, becuase i can jc!!! before i knew about pd hopping and jump clones... i had to fly between destination, which was moderately time consuming and inconvenient enough for me to centralize my activities. given the methods of instatraveling across the universe, there's really no reason to centralize you activiites. when i'm visiting multiple regions across the universe, every week, without using gates, it really makes the universe feel small!!!!"
"use a dictor then.... warp to gate at range, pop bubble, power to edge... wait...."
"new bonus: -7.5% per racial cruiser level to small and medium remote shield/armor rep module cycle time.this would be to possibly replace one of the obsolete bonuses on t1 logis currently, and the bonus is only applied to either shield or armor depending on the racial logi type... eg exequror gets -7.5% to small and medium remote armor rep module duration per lvl, and vice versa.close to halving the cycle time of a module puts the medium rep module effectively close-ish in rep stats to its bigger sibling. having a -7.5% means max level is -37.5% so not quite eclipsing the large reppers. but the fact the reps land faster med t2 remote rep with max skills would be 2.8sec cycle time means t1 logi cruisers are more usable in fleets where ships are a little more squishy as they can land reps faster. cause lets face it... running a t2 logi with large reppers in a sub t2 cruiser gang/fleet is a bit of a waste although i have seen it done. however, less expensive logis with inferior tanks can with this change give a much more desirable but limited support role to sub t2 cruiser fleets. obviously it wont remove the possibility of ships being insta-poppedalmost halving the cycle time also affects the cap requirements for the logi too. and being med rep mods rather than large it also has a lower max rep distance. personally i believe this change would bring meaningful use of t1 logis back for small gangs and lower sp pilots.just wondering how many people would consider this proposal to be acceptable?"
"supported. it's a shame that aspiring logi pilots have to wait till they get t2 logi before they can be effective in a logistics role...or at least that's the mentality many have due to the inadequacy of t1.high five. yeah! c'est la eve ."
"sounds like an interesting idea, but they will definitely need a cap use bonus too, they have enough cap stability issues as-is. they could also use either a bit more tank or a bit more room for tank, they're a bit shy on raw ehp to be used in real combat i think enough grid/cpu to spare for either a lse or 800/1600mm plate would be good for them, assuming it doesn't throw off the rest of their balance too much."
"im thinking more speed to negate dps coming in, t1's arent ment to tank like t2s, so they shouldnt have comparable tanks like t2s, but more speeed and agility would mean theyre more suited to light logistics work with a faster fleet type."
"it isn't even that. there are many high sec systems that are nearly empty or empty. people complain about being crowded while sitting in a mission hub or market hub. they don't get the term \"hub\" attached to them without a reason. i support the removal of the current mission system, to be replaced with something more dynamic, like incursions are but even more than that, where you have to travel around a bit. accept mission, undock/warp, shoot something, release drones, salvage/loot, dock, complete mission, rinse repeat. it is no wonder people have this automated.this would spread out the population a bit more. it would also force people to leave their pocket of space and encounter other parts of eve. that is a good thing."
"posting to confirm that this is an original idea."
"f&i thread:"
"that would be a natural development for a race designed to fight hoards of missile ships. unfortunately, eve doesn't really follow logic in terms of its ship design. look at the amarrian which specialize in cap draining, but whoses main enemy use cap-less weapons..."
"agreed, but the idea here would be a to produce a rock-paper-scissors kind of counter for each type of weapon. so even if, for some odd reason, it is the amarr destroyer that specializes in fielding a deflective chaff module, the point is to have a specific, partially effective counter to each main weapon type. logically this would mean gallente having an anti-missile boat, minmatar having an anti-laser boat, caldari having an anti-hybrid boat, and amarr an anti-projectile. i'd submit that drone counters drone.partly this would function as anti-gank, should miners have buddies willing to fly and protect them. but i think it would be interesting from a tactics and intelligence perspective. if you learn you're going against a drake blob, bring a line of anti-missile destroyers to the party. your scouts say \"lasers!\" you bring the disco ball launchers... etc."
"there is an obvious problem to this suggestion. don't get me wrong, i like the idea. hypothetically at least. i always like the idea of new ship roles.however, they would be serving the function that logis serve now anyway. all your doing is nullifying some incoming damage, which is exactly what logis do, except these boats wouldn't be able to repair the ships to full hp after the battle was done. so who would use the anti-weapon systems? no one. they would just get a logi.\"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"lol.... anti missile, chaff shooting dessies just don't fit well into the game mechanics.... however, you could ask for ewar dessies, that essentially do the same thing!!! tracking disruptors effect all turrets, and soon missile too.... so, make a td dessie, and you suddenly have your aegis dessie..."
"except that logistics cruisers act after damage has occurred rather than preventing or diminishing it in the first place. the difference could mean surviving an alpha strike or not.this new role would be actual defense as opposed to post-attack repair. command ships and battlecruisers can do this today in the form of resistance buffs. however, command ships are both skill and resource intensive, and battlecruisers more often than not, serve in an attack role. logistics cruisers can help with cap transfer to support local rep, but if you have logistics cruisers you usually don't bother with local rep, and this is still an after-the-fact measure rather than true defense. destroyers could fill a niche of cheap, nearly disposable fleet support to protect against alpha strikes, while allowing even low-skilled players to be very valuable beyond tackle or bait.i'm actually suggesting this for tech 1 destroyers, not a new tech 2 ship, although a t2 destroyer other than interdictors wouldn't be too bad either."
"okay. but a logistic ship can have the same effect by having reps on something before the attack begins. if the effect these new ships have, were to be effective without targeting your allies eg. over the anti-weapons' range, 50k or something, then there were would be a big enough difference in my opinion. how then would the ships mod decide who to protect and who not to? only those in fleet? by standing? by corp or alliance? i do see another problem though. a fleet of these ships could be used to make a fleet completely invincible to any fleet smaller than it. there is a partial solution to that of course. it would be good to see the ships mod shooting projectiles out of space without collaboration ie, they randomly choose a projectile to shoot at. this would mean that the more ships you had that did this, the more likely they were to be shooting the same projectiles ie negating some of their effect. which would mean the more of these dessies you had in a fleet the more likely they would be to end up shooting the same targets and wasting their effect. it would also mean the bigger the enemy fleet ie, the more projectiles coming the less likely statistically they would be to shoot at the same projectiles as each other. it might actually scale quite nicely. it would give small fleets more effect against big ones and big ones less effect against small ones... and so on and so forth. that is only a small fix to the problem though. i still think they would be difficult to balance in numbers.there are a lot of concepts to be ironed out. i'm not giving my support to this thread quite yet. but neither am i dismissing it.\"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"that could be one way to do it, but that involves targeting each enemy and disrupting them, as opposed to covering a friendly.it doesn't have to actually have a chaff effect, i'm just relating that to something we know in warfare today. from the scifi aspect it could be a \"temporary localized attracting warp shunt\" that causes incoming fire to bleed or disappear into subspace...the other interesting thing about this would be that it would make position somewhat more important in fleet composition, as proximity to line-of-fire would factor into the effectiveness of the protection. this might mean that there would be a use for formations, though those would be really tough to make fun. please do help to refine the idea, or point out weaknesses. i'm not proposing that my ideas get implemented exactly as written, but rather to have ccp implement the role true defense, make it cheap destroyer hull, and have an impact on fleet mechanics and composition anti-alpha, anti-blob, anti-gank. perhaps this ought to be moved to the features & ideas forum."
"there are already ships that perform the roles you've mentioned aside from the missile defense shield. the electronic warfare hulls and their t2 variants provide the target suppression you want. a missile defense destroyer is a neat concept but would be under utilized as no one with a bit of sense uses missile ships in serious fleet pvp. there's probably a use for them in pve, but the existing pve content is already trivial enough as it is."
"i want to hear what you guys think about the idea.both this proposed system, and the simpler system "
"dambit why can't i be smart like you?"
"hmm...hesitantly supported.so long as restrictions are applied. i don't want to see as many billboards as there are cans floating around.\"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"all of the things i couldn't quite think how to say, he has sad. ^^"
"dont lie. everyone see when the ship is not in cloak. that is not truth and just an \"camera zoomed out\" alibi.everyone see it, when looks at it onto the cloak module. active cloak module have green flashy effect.and no not need afk alarm.if some one afk not need pay attention from sound alarm. so, not need cloaky alarm. play or not cloaking away from game. if use not just one client use window mode and will see what happen with ship.everyone know afk cloaky ships=terrorizing another peoples without play and with risk free, because they not know the cloaked ship types and they dont know the user active or not.and other one standing fleet not solve this problem, because eve has so many system and inpossible to defend all system, and a good pilot can kill the ratting ships with the npcs realy fast within 1 minute and when a fleet jumping from other system or warping from too far away, because that is more than 1 minute.i know because i killed many pilots with my main when they had standing fleets in system."
"oh dear god. are you stupid? this has nothing to do with afk cloakies! i feel like im banging my head against a brick wall here. i see you trolling in every cloaky related thread. if your trying to prove a point, at least try and prove it intelligently. your just making yourself look bad.\"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"your right..it doesn't...but the fact of the matter is it will have something to do with it becuase you mentioned cloaking device and the first thing every tom **** and harry will think afk cloaker.contradiction yes...but unavoidable paradox.and yes....he is that dense.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"i agree. supers should not be anti-sub cap platforms.in the same breath, shooting at a super with anything smaller than a xl gun /bombers should result in absolutely no damage to shields captain. puny munitions worthless munitions, regardless of how big your bs blob is... after all, the lack of force generated by those small arms against its massive hull is just insignificant enough to do nothing worth caring about. otherwise, it would be like flies hitting your windshield on the highway, going through the window, through your brain, flip the car and come out the other side unharmed...."
"the op wants to make everyone play the game his way.-1"
"i feel cheated.give me my time back."
"how about we just get rid off people like you"
"so what your saying is your hiding because your too cowardly to post with your main....got it.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"thank you everybody who posted an argument even against my proposal.some other people can't use their brains or are unable to communicate, they lack the ability to understand what a \"proposal\" is and to have a discution. it 's their age for sure. they should try to give an argument that supports their view and, as we know, attacking the poster instead of bringing any argument to oppose what has been posted is a sign of lacking arguments.the proposal is to turn empire into 0.0 or low sec, except the npc corps. that would lead to equal rules for all. it would be a good step against griefing and bulying newer player. the war mechanings right now force the playstyle of the attacker to the defender. it also leads to easy kills. a wannabe pvper decs an indy corp knowing the indy cant fight back. a real pvper fights in 0.0 or low sec. if someone wants to pvp the low sec and the 0.0 is right next door.support my proposal to achive a real new gamethinking. new players leave now more than they would leave in this scenario. they would be safe in a npc corp and almost every industry guy would have pvp skils or a pvp alt.be nice stop trolling start arguing."
"oh look a pvper who doesn't know that empire is about pvp as well.as you said, eve is about pvp. that includes the miners and missioners.also why don't you wait and see what ccp has for us and/or screws up with their new war dec and aggression stuff."
"the proposal is to turn empire into 0.0 or low sec, except the npc corps. that would lead to equal rules for all.oh well you know i would be with you in that but from what i 've read they wanna do something bad more bad thia is my proposal instead of waitng maybe they read and think about it. i don't expect them to do it but maybe gives them or us too some new ideas."
"\"...just moving or orbit all the time would not help because his cloak is disrupting the space around... maybe 0.1 au...\"^^but your idea with the fuel is a nice idea too its nice to see who is posting ^^ u all have just some npc corp characters ; ?and i would like to make a bet that the most of you how don't \"like\" it are in this \"business\" ^^ and not afflicted ; i make just a supposition ;and when this topic is some topic that is discussed most of the time as some of u say, think about why ;"
"about why ? because we want to kill afk cloakers, but afk cloaking is risk free. just asking why ? why risk free a playtype in enemy space, when everything other movements there is not risk free ???"
"what a new and interesting idea that has never been proposed before. i'm sure the developers have read your post and are all over your idea."
"docking up is risk free. i want to roam through red space and kill everyone afking in a station. until i can do this, you can't kill someone who's cloaked."
"really ? try risk free docking up when station bubbled and enemy fleet are there and you are not in a cloaked ship and warp there."
"if you were dumb enough to wait long enough for them to get set up like that, then yeah. if you're paying attention and just dock when they're two jumps out, then where's the risk?"
"well this post is popping up quite often so mayby something should be done about it.if the mechanics would be perfect there would be no whiners now would there."
"i heard that some people need to sleep, can't believe it, but read it somewhere in the inet... it's scarring me"
"right, i can't find so many topics about ganking or something like that... every tactic had a counter tactic, but afk-permacloaking-attack-a-ship-every-day-when-it-is-alone not...and don't start again with stupid answers like \"bubble all, have a fleet 24/7 online and protecting everyone, put 500 shuttles around the gates and wait there with cloakys 24/7 too, blabla we are the biggest all other are kidds blabla\"the most of u not even had the courage and post with there main character so how cares what you say or think ;*momy the forum is scarring my and i#m afraid that someone could know me, so i post with a alt all the time\" ; puppies ^^but btt.the part with the fuel is a nice idea and would make a new part in the market, the fuel could be some pi product that is not used so much atm..."
"if some people want to go sleep, go and sleep and do not use afk cloaking.afk craps just eat server cpu times and wasting server resources for nothing. wanna go sleep ? just do it without eve.or you read it somewhere in the inet too... sleeping necessary for afk cloaking ? you scarring me."
"there is already a tool to use against afk cloakers. its called \"a standing fleet\".i don't particularly like afk cloakies, but neither do i dislike them. i have never thought they are a problem. guess that just comes from being in decent corps and alliances.\"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"cloaking is working as intended. stfu and biomass.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"it's absurd that the lp store only lets you do micro transactions when some players are earning millions of lp weekly. if each conversion was of higher value as you went up the lp store then it'd be fine but for a great many lp stores the highest conversions can take just a few thousand lp. obviously this makes converting, for example, a million lp a massive amount of pointless clicking.simply add a multiplier on the lp store next to the convert button so you can do x conversions with a single click. this is a basic interface improvement and should be simple."
"bit of a stretch aint that?but yes it would be nice.================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"\"bit of a stretch\"sir you have clearly never dealt with hatchery"
"so i heard about this lock-breaker module at fanfest and have been thinking about it in detail-ish so the idea behind this is trying to break up large blobby fights.so here is my idea scrap the module and add it as a mechanic that a ship cannot be locked by more then 40 or so ships this would stop 2000 man fleets saying primary this and shoot and would break into lots of small gang engagements. so here are the key points of how id think it would work-this rule would only apply to sub capital ships-locks from within your fleet don<U+FFFD>t count in the 40 total-lock total at 40+ would allow small gangs to all get on a mail if it isn<U+FFFD>t a huge fleet-the target painter would be changed to also allow +1 lock on a target making itfar more useful as e-warnow i'm sure there are things i have not thought of and i'm sure there are exploits would be nice if anyone could point out the problems and fill in the gaps if possible, but i hope this would make the game far more tactical and interesting.looking forward to all your raging"
"i'm sorry but common sense says your idea is beyond stupid sorry but its true..... i mean for crying out loud...in a role playing sense..just visually seeing the target and firing at point-blank range begs the question....are you really thinking this through or you just raging over blobs?================ stop the evemail spam!"
"i really don't understand what point your trying to make drake, but no i don<U+FFFD>t hate blobs i would just like to see battle a little more complex and diverse rather then parking up and shooting at each other with 2000 maelstroms you still have huge fleets they just couldn<U+FFFD>t all shoot the same thing making it more chaotic and opening up new avenues of combat tactics, i would hope at least anywayid just like to add that even if this isn<U+FFFD>t the way to do it all i'm trying to achieve with this idea is smaller engagements within the two opposing large fleets everyone knows small gang fights are more fun and if we could split these larger fights into several smaller fights id think that would be a change for the better."
"a while back someone posted the idea of \"sensor glare\", basically saying that the more people targeted a single ship, the longer it would take to target. it had the obvious flaw of fleets self-targeting to increase lock times, making a sort of passive ecm that would make fleet fights even more tedious. however, it gave me an idea that i never posted, but remembered when i looked at this thread.what if every weapon system that was activated on a target caused its signature radius to drop a small percentage? and i'm talking maybe .05% or less. small. the premise is this: simply targeting someone would not create the sensor glare, but the weapon turret, launcher, ecm module, whatever would. for the duration of its cycle, every offensive module would have this effect.thinking it through: a 20-man gang even with 8 turrets each would drop the sig radius by 8%. 100 battleships would drop it by 40%. you'd get a 100% drop at 250 8-turret ships, so obviously there would need to be a stacking penalty or hard cap, or a number smaller than .05%.the actual numbers would of course be set by ccp and tested thoroughly on sisi for balance, but i'm rather fond of the idea. it creates real penalties for mindless \"orbit anchor, shoot primary\" fleet behavior by actually reducing their damage output, not just their lock times."
"by that logic ignoring the op it would decrease snesor lock on time.glare only means its more visible..harder to ignore....maybe harder to target other ships in the background but even then thats reaching.likening to get a few hundred people to get laser pointers out and paint one target....how would that make it harder to find it? more like bloody easy at that rate.i get what your talking about and the idea...but ccp themselves have made it very clear at fanfest.they want thousands of players fighting it out in one space....not dozens.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"first off....your ignorance is showing.....the reasoning is for tactics....alpha damage...etc.if you can't handle the heat...then get out.secondly.... your proposal is beyond the point of rationality....you want to stop blobs? well your better off proposing spacial distoration to the massive numbers of \"subspace drives/reactors\" or something at that rate...better than the drivel you came up with.at least i can get behind that....and actually support it... but all i see is \"whaa whaa i hate blobs\"yes i'm in the cfc....i can't help the fact they have a great sense of tactics and actually endorse avoiding of cap use if at all possible. from my tiny little peep hole granted but even then================ stop the evemail spam!"
"i don't know if you've been in fleet fights... but its not uncommon to have 10+ logistics ships to rep up people.... the biggest reason you see large groups of ships primarying 1 target, is they need to focus fire to overcome logistics.... anything that limits how much you can focus fire, needs to also limit how much logistics a ship can receive too....sensor glare is a fairly neat idea.... imo, to balance it, the ship getting locked by everything should also receive the glare penalty.... now, if your fleet mates all lock up some logis to prevent it from being primaried, that logi becomes less effective at locking other ships too... leave ewar immune ships immune to sensor glare.... i.e. triage carriersthe only way this could be taken advantage of, is everyone might lock the fleet booster.... but i don't think this would be op or even all that problematic..."
"well i did think of people locking up the logi to make him immune which is why i suggested that locks from within your own fleet wouldn<U+FFFD>t tally in the 40 lock max per ship. however i like the other idea much more then my own with the reduction in signature radius per offensive module it scales well with the number it being such a tiny percent and would encourage people to avoid the calling primary style of fc'ing when in larger numbers which is really the target market anyway.also drake is trolling hard"
"stop trying to take sand out of the box. some of us happen to like large fights.also, post with your main."
"nope, not supported, mining barges are working as intended. simple, don't afk mine, dummy. if you see red in your overview, gtfo."
"i could see giving mining bargest a bit more ehp. the hulk is basically a 300 million isk money piniata that takes 4 t1 fit destroyers in highsec to kill, or one random dude in null / lowsec.however i'd do it by moving them to an armor tank, take away some of the midslots, give em more lowslots, maybe a little more powergrid and cpu for the extra tank.now with armor tanking they have to choose between fitting a proper tank and fitting mining yield boosting mods.. risk vs reward! because you just know there will be some dude in highsec with half as much ehp as everyone else and mining laser upgrades in all his lowslots, and he'll explode spectacularly.as for the rest of this guy's post, it just sounds weird and unnecessary.i honestly think poco based sov is a good idea"
"not supported sorry. if anything: rorqual becomes the 'mining barge'; and all previous mining barges become 'exhumers'."
"well i think ore indy's should just lose there tank altogether and be even stronger at just mining. then each empire should get a t2 cruiser based off the logi hull that dose combat resource gathering. the you have your strait indy ships that use strip[ miners and eat rock super fats and you have your tanky ships with some dps for hostile areas. you devalue no mods as t2 and meta regular mining lasers would be wanted for the t2's and strips for the ore ships."
"read the subject reminder means reminderccp want to get rid of tier, they have to work on all ships mining barge, industrial included.sure mining barge work as intented.who fly a procurer aka tier1 mining barge ?who fly tier 1-2 frigate and cruiser again ?who fly a tier 1 industrial again ?what is important is to apply the same balancing philosophy to all ships in eve. the truth : i really don't give a **** of what ccp will do to balance ships. i really don't care about my own proposal. it is just funny to see the immediate no i was expecting.do you realise that ccp might change all the ships we know in this process ?"
"i will crack for you my friend.the \"role\" we can found in the dev blog about ship balancing are only for combat ships.now, try to find terms to designate a role for each industrial and mining barge. you cannot because they forgot them, using industrial ships as the basic trash.two main thing in balancing ship : removal of tier & roles for ship.i'm happy to remind you the basic of the incoming changes."
"first off...i'm not your friend mr. nooblet carebear.secondly...i'm not laughing anymore....you have serious issues.thirdly: don't give a #### what ccp will do? well gee golly whiz... guess thats /thread! ccp will change what is necessary and i'm pretty damn sure it will have nothing to do with you.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"i'd like something like this more thought out and planned. just not this specifically.mostly though, i just want a reason to fly the little proc. its so cute but completely useless."
"let me rephraseccp will make mistake when balancing ships and i don't care because they are taking the right direction. we will see a lot of iteration before the release of the extension in winter probably. a nooblet carebear like me will have nothing to say about it and i won't. i will gladly accept all the change, good or bad.if i post in the assembly hall, it is because i want to draw attention on industrial and mining barges as spaceships.no one pay attention to them in term of balance because they are not combat ships.many voices are coming from the highest noble forum spacefighter, rejecting anything related to industry. internet spaceship is a serious business and industrial and mining barges are spaceships.eve is a living creature.pvp is the body.isk is the blood.industry is the heart."
"mobile cyno jammer modulei propose the development of a mobile cyno jammer that can be used during fleet operations to prevent cap ships from cyno-ing in.here are a few ideas...-limited range, skill based1 au per skill level5 au max cyno jam range-restricted use,capital ship only module;heavy interdictorsheavy interdictor v requirement?;dreads/titans, maybe a dread in seige modecool ideacarrier/mothership;black ops battleshipsthis makes sense;possibly a new 'capital interdictor' don't like this idea or other sort of ships specifically made to deploy it-require a cap buddypossibly make the cap usage high enough that it would require spidering to allow it to work. if a carrier fit it, maybe it would require 2 carriers to boost each other, in order to be stable. i've had numerous conversations regarding this, and there seems to be a lot of support for the 'idea'. however, i haven't seen it discussed yet, so figured i'd throw it out for discussion.any additional suggestions are welcome."
"maybe we can combine the two ideas? the attacker has to anchor a module in the system similar to a sbu. this will reveal the cargo shipments and allow them to be scanned down. then the attacker has to take down the cargo shipments to get the loot. this will also solve the cloaky sb problem the defender can just destroy the \"sbu\" to reset the attack. so, to re-state the proposal with that in mind:1 attacking fleet anchors a \"moon mining blockade unit\" mmbu in a system. a mmbu should cost ~5m. anchor/online time is 30 mins. at this point, any corp that has a moon mining pos in system gets a mail saying their operations are vulnerable to attack.2 once the mmbu is online, the moon goo cargo shipments mgcs are revealed/spawned and can be scanned down. i still believe they should have a reasonable amount of hp ~.5 mil ehp. there will be no static defenses/npc escort/etc, just some structure in space.3 defense can form up and take out the mmbu ~1 mil ehp? to prevent the attack once it anchors/onlines.both the mmbu and the mgcs will generate killmails. mmbu should have a lifespan of lets say 2 hours, at which point it will collapse and vanish. a little bit of thought will have to be put into the timing windows for the spawns. ie, it should not be possible to steal from the same moon twice within a set period of time eg 6 hours. perhaps even add a restriction to prevent multiple mmbus from being anchored in the same system within a 6 hour period. also need to consider timezones. this method should be viable and equally profitable at all time zones, and shouldn't favor the first tz to do this.thoughts? i believe this addresses most of the concerns with the mechanics brought up so far. the cost of the mmbu will discourage smaller moons/operations from being targeted. both the attackers and defenders have tangible targets that generate killmails."
"i was just going to ignore this thread and hope it went away on its own. bad ideas don't hang around long unless the thread owner is battling on mercilessly without thought for the amount of support they're getting, which is what your doing.this idea is a massive massive change that would have huge gigantic game changing consequences. ccp isn't going to pay any attention to this thread, and frankly they shouldn't. something like this would also have to be the primary focus of ccp for an entire expansion cycle to ever get completed.no one likes the idea, and even if they did it wasn't going to happen anyway. let it die.\"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"thanks for the feedback."
"so currently in game what's to stop a player with -10 security rating from getting in a pod, traveling to a high sec system, buying a ship with a smart bomb and camping it outside a station? yes concord will show up and blow up the ship, but the same player can simply warp to the next station, wash - rinse - and repeat.i love the sandbox idea, i really do but when the bully can come up and repeatedly knock down my sand castle it gets very discouraging very fast especially to new players. why have concord at all? they are always a response to known criminals causing problems but never impeding them from repeating those actions. to me this is nothing like real life! imagine if the cops simply followed bad guys around and stopped them after they robbed / killed someone? its good that they are always caught but why not restrict them from causing problems in the first place?my proposal was to simply enact some real consequence for negative actions in the game. the security status is already there, why not use it for something?i would love to see no passport system and simply have the restrictions based on security status but that would be unbalanced in the game and needs a counter.go online and watch some youtube videos of people ganking new players in starter systems. things like 'accidentally' taking loot then offering it back, and \"oh, that concord message is just a popup.\" they trick new players by acting nice then utterly destroy them. if you really like this game enough to play and defend its sandbox environment, would you recommend it to friends as it is now? or would you spend time teaching them how to play before letting them try it?michael"
"you just lost what little respect you got from me.================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"eve is hard.also, dont sign your posts, tool."
"i would like to hear some actual feedback if i could. not just a re-quote of the entire comment above with a single line of nothing useful.i see this as changing nothing for high-sec players and adding both income and risk to low-sec players that want to venture into high-sec."
"i gave you actual feedback, you simply ignored it.the fact remains that there are actual consequences to loss of sec status/standing in the game right now. your approach is at the same time too heavy-handed and too beneficial to the gankers since they can make themselves safe in highsec by getting a forged passport. and there's no reason for it to be in game at all.your idea messes up the sandbox that we have right now."
"you have no business making ideas for a game you do not understand.feedback is wasted on you.i suggest you play for a couple of years before you propose changes that dramtically affect the game.================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"give us the option to have more than one preset orbit and keep at range distances. depending on what i am fighting i may want to orbit at different distances. same goes for keep at range. right clicking or right clicking and typing the new ranges during a fight is horrible. it would be nice if we could set differerent colors like red for the longer range setting and green for the nearer but that doesn't matter much. if this was already proposed please link it. make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"+1 from me towards this.i like to idea that i can choose the way i travel in eve. and speeding up one method of travelling is always welcome. even i do like to fly trough the gates and see the views and players in space but sometimes i just don't have tim"
"your idea contradicts eve's fundamental principal:risk+effort = lucrativeyour idea takes out the risk part"
"it's no fun when your agreeable.well played sir...well played.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"i'm looking for something that's defensive. ewar is not, it's offensive, which is why you'll get taken out by concord if you jam a target before they fire on you. the kind of ship i imagine would target friendlies, and activate modules on friendlies, not on foes. ewar frigates, oddly enough, would be a good counter to such a destroyer.a ship of the sort i envision could literally intervene before battle, without being actually aggressive, as opposed to shoring up what's left after the initial strike."
"say a logistic ship has reps going on a friendly to the tune of one million shield points every two seconds ridiculous, but this is merely for the sake of illustration. the friendly has 5000 ehp. an alpha strike hits the friendly for 5001 points. the friendly explodes.in the case where the friendly is protected by this new kind of ship / module, what would have been a 5001 point strike turns into a 3500 point strike. still a big deal, but not game-over. the module protects the targeted ship it is activated on. in other words you do target a specific friendly and protect that ship.the way i saw it, closer proximity to line of fire, or to the protected target was what would prevent \"i win\" fleets. if one destroyer is protecting two ships, it will be less effective protecting one than the other. because shot angle now matters in the equation, an enemy fleet can simply target ships they have a better position on. also, a webbing frigate becomes deadly for the the protected ships as it can prevent the destroyer from maintaining position until the destroyer pops it... it is a destroyer after all.this creates some fairly new dynamics for fleet fights, i think, and has enough natural counters to prevent invincible fleets. used well, it could prevent straight blob grinds and require better tactics. i couldn't say what effect this has on ccp's hamsters, although i'd hope the calculation would be simple enough to make it not too onerous.besides, in a fleet battle, destroyers should outnumber battlecruisers, battleships, and cap ships."
"those actually exist as well. there's remote eccm versions of everything but target painters."
"how does eccm reduce incoming damage on a target?"
"i think it could work if done right but i doubt it be possible without serious work."
"but that's why ccp devs get paid the big bucks... they hopefully figure out ways to implement the feature without making it a massive ordeal. hopefully.any additional problems with the idea itself?"
"because sov 0.0 is a much, much more complex system and cannot be \"fixed\" in any way that would be as simple as showing some love to losec?"
"makes sence. if both systems come into eve at roughly the same time, then they both have my full support.if they were both included then most of my concerns are acounted for."
"every corporation has shares. these shares can be given to corpmates. why not sell these shares in a market? why not call this market....a stock market. hmmm. players buying and selling shares of major in-game corporations....players' actions affecting not only the outcome in a pvp battle but also the price of their corporation's stocks? just a thought."
"set up a website and run such a service. there's nothing stopping you."
"why not set up a website? because the game lacks the infrastructure to ensure transfer of isk for stock as stocks cant be included in the contract system, include stocks in the contract system and a website could be created.+1 for op, i have often felt the game needed more ways to make more use of the stocks."
"well we would need more or less a stock market if we think about the stocks.mainly they are used to lock down assets and remove afk ceo:s.so if you want a new stock system it would need a complete makeover and an actual stock market where corporations could enlist. stocks would be traded and so on.i would actualy like to see something like this. tought the ability to manipulare or miss use of the market would be something that ccp would need to think about. but it would be fun in a way.seeing stocks from alliances and how they would flucktuate or something like that. dunno.interesting idea in genereal."
"making a public stock option..+1 supported.system would need and overhaul. but i can imagine ccp finance guy could come up with something rather interousting and plus on top it. it could be away for some the current isk to leave the game, cause face it some corps and allaince die, and thus their stock prices would die with it, and isk would leave the game.. i like this thought alot better then raising taxes through out all of eve. cause there is risk involved with this, you could get lucky and make a ****-ton of isk to. it would bring a whole new world of politics into the game as will."
"the important question here is... why did ccp not think of this? idea has my full support... although it'd be nice to get the old \"flavour\" names back too... some of us miss them."
"its one more item on a hundred things they are looking into.techincally its there...just not something to be sorted.ps: i use evehq anyway ================ stop the evemail spam!"
"total supported,buy eve time on the big screen tv in station!! to will advertise your corporation/alliance. can be done via isk/plex think about ccp the money you could generate.secondly advertising on concord billboards in high sec. place name on products built by corporations.. so if i build a rifter, it will say built buy teshania. if i built it with as a corporation job it will say built by aliastra/gallente federation, also it will skin the ship with the corperation/allaince logo!! go if you want to trade mark a logo charge us 1 plex for every 3 months and the ship skinning is free every time we build something. this is a world of corporations trying to make a living, by providing some form of services with inside your sandbox. gives us ways to advertise outside of the forums and spamming different chat channels!"
"stupid ? this is your best argument you terrible troll ? you are a noob who need afk sound alarm and other idiotic things, because you can't watch a ship and don't see when decloaked.qand you talking about inteligence when you cant realize simple thing, your ship uncloaked or not.lol man better if you never post again and read the arguments again, not just your crap answer.\"dont lie. everyone see when the ship is not in cloak. that is not truth and just an \"camera zoomed out\" alibi.everyone see it, when looks at it onto the cloak module. active cloak module have green flashy effect.and no not need afk alarm.if some one afk not need pay attention from sound alarm. so, not need cloaky alarm. play or not cloaking away from game. if use not just one client use window mode and will see what happen with ship.everyone know afk cloaky ships=terrorizing another peoples without play and with risk free, because they not know the cloaked ship types and they dont know the user active or not.and other one standing fleet not solve this problem, because eve has so many system and inpossible to defend all system, and a good pilot can kill the ratting ships with the npcs realy fast within 1 minute and when a fleet jumping from other system or warping from too far away, because that is more than 1 minute.i know because i killed many pilots with my main when they had standing fleets in system. \"."
"/me sighs.okay. so far, this conversation has gone -you say this only helps afk cloakers.i then provide an argument for why it doesn't.you ignore argument and repeat \"this only helps afk cloakers\".i clarify, in more detail why it couldn't ever help afk cloakers.you ignore my clarification and say \"this only helps afk cloakers\"i get annoyed and say \"nothing to do with afk cloakies\"!you say \"this is your best argument you terrible troll?\", and then accuse me of not reading the thread.so, lets make this simplehow do you think this could be used to help afk cloakies? because right not, i see no way it could.if you reply again, without any for of argument what so ever and just say afk cloakies are bad again with no justification, i will be very tempted to gather a fleet of hundreds of stealth bombers to go afk in all of your systems, forever.ps;to respond to your comment;i refer to something i have already said. \"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"answer me this: how often do you currently find and decloak the afk cloakers that you so detest?if you say anything besides \"never\" then i have to wonder why they're so scary. and if you never decloak them...what will they gain from having this alarm?the lack of critical thinking in this thread gives my headache a headache."
"its like the old addage. if you dont have anything useful to say, dont say anything. also, an audio notification of your cloak failing, just makes sence. its really just a ui thing after all. if you consider the audio to be part of the ui"
"+1 buti would prefer it see it as more of a type of contract system, where we go need xyz of minerals, the corp members click a 'donate to project button' and it subtracts form the total starting xyz and shows what is still outstanding. then you can view "
"agreed. contract system makes much more sence."
"this would make mining for projects completely easier and reduce the amount of headaches us industrialists get ><+1"
"if subcaps couldn't hurt a titan, and titans crap on regular capitals, it would be just as unbalanced as they are now. i could probably agree that anything smaller than battleship class weapons shouldn't do much of anything to a titan, but battleships should be the primary counter to titans."
"stupid alt is stupid"
"feeding the troll - a little....this in itself highlights the brokenness of the current system. suggest refinement:0.9-1.0 : no concord sanctioned war actions, no significant isk faucets either.0.7-0.8 : concord protects npc members, player corps can purchase concord or navy protection. level 3 missions0.5-0.6 : npc corps have concord protection at gates/stastions. player corps can purchase faction navy protection. level 4 missions0.4 : player corps can purchase faction navy protection at gates/stations0.3 : as-isrange of protection purchasing options available, all military responses are provided in good faith. products do not guarantee survival, only the specified response. pricing subject response time, scale, corp size, sec status. faction navy packages are subject to standing and references. packages available per system, constellation and region. finance options available please call 1-800-concord for details. concord is an ethical employer."
"yes.... this is a fact people tend to miss....a guy who hates empire and npc corps....but is too cowardly to post with his main.imagine that.prue hypocrisy.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"yes eve is about pvp, and everything is fueled by it. even your actions of being a troll. you say your propasl to bring pvpers and indy pilots on to an equal isk income ratio o.o. to me i say stop gate camping for hours on end and go mission or something and earn your isk.something to think about.you buy a ship isk paid to indy pilot that makes it>>you go blow another ship up, or get blown up>> buy another shipisk paid to an indy pilot.. this repeats all day longso now you set it up so all indy pilots get ganked all day long even more then they are nowso you buy a ship>>blow up the indy pilots you bought it from>>slows down is production and items on market>>ship prices go up cause we all know you are not going to make the ship>>you blow more people up>>you get blown up>> now you buy an over priced haul of a ship cause there is alot of demand buy no one building it cause you keep blowing them up.. just saying your actions effect the market. wait tell you see jita being burned and hulkageon right after, i personally don't care to me it just fattens my wallet. pvp in itself makes the isk flow in the game. but don't hate when the price of your ships sky rockets cause all you do is hunt indy pilots down.keeping empire around is needed to keep some of the minerals prices some what stable to allow people to keep getting ships and equipment at a decent price with out paying through the nose for it. just my two cents. hate it like don't care, but remember this is a sandbox game, for every action there is a reaction. sometimes its just long term before you see it."
"because no pvp'rs ever got their start by building stuffz....op: your idea is flawed. the wardec changes won't make hi-sec \"worse\". if anything, they may actually *reduce* combat - if they get rid of the immunity afforded by station games and neutral-alt rr...not supported, i want to see what ccp rolls out before i make any rush to judgement."
"if op reveals main i will endorse this."
"depends on who/what/where/when.but anything genericly saying \"get rid of ______\" which is large and massive in itself is always bad.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"sorry bud.. i can't support this ever. it'd lead to more station games, mineral prices would go insane as the only people mining would probably be bots because the industrialists would mostly leave. no industrialists means few to no modules and no ships as they're almost exclusively built by players now... your proposal would basically murder the game. as for the wannabe pvp'er dec'ing an industrial corp... didn't work out so well for the one that dec'ed telsa before they moved to null sec.... indy's technically won."
"there are gigantic constellations full of what you want - nullsec & lowsec.grow some balls and gtfo of highsec._<U+FFFD>a man's freedom consists in his being able to do whatever he wills, but that he should not, by any human power, be forced to do what is against his will.<U+FFFD>  jean-jacques rousseau _"
"i just thought of a big idea. i added ingame spreadsheets to my list of corporate improvements for traders and corporate management."
"you can always do what i do and hunt them down with a fleet of 60 dudes and decloak them when they afk and leave their stream up."
"noone should sit whereever he wants... for how long he wants. regardless. cloaked.there is not reason why this shouldnt be possible."
"\"i can't mine or rat in null because i see a stranger in local, so i want to make wormholes hugely more difficult to operate in.\""
"not sure if this has been said before if it has then it's time to refreshnew ships / modules / rigs and implants being dropped by random jove encountersbe it at first useing the exploration machanics then it to bring more into life with incursions and major null sec sov warsie in the middle of a incursion have a small rogue jove fleet warp in, same with large scale null sec sov battlesthey after all crave knowledge and a x amount of ships in battle could bring a rare curiosity for the odd few jovians"
"it appears that it's ok to use 3rd party programs to mine while you are at work and i say this because i see no action taken against players that are exploiting this?? why not have someone at ccp handle this issue.thanks."
"are you people blind?do you not read dev blogs?do you post this #### for no aparent reason just to look foolish?seriously...some people shouldn't be allowed to play this game. it's no wonder ccp ignores half of us!================ stop the evemail spam!"
"instead of acting like a jackass, post the dev blog you are referring to. appears you have lots of nerd rage over someone posting something."
"we shouldn't need to post the devblog, you should be able to do your own research before posting ideas.to sum up the blog in question, ccp is currently working on coming down hard on the botters, or have you not noticed the changes in the market which are partially because of that?"
"it appears that you are oblivious to the following:- dev blogs- forum chatter- rising mineral pricesi'd strongly suggest that you make an effort at knowing what's going on before you come in here trying to sound like you do."
"pretty damn hard to ignore the launch windows and repeated posts....take a good long look in the mirror before you label someone a jackass because your far worse off than i am pal.hears a hint - read before you post.otherwise please go away and mine rocks or something.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"most people haven't, tofu. at least, not knowingly.edit - i approve of this suggestion. it would make my life easier."
"sensor glare just doesn't make sense. as more ships acquire a lock, each successive ship in the fleet should acquire it faster because the ships' computers share information.the real problems with blobs are the scale of incoming damage, not the number of ships that acquire a lock. reps can't deal with it because they repair damage already done. you'd need a new mechanic like, say, this:"
"npc corp poster gives his valuable input on large scale nullsec fights."
"few things for thought,large blobs are slow to put together, and get moving to destination. they are great at taking structures in space. great against other large fleets.if you are a small fleet, you should be faster then the blob, and just stay out of its way. small fleet warfare is great for shutting down enemy operations and disrupting their day to day business.so each type of fleet has their place and purpose.if you are in small fleet warefare stop trying to face off with the big fleets, get behind them and **** with their daily operations, i don't know like blow up their damn miners. this will hurt them more then anything ;just saying."
"understandable...but lets be honest....concetraited fire on a indicated target is common sense in battle field tactics....especially if said target is especailly difficult to eliminate....your never gonna get away from that...no matter how hard you try...you may make it harder...but it will still be used...quite frequently.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"because grids make any sort of sense at all. or fluid space. or capacitor warfare.i'm suggesting a mechanic that would achieve a specific effect, and then making a pseudotechnical explanation for it so that ccp can explain it in the game lore. since when do we expect eve to make perfect sense?also, who ever said fleet ships share information? i've seen no evidence of this"
"it's called voice comms/fleet broadcasts. *shameless smart assed remark* snesor glare doesn't fit the bill as a name but i understand what your shooting for...i'll sit back and wait for a better rendition tbqh...op is a little too nutty/far fetched for my tastes.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"no argument there. and there would be ways to counter the effect, specifically pointing a half dozen target painters at the primarythere are two things i'd like to see change in large fleet warfare: homogenous fleet compositions, and primary volleys. every fleet fight i've observed in the past six months has been fought the same way: bring lots of the same ship, and shoot one enemy at a time. i want to see eve become more rewarding for creative players and unique strategies."
"fair enough. i took the name from someone else's proposal that inspired my idea."
"@wj... you need to think outside the box more.... what's to stop a 200 man fleet will split into 2x 100man fleets and then locking up the friendly logistics in your neighboring fleet, or any other mission-critical ships they want to protect.... you're sug"
"shoot everything on the field at random and you won't be able to apply enough dps to break logistics reps though..."
"no, just no.any anti-blob mechanics should not be forced upon the players. it should be some sort of weapon that enemy blob fleets are worried the other guy is carrying. eve is famous for having thousands upon thousands of people involved in large fleet fights. if this horrible idea was ever implemented, it would kill one of the main attractions eve has.summary of eves last four expansions:"
"agreed, that's why i proposed a new ship role and new modules for active defense logistics are not active defense, rep is reactive in the aegis destroyer thread. more useful for prevention of alpha, but could potentially blunt the blob."
"hey, i never said it was perfect. i'm just trying to offer up a more sensible idea that would have the desired effect.i really think fleet diversity is a bigger issue in today's fleet fights. swarms of identical ships should have more vulnerabilities than a properly-built mixed fleet. there's a reason every good navy in the world today uses large task forces that use combined arms. i'd rather see ccp focus more on encouraging fleets that make use of more types of ships, as i believe that would encourage more tactical thinking and more frenetic fights."
"nobody uses 100% homogeneous fleets though. the average alphafleet containes bs, logis, fast tackle, webs, ecm, dictors, hictors, recons, bcs, command ships and maybe others. anyone using purely one type of ship is going to lose pretty quickly."
"i<U+FFFD>ve been watching a serious decline over the past 6 years of expertise in this game. it<U+FFFD>s apparent that at ccp, the developers are not properly assigning the right people to the right jobs. it<U+FFFD>s not doubt apparent that you have many capable and smart members of your company, but somehow, delegation of task is falling through. this recent round of massive adjustment to titan stopgap fix proposals is just one indication that somewhere there is a flaw in how you delegate tasking. there is no excuse for the developers working on a change first and foremost, do not know the problem, and secondly, do not understand the mechanics needed to fix the problem. surely, there are better developers in those specific fields around that can be tasked those duties. similarly, as with any elected office, popularity contest do not assure proper expertise of csm members. a body of csm does not guarantee that all the members are adequately able to discuss the mechanics of the game which the players address to them and then transfer those ideas properly to ccp.proposed changes to the csm:before ideas ever get voted on by the csm, committees are formed. these committies are responsible for pooling player knowledge and resources and forming a think tank on an idea. the committee then takes the refined idea to the csm and can cite what player resources they used. if it<U+FFFD>s a combat mechanics, then a combination of many fc<U+FFFD>s from empire, to lowsec, to 0.0 and wormhole space are pooled together. if it<U+FFFD>s mining, then experienced people with credible records are pooled from each area. if it<U+FFFD>s alliance and corporation management, then leaders of entities across the game are pooled.that way, the csm is adequately proposing ideas that are a collective of relevant knowledge, rather than unspecialized members throwing their weight around. the csm can release these meetings, with disclosure on who was part of the committee, why they were justifiably relevant, and the decisions that were then lifted up to the csm and ultimately ccp. the playes used are disclosed so that self serving interest of player pockets can't be exploited. example being elise randolf can't just committe nothing but pl and nc. together w/o the regular player base and csm seeing how he's stacking a committee for a singular interest. i<U+FFFD>ve heard from countless csm members that to date, their jobs and duties are pretty meaningless, and this gives them a much more relevant and active role and expectations.proposed changes to ccp:redesign your teams around proper developer knowledge. have a dedicated core of developers that work in each different area and become specialized in that topic. if someone is dealing with combat, then every task they get assigned should always be somehow combat related. this requires them to understand the flaws in that field. they should not be working on industry, or trade mechanics, npc<U+FFFD>s, etc. the same goes for: empire, lowsec and sov mechanical changesindustry and researchmarket activitesminingcombat mechanicsempire building/alliances and corporationsetc.this means that anytime a fix or addition to the game has a mutitiered effect: people from each field are adequately represented. but someone from the combat division should not have his/her hands also in something that relates to mining. this way, your divisions can also focus their own gameplay activities on their specific task, so that they can better examine the play and impact of changes they try to make. i think if you combine the developer changes with the csm changes, you have a chance to pool a lot of resources for true expertise and return to proper patch ideas. this will hopefully avoid the <U+FFFD>omg ccp wtf were you thinking there<U+FFFD> ideas you seem to be coming out with that make the players question your competence. there is no reason or excuse why the developers cannot see some of the insanely obvious flaws in their ideas that have become more and more frequent over the years. after all, if you<U+FFFD>re designing the game, shouldn<U+FFFD>t you be experts? shouldn<U+FFFD>t you at least be able to see the obvious wtf bad ideas? i'm sorry, but you cannot tell me that somehow, these developers should have their hands in so many cookie jars of gameplay. no player in game has that kind of understanding of all mechanics, there's just not enough time in the day. find the best solution, not just someone who did this for a while some time. i mean ****, i've mined in game before, but there's no way i'd call my self god's answer to mining. but i can certainly think of players who would fit that label."
"i think someone's butthurt that his titan is getting nerfed.you've got this big long rant questioning ccp and the devs and your one solid point in the whole thing is that the titan nerf isn't being handled the way you feel it should, the rest of it is just a rant with no basis in reality."
"you do know i'm pushing for titan nerfs right troll?i can list many debacles from several iterations of a carrier patch changes, to 3 super iterations, to tower changes, to sov changes, etc."
"guess again.... i am an industrialist...and you are full of #### if you think you have any experince...at least enough to make such crazy proposals.period.some of us wear all hats...some more than others..some more loudly the others...stop assuming we don't care about indies or pvp'ers....fact of the matter is...everyone is doing everything in some shape form or manner.we get it bugs you...and your concenred...but you are completely out of the ball park of rationality here.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"lol cloaky frigs are already fine ambushers, just uncloak six seconds before coming out of warp"
"you're doing it wrong. go make some popcorn, this should be fun."
"or just use a sb; role bonus: \"-100% targeting delay after decloaking\"."
"don't they already get a bonus to that by definition of the covert ops cloak?================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"i stand corrected good sir.o7*goes to make some popcorn*================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"no, the covops cloak has a 10s recalibration time. well, 6s at cloaking 4, which is required to fit the things. no other covert ships have that role bonus though the blops has a \"no targeting delay after decloaking\" role bonus, it can't warp cloaked though."
"tbqh.....and yes my combat record is subpar...but i have flown sb ops extensively in my days of whs....the time dleay is not that big of a deal....but i guess people are a bit quicker on the draw.now the other thing to keep in mind....space bombs don't need a target lock to throw a bomb..and by the time you toss your bomb...your either commited...or \"gtfo\" mode.by the time you lock on to someone...your stuck there as they likely have you targeted and thus...you can't cloak.================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"learn to search before posting:"
"learn to post constructive posts."
"this is the results you get when searching for \"mobile cyno jammer\""
"notice your result doesn't show up"
"maybe you should learn how to search then. the ah forum isn't the only forum on this board f&i, where the linked topic is, is the spot where crappy and un-vetted ideas should be. ah is supposed to be for the more serious ideas that have some player support and need to actually be seen by the csm. also, you should learn how to edit your post."
"yes....and to add to that spamming makes you a bigger idiot.not supporting yet an another nooblet post. : o p================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"there is a reason that a battleship costs 200x more."
"you've never tried to take down 4 spider drone 2s have you.they are hard to catch with warriors while webbed, med drones wouldn't stand a chance unless you gimp the average bs mission fit with 2-4 webs, which is moronic."
"totally agree!"
"come on people, the talk of fixing the bounty system has been going on for how many years? at least come in here and click the like button on the op!"
"better then what we have now +1"
"would be nice to get some dev or csm input on this.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"+1 supportedi would say min. skill requirement though is freighter iii.also if there was jf version of the tug, it would require freighter v and jump freighter iv. additionally balanced with fuel cost for jumping such a large heavy load!but seriously just"
"thanks for the input.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"great idea! i too am moving my mission running around and the shuttle leap-frog back and forth is tedious to say the least.small improvement / suggestion? add a new option called 'secure for travel' , similar to repackaging but just secures the ship for travel in a envoy-class ship hold. this would require a component to used like a framework for each class / size of ship. they would be simple t1 gear that can be made anywhere but would add some cost to the whole operation and would be sold and traded. each envoy-class would have a separate bay for holding collapsed frames. even make them take damage per usage so you need to either keep stock or a blueprint handy to make more. maybe a t2 variant with a password lock so you can secure a rigged ship, password it then contract it for travel but keep it password locked so the chance of theft goes down. options:- a frame locked ship cannot be entered with a pod so even if the ship pops out on destruction it cannot be boarded. this also opens the options for trading / swapping rigged ships in space. still need a station / pos to get into it but can be dropped in space and unless someone has another envoy-class they can't pick up the ships.- a t2 frame locked ship will only reveal what class of ship is inside, no other details.just my 2 cents."
"also need an applause emote..."
"tarsus zatekigoonwaffegoonswarm federation"
"drake swarm is an aberration that functions solely on the fact that we can dump three full fleets drakes into a system. smaller fleets rarely see missiles being used as anything but secondary weapons to fill a highslot you couldn't put a real weapon in."
"this would not just be an anti-missile platform. the idea would be to have a damage counter for each kind of damage-dealing platform, excepting drones."
"i like this idea for when dust goes live. able to defend the heavies from ground based fire would be pretty cool. already they had an idea in templar one when a squadron of catalyst destroyers fire their guns to defend the moros. tho a new ship class would be quite neat."
"agreed, dual bounty system clears up all problems and creates a new hate-fuelled economy for pvp.the only remaining problem is the ever present possibility ccp will implement the easy half then forget about it."
"that was maybe the subconscious source of my objection i should write up a more formal, less discursive amended post-discussion proposal."
"having a public and private stock is possible. there are companies out there that have multiple types of stock and they could serve different purposes in gameas an observation, aside from another form of making money--which this clearly is a very cool way of doing so if it ever actually worked--what would be the purpose of a public stock? as mentioned currently the stock system is a way to deal with inter-corporation issues, like absence.in reality, corporations offer public stock as a way of securing additional capital to invest in some project. now for the most part, corporations in eve exist to feed some part of the war engine: resource mining, production and/or war. now reality, you could argue, is no different, though we are perhaps a little less obsessed with war, and there's a rather significant service sector in modern economies that simply does not exist in eve. no space-plumbers. the thing is that if war is that much more constant and corporations and alliances rise and fall in power and existence at a rapid pace.the end result being the question: how do you protect investors?the obvious trend, atmosphere, or sentiment in the eve community would seem to be, \"you don't.\" anyone can lose everything just like they can in reality......sort of. there are plenty of government bodies that have oversight and regulatory power over stock exchanges, because unlike eve, governments are not made up of a collection of corporations. what is more is that these it is, in fact, one of the most care bear environments you can imagine. there are rules regarding insider trading, stock manipulation, fraud, accounting principles, required periodic disclosures. i imagine that no one is going to want to actually do any of this work in game. i mean there is a reason that accountants make so much money: no one wants to do this in reality. i can't imagine a significant amount of people would want to do it in game. i could be wrong, because there may, in fact, be whole corporations made up of cpa's who might drop everything they are doing to just work the books, but i doubt it. that is not counting the whole question of 'what if they lie/cheat?' in reality, there is jail and that's where you go. in eve, sure concord may shoot at you, but if you're in 0.0, there's no applicable penalty. the end result is that you'd somehow have to ask ccp to automate thisthe other thing about reality versus eve is that corporations own things in reality, while players functionally own everything in eve. if the company that i work for goes out of business, its assets would be liquidated and whatever money remained would be divided among its investors. if a company is dissolved in eve, there is really very little implication thereso i've written 2700 characters, and if anyone is still reading, you probably already get what i'm saying or you wonder 'whats your point?' well, the point is that without some sort of safeguard, history has shown us that people will bend the system until it breaks great depression and that some amount of regulation would be required to make this work. the alternative everyone does what they want would likely lead to corporations making decisions to sell a whole bunch of stock, then close up their doors and run off with the money. the only other way i could see it working is if corporations would have to put up items for collateral on a semi-permanent or permanent basis that would guarantee the fund to a certain degree, but at that point, you're really only guaranteeing that you might only ask investors to lose some percentage of their wealth if players do some financial acrobatics in game that are not possible in a stock market that we envision in our head, this nyse of the starsdo you have concord fly fleets out into nulsec or lowsec to try to reclaim or punish players who cheat this system? can they liquidate a titan? who would buy it? me? please?and the reason why some protection of the investors is essential to this idea is basically that if the stock market is known to be the hive of only liars and cheats, then no one would use it, and though it might be in the game, it wouldn't do anyone any good. is there a simple or elegant solution that ccp could use as a sound foundation for this? government has been at this for 400 years without creating much of anything that is either simple or elegant, and that may not be saying much, with how government operates, but i think its probably a tall order never-the-lessso... i like the idea, i just don't see how you could get it to work. bonds are a much more viable option, though there is potential debt and defraud involved there too."
"kattrina i hear ya that this system would be rather hard to put into place inside of this game. for it just currently does not hold any real safe guards for those who would invest. i don't truly see this as something would simply drop into the game either. this would be more like a massive patch, and put all their economists into overdrive trying to figure out how this would/would not break the game. i total agree before introducing public stock options, that there will have to be someway that when a corporation goes under that their assets would be liquidized and give first to the private investors then the remaining would would be split amongest the public stock options. there would have to be regulations set fourth when going public that a % of all income for the corp would be set aside in a wallet they could not touch that would be a return to investors wallet or something to that effect. i guess you could call this part a dividend pay out. having corporations/alliance present quarterly earning. even in our real life market there is huge risks investing. so think this still would be a rather interesting system to attempt to put into play.whats needed more of draft of to implication this along with safe guards rules and regulations. so it would become used, and not destroyed over night by our rough edged population of eve."
"/signed+1 for a stock marketbut, i suggest not using existing shares. allow a corp to have another set of stocks that can be placed on the market. current stocks are already integrated into things, adding on top of them, as they are would make matters worse. as they exist now, they are trying to do too many things already.perhaps allow a corp to issue shares after they register with some npc brokerage service. they can issue up to 100,000 shares for a one million isk fee. regardless of the above, a lot of data will need to be exposed to make a stock market viable in eve. historical value, dividend history, top ten holders and their individual buy and sells over time, how widely held, etc.necessity is the plea for every infringement of human freedom. it is the argument of tyrants; it is the creed of slaves. - william pitt"
"wow, the op really shows a masive lack of understanding of how the game works.he also has given very little thought possibly none, into how a change like this would affect the game. in all probability, kill eve.he also needs to post with his main, but he wont, because he knows his idea is nothing but a troll.jint hikaru - miner / salvager / explorer / spacebum in the beginning the universe was created. this has made a lot of people very angry and been widely regarded as a bad move."
"i too would like to have a ship better than quite literally everything else in all of new eden."
"i think your missing the point iam not talking about fully opening up jove ships for new eden, ccp at fanfest talked about new ships and new modsa % of stuff we have now comes from partly jove techrandom rare jove encounters would open up a endless part of the game.. and the story lines could go on for yearsfor examplewh's woke sleeperssleepers could = old enemy of jovejove tech that could *drop from encounter = wormhole stabilizerdue to bubble type effect of a wormhole stabilizer only ship able to fit it could be a heavy indictorwormhole stabilizer effects for x amount of time, drawback once counter reaches 0 wormhole entrance collapses due to mass stressmod use's high slot"
"no.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"can we instalock threads proposing silly idears like this?"
"have to agree...lack of presence..sure.but we don't need \"i win\" buttons.op is living up to name sake a little to much.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"slightly ****tarded is more like it. while he is having ****ty ideas let's just add terrans to it. come back when you have an idea that isn't game-breaking.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"not talking about i win buttons .. just how new items are introducedjack try i know it may be hard but look at the bigger picture, we have a form of this withincursions my proposal would just spice them and null up alittle bit breaking in down to most basic i can for you long time ago there was a event with a jovian shipbring back the jovain event as a way introduce new items *new items that ccp are already looking atbut use mass huge fleets as a trigger for the random spawn,*wh's woke sleeperssleepers could = old enemy of jovejove tech that could *drop from encounter = wormhole stabilizer*i was trying to use this as a example on how it could fit as a back story"
"you remember how ccp did a couple of events a few month back? the ones where they hopped into normal ships and ran around in circles like headless chickens until they died? do you remember how much flamage occurred because of that?example 1: \"why did ccp have to go into low-sec? why couldn't they keep the event in high-sec where most of the players would have had access to shoot them?\"example 2: \"ccp made a fleet that only a blob could take down. it's clear proof that ccp doesn't like solo or small gang warfare!!\"example 3: \"omg! something valuable dropped from the ccp ships!! this is a clear example of favoritism because only the biggest and most powerful people could kill them and claim those drops!\"example 4: \"ccp should never have even come into the game! it's gamebreaking and anti-sandbox because they are introducing items that were not made and creating situations that are not organic... froth, froth!!!!!\"the list of whines goes on and on and on and on. back in the day, when the population was smaller and less angsty, this would have been a good idea. these days, anything involving \"events\", \"profit\" and \"ccp\" in the same sentence is likely to be met with some serious ear bleeding. as a result, you have to confine such events to purely \"rp fluff\" that has no gain or loss well... some risk of loss.also, \"no\" with the jovians. i prefer to see them as something mysterious and \"untouchable.\" there is also widespread understanding that ccp uses them as a \"plot device\" for expansions and explaining away bugs/glitches/happenings that generally don't make any sense."
"in-spite of jack's weakness's.... he's right on the money....and i can tell you this much....your getting nowhere real fast.just asking for \"stuff\" from a well known race in the game that is vastly superiour in every shape form and fashion...is not going to fly here.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"just a small idea i was pondering:ccp no longer seems interested, or is unable, to provide artwork with each chronicle as they previously did.if this is due to a lack of resources, perhaps they could involve the fans instead? ccp could put out specific details of art work that they feel will represent the next chronicle and players can get to work creating the next piece to feature in the story. the author of the chronicle can then select the art work which meets the specifications."
"i'd have to say this too...i miss the fan art....it's just one of those things that sets the stage for each one.+1================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"here's an olive branch for you: the nosy gamer on h-bot bans, the nosy gamer on bot bans. the nosy gamer is a great place to start if you haven't heard anything about ccp's war on bots."
"he eve mailed me this today...thought it was funny.doesn't change a thing now does it vengar.you should take a break from the game.and by the way....how am i the one ignorant if i know what ccp is doing about botting...along with everyone else...and you obviously....very much so..do not?even with a half a brain all you'd have to do is watch the fanfest video...that alone is enough.go to youtube.com and search \"eve online fanfest 2012 keynote\"i'm sure your old enough to figure it out.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"omg, hilarious, who writes \"lol pwned\" at the end of emails...jint hikaru - miner / salvager / explorer / spacebum in the beginning the universe was created. this has made a lot of people very angry and been widely regarded as a bad move."
"this has been brough tup many times in teh past so lets just keep it very simple:make implants player manufactured, create new skillsets and uses for corpses with implants.basically allow stations with medical facilities and pos's with an appropriate module to have surgical labs that allow a player with an appropriate skillset biology, nano surgery, maybe a few others to salvage implant parts from corpses, make implants require multiple parts to be built, all of which have the possibility to salvage from corpses and to be made possibly from a rare source, maybe even just in lowsec to give that area a boost, so that youhave 2 methods of manufacture - either from slowly building up a stock of parts form corpses or from buidling from scratch probably using pi type materials along with regular ones.basically, the implant industry should be player driven, and it allows corpses a real use and adds a new skill tree and career path."
"yeah then faction implant price wouldn't be solely decided by null sec alliances."
"this would make eve universe into absoluet anarchy since gankers will kill absolutely anyone. never know wether his implants aren't worth much more than his ship, are we ...?so, unless you intend to boost ganking into heaven, it is probably not good idea."
"and what about the lp store isk sink we currently have? we need more sinks, not less."
"hesitantly supported.i very much like the idea of making pvp potentially profitable. there are some obvious problems, the isk sink loss for example, which will need ironing out. i will be watching this thread. not if there is a % likihood of the implant/implant parts being accessable that is low enough to make suicide ganking unprofitable or simply \"unlikely\" to be profitable. i wouldn't throw a perfectly good idea out of the window simply because some fine details are required."
"scrap the dumbassed lockbreaker module, then burn this thread and gas the op.anti-blob weapons already exist. bombs, titans, good logis, ewar, sniping/nanofagging, etc."
"well its nice to know at least someone has had the same vision as me with chaotic fleet fights, but this seems to be trending to a resounding slap in the face no to the idea."
"command ships? people still use those when they can give better bonuses and stronger tanks with t3s?the biggest fleet fight i've ever seen i've watched quite a few, but never engaged in any consisted of a big blob of drakes versus a big blob of maelstroms. it was early on in my first ventures into low/null and i couldn't even tell you who the involved parties were; i was utterly ignorant of space politics at the time. these blobs made up probably 90% of their respective fleets. that's close enough to homogeneous for me to see it as a problem."
"oh hell yes.there is always a costant demand for them command ships in the \"cfc\"fyi: they are still cheaper than t3's floppie. *but you knew that...just being a smartass ribs*================ stop the evemail spam!"
"yeah, my abso was about half the price of any of my legions. it also doesn't do any of the jobs as well. it's a lot of fun to fly, but command ships definitely need some buffs to make them do what they should be doing."
"we definitely want more variety in fleet fights, just not through nerfing existing functionality. a more natural way to achieve this would be to model a military's natural response to the problem: change the capabilities of the fleet. if the real problem with blobs is focused fire, find a way to handle focused fire. you must assume that you cannot directly alter your enemy except, perhaps through infiltration and sabotage. therefore, reduce the incoming damage with active defense as opposed to reactive repair. developing technology that would interfere or intercept incoming fire like an aegis destroyer, or that could temporarily soak up some of the damage remote shield extender modules with a cool-down, remote resistance amplifier modules with a cool down could achieve this.the enemy's response would end up having to be taking the defense apart in detail to increase the effectiveness of their offense. mixed ewar and tackle packages become important depending on how the active defense roles are implemented.i'm not saying that the fleet with the most ships won't still win. if both sides bring a balanced fleet, all else being equal the one with the numbers should win. that doesn't need fixing. but there should be more room for tactics to make a difference than there is today.as mentioned, i've created a thread in this forum for those interested in the notion of aegis destroyer, though perhaps it should be modified to \"active defense\"."
"amen to that..but isn't an damnation more fun in fleets?course an abso is kinda fun for small time fleets.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"what if a new mod like a damage control that prevents structure damage for 5 seconds after armor is depleted and the mod breaks? doesn't make you invincible but gives logistics a change to get on you.me personaly i hate changing things when we can just add more to the game."
"this idea is ******* ridiculous.there is a time and place for large scale warfare, and creating mechanics that completely trump the ability to do so would destroy the game.also, if i had to take out a d*ckstar with 40 drakes i'd f*cking hang myself."
"the ideas of forming committees for up and coming changes or proposed changes would be awesome. at least if anything an open conference round table idea. that you can log into and join. these would be publicly announced and be held and lead by the csm they would be in charge of taking polls, q&a over the topic to properly generate and submit the ideas to ccp . yes this is ccp games and baby, but we play the game, and pay you to keep alive and fresh. you opened the door to hear our voices by allowing us to vote in csm. give them another tool other then us spamming the forums and praying for our voices to be heard. make the csm work for their title/position forming these action commites would greatly enhance their positions and prevent you from getting mobbed on the forums. and face it no one csm can be a no it all in this game. the learn curve is huge. and ex termly dynamic."
"nice speech....too bad i disagree and suggest you watch fanfest again.also might help to do some research on the subject before you make claims like you do.================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"why haven't we got this yet?"
"excellent suggestions! thank you so much. i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"i personally love this idea, it's awesome! orca is just slightly too small, and carriers, well we can't have those in high sec. let us see a \"tug\" that has say 700m3 worth of transport bay, and we would be able to do alot more then what we are currently. i also agree on the freighter iii skills. let it work the same as the current ship maint bay, with the exception of being able to launch/trade in space, i like it!"
"good input from everyone. if only we could get dev input.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"i have a topic up on this forum for this same reason, i too find a lot of difficulty in moving large quantities of ships around. we try to move to where the action is on the map as the war front moves up and at one point dissolves, but currently it is a pain to move. we can't deploy battleships because sooner or later, that needs to be moved too and that's far too costly to do by carrier.i didn't want to introduce a new form of ship for this as, indeed, eve already has a lot of different transport vessels as it is. instead, i wanted to squat the problem at its core - the rigs. if rigs were to be removable, ships can be repackaged without loss and transported by readily available means.my support goes to whichever idea lessens the load on moving ships around, be it mine or yours."
"^this"
"sounds like a solid idea, but it does need polish... as far as anti-missile defense, defender missiles work nicely for stopping incoming missile damage, but what you're proposing would require major reworks, new modules, new ships, and balancing for other ships to provide them a viable countermeasure to a whole fleet of these ships. not gonna thumbs up this one yet, but i'll follow this idea."
"i like this angle quite a bit. some level of ground-to-space and space-to-ground interdiction would be very cool. it is something that we haven't heard much about. i would share the developers sentiment that, without fully understanding the impact the unknown dust variable will have, that it would be hard to create stuff in eve that lessens or negates the impact of the dust marines, but creating new fleet support roles is always interesting. it deepens the strategy."
"having more complexity for fleet fights is certainly one of the aims of this idea.regarding counters to an aegis destroyer there were a couple of things i thought might work. position and effectivenessfirst, the limitations of positional requirements: distance to line of fire, and perhaps distance to protected target are factors in the effectiveness of the modules. the closer the aegis destroyer is to the line of fire between attacker and protected target, the more time the module has to intercept incoming fire, hence the more effectively it places the countermeasure.the notion of reaction time also generates the second factor for effectiveness. the closer the aegis destroyer is to the midpoint of the line between attacker and protected target, the more effective the countermeasure is. being too close to the attacker reduces reaction time, being too close to the protected target reduces the space in which protective measures may be deployed. the ideal position for an aegis destroyer, then, is midway between attacker and protected target, directly on, or very near the line of fire.naturally, skills at using the modules, and the effectiveness of the modules themselves would also be a factor. beyond that, the effectiveness should also be proportional to the size of the weapons system, in the same way that weapons system size affects ability to hit targets today. incoming fire from a frigate would be nearly impossible to intercept, whereas incoming fire from a battleship is much easier to mitigate.counters to aegis destroyersgiven that position and size plays so important a role in the effectiveness of the defense, a number of tactics arise that would be effective against a large group of aegis destroyers.first, and foremost, sniper fit destroyers and assault frigates could have a distinct advantage against aegis destroyers. imagine a fleet composition as follows: battleships, command ships, battlecruisers, cruisers and logistics ships form the main fleet auxiliary tackle and ewar ships aegis destroyers protecting bigger ships, including logis the attacking fleet would have to punch through the defensive wall of aegis destroyers in order to effectively attack the higher value targets they protect. primary fire from blobs of bs, bc, or cruisers wouldn't be all that effective because the aegis destroyers are protecting themselves as well as logistics which can also lend support to the defensive wall.but, aegis destroyers are vulnerable to sniper-fit destroyers and assault frigates. imagine using an initial wave of dessies and afs to punch a hole in the wall. imagine also, using tacklers to pin aegis destroyers to pull them out of position. even better, if we had another new module, say, a combat tractor beam, that could be used by a tackler to pull the destroyers out of position, we could have even richer sets of tactics.while the initial wave of destroyers and afs are working to create a hole, the larger fleet assets are maneuvering ! to aim through that hole in the defense to start putting the hurt on the higher value assets of the defending fleet.as you can see, there are richer tactics, maneuver, counter, target handling, that would arise from the addition of these capabilities. the role of wing command would become more important. the role of logistics pilot would become more interesting rep the wall, abandon the wall, rep the assets, run!.another alternative, given that range between attacker and protected target is important... point-blank range with blasters becomes a reasonable countering tactic. gallente buff!please help me refine the idea. also, i ask for your support."
"thank you all for your well thought out responses. i agree it would take some effort on ccp's part to put this into the game. i hope they consider it."
"all this talk of anchorable modules and hacking and skills really strikes as an potential alternative method to take down active towers. such methods shouldn't be necessary to remove towers that have to all practical purposes been abandoned by their owners.as a simple and stupid alternative, if the tower runs out of fuel, it goes offline as normal, if it is not refueled in 7 days, it is considered abandoned and unanchors along with all its attached modules and is free for all, owners don't want to lose their stuff? don't abandon it, easy.to counter the obvious metagaming answer of fueling for a single cycle sometime during day 7 to reset the timer, if the tower runs out of fuel for a second time within the next 1-4 weekstbd, it unanchors immediately.the charters idea did give me another separate idea for giggles, if you run out of charters the tower keeps running provided it still has other fuels however the corp gets a strongly worded mail from the relavent empire navy, if the charters aren't refueled within for example 36 hours, the navy goes hot drop o'clock on the tower"
"supported,having done precisely this in the past using google docs, i can vouch for it being time consuming sitting there with a calculator tabbing up what each corp member has mined in an op, having a 3rd party tool that is supplied by an api would make this so much easier. i don't do this anymore, having come to my senses and realizing mining other players is a more rewarding profession, but this is still a good idea for those of us who havent come to our senses about the dullness of indy work yet."
"if you want to taste what this would be like from the indy pilot's perspective, jump out into sov null, with no backup, no scout, no cloak and make your jump path back to safety no less than 50 jumps.... see how long you make it before falling to a gatecamp out there. the 0.0 alliances will gladly deprive you of your ship and pod very quickly."
"this right here, ruins the main draw of wh space, which is people having to depend on the good graces of wh's to deliver them to where they need to go. if i can rip open and hold a wh so a titan can go through, i have just ****** wh space up. not supported."
"i keep hearing complaints and discussion about jita, specifically, and its domination as a trading hub and the multitude of problems associated with all the congestion it brings as well as the subsequent 'naughty' behaviour.since the continuing evolution of eve appears to be in the direction of not making it too easy for immortals to conduct their various 'business' interests; i would point out recent efforts to eliminate botting, not boffing, and weed out exploits, not ex-pats as prime examples.immortals, like any species, or perhaps especially humanoids, tend to the lazy and in such will search for and root out any morsel of advantage to keep them ahead of the pack. as such, there must be different, if not more aggressive consequences for violations of high-sec regs. for dying is not really a relevant punishment for born-agains as that bright light at the end of the short tunnel is ever so encouraging.the market which forces a great majority of traders to make the jita run is also the same lure for all ill-conceits. even in the alternate reality known as earth; c'mon, i know you've heard of it; there are many regulations put in place to expand trade options and limit the congestion of too much trade in any one place - hence both a macdonalds and a burger king.two suggestions for broadening out the scope of the aforementioned troubles/concerns i think would go a long way to making the trading and transporting trades more dynamic are as follow; even the ganking strategy would develop/adapt1. every system has a security rating for a reason. adapt trading to these security ratings so only the basic items could be sold in 1.0 systems and each subsequent level decrease could sell only certain tech level stuff - this system of market levels would apply to everything: pi, mods, minerals, ships, etc. i leave it up to others to set up the specifics. even low-sec can be brought into this - perhaps all things t2 are able to be sold in low-sec? incl faction items...this doesn't stop salvaging in high-sec either but it you attain a t2 item and want to sell it, off to low-sec you must venture!2.every high-sec station has guns, same as gates. but there doesn't appear to be any real defence of the space around stations from the nefarious except when a hostile action is commenced, not that preventing a ship from going anywhere against their will is hostile, not at all. i only assume that there are computers on stations, but if so, that means they have memory like my laptop, my ship and even concord makes use of such, i'm sure. one could, therefore, postulate that such memory could be put to good use in remembering those pilots who have ganked previously at that particular station, or, in fact, with modern communication as seems to be the order, any of same corporate stations. those same station guns could simply open fire on any such pilot thinking they would return from rebirth to do it again - that would keep those dastards at bay, say 250 km, until they improved their corp. station standing to be allowed near again. hah!we have to remember, punishment is supposed to act a deterrent. if it doesn't, then why have it at all? as it stands right now, it's like an in-game exploit. this will not end ganking, merely adapt the strategies of those who like to. just like the necessity to go produce isk so one can buy another ship, this would make the consequences of ganking actions something to more to consider.it works this way everywhere else in npc controlled space, why not with this? you lose enough standing with corp. they don't want to deal with you. you lose enough standing with concord, you can't enter specific level systems. you destroy enough ships from another faction, ditto, their navy takes an interest in you next time you stop by for a tourist brochure. ganking in high-sec needs to have similar scrutiny placed on it to bring such actions in line with everything else.otherwise, titans and the rest should just be allowed back in to station sit..."
"just kidding about that last line..."
"what you're asking for is limitations in the sandbox. limitations in the sandbox aren't good, they go against the whole point of the sandbox."
"attitudes and snarkery aside, there's a lot of great points being made here on both sides of the issue; that being, as i understand it, how do we increase enrolment while protecting the uniqueness of the game and its structure as we know it or most of it as everyone has their own perception of how it could be made better.this game definitely isn't for everyone, and neither is any other game out there. the one thing no one can change is each of our personal differences, preferences and tolerances. we all like different things. we all come from different backgrounds, have different life experiences, education and environments we live in. how can one form of entertainment be expected to satisfy everyone? it can't.as some have pointed out; those who've been around a long time, especially; this game has changed over the years and new players have more training available to them than now than ever before. still, eve is a complex and multileveled universe. the cartoon 'learning curve' graph isn't totally off the mark. while eve certainly has its flaws; each opinion to their own; it is still evolving and will continue to do so to both the admiration and condemnation of all those players/citizens who agree/disagree with those changes. sounds like most societies i've visited.you will never get away from the fact that some people simply prefer the immediate satisfaction and adrenaline offered by super-intense, single point shooters or their favourite sports like basketball and hockey while others like, ahem, simulated golf. about the only thing that drives me nuts is the sounds form thousands of one-armed bandits and the bleary-eyed zombies slouched in front of them, going through their pre-programmed onerous motions of plug-and-pull. i know, sounds a lot like mining...but it's not! and i digress...there's one thing that is pretty much universal though. everyone likes a good story. some read them, some watch them on tv or at the movies and some even create their own. while there are many who simply like to log on for pvp fights and/or ganking, eve is really about each citizen creating their own story and for a newbie, that can be a terrifying prospect; if they even realize it - one does need to get over the initial spaceships and lasers cool factor. again, not for everyone.it's also been pointed out that there are many who don't quite get it; who finish the tutorials and then sit floating wondering what to do next? how to do it? where to do it? come to think of it, sounds like my first date way back...i, myself, am one of those who are self starters. i don't need, never have needed, any help from anyone. first thing i did after finishing my tutorials was to pick a fight with a bs; me still in my ibis! station guns intervened but i was sure i could've taken him. lol, all things start from dreams, don't they?i can understand several of the newbie complaints, though. one of those being about the missions. the missions in eve have only one real purpose; to gradually develop/pigeon-hole your faction affiliation while providing you with a meagre means of increasing your wealth and experience. perhaps a little too vague a goal for someone just starting out to grasp the significance of what those even mean, never mind their consequences as you blindly step up the ladder whilst trying to avoid all those ever-present snake pits and gankers...\"why is everyone shooting me?\"some of those missions are simply silly and were obviously created by bored staff who probably had a quota to fill each day.if only the missions had more substance, like a story to follow; no, not one story, many stories! like those old baldur's gate games, or, for older folks, even those old role-playing books where choices you made changed the story you encountered. these storied missions would give newbies something tangible to aim for, figure out, even get them learning how more technical or diverse options work within eve so that, eventually, they are ready to start creating their own story; no longer timid, wide-eyed newbs, but confident,well, more confident, adventurers.we all have to remember, while eve is a universe as expansive and sporadically developing as it is, with lots of options and opportunities for even the crustiest old guard to take advantage of, without new blood coming in, eve will eventually stagnate itself, and, sadly, cease to exist. the game and the business model, both, must reinvigorate itself continuously for the benefit of us all. and if that means making changes to help induct new pilots, im all for it.cheers!"
"i think the views run the gamut from people 1who might not be able to find their way out of a paper bag - couldn't figure out how to find the next mission agent - 2 those who thought eve couldn't be played casually 3those who were intelligent enough to actually do decent at pvp in eve but found there was too much downtime between fights. the first group can't be catered to unless they change eve. i mean they shouldn't dumb the game down so we get more mouth breathers. the second and third group can clearly be catered to without dumbing the game down. what is ccp doing for them? it seems to me they are the people who belong in low sec and npc null. the only changes ccp is doing for them is to faction war. certainly faction war could be a great option for people who like casual play and pvp. unfortunately ccp is making faction war more like null sec. making it so there will be even *more* downtime between fights due to not allowing the militias to dock in the same faction war systems and less casual friendly over all. make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"that link is broken. now i will never know how to play. giving corporations a reason to hire nubs is probably a reasonable goal. how do you define newbies and how would it work though?perhaps something that the 0.0 people don't realize is that for a lot of players factional warfare is kind of their tutorial. a lot of these corporations exist with surprisingly in-depth training programs for pvp environments. now, each factional warfare group is going to run things differently than a nulsec corp, but fleshing out the experience in high-sec and steering more players towards these factional warfare groups is actually something that would help players ease into the game over a period of months or years. now some of them may never leave it, granted, but they aren't hurting the game either. to this end, i think anything that hurts factional warfare is, in fact, bad for the long-term well-being of the game.pirate corporations and gate campers give the low-sec an often deservedly poor reputation. you can't just throw a person into the most brutal pvp environment on the internet, just like you can't expect to give someone a website that teaches them how to swim, give them 2 minutes of video instruction, and then drop into the middle of the atlantic. going from high-sec to low-sec in a few months is something only a few people are willing or able to do, and frankly few low-sec corps care to help with either."
"it is definitly ok, in fact they encourage it, and post which ones you use as well.there have been a slew of posts in gd on botter tears. fun read.also, a simple google search of eve bot bans would give you plenty of info on this."
"a 12-year-old living in his mom's basement has a pretty sweet deal, and is about ten years from needing to move out.anyone who needs to end an insult with \"lol pwned\" clearly doesn't understand what that means."
"supported."
"+1 i think it would be sweet if a sansha gang would drop in randomly on a high sec gate or station and just start cutting into everyone. would spice up the hs trade routes, imo."
"supported.on the condition that this idea doesn't take any priority over the many other projects that eve really needs.\"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"1.0"
"if they gank without any real chance of profit for just killboards they will go even further to gank for potential profit.also if implants are destroyed when removed from a healthy body how are they not completely pulverized and melted after removal from the twisted corpse of a dead capsuleer."
"having recently read another concord thread which was locked, it did make me think of recent events.not long ago, it was announced that there was an exploit called 'boomerang effect' where some players were able to escape from concord punishment after ganking in high-sec. while i definitely support the removal of any unintentional exploits, i do believe an opportunity was missed here for the addition of extra gamesmanship. therefore, i'd like to throw out the following suggestion for comments;everywhere in eve, pvp is promoted whether that be in ship fights, fleet fights, faction wars, sovereignty wars, skirmishes and even market battles, lame as that may sound. alongside these epic endeavours exists the npc world of ratting, missioning, ded space, wormholes and incursions. it seems only in wormholes and incursions are the npc's given any sort of clout, a darker shade of grey to the otherwise mundane rats most encounter. okay, lets not forget the sleepers... concord, on the other hand, appears to have a carte-blanche existence all their own. they do naught but mete out punishment in an all too black and white autonomous, unchallengable and imperious authority. would it not make things more interesting if the concord paradigm was altered so that they were subject to many of the same rules as players are? for instance, if a player ganks another, or does some other punishable action according to concord that player should be able to try to escape concord's long arm of the law. depending on where the action took place, surviving the initial onslaught usually wouldn't happen but in event player could tank it, that player should have ability to run and concord should be able to chase, scan down, etc. but with no added bonuses that aren't available to the highest skilled player. they could have a programmed but adaptable routine for hunting prey and their ships should respond as any other npc or player could. depending on scale of offence, only so many ships would be brought in on hunt and they could only travel from existing nearby patrols, taking the appropriate travel time to arrive, thus leaving those systems with less ships to watch over gates, etc. concord would have the regular fifteen minute aggression timer to hunt down the perp, otherwise the perp could escape with only a significant downgrade in his/her security rating. perps wouldn't be able to access any station during timer and would be taking their own chance getting through gates. this is probably no easy programming adjustment but it sure would make the interactions with concord much more dynamic!think of the possibilities..."
"run a search before posting your ideas.this idea or something close enough to it was proposed not 5 days ago."
"why the **** can't people read what was written? the op didn't propose that blobs shouldn't be allowed, he proposed that there should be a limit to the amount of primarying that is effective. that doesn't mean that no one dies because the 10 logis can tank the primary, it means the 10 logis have to worry about multiple primaries. jesus ******* wept.in a 'role playing sense' there is usually a limit on effectiveness of numerous aggressions - in the 2d warship style, eve is modelled on, it's called line of sight."
"what's the deal ccp? how come my caldari frigates look like chewed up bubble gum? the only ones that are remotely cool are the kestrel and the merlin. and minmatar? i feel sorry for them. their ships look like they were put together with duck tape. except for the rifter of course. why do we only get 1 out of 5 that looks good? shouldnt all the ships look appealing to fly? in your 2012 fanfest presentation you said that you are revamping some ship designs in the upcoming inferno patch. hopefully all of the caldari and minmatar will be re-designed. we would like to fly spaceships like everyone else. cough cough."
"cardari are suposed to look hightech, and mimmatar rusty.if they are gold or organic, they would be ammar or gallente.everything should not look like everything else, not suck yes. same, no."
"how does it go?in rust we trust."
"remove local. problem solved."
"remove cloaking. problem solved. same stupid answer ;"
"a stupid whine post deserves a similarly stupid answer."
"i actually agree with this. i didnt even do the eve tutorials becasuse they were crap. i googled everything. thats not good for any mmo. its gotten better, but i would still direct a newb toa 3rd party website for tips. wow, does the game not teach people about the aggresion mechanics? if not, thats just **** poor...man, thats bad."
"another bump for the new csm, tho it seems this thread is doing well on it's own."
"one problem with more npcs and having them exist more actively, i.e: not disappearing off-grid, and persistently in game is that this will result in increased server load. i don't really think this is helpful, though i do see some appeal in the idea. i don't think it is bad so much as impractical and maybe counterproductive.presume these npcs suddenly start maintaining a persistent existence until they are blown up, then consider that they could suddenly start carting around npc goods and redistributing them to various regional markets, and consider they could also become player targets. what does this gain? what is the purpose?aside from the joy of watching ais take flight in space, there is no real purpose or benefit here that isn't moderately counterproductive to the game. even if they could be optimized, the server still has to track them and keep track of their cargo, and even handle any market interactions they have. if they don't have market interactions then they are just fluff without purpose.currently the npcs, aside from concord and navy vessels, just spawn and disappear. nothing major and they only really exist for a short time on grid. this is sort of the simplest form of ai available and generates the least amount of server load as a result of their existence.personally, i always found them to be a bit redundant and pointless. perhaps there should be more traffic in space, and maybe npcs should run around a lot more, but it is not really necessary and these are afterall spaceships. it's not like they would be super common outside of military, transport, and trade usage.replace the jita statue with a luxury liner perhaps? maybe. i actually don't even recall having noticed the jita statue. the one in amarr sure, but not the one in jita.tl;dr: if it doesn't generate lag and involves some new 'civilian' hull designs sure. could add some flavor; i won't deny that. but if it is going to have some effect like the spamming of cans in space and cause the servers to lag, then not really interested. they removed mines and limited objects in space to 2 hours for a reason.zubzubzubzubzubzubzubzub"
"agreed. i don't see why there are still items that exclusively come from npcs in our player run economy."
"i am all for lootable corpses in the same way invention works:get a corpse- invention- no implant no loot/implants t2 chance bases of retrieval, t1 if succesful 75%+ w t2 the rest is fail. it gives gankers the upperhand indeed and flying in a pod isnt so safe no more. hessitant but supportive as well"
"i am proposing a market window tweak to high improve the market gameplay.as many people use multiple accounts or even multibox, i would like to see the simple improvement of making the market window's sub tabs to be able to set as single windows. therefore seeying groups/detail/personal and corporation orders next to eachother for better workflow. much the same way as stackable and unstackable chat windows. also colortags for personal corp orders to would add alot!"
"i like this idea, either as an ore ship or as a faction specific ships. why ore? easier for our friends at ccp to make one ship than to have them make 4 or 5. i'm not abundantly concerned if the majority of people only trained one factional transport and there are plenty of other things of a non-military nature that ore might have used this sort of technology to do... but really its more that i'd like to see this sooner than later, and sooner is 1-2 ships rather than a half a dozen.+1"
"ore wouldn't get involved in anything that could be remotely considered military operations and transport of military vessels would fall into that category. and each factional group would select the group that is more involved in mass transit/transport to get things going.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"wait i don't get it why don't you just get a carrier?"
"additional refinements, criticisms welcome."
"this is a fantastic idea in general.. since the general mood in eve is to let players work it out themselves.....whatever \"it\" is.let us advertise our very cool ideas to the rest of eve respectfully.ps... how does one advertise on the login screen?"
"i was wondering... is it the right place to discuss subjects like this ? cause here i believe at best we only will have csm attention... :"
"negative. implants are there to provide an additional element of risk and choice."
"this proposal sucks."
"so are people who necro.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"no. that is all."
"i wish. it's never going to happen though."
"minmatar can still look rusty without looking like they're made of scaffolding and screen doors. caldari's bulky and boxy is pretty much the opposite of a high tech look."
"i agree. minmatar and caldari ships can be improved while still holding onto their cultural essence."
"i agree with these statements. the primae doesn't do a single thing better in the pi department than any ship. it is slow and bulky like a large industrial, yet both of its specialty holds combined hold less than an iteron with no modules and gallente industrial trained to 1. new players are given a free industrial from the tutorial which is in every way better for all types of hauling than the primae is. even back when they were given out, a new player would have had more incentive to sell it than to fly it, even though it looks kind of cool. even its tank is bad--it has more powergrid than normal industrials but it has so few slots that its bulky design still ends up with less ehp than smaller and faster industrials.i think the following problems need to be addressed with the primae:1. no purpose - it's supposedly a pi hauling ship but it can't haulhowabout it requires the ore industrial skill to fly, and each level of the industrial skill adds +2000m3 of space to its pi hold, and its base value is increased to 4000. then even with the skill only at 1, you have 6000m3 pi space, which is slightly higher than that freebie industrial you were given from the tutorial with meta 0 cargo expanders. at skill 3 it'll carry 10,000m3, and 14,000m3 at skill 5. it still won't rival industrials, but it's easy and potentially cheap, and you can carry command centers around in it at no extra charge.i'd also make the size of the command center hold based on your interplanetary consolidation skill, 1000m3 one command center per level of the skill, so you can carry as many command centers as you can place.that wouldn't make it a good ship, but it would make it an ok ship. it would at least function as a pi ship, and some players would definitely use it, even if just to be using a limited edition ship.-edit-another thing that could seal it in as a newbie favorite would be if it had a way of refueling a command center launcher so that it could be used more often. this way new players could potentially avoid the huge export taxes and instead just launch all their stuff directly into orbit."
"this is actually well thought out and i like the idea, this would actually make it useful in the purpose in which it was designed. thumbs up to you sir!"
"first off, why did you feel the need to necro a thread that'd been dead a month?second, the primae doesn't need any changes because it already does what it's supposed to do, be a gimmick ship. it wasn't really designed for pi work, it was designed as a collector's item the same as all the other giveaway ships like the zephyr and echelon. the reason that it has the 'pi' label on it is that it was released as the christmas giveaway ship the same year that pi was released, so it got labeled as a 'pi' ship."
"if cloaks were fine why would it come up so often? every module needs a viable counter.i see this is your first day on the internet. let me explain it to you. there will always be whiners. ccp was obsessed with incarna and ignoring stuff that's been broken and/or imbalanced for ages. we finally got them to refocus on the part of the game that actually exists, but once in a while you still hear some idiot crying that they want more clothes to play dress-up with their space barbies sooner. people spent several years trying to get ccp to nerf gallente followed by several years of trying to get ccp to buff gallente. no matter when they do it's going to **** someone off. all you can really to is strategically choose who to **** off."
"there are no bubbles in low sec, so low sec should be, more dangerous, than 0.0?wh have no local.your problem is that you have to much information, because you're in souvrain space you know that when someone is not from you alliance it's an intruder. so because you know more you should be helped getting rid of it, intresting."
"confirming that cloaked ships are supposed to be sneaking around in space they don't belong in.what did you *think* cloaks were for? being able to run l5 missions?"
"they're supposed to be an invisibility button, not an invincibility button. they need to have a counter like everything else."
"cloaked ships are not invulnerable.the fact you think they are is nothing short of your show of complete and utter ignorance of the facts.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"but they are near to.a cloaky fly in your system, when nobody is online, maybe sites like evewho help him.now he is there, makes a safespot somewhere in the space, not reachable for someone else.now we have that corp/ally that life in the space, maybe lets take a normal corp, with around 100 or 150 players, all from the same timezone, some have to work, some have to sleep for a while.player a,b,c-f are indu chars.. skilled to indu and pi...the play in the morning where other are working or sleeping or the come from the work, play for a few hours and go offline.now the can't do anything. what should the do against a 2 man tengu/loki cloaky gang, waiting for someone to dock off...u can't do pi without a hugh fleet against the t3 ships with remote shieldsupportlater... the most part of the corporation is online, around 50 player, hac pilots, t3 pilots, ecm boots and everything else, the bubble the gate stand around in ships... but the cloaky is sitting at his safespot, can check the online and offline times and the rest...but why i'm explain that... u won't understand that because u don't want to understand.it is a fact the cloaking is to strong, there is no counter tactic against them. the can still be there, invisible and near to invulnerable because u can't shoot what u can't lock.remove the local... sry but that is some of the stupids ideas against cloaks i ever heard.maybe u are a wh player, nice.. life there because u like it, but other don't . just the fact u know something is the problem ?no.. the fact that there is no countertactic against that.. when u see a ship that jumps to a wh and is cloaking on the other site.. u know it too and u have no way to find him. same info, same problem.u can put him in the watch list.. now u have the same like a local. u just have to check the wh 24/7...so there have to work on that, just why some npc corp characters are posting here it is fine i think the are players we talking here and the are afraid that the would have no chancer after some counter tactics it is not.cloaking is nice to check the enemy, scan out the system, move without get aggresed, hide a part of the fleet and many more, but it is not for be a 24/7 treath for corps that havn't 10 players with counterships 24/7 around.all the parts of cloaking are nice and the ideas here won't effect them. just stand or fly in the same 0.1 au example for some time gives u the chance for a countertactic.or when u have to use fuel.. u can do all u did before but not afk cloaking hours and hours in a system.. u have to fly out, get new fuel, that gives the systemholder a chance for a counterattack and u know when a cloaky is in the system, he will aggress u because he can't fly around for hours with his cloak..."
"[quote=drake draconis]player a,b,c-f are indu chars.. skilled to indu and pi... what should the do against a 2 man tengu/loki cloaky gang, waiting for someone to dock off.../quote]so you have a situation where you have a 4 man crew against a 2 man crew and you can't figure out what you should do against them..lemme help.1. spend a couple months or less and heaven forbid skill que up some combat skills.2. send out bait.3. kill two man fleet with 4 man fleet.4. profit."
"here's something to add to this treadnaught...how about a sov upgrade for higher level systems? there isn't anything that an alliance spends isk on at level 5. why not try a cloak disruption array? sov : lvl 5upgrade : cloak disruption module - 2-5 mi per daypos module : cloak disruption arraymust be active to disrupt cloaking devices within the systemaffects all cloaking devices within the systemthis would allow cloaky-fags to camp systems not properly upgraded, while allowing corp's/alliance's with the sov to 'protect' against cloakers. but, it'll also prevent the owning corporations from running cloaky operations within the system too. it would have a similar effect as the cyno-jammer and upgrade that are currently in the system.what do you think of that? trying to find a middle-of-the-road solution for those that like that play-style while making the care-bears happy that they won't have afk cloakers sitting in the system. on the side, it would produce another isk sink for the economist's in eve."
"ah nice idea too and is like the cyno jammer ideabut sov level 5 is a little bit high, 4 is enough i think"
"the only reason i'm suggesting lvl 5 is to allow the 'cloaky' mechanic for the 100 days needed before the module can be installed. this would allow various 'reds' to harrass the system with the threat of covert hotdrops for a sufficient ammount of time unless the alliance doesn't install the upgrade in the ihub. by the options i marked, it would mitigate the principle nature of a force recon to sneak into position undetected before lighting the cyno for 'hot-drop o'clock' ... along with another reason for new alliances to try and attack sov, if only to disrupt the level that a particular alliance has claimed.this isn't to install an i win button for the carebears of 0.0 that don't like the cloaky afk'ers, but to give that level of safety they require after acheiving a certain level of system level. ccp has made enough point in the game design that they love the destruction and harrassment of players in all areas of space. this is more of a pacifier for the ones that can't hack it in 0.0, and continue to whine on the forums with the benefit of an isk sink."
"wth are you going on about?this post doens't even make sense...other than stating the obvious solution...please don't drunk post.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"i'm sorry...there was way too much emo in that post.what your trying to say is your unable to rummage enough numbers to deal with the problem..so your answer is to nerf cloakies....got it.so uh which space you in so i can let the cfc know \"nice region...lets gank im\"?================ stop the evemail spam!"
"subject pretty much sums it up for me.the sticky above seems pretty out of date and i would like to know what my csm is planning to address.i realize their priorities may be evolving and changing but, any info will be appreciated."
"we are preparing a report on our evil plans, and it will be out shortly.the hard part, of course, is coming up with something that annoys everyone in equal measure."
"no need to re-invent the wheel...your eve mail spam for votes campaign accomplished that far beyond your unwritten expectations..."
"this is their plan."
"the malediction is a tackle interceptor with a rocket bonus. how often are tackle interceptors actually in rocket range? pretty much never except for killing drones. can we please get the rocket bonus swapped for light missiles? a better targeting range wouldn't hurt either. it can't actually target at its maximum tackle range, which is ridiculous. i know the devs wanted to look at frigate and destroyer balance soon so i figured this is probably a good time to bring it up."
"i agree with some more locking range for it. but kahnid ships are all short-range missile based, so light missiles wouldn't really fit so well maybe a range bonus instead or something.so, +0.5"
"interceptors aren't really made to dps. if you're tackling anything dangerous, you probably need to rely on your buddies to kill it anyway. perhaps the rockets are really just for killing drones.but i'd definitely support more locking range. i understand frigates having a short locking range, but they need to at least be able to do their job. that's why the griffin has a lock range of 60km, after all."
"targeting range is 22.50km. disruptor range with ship bonus is 30km. wtf? even with a maxed long range targeting skill you still only get 28km. at the absolute minimum it needs another 2km of targeting range, but preferably more so it can be locked by the time it enters disruptor range."
"we've already agreed with you that the locking range should probably be buffed, no need to get worked up about it. patience and rationality are your best bet for achieving a change, not getting worked up and insisting on things that must happen."
"i can read. i know you were agreeing. i'm not worked up either. i was just providing numbers to go with what i was saying. i can't even fly a malediction."
"agreed, this ship is the most of ccp unlogic thing in the game.long range tackler with with 9km rocket range lol or using javelin to 15km lol range with horrible speed penalty. this is a horrible unuseable design.ccp dev drunk so much, when he created this ship bonus.malediction yell for laser turrets and optimal range bonuses. forget ridiculous khanid design or swap long range tackler bonuses between the two amarrian inty without overheat this ship has 30km disruptor range, but has 9km rocket range and 22.5km targeting range ? lolwho wanna flight with this idiotic design when a navy slicer better than and cheaper and not need inty + traning days ???"
"the bomb has a 15km explosion radius, and it looks like a drone exploding. please make bombs look like bombs when they explode."
"+ 1 from me that would save anyone that has to deal with the poorly designed lp stores heaps of time. also they need to do something about the tags as some things cost more to make than there worth on the market.as for millions of lp a week....there are s"
"+1the op could be on to something here."
"+1increases immersion, provides new things to do, gives the ability to watch battles between npcs, makes eve harder/more complicated.i understand the problems inherent with increased server load, but this would increase the experience for so many players "
"+1we would all like too see more npc's."
"ccp please fit is so all 4 hybrids are placed on the side rails of the kronos ship the 8th hi slot is needed to make all 4 guns group on the ship and would make it look so much better thanks."
"or move the turrets around between different high slots til you get the desired look? also... this is hardly assembly hall material. this section is for more serious, game changing ideas. ships and modules would be more appropriate for your... ummm... \"complaint.\""
"yes i thought this was in the features and ideas section. its not about changing the high slots till you get the look you want. its how the hard points link with the high slots you need the 8th hi slot activated so you can have all 4 guns on the side rails.can a moderator please more this to the features and ideas section also."
"warning: excess of bounce may cause pain in your back...or maybe my head is twisted..."
"something i saw today has compelled me to post.i was in dodixie and saw some chap advertising a \"salvaging service\" in local for level 4 mission runners. after watching him futily talking in local for a little while i was leaving the system and noticed he had cans up on the gates advertising aswell. he was offering a very competative rate a 60-40% split in loot and salvage isk in the mission runners favour. everything about the idea was pretty good except the fact he was advertising in a trade hub, not a mission hub, except i couldn't help but feel like it was futile and slightly pathetic.now imagine this same chap had a billboard, which he could somehow link to a webpage advertising it, plus an add on the cq screen in a major mission running hub. he would be rolling in it. i hear people advertising salvaging services all the time, but i've never heard of anyone earning good isk out of it. it seems a shame that such a basic and potentially profitable service is limited as a business because there is no way to get people to want to use it. ccp says that salvaging is a career path, but it isn't. not on its own, but it would be if you could advertise yourself.rant over. also, thanks everyone for the support. criticism is welcome."
"agreed. if you allow us to advertise on billboards.. on the big screen, in the station environment. it would cut down on the number of cans floating in space o.o? plus it would give these fine corporations/alliances out there to get their name spread around. and increase business."
"possible source for an isk sink based on traffic through the system much like the cost of offices in a station.10 billboard max, and it costs more the longer it's occupied.anything is better than those cans."
"bump"
"looks are of no real importance, effectiveness is the only real measure of a ships worth. that said i can't say i've come across a ship in eve that i dislike the look of."
"the primae has only one real role, to gather dust in a hanger in the hopes that one day attrition will bump its value to a point that its worth the effort of putting it on the market."
"how is afk cloaking fine?anything that allows you to have an impact in game without being at the computer is either botting or an exploit.you chose which.valencia mariana the red circle inc."
"whatever you do...don't mine an asteroid...or you'll be banned.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"equally annoying people is always the hard part.. come of with some crazy nerf that really does not need to be done, that makes people see they just wasted 1 year of training. that should fit the bill. ; if you need ideas let me know. personally i would say find something to bring into the game but would require 1 year of training even for those 150mil skill point characters ^^ that should do it too."
"might i suggest the following changes for maximum annoyance:- instanced pve- nerf concord response times- pvp simulators in the cq- lock everyone into corp during wardecs- an interdiction nullifier high slot mod- add abc ore grav sites in high sec- lots more incarna/nex content!"
"+1 more - tons of spam from csm cannidates for more bull#### factor.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"don't forget:buying skillpointsplex for remapmining barge buffsnpc mercenary alliesjbs in highsecfirst person viewand last but not least,sp remaps."
"i have recently started playing again and must say, using my google-fu to find answers is very difficult!!!!i can always find a full page of helpful links but it breaks down like this:50% - out of date postings about mechanics / calculations that have changed.35% - thread with title of what i want followed but 15 pages of off-topic conversation.09% - broken links or spam pages.05% - people asking the same question as me with no answers.01% - helpful links with some merit and up to date information.while i consider myself fairly adept at finding information online i sometimes have to go through dozens of pages before finding the tidbit i am looking for.example: look up the amount of titanium refined from spodumain. 95% of resources will say 700 per 250 batch. in reality it is 3190!! my friend and i went out and purchased enough from the market to do a batch and confirm! this was changed in a previous expansion but most people never updated their websites.  even cerlestes and grismar show it incorrectly this is eve's own site, link below, with a chart showing tri/spod at 700 but if i click on the link for spodumain itself, it shows 3190!** link function not working**"
"do tell, what should it look like irl?i'm sure you know, but are keeping it a secret..."
"so you honestly think it's appropriate the way it is?"
"explosions don't necessarily need to be \"visible\"for all you know its outside the visible light spectrum. ================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"most of the damage done by explosions in the real world are done by sudden massive increases of preasure far away from the actually visible explosion itself.i dont really know how preasure changes would work in a vacum though. im not even sure there would be explosions in space."
"12, and in your mom's basement?nice. those were the days! i had my room there so i could play bruce lee kung fu all night on the c64 without getting into trouble.of course, i moved out at 18 like many other normal kids, but op seem to have a few years left of maturing before that should happen."
"this is really overdue.regarding the tags, the current system allows a smart player to work out the good conversions and the bad and buy the appropriate tags. market forces take care of the rest."
"the future of actual logistics as opposed to logistics ships is just in need of getting in the hands of the developers. we're not just talking nullsec either, we're talking this could be easily used all through new eden, especially if an eventual t2 jump capable version were to come out.if i feel like it tomorrow, i may actually break out the pencil and paper, and sketch up some ideas for the model for at least one of the races.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"okay, so i'm going to be cleaning my garage instead as i just moved in an attempt to turn it into personal space so i have a nice place to game. so the sketches will be waiting a few days. but keep the suggestions rolling, and try to get this idea to csm or dev attention.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"what about non-fw mission runners, then?"
"perhaps people should scoop more tags in missions now that they are so expensive? shouldn't players be rewarded with expensive tags in return for losing access to certain high sec regions?the only problem i have with the lp store is that the tag requirements are enormous for some items - which i guess means ccp wants those items to be for vanity items than for utility. but i would love to regularly fit up fed navy mods on my fed navy comet..."
"i do feel the tag requirements are too high. as everything in eve is based around risk/reward and time/reward lp store tag requirements are too high.the lp store's purpose imo is to provide mission incentive by rewarding shiny objects to those choosing to devote time to missions over anomolies by providing faction gear every so often.the trend that nobody uses lp or tags for acquiring faction items, but rather purely as an income generator based on how much isk/lp ratio you can make on contracting your lp items or selling tags on the market at inflated prices for those who want to avoid the lowsec/fw/standing hit.it's less hassle to just buy a navy invul off of contracts than from the lp store. at 300 million for tags, plus 72 million for the lp store price, its only 100 million more to buy one. that's like 4 missions in isk +bounty +salvage vs. 30 ish missions in lp.i don't think it will change as too many people use lp as a supplemental mission income and a key component of how much isk/hour they make grinding missions. i just wish it wasn;t about churning them out like a bot and more about enjoying a pve experience in acheiving a goal of being entrusted with soem shiny faction kit in reward for your service.if some of the ideas presetned here were adopted i.e. tags were much more easy to come by, then i think the lp store would operate much more as a nice bonus than an isk stream."
"remove learning implants. i do support this."
"good argument. plus, implant also serve a an isk drain on the game economy being only produced and offered by npc. get rid of them and ccp will take away your money in just another way or limit you income by botteling up one or two isk faucets."
"you don't know what an isk sink is, do you?"
"learning implants sourced from the lp store are a considerable isk sink 12m isk for a +4, i believe"
"was gonna say....someone forgot to get their cup of quafe.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"your argument here is a bit hamfisted. your logic is that anything that involves risk in pvp can prevent pvp and therefore should be removed. that sort of ruins the entire point of the game. if implants are a particular problem for null sec due to bubbles then make it so null sec bubbles don't hold pods. thats easy. but don't ruin the game for everyone due to one particular isolated problem. make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"wow it's like you totally missed the last 23 pages of this discussionlet's get something out of the way here: this isn't about risks in pvp, this is about being rewarded for /not/ taking risks"
"that highlights a problem with industrial platform survivability, not with the idea of reduced security in empire. ccp seem to want more people in null, but they make zero effort to make sure that all playstyles are possible in null. hence the epic meri-go-round of - nerf highsec - help, my mining barge is made of paper - bubbles are unfair etc etc.imo the first thing ccp should be doing balance wise, is to look at every profession and ask \"is this actually possible for a casual new player to do in 0.0 with a t1 ship\" and where the answer is no buff the platforms."
"whats empire? :p jkwith suicide ganks and war decs i think low, nul, and wh space is safer than hs tbh."
"many ships are uglmany ships are uselesmany ships fit into both those classemy list is different then your list, which is different then his list,i have never really liked any of the caldari designs, some of the minmatar ships are likeable the more i fly them, and gallente have their own issues, amarr tend to look the most polished and built ships, its jsut unfortunate that they are all penis shaped"
"they would make better collector's items if they actually costed a little bit, so it would actually be enjoyable to collect them as it would give one a sense of accomplishment. plus, the zephyr and echelon actually can do something that other ships can't do. the apotheosis doesn't have much over a shuttle, but there's not much to the different kinds other than looks, anyway. the primae has nothing to its name, though. it can't do anything better than tutorial reward ships.i necroed this thread because i wanted to discuss this, and so i did a search to see what other people had said about it rather than carry on a tirade about something that had probably already been discussed before."
"you can mine with out being at the computer?which programme do you use?regards,valencia mariana the red circle inc."
"i like the fuel needed for cloaking idea. especially the use up something from pi part."
"i find this funny coming from nul sec alliance.whats wrong? too many cloaked ships preventing your ratting bot from performing it's tasks? how would this work for wormhole people? i can see the crying threads now. as a covert ops pilot who sits in wormholes, i too actually like this idea as long as we either get larger cargo bay or a \"cloak fuel bay\". the problem with this idea is the fact any ship in the game can fit a cloak. with every ship being able to fit a cloak a fuel bay for cloaking can't be put in unless they do like they do with t3s and add a cloak fuel bay when the cloak is added."
"please remind me again how someone who is not at the computer can impact your gameplay."
"how do you think it affects gameplay? the issue is you cannot find them. if they want to disrupt activity, thats fine, bring a fleet and fight. but they go afk for hours/days/weeks and then titan jumping/covert cyno'ing when every they want. it's not a case of carebearing, ships don't make themselves, surely 'hardcore leet pvpers' know that though.valencia mariana the red circle inc."
"hey smart ass.... engage brain before posting.... i know its a hard thing to do...but seriously... think before you speak.most people who mine are reading a book or watching a movie... you try staring at the screen for 2 to 4 hours straight for a while chewing on rock. there are many afk miners out there...and while they are not botting... they are within reach of that keyboard.is it smart? debateable... but the greater majority don't particularly care and will not comment because they won't/don't need to.i'm sure since your \"so high and mighty\" that you just \"ass-ume\" they are botting and want them banned too right?i'm pretty damn sure since your so dense that light doesn't escape you...that you have never mined before...nor never care too...your so high and mighty on yourself that you assume that if your not at the computer your exploiting....by that logic...don't you dare mine...you will be permabanned from the game.good thing your not ccp....because your just an ass who thinks he knows it all. and claims anyone afk'ing and \"making an impact on the game\" are exploiting.how the #### afk cloaking would \"make an impact\" is beyond me....but you go right on there crying your tears.get over yourself... you have no idea what your talking about and you should leave ccp to make those calls.ps: titants can't use covert-cyno beacons...just so you understand \"l33t pvp mechanics\" oh mighty one. they have to use standard cynos just like everyone else.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"nice, quite a beefy and angry reply :im not going to reply to the personal insults, as they are beyond the scope of this thread and board too?.however, you implied you could mine whilst being afk. my reply was that, you cannot. you can be 'semi-afk', but you still need to input commands to the client every 5-10 mins. also i never stated that a titan can use a covert-cyno, i stated that those are two outcomes from ignoring a afk cloaky. read: a titan bridge or covert cyno.my overall argument is however that parking in a system cloaked *should* be considered an exploit as no input is required, at all. however you give the threat of those danagers at any time. as the hosts do not know when you are actually at the computer. i am all for danager, but there should, again in my opinion, be a counter that does not allow them to be afk. so in summary, my disagreement is there being no way to stop them, otherwise its fine :that is my opinion, don't get so angry over it ;regards,valencia mariana the red circle inc."
"double post ><valencia mariana the red circle inc."
"again..you quite obviously have not mined oh high and mighty.###and then titan jumping/covert cyno'ing###and try again on covert cyno beacon mechanics as well...i'm sure one of our cfc members wold be happy to introduce the concept to you...make sure your clones updated.go back and try again....maybe next time you'll get it sorted.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"because it would be a terrible idea that would further stagnate nullsec sov instead of encouraging the conflict that ccp wants and that the game needs to thrive. because it would have far-reaching effects, allowing a sov holder to turn a gatecamp system into a cloak-free system, almost completely shutting down the ability to travel through that space. because cloaks are used for a lot of things, not just sitting afk in a system intimidating nullbears."
"i hope there is a mention of the imac issues on the agenda somewhere.how hard can it be for a csm person to ask what ccp plan on doing to try and fix the multitude of mac issues, then provide feedback to the community?"
"i feel the main problem with the \"lost\" feeling is much simpler - the game simply doesn't tell you anything about itself. sure, there's tutorials on very basic level, but that's about it. let me give you some examples.you got your first ship, you are ratting, things are going well. eventually you get a cruiser, or scrape together every penny and buy a battlecruiser. which you almost immediately lose because your guns can't hit frigates any more. and nothing in the game explains why that is. you have to go into the module info and figure out what tracking stat is, and what it means, and search for an explanation. the game itself will do nothing to help. all i learned was through search engine outside of eve itself.in the same vein, there's things that are not explained at all but which are vital to your survival as a new player. case in point - missions. without knowing about a site like eve survival where you can read about the mission, make sure you have the right tank and ammo, figure out what the triggers are and what your kill order should be, you will die a horrible, fiery death. i still vividly remember having to warp out over and over because i didn't know this and shot two triggers in a row just totally by accident targeting random ships. now? sure, now i know. now i also fly a ship that can easily tank most of the pocket aggro anyway. but for a newb? one or two deaths, and they will say f*** it and move to a better game. note: not \"easier\" - better! just because it will tell you what you need to know without requiring a third party website.sure, some might say it's \"culling the weak\" and so on. but it really isn't. it's just poor game design. either the info on mission/triggers should be in the mission briefing, or triggers should be removed altogether in at least l1-l2 missions. nobody but newbies does them anyway, and the pay is so abysmal that it really wouldn't harm anyone or anything. and by l3 and up the new players can start figuring things out on their own.i could give you many more examples of things that older players take for granted and see as normal. like forgetting to scoop up drones before warping. it's just an annoyance, but for a new player for whom a flight of t2 mediums is still a sizable isk investment, one little mistake like that can be crippling, and the probability of an immediate ragequit very high. if this happens before the player gets sucked into the game - congrats, you just lost a subscriber, and a few months down the line a possible juicy pvp target.in other words, eve really makes no attempt to try and keep the new player. which is fine, i guess, if you want the game to remain relatively obscure with a comparatively tiny population. if however you want more players, a smarter and more structured and most importantly better explained beginner experience would go a long way. tutorials were a step in the right direction, but they still fell woefully short for what is needed in a game of eve's depth. tutorials themselves are rather outdated as well, with some serious misinformation. gallente tutorial calls drones a gallente racial weapon. right now, it's a support weapon system at best. by itself, it is nowhere near comparable to turrets or missiles. but a new player, believing the tutorial to be accurate, might focus solely on drones, ignore turrets and missiles and gimp their progress rather severely. like i did! i bought that line hook, line and sinker. until i realized that without turret skills trying to do a mission was slower than a snail and that there's no such thing as a pure drone boat - drones always function in auxiliary role along with 4-6 turrets/launchers. and without said turrets/launchers your damage is simply pathetic. but the game doesn't bother to tell you that if you start as gallente.also the drudgery on waiting for skills before you can advance is rather heavy. what i mean is, standings-wise i was able to run next tier missions long before i had the sp to even poorly operate the ship required for them.just my 2 cents on the topic of newbies quitting."
"mentor insignia?i sit on enough channels that i dont really have time to pay attention to noob help, its pretty chaotic in there, but i dont mind people convo'ing me as i fly around. however, i dont take time to go find noobs in need of help because there are so many of them, and they dont ever know who to ask. isd have their own requirements taht im really not intrested in , but id still like to help noobs, possibly a tag free for anyone who wants one but then with a rating system available to characters under 30 days old? thats a jacket id wear"
"currently concord works to keep the empire regions safe by dealing with aggressive acts done by anyone in their controlled space. i have a proposal that with not change the way concord, security status or suicide ganking mechanics work. just alter the threshold.[proposal]let players with sufficiently high security status be deputized by concord to remove players with low security status as they are known criminals  in concord's eyes and are not welcome.if your sec-stat is 3.0 or more you can legally destroy any ship if the pilot has a sec-stat of -5.0 or less with no concord intervention. if you fire on their pod concord will react as normal. caution is needed as once you open fire the target is, by concord sanction, allowed to return fire and destroy your ship in battle so be careful who you shoot at.this will allow willing empire based players to proactively protect their space from the known criminals that are passing through or causing headaches. the criminals will have to consider a better ship to journey to empire with or take a pod. also empire side gate camps are not out of the question. empire point of view we do not want known criminals in our space! we can now attack and destroy criminals on site before they cause a problem for our corp mates. low-sec point of view now when i go into empire space there's even more people willing to pvp and fight me!!! if they all run away i can still go gank miners. also if i bring a fleet we can let them die without concord cleaning us out.options:a all numbers are variable and are open to modification.b make system status vs security status change the limits on killing.c deputy duty costs the player isk  per month?  d add an icon to the overview for identification.please comment and constructively build on this! i have nothing against negative posts but \" you're a moron, go play more\" or \"you don't understand this game at all\" is not helpful in any manner. if you want to call me a moron, either back it up or help me be more educated."
"you obviously have no sense of what security rating does right now."
"thanks for the input, from reading online the impression i got was sec-stat didn't matter for concord. if you shoot first your die.i will be reading into this more deeply."
"sorry for the terseness...lately these days we get alot of yahoos proposing really off the wall ideas.so to be polite and sincere.... the problem wiht security ratings is not the criminality aspect.its that being a postiive sec rating is a waste of time short of delivering a harasher penality for invoking concord on an +5 sec rated pilot being a target.aside from that....works as intended....you cant shoot anyone in high sec unless they are flagged to you/your corp as an agressor.....or war dec....or -5.0 sec rating.people are good at hiding when in those conditions.....and choose when or when not to engage.there are ways.....but people are searching for ways to make being a +5 there abouts worth something. i suggest you work on that aspect and not worry about the ones who can be shot at with -5.also bear in mind suicide gankers are ususally 0.0 toons or people who don't care and they are not the kind you'll be able to hunt down in high sec.even if you do kill one....they wont care hardly at all to be honest.================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"my last bump to this thread before i leave it be."
"operation: write down all things!!! is taking over where the thousand papercuts'' project left off.please check this thread:"
"thank you tobiaz!"
"the missile revamp also includes changing the explosions ... at least as far as i know. and the long-term dx11 projects change damage graphics altogether and look epic btw. and with bombs being a \"kind of missile\" in eve, i think that ccp is already working on something."
"explosions are basically fire as far as i know, there is not enough oxygen in space to have a fire unless it is fed oxygen i doubt there would be an explosion. hehe i wonder how many people will get blown up by their own bombs watching the animation lol"
"with inferno ccp is talking about . i like this idea, it is well overdue. i would like to see a few things to come in behind this.1. if you are not the final blow but you help point/kill the ship or pod you should also get it added in your kill mails to count as a personal kill.2. kills and deaths in pilot info all though i would not like this in some ways because people don't have to know about kbs to see if you are hostile or not, but i think it would help new players see who is hostile and who may not be a threat3. corp/alliance kills and deaths in corp and alliance info.i think it would be great if we could get rid of outside of game kbs all together. it would be nice to have ccp track this stuff so we don't have to worry about posting our kills to several kbs because everyone has their favorite, not to mention having issues posting kills on those kbs because their api pulling system is broken."
"so yeah, my sketching of the proposed vessel hulls didn't exactly come along, but i will get to it. until then, please keep the ideas and suggestions rolling in. i will also be cleaning up the original post with some of the detailed ideas that have been given. thank you all for your support and input.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"help wanted: please help identify the rough edges / holes / balance problems with this idea. if you can't find any, then please support"
"there are a lot of other threads about this, though the last time i saw a thread on this it was a few months ago.anchorable hacking modules is a nice idea, i like the idea that it has to be manufactured by players and used as any other pos module. as to the time line, why should it be easy? why should it take less then a week? the potential profit off the pos is much greater then the effort with an anchored hacking module. at the same time, there are reasons why people are offline for long periods of time, even small corps 1-15 or medium 15-50 corps may not always have people around to fuel to pos either through lack of roles, or simply because of rl issues devastating their play time.when i started with my corp, it had 15 active members, right now, there is only one other still active, true its been 3 years, but due to rl circumstances that i couldn't control they have all had to bow out. also due to relationships with nullsec alliances, ive lost newer members to those groups. its hard when you spend a long time to train people in eve only to get them nice spots in nullsec alliances away from your ao.there have been a few times that ive let the towers go offline, once when i took a vacation, once when i had to travel for business, and occasionally but not often, when i simply forgot to fuel them on time. i get them back online within a few days, but that was still an opportunity for someone without any effort to take my stuff. if your <24 hour hacking module is put into playwith truely dead/abandoned towers it shouldnt matter what your timeline is, but to protect people that have occasional lapses or are unable to get online every day, it should be longer then 24 hours. like mxzf said, not everyone plays every day. this does not mean that their opinion or addition to the game and their ownership of pos towers should be more at risk. then it already ismake the time it takes to hack dependent on how long the tower has been offlined, longer the time offlined the shorter a time it takes to hack, id say that a day is the shortest time it should take."
"i see a vanity isk sink for highsec space, which is of course where the majority of players live and recruitment happens."
"it could turn into 'vanity' isk sinks. but when over 70% of the eve population lives in highsec, your ad will be seen by most!"
"well ... i think i do. basically it comes down to interaction with npcs. if you get money from them bounties, mission rewards, insurance payouts etc., then its an isk faucet. if you give money to them lp stores, npc taxes, fees etc., then it is an isk sind.payments between players don't change the amount of isk in game. if your ship gets shot down, then you have lost an investment and assets worth a certain amount of isk. but another player, who manufactured all that stuff, got paid for those assets and still has the money. so no change to the overall in-game isk amount."
"i am a major supplier of a alliance of warships, and i have plenty experience with fitting on mass scale that could be improved with current glitches and short comings.this particularly came up to me when i was fitting 200 thrashers for the upcoming 'burn jita to free the mittani' world event organized by ccp and the mittani. fitting each ship involved multiple steps1. unpackaging2. making active ship3. hitting the fit ship buttonnot so much of a problem if you are making one a day for yourself, but doing it on a large scale is murder, 200 times 3 = 600 clicks, yea i might need a new mouse of course that is optimal, and i would estimate it was even more.because every 10 or so ships more or less a module glitched and broke off from the stack, and formed its own stack for special snowflake tard olympics mods that take up space, but cannot be fitted. the glitch prevents me from fitting one of that module to the current ships and all future ones. requiring me to undock, or add two or more clicks, because the glitch also gives a warning message of warning me about it not being fitted that needs to be clicked to go away. of course if you undock you have to check where on the massive stack of items your place is. another glitch or nuisance message i make contracts of 10 ships in each one. for each ship in the contract it warns me that the ship contains stuff, which of course i know because i just fit, this message should be easier to remove hell remove all dumb warnings options for pros, and certainly not do it for every single ship contracted. i was thinking of contracting the fitted ships to another char, but lol, i would get 200+ messages of this warning.it would be great if i could have a stack of one hundred ships packaged click on the stack,, and select a fitting for all of them.other fixes to save fittings which others brought up1. allow ammo on gun or script on mod to be equipped and saved in ship fitting.2. allow stuff in cargo hold to be part of the fitting.3. allow chars to fit modules that they cannot use, why not, just have it red if it they cannot use it. by doing this and other fixes to make it easier to fit ships, people could spend more time playing the 'game' part of the game, and not the hundreds of clicks in a hour meta game. in addition to helping the vets and super organized alliances, this helps casual players who want to spend more time on fun stuff.yea i know this has been brought up likely before, i am doing it again. ccp and csm have been a bit more bold in recent months to improving game, so no time better then the present."
"this thread gave me this idea: add saved fittings to the context menu. right click ship > choose fitting.also, a yes/no prompt on fitting rigs instead of telling me that it just refuses to put rigs on.i don't deal with fitting out more than 5-10 ships at a time so i can't really comment on the op's request for bulk fitting support."
"i concur.furthermore:obligatory: \"show me on the doll where the mean cloaky touched you.\"and on top of that, i have to make the following points.if a ship is cloaked, it can't:- target- engage- hurt youif you can't deal with this:- give me your stuff- insert character into biomass queue over - move out of your mother's basement- take a showeri am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"this.....totally agreed.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"nice to read all the great stuff from the much greater persons here don't waste your time here, the are all stupid, u have to know, no, u know allready, that u are the greates that can deal with everything and when not... your friend will do for u ^^the fuelidea is a really nice one.the fuelbay idea too, with this option u can give different ships different cloaking times.. a normal bs maybe can cloak just for 6 hours but a force recon for 24h and a covert ops for about 48h or something like thati think this idea has a great potential."
"today is the second day i have absolutely no access to play on my paid eve subscription due to the corrupted patch ccp distributed on day 2 of the inferno escalation. the installer will not initiate the game so i and many other mac users are dead in the water.ccp is of course quietly ignoring the fact that once again they have screwed up implementing a patch and are silent as to when they'll fix this problem.i totally reinstalled the client from the ccp site as many other mac users did and still get an error message, the same that other mac users have posted in the dev blogs and mac users forum posts.can the csm at least get a response from ccp? asking players to troublshoot the problem and post their computer fits is not the same as ccp responding to the problem and devoting manpower to fix it.i can not play at all and can only access you thru eve gate, i am losing paid time on my accounts while ccp doesn't even respond. it takes quite a while to reload the entire eve client from the ccp website so it would be nice to know they have fixed the problems before i attempt that again.mac players really need the csm to stand up for us on this one."
"if there is a problem with the mac client, i am sure ccp is working on correcting the issue. quit blowing it up to being more than what it is. **** happens. mistakes are made. ccp isn't the only developer that has ever screwed up a patch.you know what? the whole post comes accross as a whine. i am sure i would have responded differently if you weren't whining about it in every sentence like you are bieng singled out and treated unfairly."
"[quote=vertisce soritenshi]if there is a problem with the mac client, i am sure ccp is working on correcting the issue. quit blowing it up to being more than what it is. **** happens. mistakes are made. ccp isn't the only developer that has ever screwed up a patchyou know what? the whole post comes accross as a whine. i am sure i would have responded differently if you weren't whining about it in every sentence like you are bieng singled out and treated unfairly.[/quotemr vertisce it was not my intention to have the post come across as a whine, it is a plea for helpperhaps you are not aware that every time ccp upgrades the game the same type of problems recur for mac users, i was not aware until i researched the mac threads and found numerous complaints about the same problems happening each upgrade or patch.with the new installer this time the problem goes beyond constant freezes and being kicked out and having to relogin. many mac users have no access to eve play at all and ccp has not respondedperhaps sir if you did a little research into the mac threads on the forum your belief that ccp is working on it would be a little more fact based and a little less blind fan faithhow many days should i accept not being able to play any of my paid subscription accounts before i ask ccp to at least acknowledge they are working on the specific problemif you think a different approach to ccp would elicit a different response from them please draft it sir and i will submit it to ccp. i would be very appreciative of your help. thank you"
"1: don't bold type your entire post.2: stop whining.3: csm won't do #### for you in this case.4: file a bug report.and lastly....get a hold of yourself and stop embarassing the mac community by looking like a total cry baby.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"thank you for your thoughtful response. i have read some of your other posts in the forums .... apparently ccp can do no wrong from your pov .... highly suspect if you are actually a mac user at all tbh .... nonetheless i respect your apologist opinions .... at least you are consistent.... you attack anyone who has a complaint against ccp, besides it's just my money going to waste right? why should i trouble your day talking about it?"
"my pov on ccp is they are in control...they own this product...they choose what to do and where to go.we can either work with them....or quit.bitching at them and telling them off accomplishes nothing.i may not agree compltely on how they handle it...but i've learned a little to late that making demands of any kind or sort is nothing but a total waste of time.as to my background...i'm a fully crednetianedl apple technician...also apple care qualified. i'm very familar with the hardware....and have a great deal of insight on the archetchure that is os-x...with a good chunk of unix/linux knowledge.i'm not an expert....but i know a little too much to allow people to just bs their tongues out and make claims that are obviously quite false.as i've repatedly tried to tell people...stop treating eve online for mac as an mac app and treat it as a windows application.things start to make sense at that point....you start to understand that ccp is not intentionally breaking it...they are fighting an environment that is inheritly screwed over....that lives an environment that is orederly and standardized. 2 countries...2 languages....massive communications barrier...with a translator.eve online for mac is actually windows version wrapped up in a wine/translator/emulation package that tends to do poorly in many areas.do a little probing and you'll find a windows file structure hiding in plain site....with its own little c: and such.little details like that make life difficult to live an unix file system with very specific rules often ignored in windows. that is the tip of hte ice berg at that point.admitedly apple is not helping either with the latest version of their os....but it is what we have to work with for the time being.if you have been reading my post...i droped a very subtle hint...don't patch immedately...wait....hold off for a week or two...and things start to work again.some people can't do that....and they do it..and it breaks...they *****...yell..scream...flame...and what does it get you in the end?nothing.ccp may not be doing their aboslute best for mac users...but screaming won't get them to do it either. but they are working on it....and its evidenced they are....but don't expect them to drop everything just for you either.if you don't like it...no one said you had to keep paying for it...but don't come here like some crazed nooblet yelling for something you won't get.the csm won't...well not...cannot help you here.they are not going to push for a platform that is still a minority.do i worship ccp? no.but i'm not stupid either.ps: i'm not telling you off....i'm telling you...calm the #### down and be paitent....they will get it fixed up...if you have too..dust off your windows tower and sit tight. oh and no i've not patched...and i won't until its been more than a week...for obvious reasons...i'll be using my windows tower for the time being. this isn't an hate mac or hate windows....its called...i'm adapting and playing eve when i can....prue and simple.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"impressive credentials sir ..... but in case i missed it you never claimed to play eve on a mac did you? the new installer did not give the opportunity to wait a week or two .... the patch on day 2 was preceded by notice of incompatibility that did not allow you to log in without the patch. the patch then loaded corrupted files."
"i think the lesson that should be learned here is...buy a pc.if ccp is really having this much trouble with the mac client then perhaps they do need to work on it a bit more. or drop it. either way i am sure they are aware of it and are working on correcting it. they wouldn't just ignore a problem with the client that prevents players from playing the game. either they have a fix for it or they are working on it."
"i understand that it works better to install wine for mac and use the windows version of the game than to use the mac client, since the mac client is just the windows version with an outdated wine wrapperqa would never allow them to release current wine version, by the time its tested its outdated anyway.also mean that you will only have the issues that linux users have, which are mostly to do with the launcher, and directxfun fun having to emulate one version of directx to install, then a different one to play it, but it plays."
"ok smart ass....ignore my post and not read it.i'll spell it out for you.... yes i play eve online on both mac and pc. have been for 2 years plus.i have made it clear on the mac forums if you can read that is that i will not patch for 2 weeks until they clean up the mess.but since you refuse to engage brain and contiue to cry and scream for your emo-rage....then please continue until your vocal cords bleed.honestly its a wonder mac users survive anymore.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"agreed....i've got a mac pro from me dad being handed down to me....sweet piece of equipment it is.....got plans to try a few things...macbook pros are not exactly a great platform for messing with wine and such.but then again my time these days is so limited.... directx is an utter pain in the ass to deal with.tried at one point...kept running into massive headaches and i did actually get it to work at one point...but the graphics where totally fail by the time i got there.that was before apocrapha sp? released....i miss that...was the best mac release then..strangely everyone else hated it....funny that.these days i hesitate to launch eve on my mbp as the bloody core temps keep jumping up...i'm worried i'll come back to a melted pile of aluminium instead of a so-so working eve client. that would be apples fault btw.....for stupid engineering on placement of cpu/gpu's.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"so in all honesty you are not familiar with how the process has changed with the inferno patch because you are still in your 2 week period of playing on the pc and thus have no idea about the mechanics that led me into the corrupted files as dictated by the new installer.perhaps you should have asked those questions before calling me a smart-ass, implying that i an stupid, while all the time you sit back and wait for ccp to fix the problems i have brought up so you can safely log on with your mac in a week or so.this situation is far worse then the past sir, yet the only fault besides an alleged emo rage from me you can identify is a poor design by the apple engineers, ccp is squeaky clean.you're an apologist and that is certainly your right. please have a good life sir, i am done with you."
"that is what you have to say in the face of common sense telling you to calm the #### down?your utterly pathetic and an embarassment to the mac community.all you are is a emo-raging fool who has nothing better to do then to make demands because you dont like how things have ended up.i watch and i study and i read the mac forums prior and after patch time to get of a sense of what to expect. i do not blindly walk into a problem like everyone else who has a tendency to just blidnly click their little trackpad button or mouse. this is excluding the brave mac warriors who patiently report bugs and attempt to help ccp troubleshoot however..sorry i'm not going to do that...not for everyonethis is much like living in 0.0....do you jump into a system without checking local?no...unless your an idiot and a fool.you can make all the conclusions you want....but you obviously have no idea what your talking about...no concept of how things work..and too bitter to see straight.as i've already said...you can either read.....and learn...or scream until your vocal cords burst....fact of the matter remains...by the time i do patch...ccp will likely have resolved all known issues related to the patch now...and i will not have to worry about redownloading or reinstalling my client...just like every other time i've done it.its called experience..and knowing the experinces of living on a mac while playing attempting to an windows game forcibily engereed to live on that mac.i can't help the fact your ignorance reigns supreme...but saddly it seems it is not a blissful one to be sure.i'd say enjoy it...but that seems impossible.oh and one last thing.... since your likely going to rage quit.can i has your stuff?welcome to eve online....get a pc instead....since you can't handle it...just don't bring it up to your windows buddies..they may take advantage of the victory. your just an young welp of a pilot who thinks he knows better...when your journey in eve has only just begun.i have played this game far longer than you....your just yet an another in a long line of whining noobs claiming \"i have the right to tell ccp to go #### themsleves or else\" when you know aboslutely nothing.your a paying customer...so stop paying....quit...and leave. ccp will get to each and every issue in due time and process...as they always have over the various patches.i have only had 1 major failure of a patch on the mac...and that was the last time i installed the patch on patch day.i always wait 1 to 2 weeks depending on what breaks.a concept you refuse to....and likely incapable of understanding.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"paintchk...you made my day!keep it awesome!rofl!"
"i couldn't agree more that some kind of change to the overly safe nature of null sec. i can remember being a scout before anoms and if you were decent to good at scanning you could pinpoint a cluster of belts warp and in warp you could pin point your target.with said mechanics we have now you have to jump in press scan and just hope you go to the right one with no ability to do a d-scan and know if your in the right direction. at the very least i would like to see more anom rats that tackled or some kind of fix that i can d-scan my targets in the same time frame i could a belt."
"well if that's what it takes then sure delay your local pop in time.specific ideas aside it's just too safe to rat in an anomaly. granted people need a certain amount of safety otherwise it's just not wroth doing. that's why i'd be a little worried about removing local entirely without putting in another intel tool for people. i honestly think poco based sov is a good idea"
"there are plenty of intel tools: corp chat, alliance chat, shared intel chat, constellation and region chats that could be used to report movements of known pirates in the area, cloaky scouts, d-scan, combat scanner probes...just how much do you need to be able to maintain security?"
"if your worried about losing your intel abilities over local...then you have seriously very poor skills in intellgience to be sure.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"agreed. local is your last line of defense. you have seconds to react to potential threats in local. combat scanner probes and d-scan can provide the same amount of warning, and a lot more information than \"people are here\"."
"yep....for someone who makes such a claim the guy who said hes worried about intellgience.......obviously would be easy prey in wormhole space.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"a think a 5-10 second delay between people entering local and appearing in local would be moderately good for roaming gangs...would more ratters die? probably.... would significantly more ratters die?? probably not.... as any capable nullsec resident knows, you can rat while aligned and easily warp away as soon as an enemy appears on grid... this is also why the \"omg there's an afk cloaker in system that prevents me from ratting\" whines are so laughable.... here's a nullsec dilemma: currently, it is very hard to catch a ratter... they essentially have to be the subject of bad timing... i.e. a belt rat scrams them right as local goes up. as long as it's easy to avoid a roaming gang, you gain nothing by forming up a response fleet and evicting the hostiles... if its too easy to catch ratters, ratters lose more than they gain by ratting... essentially, there needs to be a balance where people want form up when you appear in intel, but you can still be mostly safe from marauders... personally, i think a 5-10 second delay will help with this balance..."
"i dont get it, whats the point of living in a nullsec system sov or not if you cant use its resources effectively, any nerf to local or buff to roams, means that mining out in null gets an even bigger nerf, not only ratting carriers.being unable to secure space to any real extent makes hisec activities that much more attractive to people. why risk the carrier doing sanctums when i can be grinding l4 or incursions for more saftey and close to the same isk per hour. infact with missions you can hire a noob and get a percentage of the loot drops and salvage. thats not something that you see in nullsec.basically you are asking for zero ratting carrier kills. increase the risk, lower the numbers of people doing it as an alternative to hisec faucets. the ones that stick it out in null are the ones that will adapt and be aware of your roams well before you get to their area."
"hey so i just had a great idea and i thought i would post it.the local chat window should be sortable by standings.you might ask \"what purpose does that serve good sir?\"well i tell you it serves to make it harder for small high sec war dec corps to hide in high population systems.in my experience most exclusively high sec war griefer corps are a bunch of station camping carebears waiting for the lone indy pilot to run through. in the event that they see an actual combat pilot enter grid they usually **** their pants and dock up.im tired of getting war decced and having it be just be too bothersome to hunt down the 5 bastards to kill them. make the dam war targets blink and flash red at the top of the local chat window so that we can get the intel we need to hunt them down like we would in null sec.i want to make the high sec carebears feel the pain when they have the balls to war dec a much larger alliance.anyways those are my 2 cents.tear it apart or love it as you will."
"i would like there to be an option to spend your to improve your ratial standings.much like in real life where corporations and people invest money to get a more favourable relationship with governments; so why in eve can't a player go to for example an amarrian corporation and spend some lp's to get an increase to thier amarr standings? currently the only way to adjust ratial standings is to do missions to boost your status, but that in turn negatively affects another race. i would like to be able to bump my standings, or that of my corp without upsetting the relationship with other races since the lp store is so limited!"
"yeah sure why not.also it would cut out the boring slog to grind up standings to get to the missions you want to run.i honestly think poco based sov is a good idea"
"run a couple of incursions, convert the lp, and instant access to every l4 agent, both mission and research of every faction?does that really sound like a good idea?"
"it would obviously be a sliding scale, similar to how you earn standings more takes more, and i dont think faction standings has any effect on individual corps anyway...."
"can't support this lame excuse at an attempt for an \"easy button.\" to tough to get standings? you're in the wrong mmo.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"the only comment on this subject i could offer is that its not so dificult to get standings as per se.it is however damn hard and stupid to recover standings.it's almost like a 1-5 ratio when it comes to dealing with positive to negative standings.for each increase...you have to do 5 times the effort to get it back.or something to that affect.other than that...not sure about this proposal to be honest.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"i'm not looking for an easy button, more a way to use lp to repair your standings. the problem is everytime you repair one races standings another races standings gets damaged"
"+1 supported!this is a great idea! it should be 72hours, imo if you are a dumass and forgot to put fuel into your tower, and you only play 1~2 tough ****, log in check your pos. hell use eve gate check to see is if its ran out of fuel, it out generates an"
"this idea is so bad it almost hurts. almost. this idea does the following:~reduce the incentive for people to try to have pos's/ hisec or low because of single man corps consistently attacking research alt towers. research alt towers are one of the reasons bpc are cheap enough for noob manufacturers to get into the game. ~ nerfs the already nerfed dreadnought~ reinforces lowsec to be the nullsec alliance only playground it is fast becoming. previously you needed dreads to take a moon from someone else, or a lot of patience and battleships which required some active effort on the part of the attackers. these new modules would take away that requirement and shift the balance much more to the defenders side. you arent asking for more pvp. youa re asking for more alliance blobs in lowsec. ~ more expensive low end moon goo. small independants are the ones that mine these at margin costs. larger alliances can take and hold higher end goos. but with it no longer being necessary for you as a goo miner to call out 10-15 or so of your alliance members to take a low end tower, of which im sure they all instantly volunteer for tower siege to round out your production chains. of course if they do ring mining or some kind of goo mining in belts/anom/sigs whatever instead of dependent on moons, half of this will be moot. no one will give a damn about dead towers on moons, and its only in hisec that people will want to use these to avoid any actual work."
"a method to claim or timely remove an offline pos.... very much desired.a method to claim an online pos ... we already have the tools to do this... its called, form up a gang and shoot it!!!"
"i like some parts of the idea.let there be a mod you can anchor at any pos that will, if no forcefield exist, destroy the pos in 28 days.should require a war dec to mount the module. once mounted, you can retract the war.i want the towers dead, not stolen, dead.why? so industrialists have something new to build and sell."
"this, i want a way to remove a dead corps pos, without having to wardec and shoot it. i dont want to destroy the pos i want to capture it. otherwise its not worth the effort. having a module that lets you steal pos's and their equipment based on how long they have been offlined makes a lot of sense to me. its a way to ensure that you arent unfairly penalizing active players that have put in the effort but slipped a time or two, and still keep the tower removal to a sense able amount of time. the current way to remove towers already requires a wardec. several bs/ tier 3 bc can remove them already .its slow and boring as hell. with no real rewards. hence no one does it.i would say that 1 month offline is enough to consider it dead. and a 48 hour unanchor time limit is good for that. down to the other end of the scale, 1 day off line should take 7 days unanchor time same as a wardec. offline towers only.1 year+ = 12 hours6 months - 1 year = 24 hours1 month to 6 months = 48 hours2 weeks - 1 month = 721 week - 2 weeks = 5 days1 week - = 7 days"
"personally, i think attacking/hacking a tower in highsec should require a wardec.... this provide a nice 24 hour warning to the corp that their highsec assets will be vulnerable to attack. i don't know how useful/viable this will be with the upcoming wardec changes, but it gives the defenders a fair window to protect their assets... a hacking module that lets you capture a tower provides a nice incentive to engage the tower, and so that's moderately reasonable.... leave it at a static 48 hour hack time... if you leave your pos offline longer than that, you deserve to lose it!"
"i disagree that 48 hours base is long enough, but i suppose thats not really that important if it takes a wardec."
"+1would be nice to salvage this space junk rather then destroy it which takes ages. i do agree with the week long timer, and cost of the hacking structure should be reasonable. nothing to small but still not much your not losing a fortune. i like the 30-4"
"i could actually see some benefits to the eve community as a whole from this idea. at the moment, newer players who don't keep up with eve politics, blogs, external sites, etc etc, don't get much in-game exposure to the community side of eve.if there were billboards about, or adverts, then all the new players would see ads for alliances, etc. some of the big alliances could even use the billboards for propaganda, to talk about their recent wins, or their enemies recent losses, or to link blogs supporting or naysaying csm internet politicians. the slightly less enthusiastic players who don't necessarily troll the forums like i do, would actually be able to see the effects of eve politics in a real and meaningful way without leaving the game. to me, this is more exciting than the prospect of people advertising salvaging services.i would also like to bring up a potential problem for ccp. how would they regulate what ended up on these billboards? if these ads could have links to external sites then links to lewd sites all over eve wouldn't do ccp any favors. but i suppose the same can be said of local chat, i guess.\"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"not exactly ; the lp store is an isk sink. the implants are just one of many elements of the store. if you don't buy implants with the lp, you will still use those points for other things, and the sink will remain.and, no, implants are a reward for not taking risk. hence i support the thread from op."
"how do you figure? haven't been watching the killboards lately i take it?================ stop the evemail spam!"
"if your so stupid that you do not know how, then please jump into a well and stay there and think about it."
"i agree on this one.a seperate fuel bay for cloakers so it would be sufficient for them and would prevent afk-cloaking for long preiods of time.game play would improve. people would need to think new strategies and so on.why is this a huge deal?oh yeah.... sniff sniff i want to pewpew and nerfing my plans would mean i would need to think a new way how to grief players sniffsniff."
"my sincere thanks go out to the new csm7 chairman and the 2 other members of csm7 who took the time to respond to this thread and said they would inquire within ccp to find out the status of repairing the patch that has disabled game play for paying mac subscribers like myself.it is good to see people elected to leadership positions responding swiftly to the legitimate concerns of individual subscribers, especially when the forums seem to be populated by far too many hostile self righteous bitter attack dogs."
"how fortiante for you.... i can tell you want the response is as well.\"we're working on it / know about the issue\"if youd actually pay attention and read whats available as far as resources and advise..you'd get somewhere.but alas...continue beating your head on that brickwall alright...you know where to find \"us\"================ stop the evemail spam!"
"op, your being trolled by a few knobs, don't bite. trebor is vice chair of the csm and he is also a mac guy. i'm sure he will get the ball rolling on something.in the mean time, stay away from the orcs and bell ends that populate these forums."
"being trolled is one thing.stating the facts is an entirely different thing.stick to reality and don't make assumptions.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"+1 this would be awesome. it would get the player base more involved with the development of eve itself. you guys go we are revamping xyz ships/mods, or creating this ship/mod. what would you like to see it look like? then all you have to do is select the"
"but you can use its resources effectively.... even with a 10 second delay.... 1. learn to not warp to a sanctums and belts at zero...2. rat aligned3. bubble the ingates... 4. use and pay attention to intel channels. 5. operate in a group.... this isn't a huge nerf to nullsec living... it's an inconvenience to help boost nullsec roaming, and hence small gang pvp...the real boost nullsec needs is more group activities.. if a solo ratter sees a small gang coming through their system, they get safe and hide until the gang passes.... however, when a group of ratters see a small gang coming through their system, they can ship up and fight... especially if you give the marauders a few tools to punish the locals for hiding rather than fighting... think a player created incursion-like mod that takes 20 minutes to anchor/online and reduces bounties and ship ehp for several hours or a day or so."
"i don't understand what the 10 second local pause does for ratters reshipping, nor does it make any material difference to intel channels, as they can still see you from 10 jumps away. your mod idea is stupid,"
"it has nothing to do with ratters reshipping, or intel chat channels.when you enter a system there is a bit of time that it takes to scan for anomolies and warp into the site. that amount of time is long enough that any non-comatose ratter can get safe.i honestly think poco based sov is a good idea"
"the 10 seconds is designed to make roaming feel less futile. hence, it will encourage more roaming.... it's not an unbalanced amount, as no ship in the game can enter system, find a target, and warp to said target before appearing in local, even if they have the sanctum to warp to previously bookmarked... currently, local entirely favors the prey, and this shifts the balance between hunter and prey a little to the favor of the hunter. again, this is a minor shift primarily aimed at boosting the moral of 5-man cruiser/frigate roaming gangs. as for my mod idea.... i realize it needs its own discussion on how to make it balanced, but the idea is extremely sound. the idea is that the locals have to defend their own space, or they suffer some consequences.... currently, if a roaming gang comes in... the locals hide.... the roamers poke and prod, waiting for them to come out and play.... but typically they just hide. everyone loses, as the roamers don't get a fight, and the locals don't get to pve. with a mod similar to this, the roamers can at least punish the locals for a time period beyond the 10-20 minutes they poked about system. hitting nullbears in the pocketbook is just about the only way to get them to fight, and this is exactly i'm suggesting. really though, nullsec needs more group activities... i.e. sanctums, havens, and hubs should typically require 3-6 battleships to run effectively and the payouts increased accordingly. this way the locals will already be ganged and grouped up when a small gang comes through, and hence a little more willing to fight hopefully."
"you cant make people pvp when they dont want to, and are already entrenched in their own systems. a ten second delay wont do anything to change that, nor, would increasing the numbers of ships needed for sanctums. i know people that already do sanctums in 2-3 tengus, multiboxing. because its easier. are they going to engage a roam coming through? nope. ratting tengus and pvp tengus are set up differently. 10-20 minutes of reduced bounties or whatever, is afk time, cloak up, call for hd fleet, whatever, if roams really wanted pvp, they'd get somewhere and announce themselves to the locals. but its not about fights, its about ganking in null i know carebears, or people that dont want to fight. hitting nullsec carebears in the pocket tends to mean that their alts dont do as much fun pvp, they cant afford the pvp ships, or they don't want to risk the expensive ones since they cant replace them. if anything, more expensive t1 ships, and all the miner ganking reduces the pvp potential, because people arent as willing to do stupid things."
"1. \"you can't make people pvp\": non-consentual pvp is very much a part of eve, no matter where in eve you live. i agree with you, that blobs where there is little/no risk results in poor pvp experiences... the 10s delay to local would result in more ratter ganks, but not some \"omg nullbear armegeddon!\" i rat in nullsec for income... i have done so for a very long time, and there are two reasons i lose ships: a. i don't pay attention becuase i'm pewpewing on my main, or b. i play bait and bite off more than i can chew. i use smart ratting practices though, and it makes me nigh impossilbe to catch. do you know what a 10 second change in local means.... those that take the time to rat safely will still be very safe, and those that don't take the time to rat safely have a 5% chance instead of a 1% chance of being caught... 2. occassionally i multibox to \"solo\" plexes in null.... and occassioinally i multibox in pvp too... however, most of the time pvp leaves too little wiggle room for multiboxing unless your doing easy dps roles. so your friend multiboxing tengus is really not relevant!!!! what is relevant, is when i run the harder plexes with 3-4 corp mates, or wh's with 5-8 mates, or nullsec incursions with 9+ mates... we often stick around and fight when someone tries to crash the party. this is because we are already grouped up, organized, and ready to fight. my point is, a single person has little recourse against a small gang.... whereas a group of people, even in mostly pve fit ships can put up a good fight against a small gang. 3. the module idea: the 10-20 minutes is how long it takes to install the effect... the reduced bounties effects would last for hours or more... i.e., the locals take 10-20 minutes to organize a response and stop the roamers from ******* up their system, or they stay safe until the roamers leave and then are left with a less bountiful system... it's their home system, they should be have to defend it beyond the 500 man cta blob bullshit that is sov warfare... this thread: player created incursions outlines the idea my corp mate had... i personally disagree with some of the details, but we both agree on the benefits something like this would add.... and its far from \"a stupid idea\". 4. \"ouch my pocket book\": yes, when you have lots of income, the consequences of pvp aren't as meaningful. and more income means you can fly more blingy ships or take more risks becuase replacing it means less. this isn't an issue with catching ratters, its an issue with the distribution of income sources within eve. i pvp a lot... and i prefer good fights where i don't know if i'm going to win or lose way more than ganking some random passerby. getting those fights is not easy.... to get people to engage in pvp, i've found you need several things: a. you have to be engageable. i can fly any subcap in the game, but typically roam in frigates because people are more likely to engage me.... i regularly take out roaming gangs, and if i bring out bc's w/ logistics, the only people that engage are bigger and meaner gangs.... but if i bring out t1 cruisers i'm much more likely to find some people to engage... b. there needs to be a reason to engage. i can go through 30 systems with ratting drakes/ravens/tengus while flying a solo rifter or taranis, and nobody will engage. to get a fight, i literally have to hang-out in a system to annoy the locals enough to ship up and chase me. and then, more often than not, they'll try to chase my rifter away using bcs with falcon and logistic support. the primary reason agony's lived in syndicate for so long is because there are many nearby groups willing to ship up and come out and play props to the syndicate residents that regularly show up to fight!!... the rotten, stinky truth is 90% of sov nullsec is full of carebears that just want to grind up assets.... the actual number of pvpers in this game is pretty low... most people in this game are afraid to lose their ships, and it's really, really pathetic. in my mind, nullsec resources should be plentiful that you can farm up a drake within 1-2 hours, and losing that drake should be no big deal... i know of certain nullbear alliances that forbid their players from willy-nilly engaging hostiles. i know of several alliances that forbid flying in space when there is an afk cloaker in system, etc, etc, etc.... thats ********.... and any mechanic that makes silly corporation like this unable to operate in nullsec is a very good thing..."
"making people deal with pvp when they don't want to is one of the things that makes eve great.otherwise we'd be playing a game like wow or something where you have to flag yourself for pvp, and can't fight in anything other than structured honor duels.i honestly think poco based sov is a good idea"
"sorry i had to edit your post a bit to fit the character count. i do not believe i have changed your message in any substantial way.1.you misunderstand me when i say that about pvp, i dont mean that nullbear armageddon or anything, i just mean that you wont get the people that are hiding to stop hiding.adding a ten second delay will mean that they warp out even faster and the people that you do catch, will be the ones that do the exact same things as they do now. 2. my friend in his tengus is exactly the point. make it so you need another ship and hes gonna get another account. make it so you need ten ships and it will be run by 3 actual people. make it need a fleet? it may never get run or it will take five people in specialized ships running it. none of them will engage a small roaming gang. 3. make it a anchorable and destructible module sure. but its a stupid idea if its not, i wonder how long it will take for someone to figure out a way to make it a perminate addition to afk cloaky ships. cause you cna be sure that this would be abused as all hell4. well sure, dont imagine though that im saying that other things dont need to be nerfed, but it seems that attempting to increase the amount of nullbear ships destroyed will just mean that fewer try it and/or hide better. a yes, t1 cruisers will get engaged pretty often, by t2, bc gangs more often then not. thats not something thats easily fixed and not something that these changes would fix.b hot drops and pve fitting. i bring a drake you bring ten ships, i bring ten ships you cry blob, it never ends. most of the time pve fits die horribly to pvp fittings. why bother? half the time people rat is to build up an armory for the next cta and the new ship requirements that the alliance has. or to pay for that plex..im going to have to respond to the ast bit on another post"
"everyone pvp's consentual or not, this is eve remember? not the point though. people are afraid to lose their ships, and will continue to do so because they are expensive, its embarrassing, etc whatever. people don't like losing, tahts a fact of life. not changeable by this sort of mechanic change.in nullsec the resources are there, but the security or ability to secure them are not. bears will be bears anywhere they are, and you cant force them to fight you. attempting to is futile as they will move back to empire, and null will be even more of the wasteland that it already is. want to get targets? make nullsec secure-able, add security measures to sov space so that traffic goes from sov space to hisec, give an alliance a reason to court mining groups. and a reason for mining groups to go out to null. as it stands there isnt any saftey for a ship that warps slower then a bs except through a good intel network and a fast \"run to hide\" button.you can still roam through but it will be harder for you to stick around. oh and the reasons that alliances tell people not to engage random roamers. or be active in afk locations, is to discourage roamers and afkers. if they dont get kills or see activity then they will eventually go to somewhere that there is. thats why they do it. if they gave silly kills to every yahoo that came into your system with a cyno, youd never have an empty system again."
"i'm ok with a sortable local chat...... but i'd go one step further....turn local chat into an actual intel tool.... --- ideally one that is not omniscient to all in local!!!!"
"as a pvp/pve player who often has to deal with clusters of wrecks to loot and salvage, it would be great if we could have a key binding to open containers. it becomes a real pain to open every single wreck and container on the field when there is a ton of them since it requires you clicking like a madman or moving your mouse back and forth until there is a streak on your mousepad.adding a hotkey would save us time, our hand, and our mouse."
"i could see this as a viable option *if* the loyalty increase would only go towards a npc corperation. secondly it would have to be scaled in such a away that you would still have to do some grinding. example you run 5 level 4 missions, turn in all the you made from those missions, and get the standing increase as though you just completed one lvl 3 mission. its not a whole lot, but better then nothing. google each mission before accepting it! there are lot of missions that don't effect your standings with other factions, its actually only like 1 out of every 4~5."
"no, he's right. gaining standing with any one faction hurts your standing with opposing factions if you have high minmatar standing, you cannot have high, or even decent amarr standing. however, the faction missions make it much worse, because you lose a lot standing with one faction with a much smaller gain to your preferred faction.it would be nice if it were possible to have good standings with all factions. i'm not personally fond of the standings matrix."
"i was told that doing the pic arc missions gave some faction standing bost without the corresponding drop fromt he other factions, these can be run every 3 months, is this true? and if so it is entirely possible to have good standings with all four factions. it jsut requires you to not take those storyline missions. of and of course a lot of grinding. level 1 storylines give a +0.02 increase and a -0.01 or something like that to the opposing factions. its been a while though so i dont remember.its possible though i believe."
"the minmatarr hate the amarr, the amarr hate the minmatar. if you're working for the guys they hate, why should the other faction like you?"
"i support that there should be an easier way to raise faction standings. but not like this, sorry.\"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"definitely agree that lock range needs a boost. okay with the rockets thing, though. inties should never be getting into real combat except to defend themselves against other small ships or drones, in which case the malediction excels due to the relatively high dps of rockets."
"changing the bonus to include light missiles would probably be alright... in my experience, rockets are signficantly more useful than light missiles on a tackle interceptor, but i like creating options rather than limiting them...."
"being able to put ads on the billboards would be cool. it would also make a good isk sink."
"i was going to flame you until i saw your alliance. well played sir. almost got me.i completely agree."
"so this is how the drones are controlled to manipulate things. interesting.anyway, leave our attribute implants alone. no real pilot ever stopped himself from having funn coz of impants. only wimps like you. if you havent noticed the best combat implants are the most expensive ones. if anything theyv should change sets to give +5 to char attributes"
"\"drones\" lol \"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" - abrazzar"
"given the same amount of isk to spend on implants, someone in a low-risk environment will gain sp faster than someone in a high-risk environment because low-risk guy can stock a small number of expensive implants, expecting that he will not be podded often, while high-risk guy has to stock a large number of cheaper implants, expecting that he will be podded frequently.so implants reward low-risk activities by allowing you to amortize their cost over a much greater number of sp.\"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" -abrazzar \"the risk of having your day ruined by other people is the cornerstone with which eve was built\" -ccp solomon"
"+4 implants are really not that expensive if you use lp . you probably came upon this ideal after you fail suicide ganked a noob and lost your implantsif ccp did do away with implants i would want my isk value reimbursed to me i bought them so i could tra"
"0/10"
"still looking for good ideas."
"what i propose is an option to have an item purchased at one station to be delivered to wherever you would like to pick it up. it would not be done for free of course, a fee would have to be established depending on the distance that you would like to have that item delivered, the weight of the object after all it would be cheaper for a turret than a whole ship. you could also factor in whether that item is going to be delivered to high-sec, low-sec, or null-sec  the more dangerous the delivery location the higher the fee. more often than not, i have found myself in need of something as simple as ammo only to have to make 8 jumps just to get it. it would not be instaneous, but it would have to be quicker than going to get it yourself. this idea requires someone more suitable in the world of finances and logistics than i to refine, but i feel like it would be a boon to all capsuleers out there, no matter where they are, or who they are."
"that requires you to have to wait on a player to pick up your item and deliver it for you. plus the same amount of time is taken up as you going to get it yourself. this cuts out the middle man."
"so cut out an entire profession because of your laziness and impatience? nah. logistics is supposed to be a painful, yet critical, ordeal."
"i did not say it would be cheaper. so an entire profession would not be cut out. those who would choose to use this service expedient service would have to pay a little extra for it. it would make that person question whether or not it would be beneficial for them to use it or use it the old way. laziness for some may be a factor in their decision, but for others, it would be a matter of saving time. which time, as we all know, can be a very finicky thing to deal with."
"red frog freight + some foresight and planning ahead does wonders bro. eve is driven by players, not automated systems."
"eve isn't about cutting out the middle man. the middle man is a real person and he needs to make a living too. sandbox games are supposed to feature players as the main content. players shoot each other with ships and modules built by players, constructed in stations owned by players using minerals mined by players, then shipped to jita by players. i don't need or want magic wow style mailboxes that teleport stuff across the universe. i think they would take away from the game."
"if eve was truly driven by players than the game would be controlled by the players. we would be able to have control of the jump gates. the players would be the law enforcement not the ai. no, unfortunately the players are just allowed to take residence in the world of eve. nothing more."
"what would be the limit though? if it's too high no one will use the service except for the super wealthy which will put poor players at logistical disadvantage against wealthier players and if it's too low then there will be a hard limit on how much a player can ask to move stuff.which is exactly the point. logistics is supposed to be a major factor in terms of where you live benefits of your location versus ease of getting supplies."
"the limit would be decided by our peers. someone with the logistical background can formulate the plan and have the csm vote upon it. numbers are not my strong suit. formulating ideas are. looking at pictures from different angles to see what other secrets it might hold."
"hahahahaha. i like you. you have a sense of humor. mister first name stolen from mythology, last name stolen from disney and a juvenile corp name coming to suggest npc shipping in a player driven game while claiming to be good at ideas. i wasn't sure it was a troll until you posted this line. good one, man."
"what this guy said. the feature you are looking for already exists."
"you have no business making ideas if you can't even understand the \"numbers\" behind those ideas.i suggest you learn to play the game before you make suggestions to change that game.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"imnot going to flame you, though i should, im not going to tell you that you are wrong, though i should, and im not going to cry about game breaking ideas, though i should.i will say that this idea has been suggested before, is already in game through courier contracts, is done a lot by alts, and is generally a pain in the ass to do by yourself in bulk.there is a logistical challenge implicit in making a game truly driven by players, how far do you let players, who by nature are complete assholes, be complete assholes to each other? it is well known and documented that normal people + internet anonymity = massive asshattery anal haberdashery. letting people have completely free reign means that you have people like goons griefing people out of game, encouraging suicide, or shutting down market systems, just to shut down market systems. now imagine this happening all the time everywhere.as to the gate control, and other more realistic player driven controls for ingame mechanics,at what point does sovereignty control mean total immutable empires? nullsec would never shift, much like hisec never shifts because enemies wouldnt ever be allowed in to the systems. allowances must be made for the game to actually function.~as to npc cargo running, id be for it, as long as a few rules are set for it.1. cargo must be below iteron 4 size or around 10k m/32. minimum transit time is one week.3. haulers are targetable, explodeable and concord protected.4. cargo is scannable.5. haulers stop at every station along the path, and operate like autopilot ships6. npc haulers have a base cost of 50k isk per jump. establishing a baseline wage for other haulers. you pay players for bulk and time.7. ....and im not sure how collateral should be structured.basically its a slower, more annoying and much riskier way of moving assets. while its npc cargo moving it doesnt cut any player professions, but allows for the collection of small amounts of goods without all the annoying fetching. it costs just enough that its cheaper and faster to do it yourself. but not so expensive that it is completely pricing out using for small goods.oh i wanted to put somewhere that blowing them up works just like the current npc hauler blowing up, other random consumer products things drop and you lose standings with the company that is shipping it. i forget the shipping companies in eve."
"with the upcoming changes to battlecruisers skills, ie making them racial. it makes bc a de facto new class of ship rather than big bulky cruisers with more dps. which is what i gather ccp was going for in the first place. anyway since we all like new ships to play with and in most cases the models already exist i propose ccp intorduce navy and pirate issue battlecruisors.brutix navy issueferox navy issueprophecy navy issuecyclone fleet issueas far as names for the pirate class and bonus' for the ships i leave to brighter minds than i. but i imagine a good amount of fun could be had with these ships and they could add some always useful variation to pvp. and hell with any luck and reasonable lp costs the navy ships could actually be cheap enough to regularly pvp with"
"will mac users ever realize macs aren't for gaming and start using the right tool for the right job?"
"will trolls ever learn to think before they post?================ stop the evemail spam!"
"you can accuse me of not thinking all you want, but i'm the one with a working eve client, aren't i?"
"so am i...and i was the one trying to be constructive while your being an ass.just because mac's are a minority doesn't mean we tell them off and to go get a pc.i was saying be patient and let ccp do their work.your just being an ass.that is the difference.================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"hello all,i just got caught up with the fanfest video about crimewatch, and it set off a domino-chain of ideas. i'm going to start with the core concept, and follow up with some auxiliary ideas.core concept #1: making isk pvping in lowsec.there are essentially three groups here: pirates, victims, and deputies. we'll start with pirate mechanics: any player with a -5 or worse sec status can affiliate himself with a npc pirate corp. a player corp may also affiliate itself, and all it's members will be automatically affiliated. in return for that affiliation, the player gets a bounty for any ship excepting pods, noob ships, shuttles, and the like of a player pirate, deputy, or otherwise. the bounty is proportional to the hull destroyed and skill point level in that hull of the pilot flying it, probably maxing out around 80-90% of the price of \"platinum\" insurance to prevent farming. for non combat hulls, the skill points of the pilot is not a factor.example: a player has command ships 3 and is flying a vulture. platinum insurance costs 30 mil and pays out 100 mil. the bounty on this player is 16 mil 30 * 90% * 3/5. the exact formula can change to be balanced. this seems high to me, so maybe 50 percent or something.deputy mechanics are similar. deputies can affiliate themselves with a npc police corp if their sec status is +5 or greater. in return, he get's a bounty for destroying a ship whose pilot has a sec status of -5 or lower, or any flagged pilot.0.0 systems yield no bounties.core concept #2: luring in innocent victims.this part is simple. make lowsec more profitable. more incursions, better rats, better ore, etc. or, here is a radical idea, stop seeding veldspar in highsec, and load it up in lowsec! the point here is to make lowsec a little bit more vibrant than cops versus robbers. give robbers someone to rob.aux concept #1:deputies with high sec status get special privileges. for example, a +8 sec status deputy may use light dictor bubbles in lowsec. of course, if this pilot ends up on the killmail for innocents or deputies, he will receive a sec status hit. clever pirates may get someone deputized to lay a trap, but it will take some doing to get to that point, and easily lost.aux concept #2:the higher the sec status of the system, the larger the bounty the pirate receives. accordingly, gate guns and station guns deal much more damage in higher systems.aux concept #3:players collect small amounts of lp for their kills. also, new faction pirate ships and police ships squad cars, if you will will be seeded. lp needs to be a low enough fraction to prevent farming."
"ok so as far as the \"lp for murdering people\" idea goes i remember during the questions section at the end they talked about rewarding people who have a sec status over 5 and sec status under -5 to kill one another.it might be nice for people at the far ends of the sec status spectrum to get a little lp for fighting.the one thing i'd really worry about is people farming the system. basically you get an over +5 alt and an under -5 alt and have them shoot each other all day. you could make the lp gain based on the total value of the blown up ship minus insurance and all the destroyed modules. as long as the lp gained gave less of a reward than the amount lost in the fight then it will always be profitable to blow up strangers, but not profitable to blow up your alt's or buddy's ship.oh yeah and lp awards should happen on an individual basis. don't force an entire alliance to sign up faction warfare style with an npc pirate faction just so a handful of dudes can get lp, that's just annoying. i don't care if there is mercoxit out there. nobody will mine in lowsec. a hulk will last about 5 minutes until some random battlecruiser wanders into the belts and one shots them.i honestly think poco based sov is a good idea"
"this would need an isk sink to balance it out. i think it would be better if the ship just dropped everything instead of half of it being destroyed. that would double pirate income without adding any fancy new game systems or extra isk faucets. an official ransom system would also be nice. something like the new war dec mechanics. you can offer money to surrender in a war dec and the winner of the war can't redec you for a while. the same thing could be used on ransoms. pirate pops up a ransom window and if the victim accepts the pirate can't lock them again for a period of time. that would prevent the griefers who don't honor ransoms from ruining things for professional pirates who actually want to make money."
"your point is well taken. i guess if you think about it, this is how it should behigh sec: low profit, high safetylow sec: mediocre profit, medium safetynull sec: high profit, low safetyinstead this is what we havehigh sec: medium profit, high safetylow sec: low profit, low safetynull sec: high profit, low safetyin many ways, null sec is safer than low sec.i think, however, if you made low sec profitable enough players would find a way to take advantage. especially if you gave the deputies an edge with the bubbling for example, or slightly higher bounties. you could have a corp of deputies escorting hulks, for example. an enterprising pirate corp could grind to -4.9, roll into the fleet in thoraxs, and the deputies would have to face the decision of preemptively ganking the thoraxs and reducing their own standing, or watching a hulk get suicided first :-"
"i bet it isn't evil enough. vote corbin for csm 8. if elected i promise to convince ccp to remove high sec, make use of the word \"pubbie\" in a single server game a bannable offense, make insurance cover t2, remove jump drives and jump bridges, make implants and skill books player craftable and then remove npc's from the game. oh and i'll get bounties fixed while i'm at it. now that would annoy everyone."
"all i can say to this is... \"amateur\""
"hiderz are gonna hide, but catching 1/20 ratters rather than 1/100 ratters is a big improvement for the roamers. i \"hope\" it improves enough to encourage more roaming gangs. some people \"solo\" run incrusions multiboxing... they are few and far between. if you up the difficulty/rewards of sanctums and havens to require 8 ships, then most of the time people will run them in groups assuming they pay well. if people are already organized into a group shooting npc's, it's a small step to start shooting other players... especially when those npc's have wh/incursion level ai's that switch targets... many of the nuances were hashed out in the thread i linked... this isn't the place to discuss it, but it does need to be balanced between the attackers / defenders in a manner that encourages its use as a small gang item... people are going to gank and blob, its part of the nature of this game. the only way you get people to be more reckless with their stuff, is if they care more about the fight than they do about their ship. the two ways this happens: a. they have more resources than they know what to do with, or b. they have goals they can accomplish while losing their ships. the random nullbear has no reason to fight, often grinding for capitals or plex rather than for a good fight. this is what needs to change... we need small gang oriented farms and fields to plunder and/or defend!!! people will defend their stuff when they have a reason to defend it. but what can a small roaming gang do in the current state of eve? they can't rf a tower, they can't rf a station or its services, they can't effect system upgrades, nor pi, nor ... all the locals have to do is safe up, and then laugh as the marauders have nothing to maraude... we need livestock to steal, crops to burn, children to enslave, and wives to . . . and they should require fast action to save <30 min. the more time people have to respond, the bigger the response, and the more likely a blob... that's like saying if you want new businesses to open, you have to remove the risk in opening a business... imo, get that pansy i-want-really-low-risk carebear mindset out of nullsec. take off the training wheels and experience the other side of the spectrum: i know businesses will open when the rewards are greater than the risks. people will partake in very risky activities whenever they see a decent reward for doing so!!! look at wh's... people setup shop there all the time, and they don't have local, or some intel network to let them know when bad guys are coming!! for the majority of cases, the isk they earn easily covers the losses they have. if tomorrow, they quintupled the npc bounties in nullsec, but removed local altogether... do you really think people would flee to empire??? hmm... i could grind missions for a couple hours to pay for a drake, or i could shoot 12 bs belt rats, or run one sanctum. note: i wouldn't support this, because the riches of nullsec should primarily be in resource collection, not isk!! nullsec should be risky, but with rewards that justify the risks..."
"qfe. disgusting behavior that needs to be ended. i like your idea about the anchorable incursion thingy."
"local shouldn't be an intel tool in the first place. **** buffing it. i want it removed entirely. it should be like wormholes everywhere."
"reminds me when i was a wee caracal pilot learning the ropes in null sec. \"what?! you can see everyone in the system by looking in this chat window i've had minimized since the first day i was playing? that's just stupid\""
"there should be a hotkey for everything imo. especially repetitive stuff like looting."
"ughhhh ....there is..... double click? now a hotkey for loot all w/o opening containers would truly be hot!"
"did it ever occur to you that maybe you're not supposed to have high standings with every race? there are other trade hubs besides jita you know."
"yes it does, if you have standings with a faction at 5+ you have access to all the level 4 agents for that faction without needing the individual corp or agent standing."
"the sticky at the top says \"any person replying to the thread can check a box to show support for the issue, which provides at-a-glance on the thread listing how supported an idea is.\"for the life of me i can't find a checkbox!"
"do'h. that's a throwback from the old forums. the new forums here have no such \"support\" box. all we get is a \"like\" button. *sad face*"
"+1 i have been asking about civilian carriers for a long time now."
"thanks for the support mate.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"well.. surprisingly enough you haven't been paying attention to boobies as much. if you did you'd notice that they actually do move and the character breathes. they rise and fall with breathing. you can even see it on full body view"
"true, but they don't bounce one bit when you walk, or during idle animations when the characters looks over her shoulder. we're looking for that little bit of added realism."
"regarding server load...this would be one of many potential things that would kill the idea of defense being positional. i was hoping that the requirement of both a mutual target and mutual activation turret / defensive module would mitigate this somewhat. it would not be as bad as line of sight requirements, for example.how bad would it be in a 1500 ship fleet fight?if not positional play what a shame, what other mechanic for mitigation would work? i'm wondering if the positional mechanic i'm looking for could be simulated more simply with transversal velocity values. those are stats the server already has to calculate for damage.thoughts?"
"while i think that this is genuinely a good idea, there are a couple of problems, one that you point out yourselffor an \"active\" individually targeted solution: pretty useless. you'd have so many pilots throwing so much **** at each other that the human mind would just not cope with the sheer amount of information that it would need to deal with to selectively counter each and every possible target. for a \"passive\" similar to aoe weapons solution: not difficult but then you've got the additional server load to counteract it as well as balancing out the module that would actually be used. in a smaller fleet skirmish situation 20-30 pilots for example, your suggestion may hold water - but again your going to have issues in regards to whether the module in effect would be an active or a passive solution - and then the poor pilot controlling it would have to be extremely careful not to be primaried.also, racially, the amarr would be the \"strongest\" against most of the weapons used by the other races - lasers are being developed to shoot down missiles and, in space, would prove to be the most viable option - missiles are too slow to be completely effective and railguns are going to be near phalanx/goalkeeper levels of rof to have a chance of striking its target firing as they are, dumb munitions.you'd also have to consider the extremely short range these weapons have especially in the real world - ciws generally only go around 2-4km , although some are as close as 350 metres - and the rate of fire as well would be immense.how would the modules act assuming a specific one is added in terms of % reduction of incoming rounds? would it be skill dependant e.g 5% per level or a flat unmodified value e.g. 35% destroyed?"
"as it stands, all an increased warp speed changes is the maximum au/s you can achieve in the middle of the warp. this is absolutely useless, however, for any warp shorter than about 20 au. most of the time spent warping is in the acceleration and deceleration phases, which are identical in length no matter how big your ship is/ what its warp speed is. long warps shouldn't be the only time that higher warp speed actually helps.i did a highly scientific test with a stopwatch to get these numbers. bear in mind this is only time in warp, not align time.distance in au = time in seconds.stiletto 13.5 au/s warp speed0.5 au = 261 au = 275 au = 3010 au = 30.515 au = 3135 au = 3270 au = 35hurricane 3 au/s warp speed0.5 au = 271 au = 285 au = 31.510 au = 3215 au = 3435 au = 4070 au = 52as you can see, the only time there was a substantial difference in warp times was on the longer distances. on any warp shorter than 15 au, the difference in warp time was less than 10% better for the stiletto, despite its warp speed being 4.5 times higher.it's a simple solution. scale the acceleration and deceleration speeds with warp speed. this actually makes interceptors and faster ships more viable tackleboats than recons in one area. this would require some tweaking, but it's something that should be looked at."
"1.0"
"yes"
"+1 i'm with you on the whole \"making faster warping ships useful\" thing.not sure about the actual implementation of changing current acceleration mechanic though.may be a bit much for current code i have no real idea though.perhaps an across the board r"
"i like my idea, and i don't see a. how it would be too much for current code, or b. how a reduction in warp speed across the board would help anything."
"your throwing a fit over a 5-10 seconds accel/decel issue?maybe you should make sure your able to align faster?i'm sorry but i fail to see how this proposal is useful let alone constructive.perhaps you could give some exampls?================ stop the evemail spam!"
"you do understand what the phrase throwing a fit means, right? but i'll answer your poorly spelled question anyway.right now, the time it takes to get to actual advertised warp speed is 10 seconds, regardless of the ship you're in. the deceleration time is 20 seconds. that means with a warp speed of 3au/s, regardless of the size ship you're in, a 20 au warp will take about 36 seconds, 30 of which are eaten by acceleration/deceleration. all i'm saying, is that the accel/decel times, which make up the largest majority of time spent warping, scale with the warp speed of the ship. this would make warp speed a viable factor in choosing a ship, especially for tackling/ chasing down gangs. so yeah, i would call that useful, and constructive."
"i like the idea, but if it gets implemented, the maximum speeds of all ships need to be brought closer to one another, otherwise a freighter will take days to travel a big system."
"well, since all i'm suggesting is to scale the accel/decel times, it really wouldn't affect freighters because they warp so slowly to start with. but i agree, there would need to be tweaks to account for what the average warp speed is."
"+1....although the warp speeds, accel/decel times, and base align times for all vessels could use some tweaking ...."
"what gives, it has been years.... years!!!!! and we still have to sell items one at a time giving us all rage attacks and carpel tunnel syndrome. why do we not have a better interface for selling salvage and low end modules that build up after missions. it takes me about 30 minutes to run through a mission and over an hour to clean out my station hold. someone please explain why batch item selling still hasn't been implemented after 6 years 6 bleeping years of people asking for this.i know this is probably beating a dead horse but come on ccp what the hell?"
"lp you mine are free, amirite?as for getting the isk value reimbursed, it's like learning skills, they promised that you would train faster full stop, no reference to other players. any scheme that replaced learning implants would need some way, besides straight reimbursement, to make sure nobody trains significantly slower than they do now.by the way, +4 implants are cheap if you buy them in isk, but a 30m isk skull still makes you think twice before jumping in a 5m isk frigate to go on a roam where you don't expect to be able to make it home if your ship asplodes. that's the type of pvp implants end up discouraging.thinking about it, what about a hybrid system, implants and boosters no stacking bonuses ofc. it's not great from a perspective of avoiding rewarding risk-averse behavior, but it would stop punishing risk loving behavior so much.\"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" -abrazzar \"the risk of having your day ruined by other people is the cornerstone with which eve was built\" -ccp solomon"
"what you describe is worse than player hauling in every way and is a waste of time to implement.why not just go ahead and do this stuff? much more productive."
"actually it was part of the point to be worse then player hauling, not everything you have is worth getting a player to pick up. regional buy orders for something, or simple hanger space clearing, the cost is always optional. i didn't want it to break the hauling profession, but for low volume stuff it can be worth it to get npc's to collect it for you."
"never reduce player activity. by having delivery doen by npcs you take that out and kill a career."
"no. that is all.\"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"or just a normal industrial ship. the primae was just a gift they gave everyone in eve when pi came out to try to get them to try it. it's not meant to be a serious ship. industrial ships and their t2 version are the main pi ships."
"that would be nice. same for destroyers. things shouldn't be implemented half way. there needs to be a t1, t2 and faction version of everything imo."
"my my my....someones weak to mental psychological attacks....how utterly pathetic.i'm not at my keyboard...but i'm going to attack you...but i'm not at my keyboard...but i'm so going to attack you with my cloaked ship.woooooooouuuuuuu *ghost sounds*i suggest you spend some quality time in the said well before you spout that senseless crap you call logic again.perhaps you should divert energy to reworking tactics to protect your paranoid selves from attack eh?or perhaps it would be best served hiding in a station and not undocking because of a supposed cloaked individual.and whatever you do...don't you dare go to wormhole space....because your just utterly screwed at that point.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"i'm trying to see how the 'idea' i proposed would stagnate further 0.0 combat. i feel that it would allow for more entertaining or even innovative fighting styles. for the wh people, if they are afk cloaking, how do you know they are in the wh? dev-hax?"
"compared to many of the ideas posted in this forum, this is well thought out. and for that, i am thankful. im afraid though it still doesn't get my support.i agree with the notion that pvp should be more profitable and that lowsec should be more useful. the reasons i dont support this particular idea is because;- we already have too much isk being generated from nothing. i would prefer to have it \"transferred\" instead of created. - i always prefer to keep npc mechanics out of the equation.- i don't like the idea of arbitrarily calling some people pirates, and some people deputies. i would much prefer something more organic, and emergent. simpler changes make a bigger difference, especially with the freedom they afford. i think a fixed bounty system would go a little way to helping lowsec in the ways you propose. there has been a lot of discussion here about how to fix the bounty system. ^^ simpler, and with fewer creases to iron out. might be worth writing a proposal thread specifically for that idea. with prices as high as they are at the moment the economy would benefit from there being higher numbers of mods in total, and it would make pvp more profitable. the only immediate problem i see with that, is that suicide ganking in highsec would become ridiculously common.\"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"double post. my bad.\"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"no it dont... the only remotely jovian asset that is used by pod pilots is the pod its selfsleeper is not jove enemy. sleeper is a drone"
"i think the issue most people have with this idea is the fact that jovian tech has come to mean gm modules and ships. i see no reason why there cant be jovian technology available to players if it is balanced properly. i don't think he means to give players access to gm ships. i think he means to have technology reverse engineered from jovian drops like how the tengu came out of sleeper space. if this is the case than i fully support it if you want everyone to get gm ships and death rays than no i dont support it"
"there is nothing forcing traders into jita except for profit. and profit should never come without risks. this is a game about shooting people and taking their belongings as much as it is a game about building trade empires. commerce and larceny should go hand-in-hand."
"your proposal is incredibly contradictory....get this straight....1: jita is not a market hub that was created by the game...it was created by players.2: the market is entirely will 95% at least player driven.3: no one said you had to go to jita...you can go to rens...amarr...etc.bottom line - use head first before jumping to star gate...you go to a predictable spot...you will be tracked...followed...stalked...targeted...and ganked.asking to change game mechanics for human stupidity and lack of common sense = epic fail.welcome to eve online.ps: don't get me wrong...i get what your saying...and trying to do...but your foundation is full of fail. your all up in arms about the wrong things when the solution is obvious. stop going to jita! *duh* that or fly smart.================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"generally speaking: bad idea. not just because it messes with the sandbox either. it is also illogical, doesn't make sense, and would be a pain for anyone trying to do anything. it's bad enough jita is the only place one can fit almost any ship without having to buy from 4-12 different stations spread across 18 systems.zubzubzubzubzubzubzubzub"
"1.0"
"although i've never had any problems creating names, i dont see any problems with this suggestion.if other people are having problems creating toon names, then this thread has my support.+1\"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"i like the idea of group pve as a possible counter to getting jumped.the one problem that would need to be addressed though, is the fact that you need to fit your ships differently for pve and pvp.a bunch of incursion fit machariels, a webbing loki, and some 5/0 basilisks are great for grinding isk, but would make a poor home defense fleet.i honestly think poco based sov is a good idea"
"though considering ccp's general laziness instead of a whole new ship why not just give the existing orca subsystem modules similar to the tengu and allow it to be configured for cargo, ship transport, even salvaging, and solo mining. basically turn the ship into a fully customizable multipurpose capital industrial platform"
"no the incarna engine is already sluggish without overburdening it with realistic breast mechanics. imagine a station full of bouncing boobs and now imagine the computers chipset screaming in agony at the additional physics load on top of the already inefficient station rendering engine"
"how is it sluggish? works perfectly fine on my rig. i even get 60 fps+ while in station. you sure it isn't just your pc that is the problem?also...a couple of extra bones per character with physics would not cause the issues you are concerned with. if it did then they wouldn't bother with making hair move at all."
"sincere question:isn't warp accel/decel somewhat balanced by align times and accel to warp time?i know in my interceptor, that align times are real fast as are the accel time to enter warp. times get longer as ships get bigger. if these factors do balance warp times, how would you recommend changing them?"
"i've updated the original post with numbers, let me know if that answers your question."
"i was originally picturing an increase in warp acceleration for ships that currently have a high max warp speed, and a reduction in warp acceleration for ships with low max warp speed. which would have required the suggested tweaking to balance. however, if you arent reducing any of the warp accelerations then my point was moot. i will add however that if you make the high max warp speed ships get to their max speed faster, you will need to reduce that max speed some, otherwise they will be way too fast at the longer warps."
"this could be easily adjusted, imo. i'd throw some adjustment numbers out myself, but can't be bothered. with the numerous other complicated things that need fixing this really shouldn't take long at all."
"these would all be moves in the right direction.make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"sometimes it gets confusing what jump gate is next when you have a destnation and a few way points some of which dubble back on them selves. for instance say i set a destnation to system a then system b and then c then i return to a at some point i will have 2 yellow jump gates on my overview. what i propose is changing the color of each way point to say blue for waypoint 2 green to way point 3 ect . or add a number to the gate name like 2. jump gate name ps please forgive my gramer."
"i would like to bring up an issue that will most likely get flamed until the post is locked however i am certain that neither the gm's or the players who support them have any idea what they are talking about when they refer to macros bots key binds and other such input manipulation. as such the guidelines are vague to the point where based on how the eula is interpreted a player could theoretically get banned for using a mouse button to activate a module or perform a interface interaction. the reason both macros and bots are on the eula is because the community wrongly refers to mining bots as macro miners. while if you build a sufficiently advanced macro it may or may not be classified as a bot but generally a macro is as brief sequence of keystrokes bound to a programmable mouse or keyboard button. the sad thing is we all use macros even if you don't want to admit it. the very act of assigning programmable mouse buttons to a single key is technically a driver macro. so lets face it if we continue to go by ccp's idioticly worded elua all you players with gaming mice could theoretically be banned at the whim of a gm. albeit most gm's have these things called brains and will not bring down a ban hammer without good reason. the biggest issue in eve is botting not macroing which is generally harmless and does not give players any sort of advantage aside from delaying the onset of carpel tunnel syndrome.a bot is a third party application which serves to automate some or all functions of the game. for example analyzing market data for fast buy sell orders eg day trading. basic npc like ai for roaming belts shooting pirates for bounties. and the infamous macro miners who drive down the price of tritanium and make it difficult for players to actually make money. this is the enemy ccp is trying to combat know it well. a macro is one or more keystrokes bound to a key. everyone uses these daily whether it be a programmable mouse button mapped to modules or a custom key-bind to a unused media function. however you look at it the definition of macro is too broad and wide reaching for a global ban policy especially since the game it'sself has macros built. by the wording of your elua using the skill que or delayed market orders could get you banned for those themselves are macros albeit programed and added by ccp. but regardless of how you look at it a zero tolerance policy for macroing is too broad and wide reaching to serve it;s intended purpose to cut down on automated game play. there is nothing automated about pressing a button on your mouse to engage your tank or fire a missile. that is just a basic controller function. additionally macros designed for moving items between a cargo hold and a station may be more advanced than a keybind but it is ccp's fault that these exist. if you troll the forums you will see hundreds of complaints about the ineficiant item interface. considering the sheer volume of items that you acquire on a single mission there is no excuse for ccp to limit transactions to single items at a time. basic keybinds and macros of this nature are not hacking they are not giving players unfair advantages they are fixing a fundamental interface design flaw that has been brought to ccp's attention multiple times and through incompetance, lazieness or downright petty spite the fixes and changes players want have yet to be implimented.ccp says that their game is not to be automated in any way however as the game becomes increasingly complex ccp must add integrated automation features to compensate for this. tasks which should take 5 minutes take hours. we are gamers and this is a game not real life i am sure there are people who can sit around for hours on end playing a game but most of us have lives and we deserve to live the, and still remain functional in the online world. the client needs to be reworked from the ground up for more efficiency in performing common tasks as this is the only way to eliminate the need for macros completely. u"
"i was going to try to reply to this, but it's really a whole new level of being intentionally dense; so much so that i don't even know how to begin to respond to it."
"much of the eula and tos are vague, giving ccp gm's the broadest possible freedoms in choosing how they wish to define and judge ingame actions, this leads to gm's and devs often contradicting each other, with judgements varying from gm to gm. gameplay mechanics become exploits, or working as intended depending on the time of day and whichever astrological sign is in powersorry scratch that, astrology has nothing to do with it. or else we'd have some inkling as to how it will be decided. i am pretty sure they meant to be vague. what starts as a keybind ... its a slippery slope, the better defined it is in teh eula/tos the harder it is for them to make bad decisions/change their minds about which is/isnt against intended play.i just had a very bad thought, am i the nice version of mxzf? quick someone ... im not allowed to say what i want here because of eula/tos ... me"
"yup.sometimes you can't \"spell it out\" for people who are just that literally dense.i guess at some point he'll figure out the whole point of the clause in the first place is not so much the definition but the intent of use so to speak.but people are just that dense.oh and not supporting yet an another nooblet proposal.================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"while i understand that ccp gm's do not make a habit of tracking down and banning players for programmable mice it would still be nice if there was a little clarification. additionally it is also known that gm's usually convo a player suspected of being a bot to check whether or not there is anyone at the computer before issuing a banand while it may seem dense to some people i think the more clarification in a legal document the better,"
"again your missing the point.clarification of a statement is also an invitation to finding new ways to exploit/cheat.which begs the question...just what is it are you doing again?================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"this pretty muchcomply with the 'spirit' of the agreement, and you'll be fine. break it and i'll hunt you down and pod you."
"i like learning implants because i literally love superficial complexity in my videogames and i hate having fun eragjigjareiejrsgajgrigjrea"
"did'nt read all the 23 pages, but i support the idea to get rid of the learning implants.if someone posted this before, i apologize, but what about race specific implants?what i like is the diversity and complexity of this game, but when your toon has trained cybernetics to v, every race is able to use the same implants with the same features. that's boring.some new skills like minmatar/amarr/caldari/gallente cybernetic specialisation would add the ability to use race specific implants. so a minmatar could better use race specific weapons like autocannons than an also fully trained caldari using these. _<U+FFFD>a man's freedom consists in his being able to do whatever he wills, but that he should not, by any human power, be forced to do what is against his will.<U+FFFD>  jean-jacques rousseau _"
"i'd worry about how they fly before i worry about how they look.there are plenty of useless ships, underpowered ships, and overpowered ships. ships that have their role bonus ignored, and ships that are ignored altogether.given the choice between new ship models, and new ship stats, i choose new ship stats.i honestly think poco based sov is a good idea"
"ccp please allow the rigs and cargo to be fit as wellas the loaded ammo charges and scripts. make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"a few years ago there was no limit to the number of items you could have in a station, ccp then limited it to 1000 fo help lowering the server load, fair enoughtbut for some ppl, and not only psychopath who love to accumulate stuff, traders for example, this 1000 item limit can be a problem as eve have more than 1000 different items.... and tenths minimum more are added each yearsthen why not making a skill like \"mess director\" or something which would allow you to have 100 more items by station by level"
"11.0"
"cant you just use station containers. one would think that these would count as single items since the contents of containers are stored in separate databases from the main hanger.though +10 anyway there is really no need for this."
"yes i use many kind of container but as i sell in various stations spread out in various regions to sell stuff in a container from far away i have to repackage it, then i get again more than 1000 items in that station, and if later i go to that station i have to again put stuff in container to be able to drop news stuff in hangar, it's what i do for now but sorting stuff over and over and over in container is not fun and unless you use an external soft to manage your mess eveasset ftw, ingame you dont have a clear view off what you have in stations : what i have in container \"t2 ammo\" and what in \"t1 module\" etc etc"
"well, if this gets changed, it shouldn't be skill based, they should just change the upper limit. that said, i'm not completely sure if it should change or not. the reason that it's limited is to keep from killing all the hardware when you try to load the hanger. if they can fix the hanger loading to be more efficient, then it would be ok to increase the number of items in the hanger."
"moar ships!"
"+1 we need more ships!!!btw you spelled battlecruisers's wrong on the title : "
"sure......i've seen this before however, and there's the issue of finding a place for themthey would probably need different bonuses than the rest of their parent line.without doing that, it would muddle the border between them too much. for example, the sansha battlecruiser would put out nearly the dps of a nightmare, with amazing tracking. likely obsoleting both the phantasm and the nightmare.the issue is that the bonuses are intentionally overpowered, and there's a trend of having the \"half the guns double the damage\" approach.take the cruor as another example. adding a battlecruiser sized one would mean that it could...... have extra mids? have extra highs? more lows?i think if either would be done, they would need a different set of bonuses from their parent line."
"i think the inability to deal with a cloaked ship in your system is indicative of your inability to hold said system, not a failing of the cloak mechanics.if you don't have the skills or manpower to counter whatever might come from the cloaky, chances are you will lose the system regardless of cloaky being involved or of more traditional ways."
"so then about 85% have to leave the nosec because they all have not enough player to be online 24/7 and protect again incomming cloakys.. and remember some gangs fly with 20 people around and leave a cloaked behind...how u deal with this ? engage the 20 men with your 15 online people..it is a failing of the cloaking mechanics, how u deal with a cloaked ship ?there is now way for u to deal with it... until he attackes u... but he will not attack u when 20 other player online...the \"remove local\" or \"dealwith it or not blabla\" is all bullshit..a cloaky is a permanent threat for u and your member, u never know when he is really playing or trying to find u in a site or something else.there is no other \"tactic\" or something else that is a permant threat, every tactic has a counter tactic but afk-cloaky-bring-a-system-down-engange-when-nobody-else-is-online has no countertactic...so there has to be a way to engange him, because of a space disruption after a long time, or to prevent him from perma cloaking with fuel...where is the problem with this ideas? this kills just the overpowered afk-permathreat nothing more...all other tactics and uses of a cloaked ship will work as the do atm...or are u afraid that u don't get any kills in the future ? ; i think so..."
"having killed ships drop all the loot instead of destroying part of it will have uninteded consiquences. in eve, every item/module has a descent chance of being destroyed in one way or another. that's what keeps them valuable. making it more likely for modules to drop makes modules in general less valuable. if not because of a reduction in demand, but because of an increase in supply. i don't know what the long term affects would be, but ccp needs to keep them in mind if they make a change like that.if you want people to go to low sec to make money, then you need to make enough money available there where low sec profit isk income - ships lost is greater than high sec profit. that number needs to be sufficiently higher such that the increase in cost after the pirates start building up to kill them, does not push the low sec profit below high sec again.this all has to factor in the extra time required to be safe in low sec, the effort of getting fleets together to watch your back, or to give an extra share to your scout. all of those come together such that low sec would require a several times increase in the payout from available income missions, bounties, mining, anomolies/signatures etc before it became valuable."
"i have been going over these numbers a lot lately, and yes that's basically it.as you live in progressively more dangerous space you should make progressively more profit per hour. or rather it should take you less time to grind up enough cash to get what you want.so if you were to say, \"i am going to go ratting until i get enough to buy a drake\" it should take longer in highsec than lowsec, and longer in lowsec than in nullsec.now as far as risk goes you always need to get more out of where you live than what you put into it. so if you buy a 100 mil battleship or mining barge or whatever, it needs to make you a little more than 100 mil back before it explodes.i honestly think poco based sov is a good idea"
"you don't rat in high sec...you run missions.rat bounties are a waste of time.your logic is a little bit flawed....but we get the point...low sec should be more profitable.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"here we go another list of stuff to annoy people.npc corporation taxes to 75%the new fix to supers, make them valuable to electronic warfare.remove moon mining from the game.put all moon goo in beltsmake a new 'exhumer' to mine the goo, give it no tank. and ****** align time move all incursions to nullsec."
"brand new microtransactions.gold ammo which does 2x the damage of normal ammo 10000 shots of these for $1. want to skill up more quickly? you can now train 100% faster with an additional charge of $4.99 a month.more gamebreaking stuff for more money.its all in the game, well most of it."
"was recently made aware of this in another topic:"
