"where do i insert my isk, i keep throwing it at the lock but the door to bouncy boobies doesn't seem to open"
"there were only 2 barriers to early acceptance of the dangers of low sec (for me):1. the cost of implants when i was inevitably podded.2. the inaccessibility of jump clones.it took a while to learn how to avoid being podded there (and i still have real life limiting issues regarding escape but that's just me). i'd still prefer a jump clone.last time i looked they were awfully hard to get. the barriers were just too high to be worth it. it took a long time to look again. i haven't tried it yet but it appears to be much easier now.information dissemination is just hard to come by once you've read thru the basics...back when the basics just didn't tell you all you needed to know. :)~~bye!"
"1.0"
"unfortunately, on topic and relevant questions regarding this proposal have been ignored and evaded, no coherent argument has been put forward to justify it's introduction on either a practical or moral basis and so the entire thread looks more and more like a poorly planned and executed attempt to troll members of the new order.unlike the members of the new order of highsec, who seek to educate players on the workings of eve and to bring joy and involvement to many, this proposal seeks to keep people ignorant and to disadvantage new players.as has been clearly shown, with no cogent opposition being put forward against intelligent arguments from the many contributors to this thread, proponents of the suggested amendment are simply seeking to muzzle free speech within the game. i can only guess that this is for some purpose that suits their own agenda as it has been clearly shown that there will be no benefit accruing to other players from such a proposal."
"this here is the assembly hall and you seem to be new here on these forums. only serious discussions are allowed in the assembly hall. please see the sticky to this forum section for what this means.i will not engage in ranting or trolling, including non-constructive \"chicken vs. egg and who was first\"-spirals. please make your forum experiences in general discussion, features & ideas discussion, crime & punishment and other sections first.i will only ignore you and ask the moderation to delete off topic posts."
"i am locking this topic as the discussion from all parties involved has broken down, with no one contributing to a reasonable or intelligent discussion any more."
"i have been on and off eve four the last 3-4 years. i have seen huge empires come and go like cheap hookers. it may not seem like it now, but one day the big players in null sec now won't even exist one day. what will be left of each is handful of good friends who sit and talk about the glory days when they had an empire."
"just thought this proposal could use another viewing, hopefully by some csm members.dmc"
"bump"
"it really is broken in a lot of ways. granted, drones were kind of mind numbing dps in a lot of ways but aren't all weapon systems kinda like that? drones should take a small portion of my concentration, not constant staring and being afraid to blink (because if i do 5 million isk can be gone by the time my eyelids come back up).i think that we certainly should be fielding the correct drones for the correct situation but the solution to that problem was not to make them evaporate when you aren't paying attention.i'd also like to point out for some of the above posters and a lot of the forum trolls that just because *one* certain drone is viable 33.2 seconds into a fight if you're an armor tank on a friday in caldari space with 47.3% capacitor remaining doesn't mean drones are balanced. it means they have a ridiculously tiny niche and that's not what drones are there for.there's no reason for me to be able to let my drones out to 65 km when i can rest easy at night knowing that even if i recalled them as soon as they got there, not a single one would make it back to my bay. either take away my drone link aug or make it useful, please.small drones are vastly too squishy for the amount of aggro they generate and are overpriced.medium drones do proportionally bad damage, are *still* squishy, are overpriced, and are probably all dead by the time you notice they've been aggro'd and try to recall them.the real people who are hurting are the big ships that *aren't* drone boats but rely absolutely on said drones to take out the frigates that are endangering their ship. i ran into a situation in my raven in worlds collide (with the bug where the entire room aggro's) where if i pull out my drones they're instapopped, but if i don't i'm going to be warp scrambled into next month and i'm going to lose my ship. this very situation shows just how broken drones are in this regard players in big ships and *especially* missile boats rely absolutely on those light drones to keep the frigates off of us, but when their damage is mediocre and they're killed instantly there's not much we can do but watch our ship get torn up by frigates and hope they all get bored of warp scrambling at the same time.that said, i wouldn't mention all these problems without taking a stab at some solutions:make correctly sized drones meaningful by changing their damage rather than their durability. e.g. make sure light drones excel at frigates, but anything bigger than a bc and you won't notice the effect. the same for each other type of drone. that way it still stops people from afk'ing missions (a heavy could never take out a frigate, a light could never take out a bs) and it would also make drone use more engaging for drones boats (they'd need to pay attention and swap drones).as mentioned above, lock on times for npc's targeting drones needs some fiddling. additionally i think we would profit greatly from a little red aggression icon next to our drones that showed us when they were being target locked. it seems like a fairly simple thing to add and a pretty understandable request.aggression really does need some kind of change as well. i'd suggest having one or two boats per group that target drones of their size and the rest ignore them. as stated in ccp's blog post on the new ai, their ai is in templates so this wouldn't require a redesign or anything; just a new template.drones need to slowly repair inside your ship. it just needs to be that way. not quickly enough that you can just swap them in and out mid battle and never have to worry about it, but quickly enough that they're at full health between missions.this is my first post on the eve forums and i apologize for the giant wall of text. i only post because i feel that this really needs a change (and hopefully before i lose my raven because i've lost 15 hobgoblin ii's trying to kill the frigates warp scrambling me)."
"okay, i know a lot of people are quick to react to such blasphemy but i would ask that you give my ideas a chance to prove themselves valid. i strongly feel some work could be done to increase the enjoyment of the limited single player experience in eve. keep in mind this is not to suggest any changes to security and is not a plea for making anyone safer or restricting any currently allowed actions in eve. also when i say single player what i really mean is \"single player accessible\" as these suggestions should be available for groups of all sizes but remain capable for single players should they so chose. many of us begin the game alone, figuring out the mechanics and systems in which to work on and towards in our career is in some cases easier with friends but i think the option of being able to explore all of these elements on our own to a point of fully understanding them makes sense. a lot of players don't stay forever but come back frequently (like myself) to new updates, expansions and systems which need to be understood. also a way to utilize our well above starting skills to regain some isk and get back on the board with all the new stuff would really help us get back in the swing of things. let's not forget that in eve joining corps is not a menial and immediate process and it requires quite a bit of time spent building and rehashing old relationships and proving ones intentions and credibility. that period alone is enough to have allowed my interests to sway onto a game i can play and still feel productive in. pve has always been confusing for me in eve especially to someone who hasn't always played pve. it would be great to have some sort of campaign with achievable goals that are kept track of. story arcs have always been hard to find for me. i can't see the harm in adding multiple new story arcs with each expansion that explain, apply, require and reward with all the new elements and systems of that particular expansion. it would all work as a hands on way to catch up in knowledge and experience as well as acquire some of the new physical elements and isk so we can reintegrate back into the amazing world of eve. you could make comparisons to the dungeon progression systems of many mmo's. exploration, industry, mining and trading also deserve their own subsets of a single player accessible pve experience besides the tired mission system that rarely captures the spirit of what motivates that type of player. i'm not making the case that one should be able to play this content for years but beyond tutorials there should be a way to concentrate on these career paths to gain knowledge, experience and assets before trying to demonstrate your value to a prospective corp without having any idea of what you want to do or are capable of. a fully integrated tutorial system for all of these paths is paramount to their success although there needs to be more content to allow someone to continue past the lessons and on to gaining experience and assets. some higher level content or even varied degrees of difficulty to allow access at various points in a pilots lifetime within eve would be a plus. people want to try new things, sometimes after years of playing and this would be a great tool for that. i think in allowing solo players to become accustom with the world of eve and all it has to offer will only result in encouraging them to find other like minded pilots and exploring the extreme potential of the activities they've found rewarding. if some chose to continue solo they will surely see they are inhibited in the potential of their game but to each is own, many i'm sure will see the proven logic in joining the social communities to achieve greater goals. single player experiences should never be the aim of any development for eve but it shouldn't be overlooked, ignored or neglected. i believe a reworked emphasis on a limited single player experience has the power to open the world up to many mmo players that are so used to being pointed in one direction so that they might find a way to follow their own here in eve. not to mention give a leg up to us old guys coming back and trying to find a new way to live in the old world of eve."
"i think the main problem with this idea is, that it gets old real fast. what i mean is, that it literally can become obsolete/wrong withing 6 months. this means it's going to be a constant drain on development resources, but it doesn't give much value for that effort. the current tutorials cover all the basics admirably at this point and are redone and tweaked in on a regular basis. after that you can solo much of the available content just fine.i think you're overstating the difficulties of getting to the new content too. when new content is introduced all you need to do is just try it. you don't need a pve campaign to tell you about it in every little detail, give new equipment and loads of isk to cater to returning players. it can even be counter productive, since giving that stuff out for free bypasses the gameplay mechanics, that offer gameplay for other players or are part of balancing mechanic for the equipment. instead you just need to play the feature for 15 minutes to get the basics down and that's it. new equipment requires a few minutes to train to level 1 and isk you've made previously hasn't mysteriously disappeared from your wallet. aquiring them is something every solo player is easily capable of.i do think it wouldn't hurt to ease the transition from the strict guidance of the tutorials to no guidance that comes after they end. i'm just not sure what would be a good way of achieving that goal in a way, that it does its job, but doesn't drain too many resources away from actual game improvements and content."
"sure lets also nerf them to do the same as 1 small smartbomb and reduce their explosion radius to 3km."
"come on guys, keep with the support and maybe people will listen!i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"learn more grid-fu. it is possible to make a grid that exists in 2 places, with a section between them that is not on grid. warp your booster to the pocket once the enemy has commited, and hide defense ships in the off-grid section between."
"what about corp diplomats? not a valid form of gameplay?creating video and picture advertisements to promote ones corp not a valid form of gameplay either?what about corp meetings and strategies that take place in 3rd party forums and comms? also not a valid form of gameplay?spying isn't valid either?out of game negotiations aren't valid either?neither is awox'ing?your very narrow definition of \"valid\" gameplay excludes some of the most vital functions of the game. most of the biggest game breaking/making events in eve happened in the meta.summary of eves last four expansions:"
"lowsec should not be safer it should be better. to dig up ideas yet again: lowsec expansion - outlaw"
"bunch of hotshot kids zooming around in souped-up rocket ships, hollerin' and hootin' at all hours of the night? no thank you."
"finishing the empyrean age, i liked how otro had a guristas tattoo on his face. why not make it so you unlock a tattoo when you reach a certain standing with a faction? guristas, serpentis, maybe even ore or sansha's tattoo. i think it would be neat for roleplayers, and content for the sake of content."
"i would love to be able to set up contracts based on +10 standing.this is because i'm in a coalition and alliance ones don't quite cover me."
"a thought occurred to me the other day while perusing the various public chat channels, which are as we all know havens of insightful discussion and factual discourse. i would greatly enjoy the ability to remove a person's chat from my channel in a retroactive manner. i'm aware i can block the person, but i'm talking about what happens when you mark someone for isk spam. all of their previous messages are just whisked away.now obviously i don't want to abuse the isk spammer button, that would be horrid. at the same time this feature seems to be fully included and functional already. all we need now is a new button (\"block and expunge\") that preforms the same clearing that report for isk spam does, minus the reporting.i hope this thought finds the rest of the forum goers well, and look forward to the possibility that this simple and convenient feature be examined more fully. thanks for your time.tl:drnew right click button (\"block and expunge\").removes prior chat messages ala report isk spammer.does not submit a report.cake for everyone."
"shameless bump"
"bears need bouncing moobs as well."
"shameless bump. let's add sub-folders for bookmarks."
"does not follow. it is equally likely that the current skill system is actually helping to retain players because, even though they are not currently interested, they still log in to work their skill queue - and might get swept up at any time into doing something fun as they do. adding a skill grind might create more of a feeling of \"blah, i'm not making any progress anyways *unsubscribe*.\""
"so pirates who are equipped to catch fast aligning frigates can not catch and destroy a stealth bomber with a destroyer etc? as for podding every indy that comes through the gate you might have to wait some time for it to appear which along with it being a potentially insta warp one [and/or having low value loot], bombers having fairly low ehp, bombs having a large volume along with the distance bombs have to travel could make gate camping with bombers alone be a waste of gate camping time. they would probably be better off used to destroy gatecamps."
"people bombing station undocks.instant negative 10 standing.it's a 0.0 mechanic same as sov holding, station ownership, etc."
"there's nothing inherently wrong with lowsec. the only problem it really has is its reputation, and most of that reputation it gains because of newbies jumping into gate camps on their first time out that require a bunch of player skills to deal with that they have never been exposed to.put some pseudo-gatecamps in missions, maybe even a career agent mission, teach a bit about how to read the dang starmap and people will not die on entry enough that they might start going there more."
"what game are you lot playing? manually piloting ships in eve? this is a point and click game with very little control over actually piloting your ship unfortunately.a better suggestion might be for the player to be able to fully control the ship with \"wasdx\" style controls, the system we have now is from a time when the internet could not cope with that many inputs, time has passed and servers can cope with things like thousands of players piloting ships."
"hay guys i realy need you to adress a new problem in new eaden. ok i been in a lot of trade hubs over the last copple weeks and all i see is bots spaming gambling sites well first its aganits the game rules to use a bot second its realy anoying have to block them and not been able to report them. so i am asking you guys if you could some disable them for local and with option to view like in ever quest 2 or second bring it to ccp attation to start baning acounts that are used for boting once againg. it is given plaers a unfier atvange to say win a 8 bil ship when the main goal of the game it to have fun making it your self. thanks for your time over and out."
"you can report them for spamming local, iirc"
"while i'm not totally sold on the 'rewards for grinding' type of gameplay some moos have...i do like this idea!+1jint hikaru - miner / salvager / explorer / spacebum in the beginning the universe was created. this has made a lot of people very angry and been widely regarded as a bad move."
"sure, stick it in the lp store."
"i should probably expand shouldn't i?lets suppose you live in an area of space that's inhabited by your enemy (high, low, npc 0.0) and you want to setup trades to members of your group through contracts (so you can sell fully fitted ships etc) but you don't want your enemy to be able to buy these cheap\fairly priced goods.if you're in a corp, awesome, corp contracts, done.if you're in an alliance, awesome, alliance contracts, done.if you're in a coalition... oh.if you pay some mercs to move in to your area for a while... yeah.or if you're have people that op-in to fight with you from time to time... ah.or any other situation where the people you want to fight with aren't in your alliance\corpthe market doesn't and shouldn't support limiting who can buy your wears as it's the open market but contracts, contracts are different and i firmly believe there should be a \"by standing\" option when putting up contracts.on top of that, i'd love another skill to let me put up more contracts but that's a whole other thing.this just strikes me as one of them low hanging fruits things."
"-insert shameless plug here-seriously, just think of the tears if one of these with 3 bhaalgorns in it exploded.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"yes ccp, please bring the jukebox back!"
"let the boobies bounce!i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"i only read the topic. i fully support anything having to do with bouncing boobies."
"there are plenty of goals that a new player can achieve straight out of the box, with very few sps. you don't have to be a subscriber for 3 months before you can start playing the game. players that can dedicate more hours of game-play are rewarded with isk, which could potentially make the game pay for itself. i think that's a pretty good incentive for new players to spend time playing the game, versus time offline while skills train. i doubt the folks at ccp would consider changing this.it wouldn't exactly be fair to all the players who already have the skills. and if you are a new player dreaming of flying a titan, i think the issue is a bit more complicated than simply having the correct set of skills in your character sheet.if i could make the skill training go faster by spending more time on the game, it would give me an advantage over most other players."
"the reason those games have far more subscribers than eve is because they appeal to a wider base - nothing more, nothing less. surprisingly, there are vast swaths of the population that just aren't into science-fiction in general and wouldn't find a game like eve appealing no matter what you changed.and it's not a better game model - just different. i think the fact that eve has had fairly steady success over the last ten years proves that the model works in the long term, which is far more important that attracting a million subs in your first three months (take a hard look at star trek online if you need more proof).i don't play games like wow because i think it's ridiculous that i have to bash on a rock for 20 hours to get better at bashing on rocks. i don't have that kind of time to put into a game. with eve, i can put time organizing and helping my corp mates without ever logging in, even when i'm not at home.it also does not follow that changing the skilling model would in any way impact the subscriber base. there are a lot of variables that go into making a successful game, and the skill system is just one of them. changing one may have no impact at all, except, perhaps, to make the game less attractive to the people that already like it. it's a far more substantial risk on ccps part than, for instance, incarna."
"simply put, an <U+FFFD>are you sure?<U+FFFD>-style window should be added to the <U+FFFD>undock<U+FFFD> button. this would be an extremely easy implementation and would, of course, have the check box to never be seen again (and resettable in the <U+FFFD>reset suppress message settings<U+FFFD> tab of the main menu).my reason for such a request: during wartime, i miss-clicked <U+FFFD>undock<U+FFFD> when trying to un-minimize a window in jita and was dead before the station even loaded in space. yes, i should have been more careful. nevertheless, such a window has great benefit at times, would produce no detrimental effect to anyone, and is extremely easy to implement into the game.(notice that i<U+FFFD>m not asking for some sort of undocking cloak or invulnerability <U+FFFD> just a simple window.)thoughts? - shu<U+FFFD>meyo"
"you know you can already stop your undock, right? just click abort."
"i think the message should say something like, \"by clicking this button, you consent to be the unwilling target of pvp actions.\""
"i don't really agree with this. i don't consent to be the target of involuntary pvp, it's just a fact of life in eve and people should get the hell over it already. if you can't stand being shot at, what are you doing there in the first place?as for the 'are you sure' button, no. unless there's a checkbox that says 'never show this box again', because i'm not going click again to undock. i've clicked 'undock', because that's what i wanted to do. also, there's this nice, shiny 'cancel' button, and you have plenty of time to click it.it's eve, people. it's the game of consequences. pay attention. the price of not paying attention is your ship and/or pod going poof, if that does not give you pause to pay attention to where you are: situational awareness as it were, then really, you've got nobody else to blame.please don't ask for another helmet so that you wouldn't bang your head against the bulkhead.pay attention.and i'm certainly not saying this to be smug, because i've had my ass kicked more than once through inattention. losing the ship is the price of the lesson. this is eve. she does not come and sit at your bed side and say \"pilot, what you did just then was silly and a mistake, and you should not do that. bad people will come and they will try and hurt you. it's sad, but some people do that, maybe it was something in their upbringing. father drank, mother ate, who knows what went on there. so please, click the shiny button here, wait until the angels sing that everything is safe and then fly away while the rest of the station lovingly waves goodbye.\" that's not how she rolls. \"pilot! you messed up. time to pay the price. a new ship type is n amount of isk on the local market. people will sell you just as many as you need until you learn not to mess up anymore. you're welcome, idiot!\"shut up and take the medicine."
"1) i specified above that the window should contain the same \"never show me this again\" option as all the others presently in the game.2) the obvious implication of your argument is the removal of all <U+FFFD>are you sure?<U+FFFD> windows. i<U+FFFD>m sure there are those that appreciate the ones currently present. i simply request one more.abort button notwithstanding, i believe this additional <U+FFFD>are you sure?<U+FFFD> window to be more beneficial than harmful."
"that statement is a bit contradictory. if it's a fact of life in eve, but you don't consent to it, that means you don't consent to playing eve. undocking is consent to pvp. some people just don't realize that. a little message that reminds them might help them enjoy the game a bit more."
"not supported1. low sec would be popular if so-called pirates would stop wasting time griefing people who are only here for pve all the time2. moved out to null sec. took the shortest path possible, half of it through low sec, and didn't encounter a single pirate. not even a small gate camp. hell nothing even showed up on d-scan.put short the problem doesn't lay with mechanics in lays with the players. same with null. both have turned into an eve version of barney just about."
"low-sec is the zoo. many empty systems there.this is not a problem of game mechanics, this is a problem of players. they don't understand how it works so they make it this mystical monster. it's true that low-sec pirates make it a problem to be there, but it's more than that. you need to learn how to work in that environment.i'm fine with increasing the rewards of running the risk of working in low-sec, but to make it safer... we really need to stop asking to make it safer.eve does not need to be safer. pilots need to become better, that's all there is to it. put in the effort, reap the rewards.i'm having a real problem understanding how people could be so risk averse that they would never want to run any risk of a permanent loss because... it would take away the enjoyment of their game? really?just get better. see what new eden has to offer. learn how to turn it into a profit, and get some good laughs out of it to boot.if you can't accept a little risk... is eve online really the place you want to be?"
"i suggest remake this tool in some way in order it won't be so easy to access to that important piece of the char info activity. maybe, improving an option to able/disable this feature on your toon. to be hidden is sometimes very important as a tactic and if u can't use it you are under a great disadvantage. i know u can use the strategy of be online all the time, but sometimes (capital ships in troubles ) that's not possible. and on the other side, when you want to hunt anyone, there is always other options like spyes, alts and so on. thanks and cya."
"+1 good idea"
"the whole reason i even bothered to train an orca in the first place was to move my own ships around without having to constantly buy new rigs. part of the reason i stopped flying battleships is because they wouldn't fit into an orca.furthermore, it seems that in the deep dark reaches of null there are logistics corporations whose sole function is to supply their respective alliances/coalitions with fully-fitted, doctrine-complaint, ready-to-go ships brought to wherever the front lines are. something like this, perhaps, might be beneficial to those efforts.anyway, a ship like this is very relevant to my interests and so i'll definitely give it a +1."
"thank you for your support, and i hope to see this as a reality. this would not just change things for null alliances, it would change the face of true logistics in new eden. and anyone that knows me knows that i will not let this idea go away quietly into the night. i am going to avidly push for the development of such a vessel until either it becomes a reality, or ccp tells me to shut the **** up. with that in mind, let's keep pushing to expand our sandbox into something even greater than it already is.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"easy update... do it.hrolt ceo live free; die proud"
"the current system has both benefits and drawbacks for new players. it rather is about playing styles then character age.with the current system the advantage of a 24/7 power gamer over someone else is quite limited. the advantage is mainly a monetary and experience (player, not char) one. but the more 'casual' player can still bide his time and use his chances.there are many games out there that prefer the grinder over the one who uses what he has to best effect eve beeing different here does have some appeal to me."
"did i derail this thread? i would have thought people would be replying."
"i've lost a few drones since the change, its not so easy any more, not sure if its broken though, but certainly more difficult.i don't see the point in making pve more difficult, pve needs to be made more like pvp, smarter ai, less is more"
"another solution: put a rock scanner on your barge. use it from time to time and know how to read it. have some vague clue of how much yield you pull per laser cycle. stop your laser manually once the cycle has run long enough to finish off the asteroid in question. by doing this, you still gain the minerals you've extracted so far and the depleted rock vanishes. on the rare occasions when i do mine, this is exactly what i do and it works very well.also, don't use all your mining lasers on the same asteroid."
"while the people above me did give good examples of how to work around the issue. they need to fix the issue, instead of having people work around it.it's small things like this that really display how clunky eve is.it's almost as if when a ship was destroyed, your computer still had it locked, and you continued shooting rounds at its wreck until you ran out of ammo. only less important cause it's mining."
"liked being able to to add my own tracks. small gang pvp to pantera's vulgar display of power was -da ****- and now it's gone. oh sure, i could alt-tab away to some other means to play it, but that's when something juicy comes through the gate and i'm three seconds behind...at the least i miss a spot on the killmail, at the most i'm halfway to blown up.this is like pulling abc sites from w-space. nobody shoots at a statue or anything, you just change it because ???.don't you have enough real work to do without messing with the sweet, sweet minutiae? what did the jukebox ever do to you?a bit of advice for ccp.sleeping dogs. leave 'em lie."
"no. this was in eve early on and it was abused. if it is possible, then people will automate it and abuse it.if you add a system that means you gain sp from an action, it becomes a grind mechanic. as it stand right now, the skill system is fair and open to all. with the removal of learning skills and the inclusion of attribute remaps, we now train far faster then ever. (yes i'm aware of the slight drop, but this only affected those with 5/5 learning)your idea will punish those without extra free time and reward those with. any mechanic like this doesn't solve any problem, but creates many.eve is a non-grinding, no-level, class-less, passive-ability, real-time progression game, so you shouldn't be able to train things faster no matter what repetition you do. if faster speeds are your thing, buy implants.destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"you can jump in an uberbattleship in exactly the same amount of time as it took me (or any other vet player). probably quite a bit faster as i started out in an industrial corp learning those skills. i dont understad why you have such a problem with this.jint hikaru - miner / salvager / explorer / spacebum in the beginning the universe was created. this has made a lot of people very angry and been widely regarded as a bad move."
"mining actually requires a decent amount of player activity to get the most out of it. i fill up an orca in roughly 2 hours.... by myself? how? well a couple ml ii upgrades, crystals, and a survey scanner. i know roughly what each 1/4 cycle gets me, and usaully break in down like that. i would say at my best i am 80-85% efficient. an afk miner is lucky to get 30."
"reduce the ice in highsec by a lot, and dump it in low/nullmake ice be consumed the same way regular asteroids areyou wont see someone with a hundred man alt army if the above is done"
"this isnt even slightly viable in normal situations, he has 5 computers and takes hours to set this up, maybe you want to say, i dunno, get your eve on, wardec the ****** and pop him a few times? just ******* maybe? its free money, i would if i could afford the wardec, this is like the ******* biggest pile of cash ever, its blocks of isk in space, shoot it already, stop whining over the most emergent gameplay and shoot it already"
"not seeing a problem tbh.as has been said already, wardec him if you have issues with it.destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"ice isn't even worth mining. the profit per hour is lower than kernite, and veldspar looks like gold compared to kernite."
"i see no issue with this.... and if you do... then do something about it...suicide gank his ships.... wardec him.... go mine a different type of ice.... whatever...."
"the mission is to locate and eliminate x ships within a period of time.the npcs are:..locatable with locator agentslocatable with dscan (ship names provided in mission description) probeable. (sig id provided in mission description).they will avoid being destroyed, level of difficulty is based on agent level.the npcs will use some of the tactics players use including\:..warping out to other celestials on player warping to location, requiring use of the dscanwarping to safe spots, requiring the player combat probe them outplaying station games, requiring organized alpha or bumpingusing gates, jumping and reapproaching and jumping or warping off based on aggression timers.npcs will escalate and deescalate their tactics based on level of interaction, take on a cruiser in a belt with a kiting frig and take too long, it will start jumping to celestials, then perhaps dockup and warp to random sites, then start docking up and insta undocking giving you a chance to probe it down. to the point where it will bounce between safe spots making it almost impossible to get that rat till it starts deescalating its behavior.officer rats warp off, so code is already there to an extent, it would take some time and effort to write the ai to provide this type of mission, but i believe it would make peoples transition from non-pvp to pvp less problematic if they at least have some skills developed via a npc mechanic like this.it would all make for a fun mission that individuals and small groups could do and there are a few variables in there that could be tweaked either way to prevent excessive farmingnpc don't post km, and they don't pod you - public presentations of your 'stupid deaths' is something to be avoided, so having a mission system that teaches these elements of pvp style play will relieve the would be teacher of the player once they decide to get into pvp."
"a few things come to mind. first, this idea goes way too far. replicating exact player behavior for a large number of pvp scenarios isn't what pve developers should waste their time with. teaching pvp is all fine and dandy, but the best way to learn it is to go out and pvp. it's development cost free, does the job better and allows pve devs to focus on actual pve content. in the end pvp is about dealing with other individual people. fighting npcs is never going to fully prepare you for it.second, why are you worried about excessive farming in a set pvp tutorial missions? are you suggesting some heavy rewards for a system that is primarily meant for training? players aren't supposed to do them as a profession. the point is to do them until you get the basics, then get out and pvp. there is no need to give incentives for people to keep grinding them, so give them below normal missioning income potential or no income at all. third, it seems like you're just afraid to pay the learning fees of actual pvp. i'm not talking about just the isk cost, but the reality of having to repeatedly lose to other people in a competition. your pvp learning missions aren't going to change this no matter how many of them you do. actual players aren't in it to teach you and offer a predictable challenging encounter. they're in it to win at all costs. they will post kms and pod you. they will laugh at you mistakes and tease you about them. it's just part of the game and you're going to have to grow a bit thicker skin, if you ever hope to get into pvp. fourth, tactics change. replicating the commonly used tactics of the current game will only be useful for so long. many tactics that ruled the battlefield of the past are bad or impossible today. i question the rationality of trying to replicate them with a npc mechanic, that is a poor imitation of the real deal and will be a constant drain for dev resources. it will also teach bad habits, that won't work in actual pvp or you don't want to teach to people. is station camping basics really something you want to show and teach to everyone? when you create a tutorial for it, you're showing people it's the way the game is meant to be played no matter your intentions. i'm not saying there is anything wrong with the tactic, but i'm saying it's lame enough, that you don't want to give hand holding guides on how to engage in it."
"in truth, a pvp training mission should be very easy to do.two parts. first part, you warp in, use a gate (restricting ship classes), and have to quickly tackle a target to prevent it warping away. have it try to run from you, and generally require a scram/web to stop it from getting away. --- allow the mission to be repeated indefinitely (although giving no standings boosts and very little reward). --- to complete, successfully tackle and destroy the target, loot it (for a gate key), and return to the agent to complete the mission --- require 50+ dps to break the tank of the main ship second part, you warp in, use a gate (which requires & consumes the gate key from the first part, and restricting ship class to t1 frigates only). you land in the midst of 20 npc drone frigates (with crap 5k bounties, no loot, and crap salvage). they scram and web you and gank you. --- when your ship dies your agent convo's you to explain it must have been a trap, like most pvp in eve. it then completes the mission and pays you a solid reward (5-10m isk). when the mission complete trigger is finished, there are no new spawns --- to prevent you from escaping after you warp in, each rats get 90+% long-range webs and have long range scrams --- to prevent you from blowing them all up, every time you destroy one of the original frigates, 100 additional npc drone frigates spawn, with the same name, and attack --- if perchance you attempt to farm it. 100 npc frigates giving 5k in bounties is only 500k isk. if you somehow manage to kill every ship, you would only earn 2000 npc x 5k == 10m isk in bounties crap salvage (ideally no salvage), and no loot. it wouldn't be worth your time to farm it --- it would be a \"challenge\" type mission and people might bring in fleets to take it down. let them they don't earn much isk doing it, and requires some effort on their part to ascertain all the gate keyes. not to mention things can go wrong pretty quickly upon completing these missions they learn:a.) how to tackle a ship, and b.) to die then they are ready to start pvping as a newb in eve"
"i posted an idea long ago for b."
"who wants more stuff to fly and/or blow up?i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"mhm... and there is no akat mountains track..."
"cloakers keep the way they are, they are awesome.butthey are somewhat scannable. something like a \"disturbance in subspace frequencies \" or something will be scannable and can be warped to. but those things are rather something like a new grid (which will be made anyways when the cloaker is in his safe spot).the peeps going to those grids have another way now to really get close to the cloaker:-space depth chargesbasically bombs / charges that can be shot in general directions with a range of like 30k and will explode with a radios of like 750m, 1,5k or 3k (small / medium / large charges)so theres a way to get rid of afk cloakers. online cloak pilots will always be able to just warp away .. as the whole scanning process is still too slow to detect them they will always be one step ahead. but the afk cloaking stops, you have to actively search form them, maybe even work together to be more effective (one scans, a couple of others bomb, some others stay alert for sniping duties)"
"so... nerf cloaksok, wheres the nerf that brings local down to go along with it - since you can't nerf one side of the coin and not the otherand what about wormhole space?"
"would work the same way as it merely is an added feature to scanning plus a new module / charge.cloaking in and by itself is not touched in any way. you can still hide away.. but have to be active. not just log in, and go ut with your friends and expect to still be there when you get home drunk."
"so on top of the instant, infallible local intel you also want the ability to find and kill cloaked ships.sorry no, that's imbalanced. and it utterly destroys wormhole space mechanics.highsec is that way bro --->"
"i dont know what game you are playing and what you are reading: i want a cloakign mechanic that requires cloaky pilots to be actively at their machines palying the game. i disdain any afk activity that has direct or indirect effect on the game and / or activities of other players."
"1.) we don't need your depth charges when we have smart bombs with bigger explosion radius's,and even stealth bomber boms with a 15 km explosion radius... 2.) while i agree that a specialty set of probes with long scan cycles (60s) and would probably be optimal for scanning down a cloaked vessel in a manner that doesn't disrupt their primary role, you completely missed the point of gunslinger42's post...a.) if you can scan down cloaked ships, you can basically purge a wh of hostiles.... or at least purge the system of online and active hostiles, which breaks one of the fundamental principles of a wh.... in a wh you never know you are alone... so there is an ever-present danger. with your suggestion, a pilot can always just scan a wh and determine if any \"unknown players\" are in system... you might as well add a local count to the delayed chat window if your going to implement this!!! b.) local chat is an infallible, omniscient intel tool that instantly provides you with information on everyone in system... this near perfect intel allows you to determine how safe a nullsec system is by identifying potentially hostile pilots in system.... with the ability to purge those pilots (even if they are cloaked) from a system, we end up with 100% safe nullsec systems... this might sound like a wet-dream to the average nullbear, but it is not how nullsec should function... living in nullsec is not about removing all dangers from your system, it's about adapting to the dangers and living with them... people wouldn't use afk cloaky alts parked in your system all day if the intel system was nerfed enough to allow a roaming gang to actually catch more than afk pilots... afk cloakers are the only means by which to undermine \"local as an intel tool\", yet you currently have many options to deal with afk cloakers, if: -- you didn't tempt them with blingy targets...-- you adapted to them, and became difficult targets for the afk cloaker to attack...-- you adapted to them, and operated in a system without an afk cloaker..."
"whilst pilots are cloaked and afk, what mechanic are they using to interact with you? destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"oh look, its that time of the week for the \"wah afk cloakers\" thread."
"psychology.though i am not sure that counts as a game mechanic."
"i see it almost the same as afk mining but thats just me i guess. seems the big shots love it"
"also what i dont understand: i am not proposing a ever hit weapon and surefy way to kill cloakies. its not. its a way to find afk cloakers, thats all. active pilots can and will get away very easilyso you think players not actually sitting in front of their pc<U+FFFD>s but are something the game needs and that it should be a viable tactic ..props to thatwhy not make eve playable while surfing forums and posting..strange"
"you didn't answer the question.i'll clarify it.whilst they are cloaked and afk, what game mechanic are they using to interact with you?destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"no.... you misunderstand the intentions here.....we think there is a problem with local... and the workaround is to park an afk cloaker in a system so they are always present, thereby diminishing the value of the local intel and allowing for \"sneak attacks\" (of a form)... your idea is a tool to eliminate the work around without addressing the fundamental reason people are employing it..."
"see and thats why i though not about and i do understand and see your point. still, afk pilots are just apain in the arse and i dont like poeple \"playing a game\" being afk"
"many of the games core functions, operate whilst we are afk. but how someone chooses to play, is not your concern. they pay and play how they wish, as long as it's within the eula.this situation is about cause and effect. cloaks only show an effect.the fact you can cause the same psychological effects without a cloak, should tell you you're barking up the wrong tree.destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"can't say i agree, pvp is combat whereas pve is a way to grind isk like mining or trading. personally i found the ai changes just made missions even more tedious than they were before, rather than challenging.i did like the suggestion earlier in the thread, to remove the ai change but make drones manually controlled. before the ai change you had to manually control them a lot of the time or they had the habit of wandering off rather than targeting as a group, so just make all drone targeting manual and that also removes any issues of afk missioners."
"if you like this idea, please vote for it, clicking on the \"thumbs up\" icon, at the top right of this page.heya guys,to start off, this is my first topic on assembly hall and one of only a few times posting on the forums. but there comes a time where every person feels the need to speak up, and this is mine. i'm going to do my best to bring up factual and concrete points about missiles and propose solutions. i'm sure people will disagree with me over some of my points: that's fine. let's try to keep things civil, and work through this issue for the good of the game.the general point: i feel that missiles have become under-represented and much less effective than other weapons platforms in their current incarnation (with a focus mainly on medium to large weapons systems).first, let's take a look at what kind of representation we get from missile boats in different categories. i'm sure i'll miss a few, if i do please remind me of them and i'll add them.missions/wh's - on the whole, missile boats suffer the least in missions. the corax and caracal are both great at lower level missions. the drake (had) bridged the gap in the middle, but with the recent heavy missile nerfs and the upcoming changes in 1.1 (go read them if you haven't, i'll wait) it's taking another significant loss in every aspect except base dps (loss of 1 hardpoint is [somewhat] made up for by gain in kinetic damage bonus, although it does continue the painful trend of being locked into 1 damage type). while the drake's missioning days certainly aren't over, it's much less effective than it was. the tengu is a very sp-intensive boat, but it's another good one. then we have the raven (and it's variants) and the scorpion (and it's variants). the golem is arguably the best mission boat in the game, so we can say that overall missile boats are *decent* in missions (although at the higher end, killing smaller boats is painful and requires multitudes of target painters to pull off, especially after the recent npc ai changes causing drones to get popped consistently).sounds good so far, right? well, this is where it goes downhill.pvp - previously the drake was one of the biggest go-to ships in pvp. unfortunately after the heavy missile nerf and the upcoming massive round-the-board nerf coming in 1.1 it will likely no longer be. the gained mass and lost agility will see podla drakes being much less effective, and they're losing shield (and... well... everything else) on top of that. so the drake is out. that leaves essentially just the caracal. the caracal is a fine pvp boat, but it's not *that* great. and that essentially makes 1 viable pvp boat for missiles.incursions - well, 'nuff said here. okay fine: missile boats get laughed out of incursions. the tengu is somewhat viable in incursions but basically there's boats that can do anything the tengu can in incursions, but better. raven and scorpion variants are just bad, unfortunately. the flight time means sniping is out (even if you're timing really well or just plain dps'ing the tertiary targets). and for close range (torpedoes) missiles are on the low end of being competitive with the added bonus that we're vastly less effective against smaller ships than other platforms even if we have target painters crammed into every orifice of the ship.at the end of the day, where does this leave us? we have a few ships that are somewhat viable in each category, but we don't excel at anything. in many cases we're last choice.let's have a look at why, going through each of the missile types:heavy assault missiles - ham's are fairly decent right now at the low end. the range is bad, the ability to hit small targets is bad, but the damage is alright and because of the low-ish range the volley time isn't too much of an issue.heavy missiles - while heavy missile dps may appear to compare with other weapons platforms on the surface, it doesn't. between very slow missile travel time (meaning we lag on initial dps, and often fire extra volleys before ships are destroyed even with careful timing) and the recent range and damage nerfs there's no real reason to use heavy missiles anymore. take into account that one of our 3-ish viable medium missile platforms is shoehorned into always using kinetic and you have a fairly losing combination.cruise missiles - cruise missiles are where everything starts to fall apart. cruise dps is low, on all of our ships. we can almost get competitive enough to do the same paper dps as other snipers, but we all know it can't compare. in any given fleet op our dps is slow to come to bear, and we almost always lose a volley with our last shots. this means that on any given target, if we aren't going ahead of the normal kill order, we're losing 2 volleys. this is not only an expensive waste of resources, it's also 2 useless volleys closer to having to reload and a massive chunk of our paper dps gone. add to that our inability to hit small targets (even painted ones) effectively and cruise missiles are 6 feet under. at least a skilled pilot can maneuver his or her ship to hit small targets with other weapon types- we can't. i've seen it said before that \"at least you guys always hit\" but hitting for damage so slight it can be repped away by a frigate isn't really consolation in my opinion.torpedoes - for starters, there's essentially 1 ship that can fit torpedoes: the golem. it's a great ship... too bad it has to waste 2-3 midslots on target painters, huh? it's great damage is perfect for lvl 4 missions and nothing else in the game, which essentially means we have an entire weapon type that's used on 1 ship for 1 niche thing (not including covert ops, of course, on which it's essentially an entirely different weapon). so what do we do to fix it?proposed solutions in the next post:"
"one of the biggest problems is obviously the flight time of missiles- but that's also one of the most distinguishing features of missiles and i'd hate to lose that. if we take away the flight time, they become retextured hybrid turrets. so, proposed solutions:missile speed increases exponentially with it<U+FFFD>s flight time. this would have a big impact on the longer distance weapons especially. it would keep the feel of <U+FFFD>missile-ness<U+FFFD> intact by launching slowly, but reach longer targets much quicker. it<U+FFFD>s an especially elegant solution because the farther the target is away, the better of a buff it is. this would help long range missiles have a place in the world again, sniping. it should be possible to make the missile travel time out to ~45 km vary, and anything higher than that have the acceleration so fast it<U+FFFD>s nearly instantaneous. still looks like a missile, still feels like a missile, but doesn<U+FFFD>t suck like a missile. the added bonus to this solution is that it also doesn<U+FFFD>t devalue any other weapons platforms by buffing the missiles directly, it just brings them closer to the norm.ships gain better bonuses for missiles. first of all, damage specific bonuses need to go the way of the dinosaur. ccp keeps agreeing with me on this... and keeps delaying it on so many of their ships. they even recently added the corax, which has a kinetic bonus while at the same time making blog posts and talks about removing these types of bonuses. velocity bonuses could be increased, and to be brutally honest either the golems target painter bonus needs to be given to almost every medium or larger missile boat, or something needs to change internally with missile accuracy.missiles gain smaller explosion radii with more flight time. this could tie in with the missile speeds<U+FFFD> increase. this would not only make life much easier for us, it would make missiles feel more special and different. instead of just making us do crap for damage to any small boat, we could have an advantage by being farther off from them. this would allow small ships to <U+FFFD>get under our guns<U+FFFD> somewhat like they do on other ships, and force us to fit less target painters and rigs to hit said smaller ships. this is another elegant solution; this would have a much bigger impact on long range missiles than it would on torpedoes/rockets keeping <U+FFFD>unguided<U+FFFD> missiles better against larger ships and <U+FFFD>guided<U+FFFD> missiles better against smaller targets, but also giving a buff to both.lastly, and i know people don<U+FFFD>t want to hear this, missiles need a straight damage bonus in a lot of cases. because of the flight time and lost volleys of missiles, they should (in my opinion) be 10-20% more dps than comparable sized weapons. this sounds huge but it<U+FFFD>s something that<U+FFFD>s been missing for a long time. long range missiles should be closer to the 20% mark and short range closer to the 10% mark. this would push missiles to being likely the top platform for solo play (which is fine, someone has to be on top) and get us up to at least the viable mark in other situations. straight damage buffs are always hard to convince both ccp and the player base of, but honestly- it<U+FFFD>s time.apologies for the massive wall of text, please don<U+FFFD>t forget to post and +1 if you agree, and here<U+FFFD>s hoping i might see some of you guys in an incursion someday in a missile boat."
"supported +1, though i'm not so sure about buffing the dps by the level you are suggesting.there has always been a trade off between lower dps and flight time, but a guaranteed hit which should be maintained imv, however the last nerf went a bit too far and should be looked at again."
"rock scanner is a good/near perfect example of eve design imo.ie if you are solo and you bring it, you are losing a midslot from your tank for your yield optimisation. good eve design.if you have an orca then you can use it whenever you need info and then put the tank back - ie further benefit of having a gang foreman in the foreman ship with its refit in space capabiility. good eve design.if you wish to fly manually around not having it - i put it on the iteron alt thats hauling the cans, or i take a frigate through and derive a notion of how big i expect the average rock to be and just mine 1 cycle short of that average. might overrun a few times per belt, meh.again good design, because i can stupidly or intelligently work around it not being there."
"if he's not in npc corps i'd be surprised.nerf npc corps imo"
"in response to b, you learn how to die in the tutorial missions as is. there's a mission that has loss of your ship as a requirement.destination is right, the best way to learn is to fly out there and start losing ships left and right."
"only if you don't read the mission briefing (or look at the warnings in local).most newbies i've come across always assume the destruction of your ship in that particular mission to be a glitch or bug and not part of the mission itself.what is needed is a mission where losing your ship is clearly stated in the briefing and is more or less an actual \"goal.\""
"color the amarr gold, minnies rust brown, gallente green/blue (whatever that new aggression color is), and caldari light blue problem solved, and rainbows for everyone to boot!"
"an endless battle? er i don't think that a mission that can't be completed is a good idea. i don't want to be still fighting this endless battle in a hundred years."
"well, thanks for the bump even if your whole intention was to troll.anyway, that mission was a single engagement that's easily and quickly completed. however, the battle against the pirate factions is always on-going, thus making it endless.dmc"
"i ike the idea. one extra suggestion, instead of maing 4 factional version make one faction version available throguh interbus. all the best mining ships come from ore, why arent their any specialty ships from interbus?"
"because the interbus would absolutely not be involved with something utilized for warfare purposes (neither would ore for that matter) even in a logistical sense asthey aim to maintain their neutrality so they can continue to do business with all four empires. that is the primary reasoning behind the four racial faction variations. each race would develop one, and the others would step up to create competition.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"i put my isk in the jukebox and the whole thing disappeared . why cpp why!oh -the clonemanity!until you have a real physics engine so my spaceship does not float like a souped up camino and gravity in the game the only reason i log in is to look at the pretty colours and listen to the juke."
"listing to it on youtubemy lordy it was such a beautiful part of the game why dismiss itdismiss the characters swishy walks instead"
"needing a 3rd party app just to listen to eve soundtrack does not look like an improvement not even in the most favorable condition.and just in case ccp developers need a hint on how it is to play eve without a jukebox, mining in a system and listening the same 3 tracks for 40 minutes is not a favorable condition."
"any attempt to address cloaking as a mechanic must meet 3 pre-reqs:1) address the omnipotence of local as an intel tool, and the extreme advantages it gives to the defender.2) address stations and their perfect 24/7 protection for the defenders anytime #1 provides them with intel on hostiles3) in no way, shape, or form, ruins my wormholes. i mean it, you break our holes, well come after you, and you dont want a bunch of angry wormholers having a vendetta against your alliance, doesnt end well."
"ohh look another i suck at eve and want you to nerf something because i suck thread."
"i like these changes and it makes sense too, since a missile has an on board engine it'll keep accelerating which is something that always kinda bugged mealso these changes might make the nighthawk worth a damm again"
"nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerf nerfwhat all you nerf this nerf that people sound like. don't like how eve is leave. quit trying ruin the only ******* mmo i like"
"< drools >. < faps >.where is this person mining?"
"well not agal anymore. just keep an out for an unusual amount of active pilots in a dead end system with ice. or just keep an eye on agal. has to be a major pita to move that many ships."
"awsome result of emergent gameplay. thx for sharing. don't you know envy is a sin?oh btw, 100 of his accounts is worth the same to ccp as 100 of you."
"this thread now delivers, with added irony.destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"so i'm going to lay out a major problem that is happening around the warzone in fw. i know others have had similiar problems trying to catch ratters in combat sites, but please refrain from posting about it here as these two ideas are not the same.as it stands, one of the ways to acqure lp in fw is to run lvl 4 missions thoughout lowsc. for those of you who don't know, these missions spawn a beacon in space for everyone to see and anyone to warp to. an element of risk that justifies the rewards earned, but since the npc ai mechanics were changed that element of risk has become a joke. in fw, you're on a choosen side of the war fighting for your faction. in plexes, the faction rats on your side will help defend you (if we'll call that) and will not shoot you. working as intenedfast forward to mission sites. when you go into an enemy's mission site (meaning you're going into a room full of your own faction rats), they immediately begin to shoot you. working as intended.....i think not.what good does it do to provide mission runners a full room of rat aggro to protect them from wt's and neutrals? that is risk free lp making, a noton that i thought ccp was trying to curve. something has to be fixed here and fixed quickly. call me crazy, but i don't think your own faction rats should switch to you in mission sites,regardless of the new ai mechanics a safegurad needs to be set in place so that faction rats from your own fw faction do not shoot you in plexes and in missions."
"except they don't.rat ai aggros on ewar. point counts as ewar.problem: you have a point fitted, your dangerous opponent doesn't, therefore, rats aggro you.solution: don't fit a point. your dangerous opponent isn't, why are you?if both of you have points, rats aggro the guy who's been there shooting them longer. if both of you have no points, rats aggro the guy who's been there shooting them longer.if you have point and your dangerous opponent doesn't, he can't point you.you can't lose.oh wait, you were just looking for risk-free pvp. i have a better idea, why don't ccp just give you free km?"
"you'e missing the point in your trolling. this isn't everyday combat sites where i want a tasty km. i signed up for fw where i can freely shoot my wt's and i fight to defend my faction.by fighting for my faction, that implies i support them and they support me in teturn. it's a benefit to being in fw. it makes no sense for them shoot me. i hve signed up to help them and receive help."
"fw peeps are special and require special treatment. didn't you know?destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"bump"
"the most challenging part of the game is pvp, and you have won the fight before you have started, if the opponent is ignorant of the game mechanics. pves job is to teach game mechanics. pve should be a challenge. the better the ai, the better.i would like to see missions that emulate a large number of pvp scenarios, this is what i think pve should be all about..i'm not, i just added it so people wouldn't respond with some long winded argument about farming.no, but i dont see a problem with providing an 'against the computer' challenge for players of the game, if the time/fun ratios are right, they will be another choice for pve players.i wont quote you directly.you simply argue that, pvp tactics should only be taught by pvp.i think your whole argument revolves around pve being 'pve' and pvp being pvp and never the twain shall meet.why should 'against the computer' be a completely different to pvp in play style?i would like missions that let me experience these tactics in a pve scenario in highsec against rats which dont pod, dont loot your wreck and dont post km."
"on the fourth point i actually agree with destination skillqueue. computer ais are inherently predictable once you understand how they prioritize things. even the much vaunted sleeper/incursion ai is predictable.players on the other hand are fairly irrational and make choices based on what they think/feel they can pull off. and that sometimes requires you to play a \"meta game\" of sorts with cannot be coded into an npc.for example:you are in a cruiser looking for a fight but no one wants to fight you even though they are all in cruisers too. how do you remedy this? you can ship down into something that looks innocuous but can take on a ship lager than it like an incursus, breecher, merlin, punisher, etc.now people seem more interested in engaging you but they are still holding back. probably because you have a bunch of corpmates in system. this means you have to get most of your people to move away to another system for a small bit just to get the fight rolling. and you still have to contend with the threat that anyone who engages you might have support \"just in case.\" so you have to get your guys to hang around in another system, ready to jump in and warp to you. an ai can't teach you this kind of stuff no matter how advanced."
"reviving a thread i made several months ago to spark new conversation. this is something that desparately needs to be implemented.several years ago i heavily advocated for an ingame display of when time was less than 10 days. it was welcomed with open arms. ccp even took interest with one of their dev blogs for a winter release. however, we still do not have any visibility of when our game time will end when paying by cc, or any service other than plex. the plex status does nothing but give you words of encouragement that your account is in good standing, even though it's going to end in 10 minutes because you paid with a credit card and there are no funds on the card. when i pay with plex, i know 2 weeks in advance when my account will end.i hereby propose an ingame modification to show exactly when your game time will end, and the last method used. some of you will say 'wahh, use the account management site noob!' and i will kindly direct you to the door. this proposal is for the transparency of when your account will end, no matter where you decide to check on it.even if you use autopay your bills in real life, you still receive a statement of when it is due, each month."
"there already is a statement when your account expires, in account management and in the api. how much stupid proofing does your world need?"
"supported"
"that's like going online to view your cable statement because they refuse to mail it to you."
"no. it's going online to check your expiration date when you're already online.unless you're asking a paper statement of when your account expires to be mailed to you, in which case your analogy is correct and even more laughable."
"hey what can i say, some people really enjoy jumping through hoops to find out when their account is ending. personally, i don't want my account to end during something important.not to mention that, even using the ingame browser, you have to not only log in a 2nd time (you already logged in to the game), but you now also have to type out the name of your character, then navigate to find when your account ends.my proposal allows you to click the character sheet, click plex status, and see \"account valid until x date\". a method much easier and faster when you have multiple accounts."
"if the information is available and bridgeable by ccp into an in game display presented in the character sheet then why not present that information in game? why make it so that you need to log into another interface, entering the same login details again? to check out when your account expires, they have already done it to an extent, they need to finish the job.the whole point is, if it can be done, why not do it? arguing that its not broken because there is a method already is just being obstructionist to innovation."
"quick fix, use evemon it picks up when the account expires from the api"
"when you inject plex in game, it tells you the date when sub runs out in a popup window. there already is a plex tab, but for some reason it doesn't tell you how subscription time ending date. the notification is already in game, the plex tab is already in game, put the notification in the plex tab."
"after a 4-5 year hiatus from the game one of the first 5 things i looked for when i returned was the jukebox.being able to select your own song at will was one of the more unique aspects of the game in fact the music in this game helps to add to the immersion, the music is almost hypnotic in that it helps you forget you are in your chair in front of your computer and perhaps actually out there in space with your ship...(although it could be the cannabis helping as well)the music in this game really adds to the atmosphere in my opinion ...so perhaps instead of a mp3 player a play list that you can put on default game settings, but the player will always have the ability go to the play list and pick a song out that you want while in game, or a setting that just goes through the play list..personally i would keep that in game music player right at the bottom right of my screen, so i could see what song is playing (after all how else did we learn what songs we loved, now new players will never know) lower or increase the volume, this was helpful in those mission where this obnoxious loud music starts to play that is in total contrast to what you have been hearing prior to that. its all about player choice...devs can do their thing make it default, and allow us to choose if we wish...please add this back the jukebox and the music really stood out for me and did cross my mind when i was thinking about resubscribing"
"we've got likes, now, we just need updated numbers.hrolt ceo live free; die proud"
"for a long time fleet miners have needed a survey scanner that matches the mining range of their barges.as it is essential to have the scanner on the barge itself in order to mine efficiently by locking/unlocking on asteroids directly from the scanner, having the scan bonus on the capital ship is ineffectual.this is especially so now that hulks are purposed for fleet mining they're likely to always have an increased laser range. their laser range is 26km and the best scanner is 22 leaving a sizable hole proposal:a role bonus for hulks to boost survey scanner range-or-extend capital ship bonus to fleet members, perhaps as a leadership skill.-or-increase range of survey scanner ii-or-fleet shared survey scanner results (added per buzzy warstl)"
"or have an orca in fleet that does this for you."
"thank for for your reply. but please do read the thread before making a knee-jerk form reply.\"as it is essential to have the scanner on the barge itself in order to mine efficiently by locking/unlocking on asteroids directly from the scanner, having the scan bonus on the capital ship is ineffectual.\""
"a mixed bag here, but there are some definite wins i think, especially for long range missile types and the ships (like cruise ravens and cerbs) that are built around them.actually, it'd be a steady, linear increase as delta-v = a*delta-t. but, the concept behind this idea is sound, and even having velocity linearly increase with flight time would be a major help for controling the flight-time woes missile snipers currently face.maybe not \"better\", but the idea of deleting damage-type-specific bonuses could be workable long-term.you have the explosion radius mechanic backwards, unfortunately. increasing explosion radius actually decreases damage to small targets, and this would be such a major change to missile mechanics in any case that i doubt i could support it.unfortunately, i think that this last step would make missiles too overpowering, which would be quite aggravating for 0.0 fleet fights (missiles should not be a dominant weapon at that scale)."
"op is referring to fw missions, so -1. besides, this is very bad behavior from fw rats in general (think of it like being awoxed, and you'll get what i mean)."
"in other words, fw ppl are special, and thus exempt from rules the rest of us have to follow?"
"so your theory is that ccp gave all fw mission rats ship-scanners so that they attack pvp fitted ships exclusively?reason why it must be ship scanner: the second you enter grid you are locked and fired upon by the entire room .. no module activation, no movement, nothing .. greatest awox mechanic in eve history.question i need answered, since ccp has yet to fix what must be a massive bug, is whether people exploiting it will be punished or if they get the blind eye is customary for gm handling of fw petitions. what is to stop me (apart from my unwillingness to use alts) me from taking a mission and tanking the entire room with a \"hostile\" alt as npc literally stop aggressing the mission runner when a 'friendly' enters.thankfully it is of only minor import today as mission lp cannot hope to compete with regular fw plex farming lp, but still annoying that such an obvious bug/oversight has survived this long or even made it out of testing."
"your risk-free km farming is now no longer easy. such injustice. we are crying tears of blood for you.have you ever thought of fighting ships that has a point? but wait, that's dangerous, you can lose your boat..."
"precisely this."
"this.have the orca broadcast the asteroids for you."
"i did read it. as shah pointed out, it is not essential for a barge to have an ore scanner to mine effectively. the tools are already available in game to allow you to do this efficiently. hint: it requires teamwork."
"the entire premise of the thread is fleet mining with a capital ship. restating that a capital ship should be present when mining with a capital ship is a fairly clear indicator that you didn't read it and are trolling."
"but you aren't a miner, so you don't get it, and are just trolling.miners lock and unlock asteroids directly from the scan result window (not the overview) - where the status of each asteroid can bee seen.the capital ship having a scan result window does not allow the miner to lock on asteroids from it. so barges must have the scanner.hulks, being fleet purposed barges, should have a scanning ability at least equal to their laser range."
"just because i disagree with the reason you think you need this addition/alteration does mean i'm trolling. and i have mined in the distant past. the orca/rorqual scanned stuff and broadcasted the best 'roids. we targeted and mined.and you can do the same using the broadcast window.no they don't. the orca/rorqual simply needs to broadcast which asteroids are best."
"last i checked, a hulk is not a capital ship. i read your post & understood it perfectly, i just disagreed. labelling anyone that disagrees with you as a troll doesn't help your argument.if we'd never mined at any stage, we wouldn't be giving you solid advice on this. just because we choose to no longer mine does not mean that we know nothing about it. we get where you're coming from, but the tools you're asking for already exist in the form of orca & rorqual bonuses, as they are mining support ships."
"having the orca call targets is fine with 2 or 3 people, but add in 5 or 6 and its a nightmare, letting the miners decide how to mine is best way to ensure max efficiency. no missed cycles, no burning crystals and no doubling up on rocks.if the orca had a way of assigning rocks to people that wasn't a fleet broadcast then great, but the current method sucks.add in that off-grid boosting exists and there you are, survey scanner ii needs a range boost."
"and if you have three toons, and only one monitor wtf then."
"window mode?"
"the non-miners *really* don't get it, do they?the point of the scanner isn't to know which rocks are best, it's to know when to turn off *your* mining lasers so that you don't waste 50% or more of a cycle on a dead asteroid. this is not information that can be transmitted from the support ship as they don't have all the data necessary to make that call.[edit]what would be really useful is to have ships in a fleet share scanner results (for any type of scanner) automatically.we have that whole subspace network thing going, it would make sense for such primitive data to be shared out along with general telemetry and such."
"they tell me i don't pay attention, then proceed to not pay attention.i used to mine. i did it for a couple of years. the thing you're asking for is easy to manage with other people. if your orca pilot can't give you a number when he scans the ore & do a tiny bit of math that takes a split second to process, then you need a more competent orca pilot. it's kind of like fcing a fleet, only much easier.now this is a far better proposition, one that i would actually get behind."
"the barge pilot needs to be able to see how ore levels have changed in order to unlock asteroids before they deplete from the scanner window so he unlocks the correct laser. otherwise he wastes cycle time on empty asteroids. with many asteroids having only 1-2 cycles in them this is a constant process and not doing it can cut your m3/hr by upwards of 40%.the only way to mine efficiently is for the scanner to be on the barge."
"i actually support this, sort off... i want option d....to explain: increasing the range of an asteroid scanner isn't a big game breaking thing.... although.... i don't want to boost the t2/meta 4 to do this.... so i propose option d... d.) add an \"ore faction\" survey scanner mod with the appropriate range.... this will fullfill the needed range, but cost you appropriately... why this option? 1.) it creates an additional piece of bling to be fit on the barge pi<U+FFFD>ata. 2.) it uses up a valuable midslot... thereby weakening the potential tank of the mining vessel!!!"
"the op is correct.scanners must be on the hulks. hulk pilots need to constantly monitor asteroid levels in order to efficiently manage their laser cycles.only trolls and non-miners give the 'dur, an orca kan du eet, dur!' answer.good idea, long overdue.the hulk role bonus is the most selective of the proposals with the least auxiliary impact.+1"
"no.... no need for a role bonuses.... just make a faction mod to get that extra 20% range you covet..."
"the role bonus still takes up the tank slot you covet..."
"but a t2 scanner isn't worth much.... an ore faction scanner might actually be worth 25-50m.... which is an important piece of the gankvalue-to-lootvalue ratio!!!"
"you have completely broken wormhole space.... anyone in wh space can just fire off one of your probes and be instantly told how many cloaked vessels are in the system. congratulations, wh space is now broken.what about people who sit in stations or pos afk, they are showing up on local but not at the computer and are un-catchable (appart from pos bashing, i'll give you that).why is this gameplay ok with you, but not cloakers...... how about if your 'make cloakes findable' button also punts all players out of the station/pos shiels/outpost at the same time. if they are not afk then they can simple dock back up?????once again we see another zerosec nullbear trying to get game mechanics changed to make his zero security space safer.jint hikaru - miner / salvager / explorer / spacebum in the beginning the universe was created. this has made a lot of people very angry and been widely regarded as a bad move."
"op, how about learning how to use search ???seeing a 1001st genius coming up with that \"idea\" gets, well, mighty boring."
"tarunik you're right, i meant to put the missile should have a smaller radius with its flight time, not a bigger one. i edited the op for clarity. thanks for the typo notice.can you expand on why missiles shouldn't be a dominant weapon on the fleet scale? i'm not saying any one weapon should be, i think ccp should try for as close to an even representation as possible.i wouldn't go so far as to say that all of these proposed solutions should be taken, its more of a jumble of ideas out of which the best should be refined and worked on until we have missile feeling missiles that are still viable.thanks for the upvotes, here's to us using missiles in the future."
"a painfully bad thread, even by ah standards."
"if you have a problem with the post please bring facts to the table or refrain from posting. putting something like this is inflammatory and unhelpful."
"addressing the guaranteed hit issue:it is certainly nice that missiles never miss. but at the end of the day guns get the better end of the bargain by far; with skilled piloting and a good fit guns can do full damage to smaller craft. meanwhile, missiles will always do trivial damage no matter how good the pilot. while i agree that missiles shouldn't do full dps to small craft, they should do a bit more than they do now for sure."
"a well flown small ship will negate all the dps of bigger ships... i've speed tanked small guns in frigate hulls, and easily speed tank medium and large guns.... the drake is still good at pvp.... especially in small-medium gangs... also, it's not getting super-nerfed in the upcoming expansion, like you are implying.. i personally think you are exaggerating the missile nerfs."
"have you ever flown interceptors? against a rack of large guns, what do you do? move carefully so it doesn't get the low transversal at any given time on approach and oneshot you.against a rack of large missiles, what do you do? oh that's right, you ignore them."
"i solo vagabonds, rapiers, hurricanes, and cynabals in a taranis.... even dual webbed i can get under their guns and solo them... but against a hm or ham drake, the drake's constant dps will brake my tank before i can break his... (assuming i'm webbed and the pilot has good missile skills)"
"the main issue with missiles being a dominant weapon on the 0.0 fleet scale is the kind of damage it inflicts on server hampsters. if missiles weren't a major lag source, i wouldn't have mentioned this :)"
"yeah noticed it also.in past, rats would not engage you at all if you had good standing with them, this created the \"standing tanking\" problem where missioners could run the mission without being shot at. it seems ccp solved that by making the faction npcs friendly fire but.. well the priorities are a bit wrong ;)"
"you can run those missions with pvp ships, warp out and fight the guy at the gate. you are not forced to use pve boats and cry every time you die to someone while you make your isk. thats the main balancing mechanic in eve, risk and profit. if you can make a large profit without risk its not balanced."
"oddly enough, this does seem like legit oversight by ccp. if a gallente fw player warps into a caldari plexer's site and opens fire on said plexer, why would the fed. navy open fire on one of it's capsuleer bros? no, \"omfg he turned on an offensive ecm module shoot him disregard that friendly fof\" doesn't defeat common sense."
"no, i'm not expecting the ai to deliver that level of experience.npc escalation may be predictable, but the celestials they warp to and safe spots they make don't have to be static, in fact it would be a lot more complicated to make it like that. there has to be a level of randomness, else there is simply no point.teach the mechanics of eve and put them to practice in pve, so when players do attempt to pvp, they don't sit there thinking 'its because i don't have awu5 that i failed'.i'm not suggesting these missions give the players a green line in space - to manually fly along, i'm suggesting a simple, interesting mission which develops skills relevant to the game generally."
"keep the support rolling.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"i hope ccp is looking at this thread. this is an awesome idea."
"c'mon ccp. i hope you are watching this thread."
"i'd be perfectly happy if they left everything exactly the same and just removed the hard cap to refining waste."
"pro tip: don't mine multiple rocks at the same time. focus on one mining at half cycles if necessary. mining 2-3 rocks ar the same time is over complicating it. but the scanner could still buffed a bit."
"harden up and take it like a man. teamwork, organization, and communication should be the only tools needed to accomplish effective mining."
"lol 99% of the mining in eve is done solo. even if you an see orca with a 3-4 hulks chances are it is the same person."
"even with me and one other pilot in a belt together it can be hard simply to determine what rocks the other is mining.having a system in place to tag asteroids ( the current system blows )best option; make it so you can see fleet locks in the overview next to the target."
"completely support this.a completely decked out hulk - with faction strips, max boosts, can get up to 40km out - if i remember tau's post on it correctly.a survey scanner ii can currently only reach 22km.survey scanner ii's should be able to reach out to a max'd miner's range -- about 29-30 km - with appropriate ship / skill bonuses.adding a faction scanner to reach out to that max range around 40km would be perfect - i know i'd use one.+100 for the op. for you \"harden up\" / use an orca folks - go troll elsewhere. let's see you tell 30 miners what rocks they need to target and how much ore is left in them.and you'll need to do it sitting in the belt in a rorqual because the orca doesn't have the range to reach the farthest rocks in those really big grav sites.learn to understand what you're talking about before make posts that are otherwise non-constructive.edit:another good thread here about this in f&i.hrolt ceo live free; die proud"
"[/quote]whilst pilots are cloaked and afk, what mechanic are they using to interact with you? [/quote]this.also, if you can't clearly see that cloaking is working as intended, you can refer to the following steps:- give all of your isk/stuff to me- locate the biomass queue over htfu.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"would completely ruin wh space at the same time.no thanks."
"ehh, why not just say something like ''natural phenomena prevents your probes from detecting cloaked ships'', or ''already present spacial distortions makes the results of the scanning prosess useless''..tho removing local wud be awesome."
"about the lag: maybe it's just me, but i feel like players shouldn't be penalized for the game's flaws. if ccp can't make missiles viable they probably should just take them out. i know i'd appreciate having all my missile sp transferred over to gunnery after realizing how bad they are.i'm not implying that the drake is getting super nerf'd really. the fact of the matter is, it doesn't take a super nerf to make dramatic changes in the balance of power. the fact of the matter is, though, that other than pure paper dps the drake is taking a nerf to every single thing: cap, tank, speed and agility. gizznitt while you're absolutely right that in your situation a drake is a great counter, the fact of the matter is that after 1.1 you'll be in the vast minority of players that will be in that position. i should also remind you that pointing out that a ship is effective in one situation doesn't imply that it's a good or viable ship."
"you don't need to standing tank a plex. game mechanics > lore.go hunt these plexers instead of mission runners."
"for a generic, run-forward-shoot-bad-person fps designed for grade schoolers: yes, your silly run-forward mechanics are very important.for a role-playing game, which inherently means its dependent on lore...get out."
"eve is internet spreadsheet. keep that rp in your head."
"i wish they would look at this thread. i hope that somehow we can get their attention and as a community say \"we need this.\" i will rejustify the need for it, and re-link the concept art that i came up with which can either be used as a basis of the design, or can be discarded for original models.first, the benefits:- would revolutionize true logistics in the sense it would allow the mass movement of rigged vessels (up to 3-4 fitted/rigged battleships) across large expanses of space without the need for courier contracts.- it would create a new career path (ship transport for war decced corporations).- it would create a new means of heisting from corporate hangars (should rigged ships be included in the hangars).- it would create a much-needed isk sink.- it would create a mineral sink (and thus make mineral prices stabilize)- it would create competition for acquisition of blueprints and production of these vessels.designs:monolithbedouinpillarpelicankeep in mind, these are extremely rough designs accomplished with ms paint. stats are on the design pictures.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"sucking it up does not mean putting a scanner on the orca. as the miners here have explained to the non-miners it's impossible to fleet mine efficiently without scanners on the hulks themselves, or otherwise being able to directly lock/unlock directly from the scan result window.so sucking it up means not utilizing hulk's extended laser range and being limited by the 22km scanner range. this means you suck the meat out of the center of belt and leave the fringes before moving on to a new belt to do the same to it.this leaves fewer worthwhile belts for other miners, people mine less, ore prices go up, and all you non-miners pay more for everything.every orca/hulk pilot worth his salt already has a scanner on his hulks. this proposal just allows these fleet miners to ultilize their laser range bonus."
"how about a modulated strip miner iii, that has a reduced output compared to modulated strip miner ii, but includes a asteroid scanner, that has the same (including boosts) range as the strip miner iii does, that is accessed via the existing ship scanner interface (which should be where any scanning results should be anyway, imho)."
"i support this completely. those that use the standard/unoriginal reply \"use an orca/rorq\" are just arguing to argue. i don't think they realize yet that it's not convincing anyone who mines regularly either. this change is such a non-issue to anyone other than those that mine. it's also stupidly uncontroversial, incredibly easy to change, and completely benign to game balance. the benefits would be very welcome to anyone who mines with orca/rorq boosts.the two options that work the best:- increase the range of the t1 and t2 scanners. it's simple (seriously, this is changing a number right?) and gets the desired effect- add a ore faction scanner with the 30-35km range. this adds a new item, but creates a market for something useful, keeps within the spirit of the game (conflict in ore ring, ore is the provider of the top quality mining gear, etc), and creates a positive incentive to obtain it.another option that might work, but is harder to change is to link the range to the survey skill. it's not like the skill is incredibly useful now anyway. say have a base range, then with each level increase by 5 or 10%. in any case, this change really is a no-brainer. no over thinking required."
"i'd rather see them add a \"volume\" column to the scanner, before they started messing around with the range of the scanner.volume is the only real piece of information i want from my scanner, not units, not distance, but volume.get me a column displaying volume, then i'll give a **** about the range."
"anything that could get syj, us, and starbridge on the same page will not end well for the poor saps on the receiving end, that much i think we all can figure out. :)"
"because they show in local, afk or not."
"showing up in local != interacting with anything/anyone"
"any discussion of \"finding cloaked vessels\" must also include changes to our instant omniscient local chat being used as an intel source.... this thread does not...../thread already..."
"if i recall from the earlier days in eve, we used to have on the job training....once per day, or some other such timeframe, you had a chance to gain skillpoints towards skills you were actively engaged in using. so you might get a few hundred bonus skillpoints or some such on several skills a day, if you were actively using them. it wasn't much, in the grand scheme of things, but at the time it felt awesome.i am a supporter of this, as using a skill both should make it easier to learn if you are actively training it, and you should gain some benefit from practicing skills that you already have some knowledge of. i think it should be limited to one bonus per day per skill used....so if you were operating your t1 ship, spaceship command could get 100-250 sp, if you were shooting your small beam laser i at someone you could get 100-250 sp in small energy turret, or controlled bursts, or sharpshooting, etc...but maybe limit it to like 5-10 skills per day....and give it a 5% chance per skill being actively used, each time it is used.now, the devil's advocate...i do not support it if it would decrease performance in any significant way."
"*sigh* forum ate my post. so i'm going to tl;dr this since i really don't feel like being eloquent twice. sorry if this comes off as rude.should this be done?- no. absolutely not.why?- would require tens of thousands of \"if\" statements in code in order to cover all the possibilities of what a player is doing actively, while not exploiting the system. this will make it very likely for something to 'break' in the code, and would add stress to the server that's not needed.- would cause a huge number of petitions of players complaining they didn't get their xp when they should have. again adds stress to ccp that's not needed.- would kill a number of non-skill related professions, such as running events (organizers of frigate free for all, anyone?), helping rookies via local chat, players spending hours at a time cloaked, watching for enemy movement, and so on.- would instigate grinding mechanics into the game, which would turn off a huge number of players. i for one left wow because i hated grinding to level 90, and hated grinding for better and better gear. eve has enough grinding from isk generation and standings, and the former can be solved by plex. worse, eve would have what would considered to be 'infinite grinding', where there's no limit to how much you need to grind to complete all the skills.what do i suggest instead?- ccp released 2x training speed for new players at one point, in that until a character reaches a certain xp level (say, 5 million), that they train skills at twice the speed, stackable by implants. this will give new players that edge you speak of, without ripping off veterans."
"greetings.as i'm sure everyone well knows as this point, the availability of the mining foreman mindlink has become ludicriously poor. i remember a time when mfm's were 50m. now? 1.5 billion. i know that this is because a) they are no longer available in complexes, and b) there's a slim chance they'll drop in the special shipyard theft mission, and a slimmer chance you'll even get this mission.though this issue also applies to the other links, the mfm has become so costly, that i personally never use that implanted head anymore because it's too costly to risk to fly in space.it should be a fairly simple fix, by either adding this link to more special missions, or to add them to rare complexes. though it will still make them pricy, they won't cost nearly as much as they are now, which is more than pretty much every other implant currently in the market today. the prices of these mindlinks are dramatically hurting large-scale mining as a profession. thank you."
"supply and demand. nothing wrong with it. people fly with far more than 1.5 bil in their heads all the time, in ships more fragile than an orca, in space more dangerous than highsec, parked in grids less comfortable than next to a pos.it's fine as is. some incentive for people to do missions in gallante space, hoping to get that particular storyline. not everything in game has to be dirt cheap, especially something non combat related that's essentially a one time investment."
"well, when you get into the 'blob meta' its hard to avoid these sorts of issues. i agree that the drake ought to be just as viable as any other ship at small scale pvp, its just that its hard to do that without turning it into a dominant piece in blobwarfare, which causes the distinct odor of burnt hampsters to waft over from london to iceland..."
"the drake is perfectly viable for small-to-medium gang warfare.... before and after the changes....for fleet warfare, we'll see.... i don't do a lot of 100man fleet fights... the tengu is also perfectly viable for small-to-medium gang warfare.... and i'm pretty sure its still perfectly viable for large fleet fights too.....the caracal is a niche fleet... but still used in small and medium gang warfare to excellent effect.... go look at what the cfc did to hbc this last weekend in their caracal fleet....for small gang stuff, the corax, condor, and hookbill are all decent missile boats... i really just don't buy your \"woe is missile\" attitude.... cruise missiles are going to be revamped come next expansion (with the bs changes)...torps, now that they get bonuses from all missile skills, are much, much better since the release of retribution.... hams are awesome... and hm's are right where they are supposed to be...yes, you are right, they are nerfing some fo the drake's features.... but so what.... the drake was one of the top two most useful bc's in the game, and both the top bc's are getting nerfed while the other bc's are getting buffed to make all ships useable... overall, you should be putting ccp frozzie on a pedestal, washing his feet, and giving him divine praises for the excellent job of balancing he's been doing to all ships in this game... your thread here is nothing but a craptastic whine about how your niche is changing without even considering the bigger picture.... do us all a favor and /thread!!!!"
"i disagree. thats like saying that someone that lives in a 3rd world warzone consents to being potentially killed when they step outside.eve is brutal, yes, but it isnt wow. in wow you explicitly consent to pvp (depending on server of course). in eve, it's out of your hands, but it does not mean tha you consent to it."
"i'm not opposed to the \"are you sure\" dialog box as long as we can permanently disable the first time it annoys us by simply hitting a checkbox...another option might be: add the ability to \"move\" the undock button to a different location on your ui."
"+1 from me as well."
"syaran,thank you very much for the support. guess i could send a mail message containing this proposal to the csm members. might actually get noticed by one of them due to new election happening.dmc"
"valentine's day bump.have fun, make love and please support this idea."
"yes, yes, yes! i fullheartedly approve of this proposal! this would revolutionize space travel in a myriad of ways. however, some tweaks if i may:- have two separate versions; a t1 version, and a t2 jump-equipped version. the t1 version would have the same skill requirements as the charon/obelisk/fenrir/providence, while the t2 version should have the same requirements as the rhea/anshar/nomad/ark.- the t2 jump version should have a smaller ship maintenance bay than the t1 stargate-dependant version.- both should also have a standard cargobay of 500m3 to transport additional modules for these ships not covered by the charges exception for carried ships.- they should emulate the existing freighter designs in all other respects except that cargohold bonuses are instead ship maintenance bay bonuses, for example:t1 (pelican):- caldari freighter skill bonus: 5% bonus to ship maintenance bay capacity and 5% bonus to maximum velocity per levelt2 (emu): (emu's my suggestion for caldari)- caldari freighter skill bonus: 5% bonus to ship maintenance bay capacity and 5% bonus to agility per level- jump freighters skill bonus: 10% bonus to shield, armor and hull hitpoints and 10% reduction in jump fuel need per levelwonderful ms paint jobs there. :di'm going to see if i can recreate these into 3d graphical versions. however, i've never done this level of editing before, so please be patient. :)"
"here's my idea of the pelican, after a pair of screenshots, and a bit of photoshop:"
"all good suggestions. it would give ccp something to work with rather than having to build something from scratch. i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"+1 please bring it back!!!"
"here here! agreed 100%. i loved that jukebox, because it allowed me to play music i wanted, and that whenever i'm doing something that has special event music kick in, it would seemlessly stop my music to start everything else.sure, having an external jukebox makes sense. but it was so much cooler! :dif there's a way to combine the new system with the old jukebox, kudos."
"i also completely support this. it should be easy to implement, and does not break any other features. in my opinion, there are no real reasons not to."
"just increase the survey scanner ii's range.buffing the hulk even more would just introduce an even bigger incentive to gankers..we mine well enough in a retriever or a mackinaw."
"pro tip put 3 lasers on an asteroid that has less than 1 cycle of ore in it.if that's a pro tip then i must be giving out godlike server hacks.genuine pro tip: that pro tip is awful."
"another approach i'd prefer to see would be to have the mining laser field enhancement gang module increase your scanner range as well as laser range.makes more sense to me that way rather than adding another ship bonus or increasing the base scanner range, when those are perfectly fine as they are for mining when you're not fleeted."
"hmm.. it's both."
"i disagree. if you're in a hostile system, your very presence there is interacting with them. they have to be mindful of the possibility that they might get attacked. you're interacting with them in the same way that a hostile fleet x systems over does, it forces people to be mindful of their actions. as things stand, taking this option away would only serve to make nullsec safer, which most people will agree should never be the intent. if you want to live in 0.0 you have to deal with the consequences. that's why you'll get comments like \"highsec is --> that way\", those people are making the exact same point as i am.put yourself in the afk cloaker's shoes for a minute, they have to invest a fair amount of time into it if they want to get any kills out of it. they have to park their character there for extended periods of time, time during which they cannot use that character to do anything else. sure, they can go afk for a lot or even all of that time, that still means they are paying the opportunity cost of not using that character for anything else.as others have said, with local in the current state, afk cloaking is a necessary evil, it is one of the few options you have if you want to disrupt your enemies' activities effectively. until this is addressed, you won't find many people that will support your position."
"average player retention time for eve is 6 month, longer than some, but shorter than most. one of the reasons for this is completely passivity in xp progression system.majority of mmos have a completely active xp system based purely on ingame activity. minority (eve, perpetuum, etc) have completely passive xp system based purely on rl time.recently, more mmos have begin a move onto the hybrid system from either extremes, as a way to achieve longer player retention. in every case, player retention improved. players who found themselves with less time to play are less likely to cancel their subs, as the passive aspect is there. players are less likely to never log on, resulting in eventually losing interest and cancel sub, because rewards for active playing is there.a hybrid system doesn't necessarily make eve's bitter vets happier. it does do well for ccp's bottom line."
"oh gawd yes, i'd absolutely love this option. as a novice i experience a lot of trouble with being at low tech, and this would greatly encourage me and the likes of me to play more aggressively in order to approach the high-class players asap."
"i hope to god your being sarcastic.grinding would ruin eve, all this woudl do is require all players to spend 3 years in highsec grinding skills with missions sicne their would be a new \"minimum level\" to be allowed into player corps, since no one woudl tolerate a \"lowbie\", and then those same players would either quit from boredom, or never leave highsec again. eve needs more incentives for pvp, not less."
"that 3 year minimal level would then be 6 years of docked and/or logged off waiting for sp to train. you pulled that number right out of your ass, of course, so might as well run with it.of course, in reality, the real minimal sp to get in a decent corp is currently around 6 months, combined with active, perhaps we can shorten that to 3 month.it would have be a lot shorter than that had we have active sp. recruiters know [correctly] that sp merely represent time subbed, the player may very well be docked and don't know how to read an overview. so they artificially rise the barrier just to compensate."
"this is where you re wrong. by undocking, you explicitly consent to any and all risks that the big bad world might hold. i don't see how this is different from wow, eve is simply one big pvp server. and yes, it can be compared to someone who lives in a warzone. by continuing to live there, you take the risk that you may potentially get killed. not everyone always has the option to get out of that situation, but thinking \"i've never harmed anyone so nobody will come to harm me\" is just terribly naive."
"seriously, you are comparing eve to a 3rd world warzone???? way to much 'drama' right there.btw, your comparrison is waaaaay off. that person does not choose to live in a warzone and most probably does not have the means to move somewhere else.in eve, undocking is consenting. and as for an 'are you sure you want to undock' message.... omg how much handholding do you want in a game? sheesh!jint hikaru - miner / salvager / explorer / spacebum in the beginning the universe was created. this has made a lot of people very angry and been widely regarded as a bad move."
"ok, so i guess i consent to potentially getting hit by a car when i step outside today. since thats what consent means."
"good, uh, night.i recently found out about the character trading concept. i asked game masters whether name change comes together with the transfer and found out that character rename is not an option at all. this surprised me, because even \"softcore\" mmo-games often provide a payable character name change option while this game does not.point is, when a person intends to buy a character, he literally pays for the amount of skill points and (probably) the set of implants. however, that means that new owner has the certain chance to perform some scamming attempts by impersonating the previous owner. to prevent this, previous owner has to personally inform all his lifetime contacts that he intends to sell this character and he is no longer in charge of anything.second: the possibility to change name of a \"brand-new\" character would encourage a lot of people in this feature. personally i would be >really< happy to buy some 10billion character but the only thing that stops me from doing so is that character name would most kilely be some typical \"xxxpwnkillahxxx\". that's just... gross. do not want.so here is the idea: you may allow those who buy characters via the service to rename them. say, once per year (yeah, justl ike those stat remaps) to prevent some criminal scum :3 from abusing this service to clear his name of some pesky deeds. that would encourage people like me to use the trading service by hundredfold.also this would advertise some more new players. seriously. take a look: right now people think about joining eve community but amidst the pros and cons the concept of \"new player can not compete with a player with six months played time, period\". well, it was for me when i first found out about this game. this reason pulled me away from registering here approx. 2.5 years ago (silly, silly me q_q). with the option i offer newcomers will be ebcouraged to: - register new accounts and pay monthly fees immediately; - pay for the character trading itself; - pay for the character renaming option (if you decide to make that an extra charge option); - pay for some more plex's to sell them to obtain some isk to buy a ship for that character. - ??? - profit!and for those who would deny this concept because \"newfags must stay at the bottom\": that is the point. do you really think a newcomer could beat a 2-year-old character who has a lot of gameplay experience even if he has the same ship/fitting? oh, please. he won't even be able to fit the ship properly. that i can assure you of, for i personally deem myself a typical n00b. yet.please, please, please consider this proposal as an option. please. to be honest, i am just tired of these waaay toooo looooong skill training days so i would rather buy a character or two to actually have some >fun< instead. and assuming that this concept would be of quite a profit for ccp... please. pretty please."
"you buy a character, you buy more than skillpoints, you buy a history and reputation, its part of the deal.and on another note, im personally against the character bazaar on principal, ive personally seen too many noobs who think \"if i dont have x skillpoints im worthless\" so they go out and do exactly what you do, they spend the money on the character, on plex for an \"uber ship\", and then immediately lose it in some ridiculous uber-noob move, then they quit eve out of frustration and tell their friends that the game tricks you out of your money and takes your stuff.the character bazaar is there for a reason, for players who are too slow in the head or impatient to see the value of training skills on their own. players that buy a character often feel compelled to only use the \"biggest bestest ship they can\" which will cause them nothing but grief. that is ebcause these players may ahve caught up in the \"sp race (which doesnt exist)\", they are still, and in some cases mroe so, gimped in personal xp, since they will be flying high-risk ships with little experiecne to mitigate.the current system dissuades most players from buying a character in favor of training up one, sicne they would ratyher not be known as \"dumbnutz1414\", if the ability to change the name of the character to anything you want became available, i would forsee a small but significant enough influx of new players buying older chars, that we coudl possibly see a drop in player retention rates, again due to the frustration of them losing the uber-expensive ships they bought the character to fly, because they didnt actually know how to fly the ship.my 2 cents as the recruiter for both a highsec indy corp, lowsec pvp corp, and currently an assistant in a wormhole mercenary corp.edit: i apologize for any ranting or bad spelling, im tired, sleeping in my car at work sicne im on a 16 hour shift with a 2 hour break, and on a mobile device."
"do you not realize how game changing 'renaming' would be. the ability to wipe clean your reputation would ruin eve.why am i not supprised that this awful idea has come from a 12 day old character.please play the game for a while before you make game changing suggestions. also you may want to play for a while before you go buying characters.... jint hikaru - miner / salvager / explorer / spacebum in the beginning the universe was created. this has made a lot of people very angry and been widely regarded as a bad move."
"...or i may not. or i may do so. honestly, did you even read the entire \"wall of text\"? i am quite positive that you saw the string \"character renaming\" and immediately ragerushed to the bottom to write an answer like that. typical.oh, don't mind me. just passin' by~"
"the problem with such a feature is exactly what you mentioned: criminals will be able to easily clear away their bad rep and go on their merry way on to the next hapless victim. in this case the advantages just don't outweigh the disadvantages."
"right. thats exactly what i mean, you didn't read anything.problem?not to mention that this additional option >must< be a chargeable service. if a so-called \"scammer\" wants to waste his one and only once per year \"charge\" he'll still have to pay the fee."
"if you have to caveat an idea with 'you can only do it once a year' and 'it has a cost to limit its use', is it really a beneficial idea in the first place????jint hikaru - miner / salvager / explorer / spacebum in the beginning the universe was created. this has made a lot of people very angry and been widely regarded as a bad move."
"it is, for those who wish to buy a character to play. it is not a good idea, though, for those who intend to resell it. and they dont need that rename anyway."
"cost and the limitation of once a year, is laughable. it would still be open to all and abused.this is not a new idea. maybe a search and some research first, would have given you the heads up.destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"if you jump to another clone, and you are leaving two clones in the same station, requiring ccp to destroy one of them, the game should require that we manually destroy the clone at the current station via the character sheet.because there are up to two messages, when clone jumping, in a ship, or queue running, on that odd occasion when you forget about the clone in the current station, it would be nice if there was a different style of message presented.on attempting to jump to another clone where a clone will be destroyed in the process, present the following:\"only one clone is allowed per station. destroy the existing clone in this station or move to another\"with an ok button.disallow destruction of clones except via the character sheet or via being podded in game."
"how exactly would taking away npc corps completely ruin eve? what stops you from enjoying the game in a player-run corp?"
"supported"
"if we could get the csm or ccp to take a look at this, it'd be great.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"+1 for the return of the jukebox. just add an option to let people decide between auto and manual.i've lost all my favourite eve songs and i'd rather not be alt-tabbing to soundcloud the whole time.whichever ccp employee who made this happen is a bad'un.s"
"100% supported"
"totally supported! wh is not nullsec, and no one that lives in whs wants their systems to become an annex to some nullsec space.if stabilizers were to be introduced, given enough time, all whs systems that allow it will have their entrances folded over and over again until they will connect with a desired k-space system (most likely null) and will remain like that. whs were designed to be dynamic content not some static addition to some nullsec powerbloc which feels crowded in their own home.also, in the same way, stabilizers could be used to create permanent k-space shortcuts (for whs that don't connect with w-space) which brings back super-gating and other issues."
"good catch. i'd support a gang module increase bonus -- as long as the max scanner range from gang bonuses matches or is slightly more (say .5km?) than the strip miner ranges.hrolt ceo live free; die proud"
"it wastes capacitor.two most common elements in the universe are hydrogen and stupidity. -- harlan ellison"
"hereas reported through various posts and blogs eve uni had a botter, said botter was doomday'd to oblivion and now a csm member continues to ask back the seized isk from ccp. i'm sorry sir but trying to line your pockets up with illigally obtained isk that violates the eula is just the same as being the botter yourself. you need to go, to fellow pilots, post here if you agree//signed"
"you are a tad late to the witch burning party, and should have created this thread in the csm assembly hall area.."
"your link is broken.also, i don't think any csm will resign until they are forced from their office."
"guilty until proven guilty. seems pretty stupid."
"lol i hope you didn't create a forum alt just for this threadsugar von murderertits : jake warbird gets my vote for most intriguing and attractive male character in eve."
"kelduum wasn't trying to get involved as a csm member, he was trying to get involved as 'a guy whose corp received some isk from another guy this one time'apart from that, this thread is late and a massive overreaction"
"he should still resign for being a massive carebear."
"rabble rabbleam i doing it right?"
"0/10bad troll"
"post with your main or gtfo. no one give a shite what a forum alt wants."
"politicians are corrupt?!?!?!?!?! next youll tell me we cant trust used car salesmen!my world perspective = blown."
"link fixed"
"can i haz your stuff? it gets asked 10.000.000 times a day it seems."
"after we have hung, drawn and quartered this fellow, can you all join me for a good old fashioned book burning session in jita?destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"i'd settle for him resigning as ceo of eve university. i'd like to see eve university actually teach people how to play eve.-liang"
"only if they have no pictures.view the latest eve online developments and other game related news and gameplay by visiting ranger 1 presents: virtual realms."
"so kelduum had himself a big ol' whine, nothing came of it, and now i'm supposed to believe this is all somehow noteworthy?naaah."
"no one cares what a 2011 high sec scrub wants either. posting with my forum alt."
"who cares"
"why should he leave?i would seriously doubt ccp in this case.as in many other cases they end up being comunism. its all in the name i guess"
"shouldn't this be in assembly hall or somewhere where people actually care about the lolcsm.also don't vote for malcanis.ccp's motto: if it isn't broken, break it. if it is broken, ignore it. improving npe / dynamic new eden"
"just who do you think you are to say i shouldn't vote for malcanis! i'll vote for him just to spite you!!!muahahaha.-liang"
"carebears represent a large portion of the eve player base. as such, carebears need a rep on the csm.no taxation without representation 101."
"i don't think anyone here doubts that ccp presented the facts of the matter.whether his need to pester ccp about it stems from his position on the csm, his position as the leader of a well known noob friendly training corp, or his own personal ego it really doesn't matter. this was a trivial matter, and something of a wake up call for him with no harm done.everyone can make mistakes, and everyone can get a bt full of themselves from time to time. that is hardly cause for a call for resignation of either his csm postion or his ceo position.people that get worked up calling for his head are being just as stupid as those who got worked up at ccp for banning the botter and confiscating the isk to begin with.seemingly the main industry in eve is turning mole hills into mountains, and the main pass time is starting tempests in tea cups.view the latest eve online developments and other game related news and gameplay by visiting ranger 1 presents: virtual realms."
"kelduum doesn't need to resign but he should be embarassed at the way he tried to blackball ccp. if a player gave me 500 billion isk and ccp took it, i'd do everything humanly possible to get it back too. if he truly believed that the actions in question didn't violate the eula and that he was wronged, then who are we to judge him or call for his resignation? was he acting in the best interests of his corp (by trying to reacquire assets) and the player base (by questioning a \"because we said so\" grab of assets)? probably. i've learned more about cache scraping in the past week than ... well, ever. it's what came next that sucks. the vindictive 3rd party negative press is inexcusable. and for that either his corp or the next csm election will decide his fate without need of any pitchforks and torches from us.yk"
"post patch i have used.myrmidon + sentries - ded 4s and vigils - this was a refit from a rails/mixed drones fit that worked terribly post patch, and is now better than it was prepatch in terms of completion times.vexor with sentries - ded 4s in blood space (this never worked with mobile drones!).ishtar with sentries - ded3s, 4s, 5s all over the place, as well as various unrateds, high and low.vexor with blasters, heavies, meds and lights - ded3s, ded4s, vigils and associated escalation - serp space.dominix with sentries, l4 agents in amarr and gallente space.navy domi with shield tank, sentries and 425s l4 agent gallente space.navy thron with blasters and 5 heavies, l4 agent in gallente space.in most cases, simply being at sentry range allows me to fit 1 more damage mod. the 'thron does >1000 turret dps and thus 5 heavies go unnoticed against its royal facemelting, but be aware of the dangers of sending the heavies on a mission unless you are royally facemelting a whole bunch of something elses at the same time. don't send them 30km away whilst you are still mwding towards targets yourself.the blaster vexor is the hardest to use, but its most common job is a close orbit on the serpentis phi overseer, where it subsequently holds aggro long enough to kill the only important ship in pocket. the drones survive individual frigates - which usually go to the hammers and not the ogres or the hobgobbie. no other pocket gives any problems with drone aggro, and the vexor often nearly gets pasted - routine for me to overheat the tank doing that."
"reposting again, because something needs to be donenote - these arnt all popular ideas, but something to work upon lowsec could be an awesome place if it was given some attention, rather than simply a place outlaws hang out simply because they can not fly in hisecthis is my old post unedited from (when we lived in lowsec) back in the old forums, it never made it here but it drummed up alot of support and criticism i think its time it was looked at and discussed again maybe, if something along these lines were implemented, all the people who left lowsec and went to 00, maybe some would return maybe more would live thereafter this a lowsec improvement 'committee' was set up, approved by ccp, it disbanded very fast as no one was interested in listening really maybe its time to look againnot all the ideas will be popular, not all will be realistic, but lets start a new look at lowsechere it is in its unedited form (though lots of additions and edits were done at the time as new posts were put inproposed lowsec expansion 'underworld' (i changed this from outlaw to reflect that it isnt all about the criminalsi renamed the thread titlelowsec needs some serious attention to make it the great place it should be and im not talking about fw, which is pretty much unrelated to 'real' lowseclowsec is about criminals, its about piracy, its about the dark underworld of new eden i think its about time it had some deserved attention it would take a lowsec patch to really turn it into the place it should be, i suggest ccp do just that, the update should be called 'outlaw'i have the following proposals for this, and by no means are these all my ideas, so thanks to all the people who have put ideas around before1: criminal underworld, recognition should be given to the 'overlords' who dominate systems, some sort of benefits may be 'bought' with underhand payments to authorities, such as the rats in a system may not engage unless fired upon, or reduced facility rates, offices etcmaybe something similar to the new sov mechanics with a 'hub' pos using modules to upgrade the system this would need to be less impacting than 00, so the best you could upgrade should not be as good as an un-upgraded 00 system (possibly only available in the lower security, say 01 and 02)2: criminal faction agents for missions better rewards for missions in lowsec generally these agents would be at pirate stations that can only be found by probing3: the black market, have a market that can only be accessed when in the lowsec system or region you are in and with items that can only be sold on the black market all 'illegal' items moved onto this market maybe with npc smuggling items too create more illegal items to load onto the market more drugs, maybe illegal implants see also 4 the black market panel only becomes available when in a black market station, which would only be the pirate/criminal stations4: pirate faction ships and items become illegal in hisec, so whilst usable in hisec, become available only through the black market5: make better smuggling opportunities, with these illegal items, make a smuggling profession more viable so some ships need to be able to evade customs officials or at least have a smuggling low slot cargo upgrade6: crooked cops, have random faction npcs for that region wander lowsec, looking for payoffs hand over a little isk to go free, or fight themmaybe the overlord can see to it that these crooked cops don't interfere with their people (this isnt popular but i wont remove it in case it inspires a better idea)7: have lowsec borders between all the empires, or at least the empires who are at war, so there is no 'safe' route for people, this way people would actually hire escort personnel to protect haulers, another career opportunity smugglers would also be employed in such places so maybe hisec borders exist just fine between amarr and caldari and between gallente and minmatar space8: new pos modules such as pleasure hubs and so on, could be you need to supply it with drugs/food/alcohol etc and in return it earns money would need to be limited to like 1 or 2 per pos though to avoid large pos 'super brothels' being built en-mass in systems to make huge isk this income should be small in comparison to moon mining etc9: some form of cyno jamming as in 00, lowsec is becoming blobbed with caps possibly only the system that an alliance has 'godfather' status could be cyno jammed would be part of the upgrades available to system overlords (this also isnt popular, but as above i wont remove it possibly a way to avoid supercap use in lowsec instead dependent on security)10: better ore, better missions etc, to keep the isk warriors coming in despite the riskalot of people are saying how there arnt enough people coming to lowsec, but people need to have a reason to go there im not interested in getting more carebears to wander in to get ganked (yes im a pirate, but i prefer a fight), what id like to see is more organisations fighting for turf gang wars, pirate factions fighting each other, or real opportunities for anti pirates to go in and wage war against their hated enemieswe need a deeper immersion for lowsec, bring it on please, make lowsec the dark and dangerous underbelly that society loves to hate lowsec shouldnt be a dangerous version of hisec, just as 00 isnt a no concord version of hisec it should be a seperate experience in itself"
"congratulations on an offensive attitude and a worthless post."
"this is a suggestion to augment the current sov system and completely replace moon mining. i originally posted this on the pl internal forums. if you are confused the example should help.the requirementsspace must be: easy to understand for new players. offer day-to-day conflict and content. offer interesting opportunities for counterplay. accessible to large and small groups.to do this it will have to be:easy to take from others (see justifications below). valuable to hold because it has intrinsic value (like a tech moon). valuable to individuals in the alliance (bottom up<U+FFFD> like rats). differing and uneven in value (creates conflict). accessible to any number of players in any ship.we should:augment existing mechanics, wholesale replacements rarely work.the mechaniccapturing sovereigntyholding at least 50% of the inbound stargates captures a system. systems are captured from the outside. to capture an inbound stargate an alliance ship must enter <U+FFFD>capture mode<U+FFFD> within 100km of the stargate. --- a player must be in capture mode on the gate for at least 150 minutes to capture it. more players do not increase the speed.--- a player in capture mode cannot warp, jump, or cloak and stays in this state for 120s after exiting capture mode--- leaving 100km at any point removes exits you from capture mode. you may not re-enter capture mode for 120 seconds.--- entering capture mode in high or low sec globally flags you criminal (not concordable, just shootable).any defender on the stargate in capture mode cancels out all attacking ships in capture mode. capture speed is reduced by a percentage equal to the percentage of adjacent systems held by the attacking alliance. --- the attacker may remove this penalty if the dust players capture the majority of the planets for them.while a gate is not being captured its capture timer falls at 2x real time. (e.g. 2 minutes fall off for every minute that passes). you may not start a capture of a system without adjacency excepting if: --- you capture the ihub/station.--- the system is bordered by npc space.capturing stations and moon mineralsstations and ihubs are taken through the old system<U+FFFD> but loosing sov disables any upgrades and the passive income source. --- systems where sov and stations are held differently are freeports for docking.minerals are now obtained from a customs agency on the moon (in a compressed form). minerals are mined (as in mining barge mined) from the moon at this waypoint. only a player of the holding alliance may gather these minerals. they build to a maximum with in about 3 days, and are depleted completely within about 4 hours for a single player (intended to be a group activity).exampleexample_mapin the above picture g-73 may not be captured as all adjacent systems are owned by the same alliance (tilch). in the above picture brick may capture tjm-jj or ad-5b8 since it has adjacency. to capture ad-5b8 brick must hold 2 of the following 3: ad-5b8 gate in ubx-cc<U+FFFD> ad-5b8 gate n g-73mr, ad-5b8 gte in 54-mf6 brick cptures tjm-jj at a 50% rate (2/4 adjacent held) taking 300 minutes (5 h<U+043E>urs)justificationssov should be easy to takeeasy provides conflict and content. when space is hard to take (like the current system) little groups are butted out and so are little fights. this is why there are a bunch of **** pot alliances in npc space and low sec. the current sov system encourages a fight once a week for a given system, and it is generally not because the system is valuable. moons on the other hand (easy to take if undefended) encourage huge fights, and frequent ones at that. requiring active, bottom up investment in gathering moon resources offers great opportunities for small gang harassment and fights. like the eve of old you now need to protect your mining op, ratters etc. space that is easy to defend encourages the most brutal and effective tactics in eve, boring the other guy out. when you have to constantly defend your borders against the \"solo rifter\", there is very high incentive to say **** it to space you don't care about.capturing a system from the outsidea system being captured from the outside provides great counterplay possibilities, and also adds a whole new element of geography to eve. it also helps break up le blob. coalitions also loose some of there oomph when a five-man gang can capture your system. you need to actively defend space. border regions would become conflict drivers. i sincerely hope to see border regions in a constant state of flux.space should be inherently valuablebecause that creates incentive for both taking and holding it. there needs to be great risks and rewards in eve, it is what makes the games so rewarding to start with. this said players need some sense of security, which is why stations are captured through the old, hard to take system."
"please consider publishing csm meeting minutes in a format suitable for reading, rather than printing.such as epub or fictionbook.two most common elements in the universe are hydrogen and stupidity. --<U+FFFD>harlan ellison"
"low sec is fun and fine. i like the anticipation when i go into low sec to ninja plexes. yeah, i get blown up but sometimes me and a friend do the blowing up.now - an issue might could be made for all that nice ore sitting unused in low sec... but that is for lack of a decent hauler that can deal with low sec. not the fact low sec needs to be \"safer\".please... low sec and wormholes are the funnest places to be at the moment."
"just a little idea that would make my life as an industrialist easier, because i am lazy. when i want to build an item i click on the \"show info\" of the bpo to see if ii can realy build it. example how it is now:manticore blueprint + industry 5+ frigate construction 4+ caldari starship engineering 1+ rocket science 1let us say it is effective to build this, if you have caldari starhip engeneering at level iv. because of the little green (+) and red (-) symbols i can see that i can build it, but i do not see the skill level i have now.so i have to visit my character window to look up the skill level. so i would like to have my current skill level shown in the show info.+ industry 5 (you v]+ frigate construction 4 (you iv)+ caldari starship engineering 1 (you iii)+ rocket science 1 (you iv)that would just save some time looking up skills. as a second thing i would like to see for what i could use an item.i already can see that for skills and would like to have same for production items.item x is needed to build a, b, c or d."
"the 'better ui' thoughts put forward are the best ideas i have seen from the community to improve eve since i started playing.well done and a big thank you to all who have suggested ways to improve it.let's hope ccp act on them."
"so, let me get this straight. you all want to see a ship that can haul rigged ships, not launch them, and possibly have a jump drive?is there some reason a freighter or jump freighter is out of the question? by making this a 'variant' it will still have the same material requirements, if not more, making it even more expensive than current freighters. and not to mention you can very easily fit rigged battleships inside a freighter."
"well, here's the thing. currently, the only way to fit assembled/rigged ships into a freighter is courier contracts, which requires either someone you trust, or an alt. it is a colossal pain in the ass for logistical purposes.this ship will streamline the process. and an eventual tech 2 variant would be jump capable but have a ship transport bay.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"+1 more for return of jukebox.download option would be agreeable."
"i totally disagree for a simple reason: why should miners be ripped off from good mindlinks, when pvpers get theirs for a much cheaper price? 50m back in the day was reasonable (with other links 5-10m). 1.5 billion makes it so rare, that no one will want it.a side effect of making this link cheaper is lower ore prices, as mining fleets will mine faster and more efficiently."
"miners don't need it and can't use it. it's for fleet booster when you run a mining fleet, supposedly in leadership position of an industrial corp. a 5% mining implant for individual miners cost 120 mil each. it's not unreasonable for you to spend 1.2 bil (jita sell price, not 1.5 bil) just one time for a non-combat fleet booster, when your miners spend 120 mil for each implant in their head. you don't have to get it, not everyone is ready for leadership position."
"\"everyone can make mistakes, and everyone can get a bt full of themselves from time to time. that is hardly cause for a call for resignation of either his csm postion or his ceo position.\"guess you would say the same about the ceo's of lehman brothers and aig...."
"i am sure hitler was full of himself too, would you excuse him?also the directors of the fake moon landing, where probably full of themselves, would you forgive them?also the first person to screw a monkey and give humans aids was probably full of himself, would you just let that off the hook too?"
"topic moved from general discussion forum."
"when you start making real life comparisons about a video game and expecting the same standards of accountability in a video game designed for backstabbing, extortion and so forth then you're clearly taking it a bit too seriously.if somebody gave me 350,000,000,000 isk and ccp took it all away i'd bloody well be asking them if i couldn't keep just a little bit of it too. even if just to keep on putting bounties on clear, bad poasting forum alts."
"please don't try to compare apples to oranges.ceo's of lehman brothers and aig began their endeavors with criminal intent.kel was put in an awkward position by the real culprit. at what point do you stop defending a friend and take the side of the prosecution?i truely don't feel kel's position was out of greed rather than over the deviation of process and what's considered (based on the limited info he had on hand) what's breaking the rules and what wasn't.this petition does not serve anything. however, kel's recent experience should be looked at as a learning experience. not just for kel but all corp leaders regardless if they are csm or not."
"he was simply too deep in the forest, to see the trees. nothing more.can we move on now?destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"in all honesty, next csm should consist of malcanis and clones of malcanis only.and probably mag's too. [quote]the more i know about humans, the more i love animals.[/quote] ain't that right"
"i rest my case. view the latest eve online developments and other game related news and gameplay by visiting ranger 1 presents: virtual realms."
"make lowsec better darker not only for pirates and criminals but also for people who prey on the bad guys, vigilantes, antipirates, whatever you want to call them make it a real career choice"
"+1 to the missile speed and making sniping more viable. its sad that guns can snipe at very long ranges and hit well with instant damage. while a missile boat cant! +1 to cruise/torp changes.funny useless boats. cerberus. another one is the corax. raven i"
"i've been a missile user for years now, but i then switched for hybrids... and now i have more sp in gunnery than i have in missiles.well..they need a buff, that's certain.the solution offered of things increasing exponentionally with distance fits perfectly with the long-range caldari style, create counters, and solves a lot of issues with missiles.i entierly agree with op. except for the fact that stealth bombers are also using torpedoes with some efficiency, not only the golem. (but t2 torpedoes are still useless)"
"i'm a carebear at heart and i no longer have a problem with this. i skills up enough to where i could use a t2 survey scanner and i just keep an eye on my cargo hold to know how around how much ore is left. a little subtraction is all that's required to keep your lasers on task :)"
"this is debating the meaning of a word here.'consent' is explicitly engaging in an activity. like having sex. you and i agree on a course of actionfor me, clicking the button is not 'consenting to pvp'. i don't see it that way. i don't agree that i should be on the receiving end of the ammunition you so generously send my way.however, although i do not consent to pvp per se, i don't have a problem with it. i can and do accept the consequence. you emerge from the murky depths of space and start shooting me? hey, it's living in the big city. it is what will happen. that is why i consider the boat being lost when i click 'undock'. i don't need an 'are you sure' reminder. it's a given that someone is out there, waiting for the opportunity. if you know 'they' are out there, what's the point of complaining about it?i don't believe i'm contradicting myself. i can accept a consequence of an action without necessarily consenting to it. you came and blew up my orca. did i consent to that? no sir, i did not. does it mean i'm going to mope in a corner and mewl about all the bad people in this place and how they should not be able to do that to me, poor space miner? that day will never come, don't even remotely hope for it. i've lost ships before, i'll lose many more. is it convenient? not is not. what's the answer to that problem? get a new ship and carry on. what else are you going to do? a lot of whining in coms, moping in local, shaking with rage, sending mail [i can't believe people do that] to the guy blowing up your boat complaining about the fact they attacked 'unprovoked'? it does not change a damn thing. you lost a boat, you need a new one. get a new one, carry on.i don't have the slightest problem with that, however, clicking the button of and by itself does not mean i consent to that course of action.that's all i wanted to say. i'm just using many words to do that"
"i like this idea, though it's been so long since i've played them that i barely even remember it. that said, having that extra faction increase would be handy. +1"
"jalxan,yeah, those agents definitely need to come out of retirement and get a promotion.thank you very much for giving support to this proposal.dmc"
"man, we could have so used this earlier today, when we had over 200 targets on screen...+1 for me. i wish i could plus it more."
"josef djugashvilis : thanks for your nice comments.jalxan : i know, i know... the more time goes by, the more i think that devs should really start thinking of these ideas..guys, keep supporting my ideas. that's the best we can do for the moment.. (since i doubt the csm helps much.. )"
"that, and you may be able to fit in more ships, rather than less. as for launching into space, you can technically do that with unassembled ships already. i remember someone with an orca jetting about 60 ships at a time as part of a mass-ship giveaway spree. and of course, there's the fact that i've jettisoned 50 packaged shuttles into space for my fellow corpmates to participate in a special exercise. either way, what i'm saying is that having the ability to jettison wouldn't be that special."
"agreed. especially when you consider that if someone's willing to invest the ridiculous amount of isk and time to build a capital ship fleet inside a c1-c4 wormhole, they should be allow to enjoy the safety of their defense.as well, if we remove the caps, they're going to cause problems with capital ships entering high-sec, and we already know what happened when capitals first showed up in high sec :p+1"
"+1 supported. i rarely go into wh space but i would not want it turned into another version of a nullsec blobfest"
"supported, no changes to wh mechanics, they are one of, if not, the best designed and well balanced components of the game."
"right, but let's not forget: pvp leadership boosters have it much, much cheaper. also let's not forget that i believe the mining foreman mindlink is the most expensive implant on the market, period. and that is by a wide margin! even more than those legendary snake sets."
"not true. snake omega is 1.5 bil, and that's for just one implant out of the whole set. some cosmos implants cost upward of 3 bil, and that's for combat ships. the cosmos mining implant cost over 1.2 bil for 5% mining amount, and that's for individual miners, not 1 for the fleet. relatively few people run cosmos missions, so supply is low. but that aside, pvp mindlinks are cheaper because demand for mining mindlinks are larger in comparison. supply is the same. information warfare link in particular is dirt cheap, because information warfare is currently a joke. it's just market adjusting for itself.implants can cost a lot. mining foreman is far from being the most expensive one, especially since it's one for a whole fleet instead of per person. in the end, they're optional.you can take comfort in knowing that for every mining fleet not running mining foreman, mineral prices is a bit higher. regardless of whether this one time investment is worth it to you, you benefit from the resulting mineral prices."
"i don't necessarily agree with 100% of the suggestions you make, but for the most part this is very interesting"
"these are suggestions from various places, some mine some others,just put into some context and hopefully for more people and ccp to build on to create a great lowsec gameplay so all comments and ideas are welcome"
"this is still the best compilation of lowsec improvements"
"oh wow, missiles to hybrids... why do you choose the worst weapon systems instead of the fotm ones?that aside, yeah, this would be one way to give cruises a reason to exist. although something needs to be done for these rage torps you mentioned. between their short range and newly increased explosion radius, they have issues. seriously, i never know why ccp decided rage torps needed even bigger exp radius then they had."
"it seems to me, that boosters are rarely used outside of pvp.this is a shameif there were non-combat boosters, a lot more people would be using them early in their eve career making a lot more people more familiar with boosters generally, and hopefully increase the turnover of pvp boosters as they progress from indy to pvp.so, i propose that new boosters be created for non-combat usage to encourage booster use generally.this may also increase the value of null space which contains the good gas - which would be a good thing generally."
"not a terrible idea, though of course they would still be illegal in hisec."
"synth boosters are legal in hisec, but demand is low because of where most of the combat takes place, why use synth boosters when you can use improved or stronga lot of indy takes place in highsec, so synth boosters for non-combat would be far more popular because of this situation"
"still relevant."
"not agreeing with any specifics but thumbs up for more iteration on pi.\"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"*activate csm attention module*"
"+1 but only for \"cancel\" job - changing delivery isn't needed, only cancelling.delivery puts the item into a hangar, and there are already ways of securing hangars, so delivery opening it up to theft is fine.restricting delivery would just open up a diffe"
"the biggest shame is that it's been like this since pos was introduced, and no one has ever really considered the impact this has on new player retention.just imagine is a corp could recruit some guy who's trying out eve, give him access to blueprints and let the guy build frigates and cruisers from the corps bpo's, get people involved in an entirely different aspect of eve that otherwise, requires either their own investment and finding public slots or, creating their own alt corp."
"as someone with an orca alt that is maxed out except for the mindlink, i have to say it really is just an issue with supply and demand like others have said. there is a lot of demand for those things because they are very very effective. pvpers do get implants that are similarly expensive, and miners have much cheaper implants available to boost their mining effectiveness if they really must have them(which they should, if they're worth their salt).don't get me wrong, i would love mind links to be cheaper, so my alt could buy one. but that's purely for selfish reasons. besides my own want of the mind links i see no reason to make them more available. miners need end game implants as well after all.\"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"kelduums an utter tool but he wasn't acting from any kind of csm position, just from a \"i'm a bloody tool\" position"
"+1.but... he's teaching them how to create dramas. isn't that how to really play eve ?"
"i agree with the concept but very little of your applications making faction ships illegal in high sec would break the balance of the game tremendouslyi'm giving a +1 for the idea of revamping low sec hopefully we can see some more fitting ideas come into play"
"many people think it says pirate ships and mods illegal in hisec, what it says is illegal to sell them in hisec also, if people like the concept but not these specific ideas, please post some, that is the point of this thread, get ideas built up"
"at the end of the day, there's no one who can say that cruise missiles are balanced. they are comparable in every way to any other weapons platform, but lower damage against small targets and the delay.but it's even more simple than that. the delay. just the delay. without something, anything to make up for it cruise missiles are and will always be a bad, sub-optimal solution.edit: another fun fact for everyone's digestion: i was informed today that the incursion group i've just joined doesn't allow any caldari ships in ther inucrsions except the naga or rokh in emergencies when they can't find anyone else. this is partially on overall problem with caldari ships, obviously, but you can see that this is just another loss for missile boats."
"i like it +1ocd booster ( for market traders )devils hand booster ( for idle hands while afk mining )eagle eye booster ( for pi related matters )the list goes on"
"hesitantly supported. it's another market for people to exploit. so long as the resources for making these new boosters can't be gathered in highsec i am game for the idea.\"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"insta undock can solve that. not undocking can also solve being ganked at an undock. bombs also have to travel a certain distance before exploding which give you time to warp off. sentries surrounding the stations can also be a deterrent to bomber pilots. also any friendlies can kill bomber pilots."
"pob - player owned billboardeve game item that could be anchored or rented near system jump gates.details:1: item that can only be anchored near system jump gates.2: limited number allowed per jump gate, similar to player corp offices at npc stations.3: limited time duration. (1week)4: placement or rental fee/tax for anchoring paid to empire state/concord/sov controlling corp-alliance.5: pob's would display player generated advertisements in addition to default system/game options available via menu.benefits:1: enhances player affected sandbox to areas the player lives.2: potentially could reduce anchored can spamming at system jump gates."
"benefits: seeing dickbutt.jpg every or every-other system. how could that not possibly be bad for the game..."
"as has been said so eloquently before: +2"
"hi guys,my propose is to have us being able to haul our other clones. e.g. you are in talisman clone and you have other clone with snake/crystal/nomad/halo which you might wanna move it to other system/station.at current state in order for us to move our other clones we have to jump into said clone even if we don't want to use it. and than 24hrs later for the other clone and again 24hrs later for the rest. so i say in order for us to haul our other clone. we need a \"clone vats\"m3 that will be able to input in the hauler (blockade runner). that is all m asking for do comment guys much appreciate it. thkz for your time."
"proposing a change to the game because a lone pilot made a mistake is bad game design.summary of eves last four expansions:"
"the barriers to entry into the booster business are high, consider the following:drug labs can only be on pos in 0.3 and below.gasses for illegal boosters are only available in limited areas of low and null/sov space.the bpc's for making all boosters do not drop in hisec.the skillbooks for reducing side effects of booster use are only available in null.synth booster gas can be found in very few hisec ladar sites in small amounts, but the gas still needs to be processed and the boosters manufactured.adding boosters which are more useful in hisec will hopefully create more demand generally across all types and strengths, and perhaps give this excellent component of the game the emphasis it deserves."
"can you give some examples of non-combat boosters? other than for mining yield/cycle times and propulsion boosters (which would be hard to justify due to propulsion being linked to the ship/modules, not pilot sobriety), i can't really think of cases where a drug booster would be implementable."
"synth autobot - station trader booster, automatically 0.01 isk all your orders."
"holy ****, is this thread still going on?got to applaud the dedication i suppose. any dev time spent on wis content is better than what we've been getting recently. so i change my previous not supported... to supported.\"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"having read pretty much the full account, i don't agree with the op.kelduum has legitimate concerns with the way the security team operates, he is well within his rights to question their lack of oversight."
"dueling mechanics are now up and running, so why don't all the current csm members grab a battleship. fit it out the best they can with expensive mods etc. form a fleet and try and take on all the players.they pick a system, form up in secret on the agreed day and at the set time undock, and accept every dual that comes their way. and see how long they last. podding allowed of course."
"because it would be far too much effort :)"
"and because one person in a well fit caracal can kill a battleship as long as they have enough ammo.\"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"effort is bad thing"
"i have always thought this is a fantastic idea. especially if you could haul other people's clones aswell. it would make life for n00bs trying to get to nullsec much much easier. you would leave one clone in a corp mates carrier and they would move it and then you could just jump clone to it later (not whilst it's in the carrier of course.then your encroaching on the rorqual and other caps territory). imagine the hilarity of killing a ship that had multiple other people's clones in it. it would be fantastic!\"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"i would like to get my mouse over a ship / pod for quick info back please. it seems it was removed in the retribution 1.1 patch and i used it a lot. it works for planets etc but not ships anymore."
"and miss the hilarity that ensured by your error? never!in all seriousness though, we've all made mistakes, some that could have been avoided by an 'are you sure?' window. however, because eve doesn't hold your hand every step of the way, interesting and unexpected circumstances can arise.for instance an 'are you sure?' button would have prevented a titan from jumping on his own rather than bridging his fellows. the result: one of the biggest bouts of carnage yet :p"
"sorry, no. there's already an abort button explicitly for this purpose.if you were proposing a pop up for when you were about to undock with an out of date clone, i would be cool with that. in fact i would support it readily. but no to this. you already get plenty of warning.\"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"mining related boosters as you mention for yield, cycle.industrial related may be higher chance of a t2 bpc, faster manufacturing, me/pe boosts for bpo copying.trade related may be a reduction in sales tax on completion of trade perhaps.perhaps in highsec missions, a booster could effect the missions offered, or provide additional lp or isk.maybe boosters which help both ends of the spectrum, like ship warp speed, scan probe deviation, duration in space, strength increase? perhaps lower costs / increased speed of locator agents?some of these would be trivial to do because they fit within the archiecture allready applied to boosters, others would be more complicated and there may be issues with duration and overlap say with a 10 run job that lasts 10 days, but the synth booster only lasts 14 hours. do they get the whole run boosted? or would only the first item be produced with the bonus, etc etc etcthe vision is to bring boosters into the mainstream so even if there is only one or two boosters added, and they really only help players below five million skill points, that may generate enough momentum to take boosters from being an elite pvp niche to what i think they should be, up there with implants"
"nice idea lowsec need more deep :)atm i only recognise lowsec when im travelling into 00+1 thumps up"
"no actual words to add so: +1"
"+1 not being able to haul clones around seems like a technical issue rather than gameplay one. especially as this would create more traffic for groups that do logistics work."
"it happened with the recent patch wednesday.i cant remember the number but my info window says version: 8.21.486727i have my drone list so both the in space and in bay drop down lists are open / expanded. it used to be when you launched drones they would just move down into the in space plane. now when i launch drones, the window vanishes for a second then comes back with both drop down lists collapsed. the drones are under the in space section, the section is just now collapsed.managing drone aggro is a pain since i am having to re open the drop down menu every time i launch drones. i currently do not have drones grouped on the ship i am currently using. not sure if that matters.i wanted to check and see if anyone else is having this problem before i open a ticket. if other people have been having the problem or there is a work around let me know.. glitch or not it should be addressed,thanks"
"locking this because it belongs in the issues feedback thread:"
"agreed"
"bug. will be fixed at downtime."
"shameless friday bump"
"i hope this gets put in game."
"i was fortunate in that when i started, i joined a group of folks i played a different game with and therefore had already earned their trust, i (my main) would not be the industrialist i am today if not for early access to build stuff. i mean it's not really that hard to make it beceo & director = can cancel anythingregular corp member = can cancel their own jobs only.is it?o/cellydon't mistake fact for arrogance, supposition for fact, or disagreement for dismissal. perception is unique in that it can be shared or singular. run with the pack if you wish, but think for yourself. a sandwich can be a great motivator."
"+1 from me as well.i have been the ceo of my own small solo corp for a while as well as a part of one mid sized industrial corp. while i did gain their trust over time and am still on good terms with them i have felt that its hard for new players to get i"
"totally agreed.on a related note, can you maybe add a full role revamp to this? for example, i would love to get a role that can boot members from corporation, that aren't directors or ceo's. in multi-thousand person corporations, this significant flaw in corporation management makes it hard to deal with troublemakers."
"i'd really rather get this very easy-to-fix, focused issue fixed first, which can't be hard to fix as described in previous posts...... and then sort out the mess that is roles in general, which will no doubt take ages."
"here are a few of the ideas that i've posted about recently, the description of this forum section leads me to believe that i should also link them here for council review. i hope everyone likes :)in-game api integration and time logged auditinghelios/covert ops balancingexplorer class ship (between frigates and cruisers)thanks!"
"corporations declare war. individuals declare vendetta!i hope to get a discussion on the possibility of ending war evasion by having concord allow us to declare vendetta on individuals.this would allow privateers to legally shoot botters and carebears hiding in npc corps.mechanics would be similar to the existing war dec system:1. aggressor pays a fee to concord to be able to engage in hostilities within a 24 hour wait period.2. only applies to individuals outside a player corporation.3. a war decced individual who joins a corp transfers the war dec to the corp. (just as a corp joining an alliance would transfer the dec to the alliance). 4. the war decced individual who joins the corp should still be war decced himself.5. corp members leaving a corp during a war will not carry the war dec with them unless they are individually war decced.edit: a noob-exception clause could be added:6. a character younger than 1 month cannot be war decced. (just as you get to close rookie-chat after 1 month)everyone else should have no reason to be able to escape conflict. they keep telling me in the ads that this was a cold dark place, and that's why i subscribed.edit: 7. individuals in a corp cannot wardec others without proper privileges. to wage a personal war without the corp's permission, the individual must leave the corp/form his own corp.justifications:1. war-dec evasion is an exploit. 2. this allows players to kill players who hide in npc corps.3. encourages more team play, and possibly revitalizes low and null-sec industry.4. brings back the old industrialist, who takes risks and ventures into dangerous regions for high profits. discourages and effectively ends \"risk-free\" gameplay.possible consequences:1. to escape high-sec griefing, players will have to band together, join alliances, move into low and null-sec, where rule of law is player-enforced.2. anti-social players who refuse to have anything to do with others will be eliminated.3. better organisation of high-sec piracy and counter-piracy.i'd like the community's thoughts on this, and i hope to refine this into a proper proposal over time. no anti-carebear swearing please."
"other possible clauses:outbidding a wardec.lore wise, the war dec system is essentially bribing concord. perhaps it should go 2 ways, so that the defender can outbid the aggressor and have concord declare the war void.so... it could run like this:assuming it costs 500m to dec a certain party.party a pays concord 500m to war dec party b.party b sees party a's 500m and matches them 500m in protection money to concord.party a then raises the fee by paying concord another 500m. the war continues. no refunds for anyone.party b can pay concord more protection money to block the war.and so on...of course blocking a war from a does absolutely nothing to stop a war from c or d..."
"do you envisage any kind of limit on how many times or for how long a single individual can be \"wardecced\" in this way?"
"this mechanic will only dramatically push up prices on a variety of services we take granted; red frog (and other corp) hauling, ore-needing manufactured modules, meta 2-5 modules, you name it. hulkageddon will become a serious problem with this, and in case you haven't noticed lately, prices have heavily inflated over the past couple of years because of a combination of hulkageddon and with the reduction of high-sec botting. if this game becomes too isk-expensive to play, semi-casual and casual players will stop playing. as well, it would turn off a lot of non-pvpers from playing, since some people are happy enough with mining and missioning with friends.we should respect those who don't like pvp, and should limit the ways they are put into danger. if people want to fight, they should go to low or nullsec. the war-dec system, and the new bounty-hunting systems are more than enough."
"the primary reason for the price increase is because ccp didn't increase the drop rate when they added a bunch of missions way-back-when. as a result, the price has steadily gone up.+1 for actually understanding the issue.-1 to ccp for borking up the loot tables (think faction tower bpc's anyone?)the supply / demand argument is only valid if there was a real, steady supply of these.hrolt ceo live free; die proud"
"this. :)"
"seems like that entire article was written in the \"ccp is right\" instead of the \"ccp is probably right, but has been wrong before\". way that most articles talked about this."
"here's a simple thought; re-balance the shielding resistances on the four different racials of the existing drones, based on their damage type?for example, hammerhead ii's have a default resistance of 60% exp / 40% kin / 20% therm / 0% em. with the changes, since the hammerhead does thermal damage, it should have base resistances of 60% therm, with the others determined by both relativity to existing npc tanking amounts, and relative to their historical prejudices.proposed resistances:amarr (em): 60% em / 40% kin / 20% therm / 0% expcaldari (kin): 60% kin / 40% em / 20% exp / 0% thermgallente (therm): 60% therm / 40% exp / 20% em / 0% kinminmatar (exp): 60% exp / 40% therm / 20% kin / 0% emthis change would affect how these would be used in pvp, but most importantly, this would give a huge boost to drones and their ability to resist traditional missioning npc's damage toward drones. this will mean that if you're facing caldari npc's, they'll be dishing out and be receiving mostly kinetic damage, and thus your kinetic drones will be more effective against them."
"it's a promising idea which would help alleviate the issue of players hiding in npc corps to evade consequences. however you need to build in something to avoid it being abused or else it will be used for simple harassment of players rather than true vendetta. (also see malcanis's post above)"
"we should just be able to wardec npc corps."
"pretty much what my thread title says, i just had a random thought enter my mischievous mind: a module that turns a ship into a one-shot massive bomb, in sizes based on a powergrid need. in other words, it would be a superpowered smartbomb that destroys the ship instantly. in addition, it should also destroy the pilot's pod as a consequence, to make it less likely someone would use an expensive clone to do this with.alternatively, a specialized 'suicide ship' could be used. however, i feel that any ship with fitting slots should be permitted to fit one (or more) of these into a high slot. it should be balanced in such a way that one could build a fit with a single kamakazie module with a regular tank, or a full rack of such, but with little to no tank. in other words, the person would need to plan their use. the modules should only work when activated, and if the ship is destroyed prematurely, the devices will not go off. they should also be groupable, so that way you don't fire off just one when detonating, as it would be an instant effect.yes, this could be used for suicide ganks, but this could make low-sec (and maybe even high-sec) warfare much more interesting. it could have the same amount of damage as a stealth bomber's bomb for a bs-sized module, as an idea of how much power the larger variants could be. also keep in mind that if this module also destroys your capsule, it would make it hard to respond to the current firefight in a fleet fight, and useless in a solo one (except maybe as a last-second **** you gesture when you're about to lose), making such use of these devices a very strategic one.what are your thoughts? :)...and, if you like this idea, a capital ship version of this module should definitely be made, which would be awesome to see in a massive fleet fight. :d"
"i think this is too much of an \"i win\" button, it will simply decimate highsec with gangs of suicide gankers killing everything in sight.if it had an automatic -10 sec hit though it might then be used more as a strategic weapon, though i have doubts. a capital version would be a more viable option i would have thought, it would certainly liven things up a bit."
"brilliant idea, +1"
"it hink that once you get high enough drone skill you can handle the active drone swapping.however, at lower skill in drones this becomes a problem.doing blockade l3 mission can result in drones beeing 1-shoted.thus it's impossible to swap them without loosing them.and while drones cost more then mission reward it's just not worth it.i'm not saying it's broken, i'm just saying it might need a slight tweak.untill i can skill up to use more ressiliant drones i will go back to my gunboat."
"hi assembly hall,i would like to propose a small addition to the current game mechanics that will help drive small gang pvp, fix afk cloaking, and complains local. this will also stop botting.i anticipate this to be a confict driver and isk sink for eve, having a significant impact on all players in high, low, and nullsec. it will drive emergent gameplay and full utilise the sandbox.add oxygen bays to all shipseach ship will have a new, specialised type of cargohold. this cargohold will only be able to hold oxygen to prevent exploitation of this system.every minute, 1 unit of oxygen is depleted (i.e. each unit of oxygen allows a ship to be undocked for 1 minute). when a ship runs out of oxygen, the capsuleer suffocates and dies. at this point another capsuleer may board his ship (granting killrights, as this is like stealing a car from a dead man irl).this will really boost industry, isk faucets, and conflict mechanics and create exciting new situations for players.please upvote this proposal and help this change be bring in for the summer expansion!thanks,l33edit:this will also tie in with dust. you will be able to deploy commandos to assault an enemy ship and attack their oxygen bay. by swapping the oxygen for a deadly nerve gas you will be able to effectively neutralise the enemy ships crew, allowing it to be stolen!"
"this needs to be done."
"2/10 dalton"
"you are the worst."
"worst idea ever to fix a mechanic that isn't actually broken.summary of eves last four expansions:"
"o lawd"
"how about we bring back the afk-auto log off feature. but this time with an afk timer of 20 min. this way afk miners don't get kicked when the afk mine ( i usually change asteroid every 15 min).thank you."
"i think local should become like a wh local. only see people that speak there.storyline: concord had installed some, scanners next to the gates, that broadcasted the entry and exit of pilots in the systems.orconcord have them at there pos cloaky pos off grid of the gates.item used :system scanning array(it would bring it back.)that item would basically broadcast to alliance members /corp members or blues the intel to there channel.edit: after reading myself, i see that my solution my not be the best to counter afk cloaky but joe zetski's might be good and would also reduce server load. but if we remove local we will need another tool to scan down a system, that won't work in a wh due to star radiation or what ever."
"just saying, when you title3 it \"interesting ideas\" and all the links are to your own threads, it comes off a little conceited, and that can subconsciously alter someone's opinion of the ideas themselves, as a negative impression about you would reflect on all of your ideas.like communism, on paper it is almost the perfect government, lesser only to maybe a liberal/true-democatic socialism, but because of some of the atrocities the soviet union conducted (many of which the americans actually did too, but lets not egt itno that), everyone associates communism with evil.and as for the dieas, they are so-so, and incredibly low-priority, since there are viable alternatives to all, adn covops ships are horrible anyways (anyone serious uses t3's), so ill support your changes when/if ccp makesw meaningful changes to immediate needs, like pos's or corp-role-granularity."
"i personally do not condone griefing players out of the game. that is all this mechanic would truly be used for. if you want to shoot someone so badly, go find someone who is willing to fight, or unwilling in null / low sec."
"ccp: \"you dec a corp, not a player\"perhaps the longest running and most quoted dev statement in eve./thread"
"yeah, this wouldn't be abused at all. no siree."
"even though i understand the op, i have to agree with most of the posters here: bring a scanner, have a look at how much yield you get from your lasers, look at the volume of the ore you're mining, add your cycle time, and with a small mental calculus you'll get how much time you should keep your lasers running. afk mining can be comfortable, but if you want to be efficient, you'll have to keep an eye on those cycles and know when to press f1-f3 again. hope this helps you and remember: mining has maths involved!however:i'd like to see an animation of the asteroid / gas cloud i've just drained vanishing in a cloud of dust / reducing size until fading away, instead of just instantly dissapearing."
"do this do this do this !!!!!!!!!!!"
"i suggest a wifflebat fight at the next fanfest in iceland."
"easy enough to make them like bombs - can't be used in highsec. no jita bombs for you."
"this is even worse than that \"all ships should have fuel bays and operate at 1/10 capabilities when empty\" idea."
"this would ruin long-haul courier contracts unless freighters had ridiculously massive oxygen bays (similar sort of problem for miners), terrible idea."
"i fully endorse this idea. whoever does not approve it supports botting. edit:ps. in particular mining ships should have small oxygen bays to fight botting. like 15 min of oxygen, so they cannot bot with those mackinaws with huge ore bays."
"yes please, lets force all wh players to live out of highsec so they can get their oxygen fix.lets just hope something like this doesnt actually happen, since some wh player somewhere would dig up this thread, blame you, and then grief until you quit forever."
"what was the name of your goon main, again?"
"ideas for sov change mechanic,<U+FFFD><U+FFFD><U+FFFD>i have been playing eve now for a 6 years plus<U+FFFD>.<U+FFFD>i have seen many alliances come and go (and some i created myself)<U+FFFD><U+FFFD>think its time for a new approach to sov and re-population of 0.0 (and thus good fights)<U+FFFD>i want to throw a few ideas out there to get the community<U+FFFD>s view on this, (jumps into fire proof suit in anticipation of the flamers and gramma police).<U+FFFD>1. corps should be allowed to hold sov.2. the amount of sov a corp or alliance holds should be determined by a number of factors and ultimately capped per alliance registration:- the skill of the ceo.(currently the ceo skill determines the amount of players that can be held in a corporation) the amounts of players in the corp/alliance. (see above skill linked) the more sov that is held, the higher the monthly cost (sliding scale / multiplier aka you hold swathes of eve space you pay a higher price for it something similar sliding scale like war deck system) . the tax system is shifted to also allow a maximum of 10 % alliance tax if alliance is in effect, (in conjunction with lowering the value of moon goo with increasing availability across null). alliances should be limited to the space they can hold (aka as above) there should be defence bonuses for small entities that hold sov, as prior to latest sov changes your home system would be defended my swathes of towers and thus would be your <U+FFFD>capital<U+FFFD> this in turn formed a defence bonus within this system, what i am proposing would be that the <U+FFFD>home system<U+FFFD> comes back into effect, not via poses though but via a new module developed that doubled the amount of<U+FFFD> defence capabilities of that system (for example), this way you would give a bonus to smaller entities starting out and also the home system of the entity would get a bonus for defence. (after all most home systems are usually last to be taken would make for a even more interesting fight other than a straight oh well lets simply <U+FFFD>abandon the space<U+FFFD> attitude, (could also be scaled dependant on attackers something like a increase in the amount of hit points a defence structure has dependant upon the amount of dps).<U+FFFD><U+FFFD><U+FFFD>okay so what would the above do / achieve ?<U+FFFD>it would encourage more corps and smaller alliances into null sec spaceit would encourage smaller to medium size fights, (hopefully moving away from the large scale blob warfare).corps / alliances could get a foot hold and develop in null.would allow for <U+FFFD>pacts<U+FFFD> to be made and more skirmishes over spacewould help <U+FFFD>manage<U+FFFD> the issue of some alliance <U+FFFD>owning<U+FFFD> multiple regions.(they would be limited via skills/player count)will put <U+FFFD>diplomacy<U+FFFD> and cooperation back up there in eve politics and diminish the blob warfare as a \"i win\" button.would help ensure more of 0.0 is actually utilised rather than simply <U+FFFD>held<U+FFFD>.<U+FFFD>the above is not a total roadmap but more of a discussion view point, i realize that the above could upset some people especially those alliances that hold multiple regions and i guess initially some <U+FFFD>allowance<U+FFFD> would have to be made for those, and i<U+FFFD>m also sure you could get some <U+FFFD>power players/rangers<U+FFFD> saying there unhappy and treating to burn jita or some other such event (hmm think i heard that one before), but those would be replaced in time by smaller corps and alliances wanting that element of null sec that would be limited, yes there would be more <U+FFFD>coalitions<U+FFFD> and this could be formal and informal mechanic, but overall i think it would create more opportunities for small to medium scale conflict, whilst allowing smaller entity<U+FFFD>s to financially viable in null.<U+FFFD><U+FFFD>thoughts ?i would also like to get the views of any devs that read this, not on the validity of the proposal itself but on the viability to implement and develop the mechanics of doing so......."
"interesting."
"well if i had called this \"ideas i want to stay bumped\" ... you probably would have had even more negative things to say."
"i'm not sure what this is but it doesn't sound like an improvement."
"it means more than jusr \"corp roles\", basically instead of being given access to \"hangar 5\" and being allowed into every hangar 5 at every alliance pos, you could be assigned hangar 5 at only the pos on moon-5 planet-8.basically allowing corp roles to be divided up more precisely and carefully so that new members in, for instance, wormholes, can still live and participate in the same space as the older members, without the older members being forced to make their assets available to theft. it would also make new players more open to the idea of wormholes and pos living sense it wold mean they could feel safe putting something into \"their\" hangar, since that particular hangar would be open only to themselves and those they trust enough to share with, instead of the entire 300 man alliance.its something almost every low/null/wh group has been asking for for years."
"perhaps time-limits and dec immunity mechanics could be worked out to prevent perma-deccing. but i think what we really need is a way to reach out and touch someone who hides in an npc corp and uses it for \"easy mode\" gameplay."
"i'm less concerned about npc wardec immunity than i am about how cheap it is. for instance a player corp may have (say) a tax rate of 5% but for a measly further 6% you get total safety, which puts player corps at quite a disadvantage.i would say a a npc corp tax rate of around 40% - 50% would be more in order to pay for wardec immunity and maintain a reasonable differential between npc and player corps.if you were to apply the tax to all transactions, missions and mining yields that would also address some of the imbalances between high, low and null."
"one of my friends just posted this to me >_<"
"i feel like thousands of others gm's fail to do there job in supporting us as gamers of eve online if you feel the same here is where you can voice it so ccp will then check out there gm's and do a over hall of there gm staff members i for one want better service more reliable gmsbetter customer service and for them to stop saying they \"cant\" when they can i would also want them to be more aware it is us the gamers the pilots and dust soldiers and mercs who pay to play who keep the company ccp running thru us buying plex's and for us paying the monthly or yearly time remember all we run the game ccp and gms are there to support us in how the game should be will be and has been we make the game we can ruin the game just as easy biggiyceo torvaland-corp-in-space"
"ah, yes. \"scream at the universe.\" that always makes things better."
"ranting is not the best way to get your message across. i recommend using the petition system to inform them that they are doing an unsatisfactory job, if you feel they are not up to par. thank you.thread locked."
"actually, if you cancel your miner mid-cycle, it only takes a portion of that cycle's worth out of the asteroid.thus, it should be actually fairly simple for a bit of programming that should be something like this:translation to non-coders: add a simple script that once a second, checks to see if the amount of ore the module can collect in a full cycle, divided by the full cycle time, then times all that by the current cycle time, is greater or less than the amount of ore remaining on the targeted asteroid. if there's less, the script exits, shuts off the module, and announces the module is completed.that's all there is to it. of course, i don't know how the coding actually works, but this should be a fairly easy to add code if ccp decides to try it. :)"
"ccp ,please use jalxan's code. love you !- joe"
"+1i fully support your proposal. the overview as it currently stands can be a pain at times and not user friendly at all. i love the fact that it is as customiziable as it is and you do nothing to take away from that, and you are still able add many usefu"
"+1for the boobs! i do want to see station interaction between characters... maybe tabletop mini-games between players.. so i can station game while i station game."
"well plus 1 for ya !"
"what an awesome idea.logged off bittervets should also require oxygen. when you log in your titan after 3 weeks inactivity it is only fair that you should persihfrom lack of air."
"jeebus, what a crap idea.jint hikaru - miner / salvager / explorer / spacebum in the beginning the universe was created. this has made a lot of people very angry and been widely regarded as a bad move."
"this is either one of the best trolls in here, or a ill thought out, tedious, game breaking change suggestion. destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"i don't know how you hacked into ccp unifex's computer, but i'm telling on you."
"nothing wrong with any of this except....afk cloakers do all this at zero risk to themselves, so who exactly are the risk-adverse carebears here?"
"supportedfw is awful and the hate i feel for it oozes from my every pore. reset to zero!!"
"indeed, i also think these ideas could help players during big battles. beeing able to quickly target an enemy can sometimes be the key to the success. well i think so.i would love to hear from developers that they are working on it, but they remain silent.let's hope these ideas will be added in the summer 2013 expansion."
"so take cloakers off local.if they dont appear in local, then they cant dissrupt anyones nullbearing.then the residents would just have to be a little more aware of the signs of an active cloaked vessel.jint hikaru - miner / salvager / explorer / spacebum in the beginning the universe was created. this has made a lot of people very angry and been widely regarded as a bad move."
"um it's still definitely the nullbears who dock/pos up because a single none-blue turns up in local. you whine about \"afk cloakers\" having \"zero risk\" as if they should be at risk. why should they be any more at risk than you are when you're docked up weeping because there's a neutral in locak?"
"maybe we have to go back to the basic of this discussion. i for one don<U+FFFD>t think any place in eve should be 100% safe.even though i am probably more of ferenghi at heart than a klingon, i am against putting too many safety switches in thegame.but: this game (as every good and balanced game out there) is nothing more than a very complicated game of rock-paper-scissor-lizard-spock but with spaceships. almost everything can be countered, except cloaky stuff. i do respect those cloaky pilots that invest their online-time to be in system, and wait for their chance to strike. i tip my hat to them.but the major difference is the afk in this whole scenario. a mmo should be played, not merely activated.i mean you could hide a complete fleet of thousands of ships in local (i am exaggerating of course), basically by just losing one highslot on all of them. and just leave em there at a safe spot. no chance to find housands of ships. c<U+FFFD>mon. and please: of course this would not be a viable tactic, but it serves to make a point. why should it be possible to hide forever?why shouldnt there any tool / method in the game to find cloaked ships that are \"just there forever\" ?it is not a matter of local chat or whatnot. this might be a problem but it obscures and bloats the starting point of this thread: the fact that cloakies cannot be detected and found in any way. if they so prefer they can stay cloaked forever. theres no way to force them to even play the game. i repeat what i said earlier: being afk does not mean you are playing the game. but it should be vital for any success in the game that you are required to be active and playing. thus the proposal of a tool / device / whatnot to find and expose afk cloakies. hell if there was another tool to see whos afk or not in a exhumer or barge i am all for it. this is the proposal. nothing more. the rest might have to do with it, but its not the topic. that would be saying to fix railguns you have to fix lowsec, just because they are used there.imagine a cloaky in a wormhole. no way to defend against it. how balanced it that ?and again: an active cloaky pilot should always be able to easily avoind getting detected and caught. an afk pilot ? not so much....."
"i'm still pretty new but my experience so far is that when i do level 4 missions and bring out my light scout drones to kill frigates, the frigates will immediately switch targets to the drones. i can then order them back into the drone bay but that defeats the purpose of using them to counter frigates. i'm not saying those drones aren't effective but it's almost inevitable that you will lose some drones in a mission with lots of frigates unless you have crazy micro-management. i think if ccp wants us to think of drones as being expendable like ammo, they should bring the price/cost of production down a bit."
"problem: a player who has returned from a security mission offered by a locator agent receives a confusing message. specifically, they are told something to the extent of (paraphrasing) \"you realize you have not yet completed the mission i assigned you?\" and offered two choices, view mission and locator service. this may lead a player who has achieved all of the objectives to believe that there were objectives left incomplete. this can be frustrating, especially when mission objectives can already be confusing to new players.example: new player on trial account is assigned a mission to kill the npcs and bring back x item. player kills all of the npcs, and warps off, thinking the mission is complete. after making two jumps back to the mission hub, he tries to turn in the mission to the agent who happens to be a locator agent. the agent asks, \"you realize you have not yet completed the mission, right?\" new player checks the mission objectives and realizes their error. player makes two jumps back to the mission space and retrieves the item, then makes two jumps back to the mission hub. player receives the identical message from the agent, \"you realize you have not yet completed the mission, right?\" player checks the mission objectives. the look complete. there's a green check! player rants, \"this game is broken.\" and logs off. one less potential subscriber.solution: change the message to be neutral on the subject of whether the objectives have been completed or not. for example, \"hello (name) have you completed your mission yet?\" this way, there is no text which may imply that the mission objectives have not been completed."
"don't you have a check symbol when you finish a mission objectif in the mission log ?"
"yes, but i think you are forgetting what it's like to be playing eve on day one."
"1) improves game, check2) no downside, check3) effortless implementation, check4) provide entitlement for bittervets, not checked, but that's alright.+1"
"do i take this to mean you have abandoned the other thread where you posted these same ideas just 2 days ago?my criticisms that were posted over there (and which you totally failed to address in the original thread) still apply, by the way."
"wp !! ggnow let's make this post get locked. shall we ?"
"yep. locked for posting duplicate thread.16. redundant and re-posted threads will be locked. as a courtesy to other forum users, please search to see if there is a thread already open on the topic you wish to discuss. if so, please place your comments there instead. multiple threads on the same subject clutter up the forums needlessly, causing good feedback and ideas to be lost. please keep discussions regarding a topic to a single thread. isd ezwal community communication liaisons (ccls)"
"nice work jaxlan.once again, why hasn't csm/ccp looked at this and commented on it yet?????maybe we should start bugging isds or drop the forum link in every system we pass through ingame to spread the exposure? mail the current csm and upcoming candidates as well maybe?"
"it'd be nice to see the starbases come into line with stations as a whole actually. this whole thing of preparing members and people for low-sec, 0.0 and wh space should revolve around living out of a pos and not just waiting to get ore back to a real station/pos. as progression goes, you start in a station were you can get to 100% and then go backwards to 75% if you move into 0.0 without an outpost? really doesn't make sense. only answer for 0.0 is ccp want more outposts =p"
"this thread is completely sexist and i am offended by the suggestion that....nah just kidding, +1"
"as long as the oxygen bay holds enough oxygen for about 28 days of being online. because alot of people like to go on trips deep into hostile space alone and without backup and stay there hunting for long periods of time.what a dumbass idea."
"even if you get afk cloakers removed the problem will shift to leaving some sort of insanely fast frigate or interceptor that can't be caught in a random safe spot."
"as someone who has been on both ends of the \"cloaky in wh\" equation, i can tell you right now that there are ways to flush a cloaky out of one's system under certain conditions."
