"my position on this issue was very clear long before i was elected. i would be doing those who voted for a gross disservice by changing my mind without a far more powerful argument than \"a bloo bloo someone put a bounty on me\".talking (or typing) are both verbs; they are actions. it is ridiculous to say that \"mere words\" cannot be sufficient motivation for revenge and punishment when even a cursory glance at history shows that they most certainly can. or even the news; i'm pretty sure that mr bradley and mr snowden could both provide you with a very definite opinion on the subject."
"to the top.hrolt ceo live free; die proud"
"one general rule of eve, keep calm and ignore the asswipes in local"
"2 csm thats cool ;) and o/ aaaarrggthis would be usefull for alot ppl and nice for some events like the rifter party"
"i figure... we have ships that have computer systems that we can't really fathom correct? computing actions which hurl us through space at literally astronomical speeds and stopping on a dime. (well most of the time at least) so long ago when i first started playing eve i just chalked it up that the planets and other things which werent on an orbit or moving weren't doing so because of our advanced ships computers constantly calculating the drifts and such. if you think about it, it's the most logical out for this. also, i dont understand this. i pvp, so i'm not sure how pos bms are the only ones we really need. if it werent for bms we would just be crashing into each other all the time at gates and the such. that would break null sec as all you would have to do is bubble camp a gate and wait for everyone to warp to zero because you dont have a bm."
"this arguement is so dated. defending high sec ganking based on pvp eve logic makes no sense as high sec ganking has nothing to do with actual pvp. high sec ganking is science done by spreadsheets and cheap tactics. an invulnerable bump ship.a handful of trash ships that meet a spreadsheet requirement to kill a ship with a set unchangeable hp. (yes skills can change it but the gankers just calculate that). there is no skill and barely any effort; pvp logic doesn't apply.if you want to pop a frigate with plex theres nothing wrong with that in eve. the problems with high sec ganking are mostly centered around freighters.catalyst = 1.2mlight neutron ii x 8 (866k) = 6.928mmagnetic field stab ii x3 (894k) = 2.682m1mn micro warp drive x1 (80k) = 80kantimatter navy (20 per gun =160) = 80k10,970,000"
"if you read what i wrote, i mentioned that it already does. you get no insurance for suicide ganking and loot is not guaranteed."
"i'm afraid you're not making any sense. suicide ganking is still pvp, whether you like it or not. and there is still the astoundingly stupid idea that the price tag of your ship should make it immune from ten or twenty other ships just because of the price. i cannot begin to understand the flawed mind that would come up with that logic."
"i see a pattern.isk loss at time of kill: 5,194,680,000isk loss at time of kill: 5,390,880,000isk loss at time of kill: 5,585,960,000isk loss at time of kill: 7,250,960,000isk loss at time of kill: 5,987,600,000isk loss at time of kill: 13,983,000,000"
"uh.no.[catalyst, 850 dps]cormack's modified magnetic field stabilizercormack's modified magnetic field stabilizercormack's modified magnetic field stabilizer[empty med slot][empty med slot]light neutron blaster ii, void slight neutron blaster ii, void slight neutron blaster ii, void slight neutron blaster ii, void slight neutron blaster ii, void slight neutron blaster ii, void slight neutron blaster ii, void slight neutron blaster ii, void ssmall hybrid burst aerator ismall hybrid collision accelerator i[empty rig slot]that, with 6% rof and damage implants, overheating the guns, is what it takes to get 850 dps from a catalyst. obviously not cost effective. let's not go making things up to support our claims, shall we?"
"obviously what ccp need to do is have an emergency fanfest for the sole purpose of allowing each and every eve player to put decker above a dunk-tank and dunk him repeatedly. maybe put him in a clownsuit.being publicly humiliated for the fun of all involved would be the only way for him to truly show he is on our side.honestly if he can just prove hes a fun guy who cares about the spirit of the game more than what he can get out of it, well be good, and no public address can prove that, its something eh will have to prove with actions."
"dunk tank or drunk tank? i thought fanfest was all about the pub crawls..."
"i would like to start a thread asking for more choices in making . any ideas from you all to get this started into ccp's attention in adding a bigger variety."
"proof that people in highsec have no idea how the game actually works."
"no let the pubbie speak the truth. we obviously have the funds after our technetium exploitation over the last 2 years to be able to field officer fit gank ships & still profit from the gank."
"someone being hugely dishonest in a suicide gank thread?well i never thought i'd see the day"
"i have only been on one suicide gank but thought i would share the story for people that say it is too easy.the gank was lead by elo knight of bl fame.he organised for many catalysts to be fitted and placed into target system.then he organised a fleet of people to jump clone to high sec and buy the shipsthen he sent out scouts while we stayed docked.2 hours went past until we found a profitable target coming our way.undock was ordered and bump ship started bumping.quite a few people were afk by this time but no matter we still had enough this had been planned for.we got a bad warp in so we were quite a ways off.we started to burn at the freighter while elo screamed at everyone to hold fire until all were in range.some didn't listen and started shooting.then some more did.concord turned up too soon.we all died.frieghter pilot lol'd at us whilst cleaning his underpants and warped off into the sunset.so logistics, patience, numbers, discipline. doesn't take much for it all to break down and fail.going on the titan gank with elo was quicker, easier and more fun tbh.even if we had succeeded and made 200 mill each it still wouldn't be worth repeating.money at its root is a form of rationing. when the richest 85 people have as much wealth as the poorest 3.5 billion (50% of humanity) it is clear where the source of poverty is."
"1) u were just 'seasonable workers' of this trade, those who've done this for several times won't have those problems of yours.2) no, it's not nesseraly all the planning and logistics. it can be done by several, or even one man easly:a) issue invites and register 20 new accs.b) pay for one month for each of them, and ur main char, which invites were used, will receive plexes for every subscirbed acc. use them to prolong his subscription. so, u've basically got 20 new accs with 51 days on all them almost for free.c) train the minimal required skill set and use them for ganking, using allowed automating tools, like isboxer.d) after 51 days (in fact, a little earlier, so new ones would be able to finish their training to the moment previous 20 spent their subscription time) drop/delete them and repeat from a)"
"i'd like to see corporations that can make their own logo like alliances, but it's probably not feasible because of :effort: & some technical hoobyjoob that i know nothing about."
"fully agree, the logo generator has been needing an overhaul for many years now.hopefully ccp will get to it after they finish upgrading the graphics of all the ships. maybe we will be able to put these logos on corp members ships at some point too.jint hikaru - miner / salvager / explorer / spacebum in the beginning the universe was created. this has made a lot of people very angry and been widely regarded as a bad move."
"tell us more about your wonderful idea that could never be abused by anyone."
"1. so you're admitting that freighter ganking isn't as easy as you think it is.2. if it's so easy for 1 person to gank freighters, why is literally everyone doing it with with their friends?a. anyone can do this for anything, not many people bother (and certainly not for ganking freighters).b. people that actually do this enmasse tend to be of the mining variety. that fact that literally no one does this to suicide gank freighters should tell you something about the activities difficulty in setting up.c. isboxer isn't automation.d. recycling accounts is a bannable offence. if you think ccp wouldn't notice a person doing this every 51 days then you're very delusional."
"1) i've never said its easy, i was saying its not sufficiently hard to pull, in financial and organizational in terms.2) because some people have more fun (from their point of view) things to do, and others have some moral constraints (yea, a plenty have), and others just don't know thats really so easy, or just prefer to continue along their beaten path. but u don't need a lot of people doing this, as u see, just a several people with several alts each per gang. and even few such gangs can wreck sufficient havoc in trade hubs regions.c) isboxer is automation tool in the sense that he allows to simultaneously order all these alt army\"s accounts to take a specific action.d) do u work for ccp and have some insider info/statistics on that? other than that, how can u tell? currently this is a widespread practice. a lot of people create alts-salvagers, alt-scouts or small gangs of alts-carribers to farm missions quickly and without cooperation with real players, for free. i don't know about how easly my hypothetical scheme could be pulled, though - thats a lot of accs, being recycled constantly, so may be noticed quickly. but it seems like a solid approach to form cheap and easly managed one man suicide gang army, so why not? rmt has been battled for years, still for no avail. so there are always some loopholes general public don't know.about. and thats why something should be done about this to make such abusings not viable."
"alt recycling was a widespread practice, but now there is literally no reason to bother doing it because running at -10 is trivially easy. couple this with the fact that there has been several high-profile bannings over the practice, which leads me to ask; do you have insider information? if not, your argument has no basis.isboxer isn't an automation tool because it requires consistant player input, a bot requires zero human input. your argument has no basis.the reason you never see people solo ganking freighters is because it's insanely difficult to run 15 catalysts, a mach/sfi, a scan alt, an agressor alt & a freighter all at once & pull off flawless freighter ganks. go on, try it. tell us how easy it was for you.freighter ganking has been perfected by us over the course of the last year. it took a year to perfect the art, but somehow it's not sufficiently hard enough to do (have you even tried organising your own freighter gank?).i used to have a saying: people in highsec choose to be victims through refusal to implement the counters & mitigating actions available to them. some things never change."
"people have been asking for multiple character training on account for a long time now, so this feature was brought in. it's not intended to be a longterm thing, it's more for the people that want to train a bunch of cyno alts or something similar (trade alt anyone?). i particularly like the part where you call out a math alaert after having said ccp makes hundreds of thousands, if not millions per year. a little math would give you a rough estimate of their base income from eve subscriptions so you wouldn't have to make such a silly statement."
"tldr: minigames for carebearsbackgroundi played eve when it first came out in 2003, again in 2008, and again now. in the other cases, i got bored fairly quickly and i'm pretty close to that point now.i like the idea of eve. i like the cutthroat hyper capitalist scammy pvp based mmo. eve is probably the only pvp based mmo of any consequence since ultima online, in fact, but i don't have the time/interest to play that kind of mmo. for my pvp needs i usually play something with a more structured format with known time commitments, like lol or left 4 dead.however, eve is also the only mmo with anything approaching a proper economy. that part of the game does definitely interest me, and there isn't really anything like it anywhere else. but there's no content for industrialist/carebears. you can mine, but that's boring. really mind numbingly boring. which would be okay if you could do fun things with the minerals, but you bring them back and either sell them immediately (a few minutes of fun looking up sale prices) or refine them (literally a button press) and then sell them or build something with them (by loading up blueprints and... pressing a button).higher level mining with a group is possibly less boring, but i wouldn't call it fun either.the problem is that the whole process from start to finish involves no creative effort or strategic thought beyond finding good prices. but it doesn't have to be like that! it's possible to make the process far more interesting.an example of an mmo that has taken a stab at this sort of thing is a tale in the desert. some of the high level crafting essentially requires playing minigames, where if you win you make the product you expected, and if you screw up you lose some amount of raw materials. see this youtube video of alloy creation, for instance.it reminds me a lot of the probe scanner in eve, in fact....proposali'm not actually suggesting this happen specifically, but just to give a flavor for what i'd like to see:imagine something like the probe scanner, but instead of a solar system you had a look at some raw veldspar. in order to refine veldspar, you'd need to find a preexisting \"seed crystal\" in the ore. you'd be able to \"ping\" the raw veldspar with an ore probe, which would return the distances to possible seed crystals from wherever you set the probe (but not the vector from the probe to the seed crystal), similar to the probe scanner, but you can only do one probe at a time and old probes don't move. once you manage to triangulate a 100% lock on a crystal, you can refine the batch of veldspar in to trit.if you had a high refining ability, you'd get a certain number of starting probes on a batch for free. but if you run out, you have to burn through some number of ore for each additional one (to represent loss of material as you keep shoving probes in to a pile of raw ore), or scrap the batch, recover what ore is there, and start over. you'd also have a certain \"fuzziness\" to your probes' readouts based on your refining skill, similar to the probing skill. and you'd only be able to do a certain number of veldspar per batch, so the sheer time it takes to go through a large batch of ore would be reflected in the price of trit (which is the main reason i'm saying i'm not suggesting this specifically, as i don't know what sort of effect this'd have on trit prices, and through that the rest of the game for all other occupations).perhaps larger batches are possible with better skills. perhaps larger batches have higher stakes, with fewer seed crystals that are harder to find, and more ore cost if you use up your free probes. maybe you can't scrap the batch and start over for large enough batch sizes. it adds a risk/reward element to refining based on material efficiency and player time and the soft skills of players.in short, i think it makes something that's just a single boring button press right now in to an actually interesting game mechanic, and one that's well suited to the sort of casual player that makes up the carebear population. each batch wouldn't take more than a few minutes for an experienced refiner.hell, you could have people play bejeweled with no ante/risk involved at all. just connect 4 and turn veldspar into trit. it'd still be an improvement....conclusioni really want to play a carebear industrialist, as it fits my time and interest, but it's just not fun :/ this is just a direction i'd like to see ccp put some resources in to.also sorry for the wall of text :) i at least proofread it for you guys :p"
"i am a bit sad because i have just discovered that my ideas are not in the list of the 1363 suggestions submitted by players in csm8's \"reasonable things\" crowdsourcing initiative and of course not in the list of 99 reasonable things that now need to be voted.i guess i should have discovered this thread earlier..\"99. every list in the game should have a filter box.\" seems to match (in a way) some of the ideas of this thread but what about the smart filters ? i thought contacting a csm member months ago was enough to promote my ideas during the csm meetings, it seems i was wrong.sad sad reality.."
"sad if you actually do believe that we will limit ourselves solely to the 99those are to help us have our top points, the ones that the most players have shown an interest in fixing.you wrote to csm's before, do it again. in the next two weeks would be a prime indow of opportunity. find out who is active, who is willing to liste, who is going to iceland or plans on telecommuting to take part even if they aren't there in carna. or you can give up and feel sad, but i don't think that is the right choice.mmike azariah ----<U+FEFF> <U+FFFD>|(<U+30C4>)/<U+FFFD>"
"i'll try and put this in a way you can't possibly misunderstand:no."
"malcanis, why do you assume i would expect you to take this important issue to ccp? i never said that once. thankfully, you are not the only csm member and that your 'term' is limited. especially given the fact i already pointed out, you do not seem to even comprehend the stated purpose of a csm that ccp posted and you severely lack any kind of social skills on top of the inability to comprehend the difference between objective and subjective proof apparently.it is also mildly interesting, how other certain posters continue posting and helping to bump the thread. even though they already proved as well that they are apparently not able to comprehend that a dystopian sandbox =/= anarchy. the fact that they automatically chose such hate-mongering tactics is proof enough for the necessity for morality mechanics in-game. every single open-pvp mmo has proven this time and again, it is no different in eve online either. granted, there are seedy types within the lore of eve. however there is nowhere near the large unregulated scale of anarchy that those few claim exist in the lore. i would post links to quotes of that evidence, however, those posters have proven an inability to concede being wrong so far and insist on pure trolling at this point so i won't bother. regardless of the trolls and the egomaniacal malcanis, it does not make the issue of exploited bounties magically vanish. especially given the fact the number of players that post on these forums are nowhere near the representative consensus of players who play eve online. i have been in eve for over ten years now, staying the course and playing the same way based on the same ideals, and i will be here another 10 years as well doing the same. this bounty issue is only a recent problem with the latest expansion, so it is not irreparable and certainly not wholly representative of the usual nature of eve based on it's short exposure in-game so far."
"ah the classic \"everyone hates my idea, that proves it's good\" line."
"in allowing players to place a bounty for whatever reason they wish, rather than restricting bounty placement only as a response to a handful of \"actions\", ccp made the wise decision to respect the sandbox and interfere with it as little as possible.this is a good thing. sorry if you disagree."
"i guess this topic will be never-ending (been out of game for a year and here it still is). some say worse than before, some say less.whether suicide ganking (frieghters, miners, whatever) is good or bad, if ccp ever wanted to make it less attractive a simple mix of rl and sandbox mechanics should do the trick:1. the \"police\" act like real police. offenders are locked up and stolen goods recovered. 1 month locked in station, training turned off, no communication etc.2. if podding of gank target involved, then execution, i.e. offending characters deleted and that alt-slot eliminated permanently from account3. extend associated kill rights (an additional 2 months after coming out of prison), add a decent concord bounty and make the kill rights tradeablerepeat if, if, if...before the tears lynch mobs start. if not, it's gonna happen and we can assume ccp wants it to be part of the game. just something to live with. there are ways to reduce the risks, which ppl dnt always employ ( to their peril)."
"if the police acted like real police they'd only turn up 1 time in 10, then there'd be a 50% chance they'd just shoot the nearest minmatar and go for donuts."
"and if these 'real police' were based off the police in my country, the criminal would get away scot-free while the victim has to suffer. think about what you're asking for."
"not asking for police from inefficient states rife with corruption (most, unfortunately). but this is a game, run by algorithms so police can be programmed with whatever level of error is desired.so difficult to separate rl principle from imagined rl statistics?and pls read - i'm not asking for this, just stating how simple for ccp to attack the issue, if they wish."
"your answers are completely disingenuous: irl, we have laws, purposely limited access to supplies, and security organizations that attempt to thwart a shoulder fired missile from ever reaching the hands of a civilian (criminal or not). in eve, highsec is still a war zone, where you can buy military equipment at the local convenience store. a more apt comparison would be, how effectively do the security organizations of washington dc thwart gun related crimes? i'll give you a hint: despite all our \"laws\" and \"regulations\"; despite our tirelessly working police forces, criminals regularly access guns, they regularly commit crimes with guns, and police rarely ever arrive in time to stop gun-related violence. and this analogy still isn't truly appropriate for eve, as our \"gun laws\" \"prevent\" the legal sales of weapons to \"criminals\", where it completely 100% allowed to sell military hardware to anyone, anywhere, in eve. finally, do you really think it takes so little effort to get a group of ships together and gank a freighter for profit? most of those freighter km's listed have 4+ month old characters."
"would be cool..."
"give jukebox back please!i want to change the music as i please, ingame..."
"@mynnna:i would not expect you to agree with anything that is not anarchistic given either of your history. as far as respecting the sandbox goes, as i pointed out previously, no other mmo has ever been able to sustain profitability by allowing anarchisti"
"per the related discourse on cloaking over in f&i i propose that a delay be added to local in the realms of 30 second to 2 minutes to allow those who hunt miners/wt/mission runners an actual chance of catching these people before they can log off/warp to pos/dock/leave system. the current local channel reporting on those entering a system has long been a complaint of pvpers due to it heavily favouring the unfit or those with heavy static defences. a delay of a couple of minutes would balance the power between aggressor and defender greatly through facilitating the use of combat probes without alerting the victim instantly of hostile presence."
"i can't say this is an ideal solution, and it will have strings attached to balance it after the fact.but, it at least changes the current dynamic to one requiring actual effort and group focus, particularly in the part of the game supposedly designed for group effort.upgrading local to eliminate all afk influence what if local chat changed, hunting the cloaked..."
"-- post deleted for inadequately thought out opinion --"
"how about, mmm, no?the hacking minigame is annoying enough when im trying to get in and out of hostile systems (thankfully they changed scanning so you can pretty much instantly scan down verything, really evens out the time sink to only take somewhat longer than it used to to scan a \"relic\" site and retrieve the goods). minigames in toher places would only make the game tedious and boring as ****.mining and industry are for groups of people who want things slow and math/spreadsheet related, amjority of indy corps i have friends in dont like minigames in any mmo, and were some of the biggest voices against adding loot-spew and minigames for mining when it was thought of the first time. most of these people would rather be left alone to their spreadsheets and talking with friends over chat.if you want minigames with your industry so bad, why dotn you open up minesweeper and jsut not allow yourself to refine that trit until youve won, does that sound like it would be \"fun and engaging\"? because it wouldnt, and would just remove even mroe people from those professions, raising the prices on everything."
"do you have fun doing industry? maybe i'm just missing something. i like spreadsheets and math; i think they're fun. but i need more to keep me engaged."
"then go run missions.the second me or any of my friends have to play minigames to do our industry is the day we quit eve, we play eve for industry, and being froced to do something as stupid and monotonous as a ******* minigame just to do a task you will have to do hundreds of times is a good way to not only **** off alot of dedicated industrialists, but make many quit the game.mining and industry are aprts of eve enjoyed mostly by people who prefer a more click-click-afk way of playing eve, usually because they are either busy with real life and so only have time for things they can do on a second screen/window without compromising the rest of their work, or people who would just more prefer to sit back and talk with friends while playing.if you enjoy spreadsheets and math, but dont like how \"boring\" industry is, then do the market, industry is good as is besides some minor quality-of-life ui changes to lessen the amount of clicks we have to make, instead of increase it with a minigame."
"unfortunately you need a fair bit of capital to make playing the market take any significant amount of play time. it's fun, sure, but it doesn't take more than 15 minutes a day as a new player.pvp is interesting in eve because there's an amount of soft skill to it. if you're clever about it, your skills hardly matter. but there's nothing in industry that requires player skill beyond finding good prices, which i think is a shame.if the existing player base likes the current state of affairs, that's great. but i probably won't play much, and i know a few friends irl that feel the same way (\"eve is boring\" was the common refrain when i started playing at lunch in the office)."
"if their general opinion is \"eve is boring\", minigames wont fix that, and thats soemthying you gotta realize.ccp thought adding minigames to scanning would make it more \"engaging\", but it didnt, it just added a clickfest to yet another part of the game that a majority of the playerbase find monotonous, which has actually turned away many from exploring because they find its interesting the first 4 or 5 times, but quickly becomes extremely repetitive and boring.minigames are never the answer to providing \"engagement\", only way to add \"engagement\" to industry would be to add customization ala galactic civilizations or endless space style ship construction, but the permutations on ship builds that would result from that would stress the server too far, adn eventually end up with one single \"optimal\" build fro each ship anyways."
"you're fixating on the minigames aspect, and i think you're missing the forest for the trees.my point fundamentally is not just that industry is boring, but that it's boring and there's no room for creative expression or strategic thinking; there's no room for player skill. which is a fundamental asymmetry from pvp content.i want to get in a flow while i'm building wealth, and there's no way to do that. for flow you need an activity that's fun, takes skill, and requires some non trivial time input (it's hard to flow in a single hand of poker, for instance). i flow playing minecraft, league of legends, go, starcraft, skyrim, xcom, simcity, civ 4, and a whole host of other games. i don't flow playing eve.i choose to use \"minigame\" to mean \"add some element of risk/reward for player skill\". by that definition manually modifying your approach vector to spiral in to an enemy ship keeping your transverse high is a \"minigame\". choosing different ammo types after you break an enemy ships' shields is a \"minigame\". but i don't think anyone would argue that making approach spirals automatic or automatically shooting the optimal ammo type would make pvp better.also, i actually really like how the combat scanner works. i think it's interesting. i could see how it'd be annoying when you just want to find someone to gank, but playing around with the scanner is the closest i've come to flow in eve.other issues aside, i'm not sure i see how that'd help. from an industrialist's standpoint, aren't they still just building modules that players combine to produce ship hulls?"
"- in fleet window i want to see what ship each player is in. maybe some other info, like - location. or just the info \"docked\", with no ship showing if the player is docked.- create a visual difference between npc corps logo and player corp logo. as a noo"
"ragnarok online has been letting you create your own guild emblem since before eve was even released. dont see why it would be technically hard to do."
"well to be fair, your posting and attitude towards others leaves a lot to be desired. i'm surprised your bounty isn't far higher tbh and what they have done, is a perfectly valid use of the . if you could actually point out the abuse, not based on what you think is a good or bad reason to use it, then go ahead.but i'm sure as always, your argument will boil down to this: you wanting to decide, what is and isn't a good reason for a bounty. in a sandbox game that isn't going to happen. but thanks for posting.oh and bump. destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"yeah like the way that you were super objective about the fact of snowden and manning being punished for \"mere words\"?you're literally the king of subjective opinion."
"this is an excellent use (not abuse) of the , perfectly mirrored in the real world, as if that matters.or are you going to claim that's a \"subjective opinion\" too?"
"i have deleted some pointless bickering from this thread."
"it has even been suggested to add a bounty button to the forums, by the previous csm chairman no less:"
"it is not a claim, it is a fact that you obviously do not understand what a subjective opinion is. simply put, you are stating that persecuting a player for posting an opinion is in line with ccp's objective for the , which is false. that is because an opinion is not an action and therefore not in line with ccp's own statement on the purpose of the .nowhere in the definition of the word 'action' does it state that an opinion is an action, which is what i am being persecuted for. which by the way is illegal in most countries if you want to make false claims that persecution in the real world for an opinion based on existing laws and freedoms is somehow in itself illegal is absurd to say the least.as far as the continued threats go on about adding bounties go, those only further prove my stance that the system is being exploited based on the facts, not opinion. just as i keep having to bring up, ccp themselves said that one of the purposes of the change in the was: \"to build upon the theme of the expansion of strengthening ties between actions and consequences, including making the company you keep a factor in that\""
"please prove that giving someone a bounty for something they typed, is 'persecuting a player'. if the act of typing a comment on either the forums or in game is not an action, then what is? even your american english link states it's both:the fact or process of doing something, typically to achieve an aimanda thing done; an act.sounds like typing to me and in eve, actions have consequences. destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"not it's true.but only if you go by things that ccp devs actually say, which according to you carries no weight."
"ahh the good ol \"we build your ships argument. what i think these people fail to realise is that for example i am a pvper and i have industrial alts. you may be surprised how many of those \"people who build things are pvpers in maskshahahaha brilliantand now we have argument by semantic. never once have i seen this win as it usually means all other attempts at wheedling the point lost.personally i think if you insult someone, either verbally straight out or by acting as if there opinion is wrong, then they should be able to exercise a little revenge. ccp we need a forum bounty button now!"
"there is only one appropriate way to respond to anyone complaining about the .i'm sure you all know what it is."
"the bountry system is horrible and putting bounties on people is horrible illegal abuse as you will all find when i consult a real grown up lawyer who will in no way laugh so hard that he actually throws up a little and has to skip lunch*waits patiently"
"hey malcanis, about putting the 'add bounty' button next to the 'like' button on the forums..."
"it was a good idea with ccp punkturis suggested it and it's a good idea now."
"+1and heck yeah, i know i will get isk on me too, but it won't be the first time.upgrading local to eliminate all afk influence what if local chat changed, hunting the cloaked..."
"it was, but i don't trust the forums and wouldn't use it for that reason. destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"lol, as soon as the was put in place my ceo bountied every member of the corp... in our group it's a badge of honor... one of our directors put a bounty on an ex-corpmate just for grins when said ex-corpmate announced he was off to join fw. our director, however, hit the 0 key a few too many times, guess he was used to paying millions on market for the high-isk deadspace stuff he was fitting his t3s with. anyway, our guy went off to join fw with a 500m bounty instead of the 500k intended. as far as i know he still has most of that bounty on him. good times...."
"our ceo put 50 mil on each of us and told us to go lose it within a week.that was a hectic week of roaming but it was a good way of making sure you became immune to loss."
"ahh so we now have figures from you, but you said the following in your op: then said:so you said 5 million per catalyst, but then gave us a fit without rigs costing 10.97.you said 850 dps per catalyst, but your fit only does 580.7 overloaded. (level 5 skills player)i think your going to have to rethink your figures.oh and there is skill, logic and effort, that goes into these ganks. but you not knowing this, doesn't surprise me in the slightest. and player verses player, is pvp. just what do you think pvp is an acronym for?destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"no, the problem is definetly with you. you even don't think about relic/data hunting as about thrilling adventure chasing, you just view it like an easy source of isks you can farm, probably for something more of interest to you. you would probably be totally satisfied with a golden dialog window with a singe huge button get isks now without really playing this part of game. but many in fact find fun in exploration and challenges it 's bringing about. like the thrill, the exitment, the joy of overcoming the challenge and finding something of real value. and this is why i hate new scanning system - its so casual that doesn't even offer a room for excelling, there is no means for mastering it. and i would strongly object any proposals for simplifying/removing the 'hacking minigame', it should become even more complex and random, but with far more rewarding outcome if succeded. and i like topicstarter's way of thinking, though i haven't got enough expirience in this part of the game and don't want to jump to conclusions, there are people more involved than i. and with your way of thinking you probably shoud resort to \"plex donations\", thats exactly what you want - you press a couple of buttons and soon get a valubale item in your cargo you can sell for lump sum on market. no need for some 'boring games' at all."
"the part of \"exploration\" i always enjoyed, was going into a hostile system, doding the locals as i scanned down the sites, then getting in, grabbing the loot, bouncing between celestials, and coming back onto grid fo a bubbled gate with 3 guys landing behind me and barely escaping with the 200+ mil i may ro may not have been able to score off the cans.now its, enter local, if theres reds, ******* forget scanning because by the time i can even finish the hacking minigame theya re on-grid killing me. you cant be in dangerous sapce post-odyssey, because it forces you to be vulnerable for far too long, not saying on some higher-level sights i havent tried for it anyway and still gotten out, but thats only because the other guys had horrible scanning skills and so couldnt get the sight, anything common gets probed down so quick i might aswell be afk next to their station.i like exploration, basically, for the interaction with other players, now with post-odyssey, that interaction becomes something to avoid because of how long the site takes."
"you are just mixing absolutely different things together. the problem not in exploration mechanics, the problem is that you can't stand taking risks and making some efforts to mitigate them, what life in nullsecs is all about. and i know people playing eve for 2-3 month who successfully explore and gain substentional profit from relics/data in nulls. they do it on trash ships like heron. they die often but still they manage to lift enormous sum of money for newbie. you are for some reason believe that exploring mechanics should help you to overcome them in hursh environment of nulls, while thats you who have to overcome all these additional challenges. you can do it the hard way, like you are doing it currently and live with the consequences and risks associated(and many are enjoying it this way), or you can probably think how to become not red/neutral for those who are shooting at you. the point of view that somebody should just help you to gain lucrative summs of money in nulls contradicts with its[nulls] basic principle: \"additional risks are rewarded with additional profit\". this is not the game which will babysit the player, and definitely not in nullsecs, and this is exactly the reason why most of these people play it."
"one more bump to try and gain some steam, otherwise letting go. ><"
"basically, i think it would be nice if when you press the logout button, the window wouldnt close, so you wouldnt have to relog. all it would need to do is go back to your character select screen, must like other mmos."
"you can allign your ship to some stellar body/bookmark and even maintain speed needed for instawarp to it, but when the time comes you still need to do right mouse click for context menu, then choose the action from the list - and all this in critical combat situation. that's simply intolerable. i know about \"s\"+click hotkey, but its still too complex and cumbersome, and prone to missclicking. what really is need is a single keystroke warp ability, without any mouse movements(which is potentionally more inaccurate, then keyboard stroking). here how i see this implemented:1) player right clicking (or use a new hotkey for this action) the object/bookmark and choose new option \"set as default warp destination\"(with ability to specify offset distance as usual, like 5-10-20-30-etc km).2) he then alligns his ship to this destination as before, and optionally maintain its speed.3) when time comes he just use one simple key combintation (only keyboard, mouse not needed!) to send his ship warping to predefined location."
"there's a shortcut key already for warping.you could also use the radial menu or the navigation windowmajig."
"i've wrote quite a detailed explanation conveying strict requirments of proposed feature, why stating the obvious facts i've already mentioned? radial menu prone to misclicking in stressed conditions, you can't use it as fast a typing a single key, shortcut which is combination of mouse move and click with key pressed (sic!) even worse in such a situation. all these aren't even close to efficiency of single key stroke. this feature i'm asking for is an emergency safeguard which imidiately and 100% guarantee will send your ship to predetermined (and easy to set) safespot with single and quick move of one hand (in fact one finger), mouse not involved (if you are already aligned and moving at least 3/4 of your normal speed, of course, so its like normal warping from any point except for it can be initiated with one key pressed)."
"i don't see how that can proof something, if he has to and ccp still don't want to reveal the change in course of development, he will do all this humilating stuff as this is needed by his employer."
"ha, i wish i had been culturally aware enough to even make that reference at the time."
"but don't forget the donate isk button!"
"i've removed some more trolling from this thread."
"as long as they make it look identical to the place bounty button and have them side by side.oh and occasionally switch their postitions"
"\"the assembly hall section is there to encourage debate of the issues being presented.\" -ccp eterne there is nothing encouraging for any kind of debate here when players are spamming condescending remarks and blatantly trying to harass my character in-game via the . as far as placing bounties on someone being any kind of badge of \"respect\" is complete nonsense. i highly doubt those who continue to waste isk by adding bounties on my character in-game are trying to show respect for my opinion. here is the official statement by ccp last year on player harassment after the fanfest: \"i want to reassure you that ccp in no way condones the harassment of players...\" -ccp public relations and social media specialist ned coker"
"and as yet you've still not shown how placing a bounty on someone, is harassment. trying to include obvious harassment that actually broke the eula last year, is not helping your case one jot.so once again: please prove that placing a bounty on someone, because you disagreed with with something they said on the forum or in a chat room, is harassment.but you won't, because you can't and i'm so appalled at this fact, i upped your bounty.destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"wait because a number by your name increases you think that's harassment?or is it because people who were going to kill you anyway now get a small reward to do so?no wait maybe it's the wanted sign. everyone should feel wanted though so it can't be thati'm stumped"
"the only thing i could think of where i would be ok with this is plex for skill removal.not reimbursement or any of that abuseable rubbish.straight off aurum for skillpoints gone from your sheet. either from the point of view of the ocd people out there who no longer want mining foreman 3 or from pvpers who want to bring their clone costs down.anything else no no no!i have spoken!"
"i love this idea. it will make tasks such as fitting 200 suicide ganking catalyst's require so much less effort."
"yeah i actually find that fitting ships is the rate determining step for losing them.if i could fit them faster i could lose them much faster.+1 for me"
"i think he must mean damage to rmters right? that's the only valid thing i can think of. only an idiot would think plex is bad. noone in these forums are idiots are they?"
"plex makes eve a mix of sub based and f2p. thats very unique in the industry and you could argue that it works perfectly in eve and its economy.not to mention that i don't think that plex changes anything on the perceived value of isk, on the contrary, i think if somebody loses a t3 bought via plex could rage quit faster than somebody who did some trading or pve to get the isk for the ship."
"my arguement is tehir is a difference between \"mitigating risks\" and \"oops, someone decided to start scanning your site down, guess you have to drop hacking and let the wreck blow up with all the loot in it\"my problem is with the loot spew and hacking minigame, it takes forever, and has absolute consequences if you are interupted for any reason.as for living with risks, i spent a year in high-end wormholes, i dont have a problem with dodging locals and ninja-looting things, its when the mere appearance of a threat causes me to permanently lose any chance of actually getting the loot because it blows up that pisses me off."
"my only problem then is warpins, you absically say that whatever group of miners warps in first owns the belt, at elast with many small belts you can choose to go somewhere else, if you just had 2 massive belts to replace ~20 belts soem systems have, then you are forced to either mine in a different system (often forcing you to haul ore much farther to your main system), or fly for half an hour in a barge to try and get to an unmined section of the belt. granted often you could use bm for this, but since mining is heavily populated by noobs who dotn know hwo to do this (aswell as the number of bookmarks people would then have to maintain for all the belts) this could become annoying very quickly."
"this sint other mmo's, this is eve htfu.but in all seriousness, this is something people have been asking about for years, but it has to do with the way the game was coded and how the client works, which means changing that is an awful lot of development work to save player ~30 seconds of work, for the few that have characters they need to play on the same account as another (hint, most eve players maintain multiple accounts, so they can use those characters simultaneously rather than one at a time)"
"bump...so frustrating that this was taken out"
"please bring this back!this is very annoying."
"among us pvpers... getting a bounty is a form of respect. we literally jump for joy and giggle at the thought that someone either likes or dislikes us enough to put cold hard cash on our heads (i'm totally not kidding about this either... my ceo got a billion isk bounty on his head once and everyone in corp kept \"recharging\" it when it got too low). stop reading so much in to the \"fluff\" descriptions on what the is on the expansion portals (it's almost pure marketing bs). they only thing that ever matters as far as mechanics go are the dev blogs and dev/gm posts on the forums... both of which clearly state that they designed the to be as open as possible because \"good\" and \"bad\" are relative to the values of each player.also... i will add more to your bounty tonight (because the thought of your posting in this thread distracts me while i'm pvping... and i lose ships... and i don't like it!)"
"i'm okay with this, providing that the use of u instead of you as well as other gems such as 2 for to, c for see and the like come with either a suspect flag or a security status hit. it is for the use of these that i've placed about 90 percent of my bounties and i must be allowed to continue to bounty for these crimes."
"your comparing (note: an action!) of your bounty ingame to mittani's drunken and rather inexcusable action offends me deeply. to express my displeasure at your action, i have increased your bounty.see? action -> bounty. straight forward enough, eh?"
"once again you provide a classic counter-example to your own positition by providing a game relevent example where someone was punished (\"persecuted\", if you will) for no other action than speaking some words.so either you believe that mittani's punishment was not justified or you believe that people should be able to put a bounty on other players for what they've said.which is it?"
"i begin to wonder, especially in the light of all the obvious argument inconsistencies pointed out by malcanis et al, if this is galdor's secret plan to get the highest bounty."
"i'm starting to believe that he's actually a tom gerard style reverse troll out to ruin the \"proposal\" he pretends to support.if so, well played good sir. well played indeed."
"along the same lines as the bounty exploit and abuse pointed out in this thread, i want to add a complaint and demand ccp fix the issue with likes in the eve online forums. there are obviously people posting in these threads that wantonly and with cruel disregard to actual post content click the like button on any and all posts they read. this must stop. i'm feeling very harassed by the whole thing, as i watch the likes i've personally received approach the 200 mark!something has got to be done. people are likeing posts for invalid reasons. i think it's highly likely that some of these abusing harassers may actually click like on this post... please ccp: stop the madness!!"
"amen brother. +1 from me.destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"what if all likes cost the clicking pilot 1,000 isk, which was immediately placed as a bounty on the character posting the message in question?upgrading local to eliminate all afk influence what if local chat changed, hunting the cloaked..."
"@mynnna:i would not expect a person who cannot use proper capitalization of a name to understand the definition of the word 'action.' it is unfortunate how everyone ignored the fact that ccp eterne quote about this forum section being intended to be used"
"we were debating it, but you chose to stick your fingers in your ears and shout lalalalalala. what is the point in debating with someone, who refuses to listen or understand what a sandbox is, or what the word action means.you mean the action of typing in a chat room or on the forum? which can have the consequence of receiving a bounty? that action? oh i think mynnna knows exactly what it means, unlike yourself.irony.destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"this is an absolute lie. also cloaking is fine.on the subject of jita, spamming and such. it does make sense to crack down on the bots. if they're not humans manually spamming the stupid contracts they should be booted to reduce the congestion."
"its quite easy to get around the gaming the system - a skill point remap refunds only points on your base start up stats. that means if you were training for a year with +5's and say you had 25 perception 24 willpower you would be refunded the years worth of skill points based on your base stats, completely ignoring the +5's and the attributes points that can be allocated.sure you might end up losing 50% or more of the skill-points but who cares. i would only support this reallocation though when ccp makes very large changes to the game that make that skill you trained for useless.and please, don't tell me its not useless, i haven't fired a torpedo or missile since the missile nerf and never plan to. that' s what 7 years? i specialize and never do flavor of the month. same as the shield compensation skills i have all trained up now...i could go on for a while, lots of wasted skill points that will never have a use. also i agree there should be consequences for your choices, however those consequences should not extend to ccp's unforeseen and arbitrary changes to core game mechanics."
"i currently find it annoying when at certian angles from the sun, it is impossible to read the names of places. i cannot find and option to have the writing turn black whilt over bright objects. i imagine many people have the same issue. but i work in securty and when a bright or light colour object passes the screens font it turns from black to white. plz make ccp sort this out"
"so i was thinking about the vigil the other night, as i often do, and i wondered what the harm was in that proud ship being the fastest t1 frigate. who was the vigil hurting so badly that other t1 frigs needed to be able to chase it down? i don't know how the usage numbers for the vigil have changed in general since the ewar frig patch as well in relation to the other ewar frigs, but at this point i'd honestly be less shocked to see a guardian vexor undock than a vigil. if anyone uses them, they don't do it near me.now usage rates will have a bit to do with target painting not being as sexy as other ewar options in that it doesn't protect itself like the others and there's a hard and low cap in how many are useful in a fleet, but that doesn't mean you can't give us speed as a reason to use the ship. i can't have been the only person to fit a gisti mwd on this thing to so i could perma-run it and use it for all manner of bookmark making. i can't be the only person who wants to fly a vigil when i'm carrying small stuff through dangerous areas with the cloak + mwd trick. why should i use a slasher for these things? the slasher looks like ass. the vigil looks freaking sweet. i promise you there won't be any complaints about vigils wrecking shop if you adjust the base speed to that which was achieved with the minmitar frig v bonus, and then add another meter per second for good measure because you're all intelligent and attractive people. what you may see however, is a few vigils undocking every once in a while."
"that \"someone\" in this case was 14 years old at the time, and is now in his early twenties. i'm almost twice his current age (), but i can tell you, i don't think someone should \"suffer the consequences of their actions\" for something as simple as a name they picked when they were going through puberty. if someone has been loyal enough of a fan to a game company to keep playing after nearly a decade, allowing them to change their hard-earned character's name to something they like better is a small bone to throw. i may change a toon name if it is allowed, or i may not. i don't have any names i'm unhappy with, which were picked 6 years ago. but even still, i am very much in favor of this idea. and jint, just as you don't care if people are offended by your choice to be against name changes, i don't care if you have to overcome a minor inconvenience while mining if it is implemented."
"i support this 100% i would love to change the name on this character. my character name sometimes even causes me problems in the game. my name is also the name of a cosmos npc and normally that would break the eula but ccp says otherwise.i bought this character years ago because i knew with a little work i could make it a great pvp toon. now that i have made the character my own why can't i name it as my own?"
"apparently these forums are officially useless and the \"assembly hall\" is a joke. it is also apparent that with the new changes, anyone who has an honest opinion is only a target here for egomaniacal children with god complexes. which is unfortunate for eve and the writers who took the time to develop the novels and game environment that has nothing to do with the anarchistic mentality that those here on the forums are intent on trying to establish in-game. what this means for me is that i am washing my hands of this farce of an assembly hall forum that clearly has no intentions of an intelligent debate unless it suits the hate-mongering bigots that infect this game. this does not mean however that i will give up playing eve after 10 years of investing time in it, despite the bullying tactics of my current bounty. on a final note, the name should be changed to something more fitting. because a bounty infers justice and hunting down a person based on an opinion that did no harm to anyone or anything, is anything but justified. instead, the would be better off being called a 'hit list.'"
"underlined and bolded the error.a bounty represents an interest in the capture or execution of a target.frequently associated with forces recognized as governments, or individuals wielding comparable power and control, bounties are more like formal shopping lists.during wars, it is common practice for high value targets on all sides to have prices on their heads.changing the name of a bounty is semantics, the meaning stays the same.and as poets say, a rose by any other name...that's why police and bounty hunters are not considered the same thing. police only cooperate with them when an issue of mutual benefit is present, such as law enforcement.a bounty hunter who works outside the law is called a hit man. they use the same logic, get the target.they simply don't have the same tools available.a bounty hunter is a mercenary, with a specific target in mind. nothing more.and whether you call someone a war-hero, or a war criminal, really depends more on your point of view than any action they committed.upgrading local to eliminate all afk influence what if local chat changed, hunting the cloaked..."
"supported. (except the skills part, i just want refining arrays to not suck)"
"the 'easiest' way to make them not suck is to remove the 75% cap on refining and apply the same skill-based refining formula that is applied to npc stations and outposts.aside from that, the other changes just make them more convienent. if it takes me 3 hours to refine 200k m3 worth of one type of ore, people still won't use them as most decent mining fleets can drag in 200k m3 worth of ore in a few minutes (my fleet ops can do it in about 10 minutes, or less).updating the op with some thoughts from the wh thread.requoted some here:hrolt ceo live free; die proud"
"actually the refinery arrays do take skill into account saw a low skilled character attempt to use a intense refinery array in a wh and get less than the 75% cap we just want the cap raised (even if only to 95% ) would make mining in wormhole more like the 0.0 mining value it is suppose to be without having to invest in a rorquel"
"i wil say olnly one thing: ccp don't even think about this, please!"
"i have been playing eve for 5 years.i have never seen a change in price for the bounties on npc rats in asteroid belts.i am not 100% sure if they have been stagnant on anomolies, dead space and missions.i am getting the same price i was paid 5 years ago for killing the same npc ratsplex prices are at an all time high 500m + yet bounties are the same price?when will bounties go up, in 10 years time, 20 years time?if there is no intention for the bounties to go up in value, why not?"
"why? it's not hard to rat up isk."
"pretty much this. it's stupid easy to make isk in eve (which is why plex is around 500mil from 250mil 2-3 years ago). and we don't need to increase an \"isk faucet\" (see: a mechanic that introduces more isk into the economy) as we already have too many."
"bump"
"i dont feel there are enough ways to lose my hard earned isk. i would like to see a casino-type station or two out in lowsec... where there would be an option for capsuleers to play poker, or whatver, maybe bet on pvp fights in an arena style station... no ogb's, ect. i know there are some websites that you can play this kinda stuff on... but id like to see it incorporated in game... thanks!"
"a few others have championed this in the past, often tied in with a nice place to put avatars and walking in stations.(cue howls of incarna haters)m"
"yes, i was pretty sure i wasnt the first one to think of it. tbh, walking in stations doesn't interest me, but playin a few rounds of poker while i wait that horrible one more hour for the skill im training to finish up does! just trying to do my part to expand the game content im really surprised that ccp hasn't done this of their own volition... just think of the plex sales they would make..."
"i say we let them gank to their hearts content... but there are consequences.not only should they loose their sec status, but loose faction status to who owns the system.stations should not let them dock if it's bad enough or pay a penalty.example:your ship will be towed into statio... wait, you've been a bad boy. you must pay a fine of xyz isk.a \"ganker\" tax should be implemented so as their standings get worse, they pay more for market and contract items.if you really wanted to cover it, how about this?concord special victims unit"
"i could definately support this, but highsec needs to be nerfed to balance it out.nerf highsec."
"bump for option b"
"i've moved my corp 3 times since 2009, and i subscribe three accounts so i can tribox.when i move, and haul some 400 bpos to a new station it takes me no less than six hours of mouse clicking to lock them all down, and then then next reset i find out my votes didn't take, and i have half my bpos still unlocked!while there may some really off the wall argument that the game mechanics favor the fact that you can't select multiple bpos to lock them down - at least you can fix the damn stupid voting ui!so here i am with 400 votes to cast (after having to select each individual bpo to propose a lock down - btw that's 4 mouse clicks each, and mouse motion to get the right button)and i get this list were i first have to expand a vote to find the button to vote yes - and then the damned vote collapses - so i have to expand multiple votes to find a vote i haven't clicked, because with hundreds of bpos, you tend to lose your place when all votes look alike.i know there have been posts on this before, and i did try looking for the old threads, but hell with it - why isn't it fixed yet?it's been this way for years!"
"problem: going around 0.0 and having to deal with 100's of bubbles which don't expire are there for days get abandoned and are just time consuming and space junk.proposal: limit the amount of bubbles you can have on grid to a maximum of five, as well as introducing a expiry timer on these bubbles so after a specific amount of time they expire and then explode therefore solving all problems.i believe this is beneficial to both pvpers and industrials."
"i believe bubbles are an excellent deterrent against space invaders. however! i do agree we need some sort of limits on the amount of bubbles. why not implement some sort of structure to be space constructed and add on system cpu/powergrid requirements onto bubbles so this could possibly limit the amount per system, eh? eh?"
"this may list a repeat of things listed previously but i don't post often and want to clear my head.name change:we live in space, in the future with warp drives, cloaks, instant travel over large sections of space. why can't we change our name? i think many of us, including myself, came from other mmos where spaces in names for example where unheard of. i chose this crappy name drunk. charge aurim for it, alot of people probably still have a cache of 5,500 aurim from ccp handouts, charge 1/2 a plex of aurim and place a cooldown on doing it again. list your old names in a new tab in character info so people can see whom you where once called, as such records would still exist.fitting tool:i love eft and pyfa, i use them alot. but why do i have to tab out of the game to do something that should easily be available? living in nullsec it would help tons to beable to see whats available on the non jita/trade hub market and see if the ship fits together at all with whats at hand.eve gate killboard:with updated kill/loss log in your character sheet, why can't we have a proper inhouse killboard. with settings to make it public, private, corp/alliance viewable or viewable by standings. it would also fix the issue killboards like eve-kill or battleclinic have where if the person who earns the killmail doesn't post it or have an api set up for those sites. ingame kill log could stay as is, but eve-gate kill board could pull all kills (and losses) you have even if you didn't earn the killing blow.preset display settings:when in big fleets i have to turn down everything gfx wise so i dont have to put up with both low framerate and lag/tidi. allow us to save several set gfx/audio settings for when ppl are in big fleets or running around in small gangs. eve is a beautiful game but i cant have pretty when i'm doing warfare, but i can when in small gangs/earning isk.guess that's all for right now."
"you can move to low sec or null sec.you don't have to worry about these things in null sec"
"if people can prevent concord blowing up their ship, then it means that they can gank anyone in high sec for free. now you are profitable to gank if the value of your drop exceeds the cost of their ammo.which means that it's profitable to gank almost everyone."
"ore type belts to replace ice belts??how about removing the ore sites from every ship scanner except mining ships?let them be probed out like previous!"
"a returned player is missing his jukebox!!"
"lmao..."
"i could only agree with your proposal if hidden belts were indeed hidden again, requiring all ore prospecting belts to be scanned down."
"in null, the current system is a massive giveaway to those hunting pve pilots, right up to the point where they can't stop the pve pilot from leaving before they ever load grid on them.no need to scan for hidden belts, point click warp.a pve pilot worthy of being called a miner has no trouble scanning these down, especially in their own sov systems.seriously, in order for pilots to compete with each other, they need to make an effort. if the game hands everyone the same intel, the same results will be repeated.stalemates, and zero progress.it's like a scout taking credit from the sidelines, when your team scores. \"you bet, i would have provided exactly that intel, and our team would have done the same great job....\"upgrading local to eliminate all afk influence what if local chat changed, hunting the cloaked..."
"i cant agree to this. it would provide the hunter an unfair advantage over the prey. remember, they are not looking to fight, even if you and i are..."
"you assume an awful lot, with that.the prey, as you call them, are in their own space, where having and maintaining an intel channel takes very little effort.these same prey, at this time, can completely avoid any and all hunters simply by watching local, and staying aligned.see non blue appear in local, hit warp. you are in warp before the would be hunter finishes loading the system.what can the hunter do to block this escape?nothing.only through pilot error on the part of the \"prey\" does the hunter even get an opportunity to threaten.to the prey, with this ability to avoid pvp completely, the hunter is no more than an annoying interruption to their pve play.upgrading local to eliminate all afk influence what if local chat changed, hunting the cloaked..."
"so, in essence, you want to be able to warp into a system that your scout has found someone mining in, cloaked, and sitting on top of them, so then you can fleet warp to the scout and have the miner scrammed and dps proceeding before he even knows someone else is in system?look man, i agree with you its annoying. i hunt these guys too. but that is not at all fair to them. im also not assuming anything your not (like that they are in their home system, with an intel channel set up, and scouts on gate to be able to provide intel).and if this were implemented, what would a simple miner have as a counter? dscan wont really work because it only works out to a certain range. he would be able to see your combat probes only in the event you needed to find him somewhere not listed in the probe scanner...how, exactly, would this not be tipping the scales in your favor?you could always go hunting in wh space...."
"whoa whoa whoa.....your example pve pilot is already operating with a known hostile in system?at what point did they stop being responsible for their own safety?when did they no longer need to fit for defense, here?your example prey needs to fly aligned, to a non beaconed safe spot. it might be a good idea to fit a few stabs.want to loot that npc wreck? tractor beam or salvage drones.at no point does a pilot have the backing of logic to ignore potential threats, especially not in null.the venture is great to mine in. it has built in +2 warp strength, a low signature, and it aligns fast.many ratting ships can fit stabs, and those rats will fly right up to you.tractor beam the wrecks, it's a beautiful thing.bm a safe spot to warp to, and use it. unless they read your mind, they really can't bubble a random point in space that only you know about.null is supposed to be better rewards in exchange for greater risk, but risk has to exist first.upgrading local to eliminate all afk influence what if local chat changed, hunting the cloaked..."
"not at all. if i were doing it, i would fly my scout in, check the belts one at a time, and warp the scout back out before the local timer expired. it would take a few times to get the belts, without more people scouting, but still mr. pve is unawares anyone is there.im not defending the pve guy... im certainly not advocating he not fit for defense... im also certainly advocating they shouldnt be restricted to flying a venture to be safe lmao...null has plenty of risks. getting in, for one. i usually fly in lowsec, but last weekend made the mistake of jumping my exploration ship into null... and into a overlapping grid of interdiction spheres... you can imagine the rest i will never say that the game should be a no-risk. but i dont think a change to local would do anything other than give guys like us an undue advantage."
"the time can be delayed, certainly, without giving one side or the other a major advantage.why should a pve pilot, (in a system not shielded well enough by a blue donut to block hostiles), not always fly defensively?keep in mind, as the current system stands:no single pve pilot ever was killed in their home system, except through pilot error.they either made a mistake about another pilot being active, and undocked in an unprepared ship...orthey failed to prepare by aligning to a safe spot, and hitting warp when the hostile enters the system.all the cloaked pilot ever did was take advantage of an opportunity, one handed to them by a mistake on a silver platter.that, effectively, is consensual pvp. they have a default action that gives them freedom from attack, 100% effective when used correctly.upgrading local to eliminate all afk influence what if local chat changed, hunting the cloaked..."
"the trick is to find a balance between the hunters and hunted.... 30+ seconds is way to much time advantage for the hunters. i think 10 s is a reasonable amount, or alternatively, you don't appear in local until you break gate cloak (1 min max). both of these would help balance the field, but a ratter can always rat aligned, always warp in at a distance, and even use intel channels. this means the ratter sill has a major advantage to avoiding hunters. really though, ratters should be more accepting of losing their ships, with the rewards for ratting in nullsec increased enough that even with regular ship losses it is more profitable than running missions in highsec! then you can make hunting ratters a bit more balanced without eliminating the herd."
"how about they implement changes for concord to pod people below a certain sec status."
"how about concord start charging realistic services for their fees? this subsidised state monopoly distorts the economy and stifles opportunity in the free market by denying hard working private enterprises the chance to compete for protection contracts!end this socialist oppression!"
"only if they can keep the real criminals out of empire!how can they let a -10 standing player into a 1.0 system?"
"the ability to attack members of your own corp is a very powerful right. the newest member can attack anyone he chooses and there are no controls on this ability. with the increasing frequency of awoxing, this ability is now very dangerous. people joining a corp should earn the right to engage corp members not get it as a basic function of being in the corp.proposal : make the ability to freely engage a corp member a corp role that can be assigned as is or attached to a title. this would require a few extra colour tags or background colours so that people can tell the difference between a corpie that can be engaged and one that can't. reasoning: the ability to attack other corp members is a powerful ability. it is also being exploited mercilessly by people who have a low moral code. this means that in order for a corp to protect themselves they must have recruitment procedures which are very elaborate and verges on paranoid. this turns off a lot of new players and draws out the recruitment process considerably. it is now not safe to recruit someone without a full api, background check and killboard check. that still doesn't protect you fully. if we make the ability a corp role then awoxers would have to work much harder to do what they do. they wont automagically be allowed to attack anyone in the corp. this gives the ceo and directors a chance to actually get to know someone before deciding to trust them."
"or, rather than by default being mechanically granted protection from allowing bad apples into your corp, you could make the effort yourself to screen out the bad applesshocking idea, i know"
"so, after you get to trust someone, you then grant them roles to attack corp mates? what?seems that the better idea is not to accept applications from everyone that applies...did you get safari'd by psychotic monk?"
"i hate to use a real-world analogy while talking about a video game, but can you give an example of how a real corporation would be able to limit roles to a person performing some form of corporate espionage?no? i thought so.eve is a sandbox where we're given the opportunity to be about as dark and dirty as we want to be. unless you've got a way to show how a real world corporation would be able to effectively do the same and how the idea would not ruin the sandbox aspect of the game, i can only suggest going back to some hardcore twink raiding."
"there is a \"control\" against awoxing... it's called blowing him up!"
"awoxing has a lot of value in eve, and your suggestion pretty much eliminates it. why would you do such a thing? good recruitment practices already eliminate most awox incidents!"
"i can see where you're going with this but a little known important side effect you would crush is awoxin...oh wait i see what you did there.tricksy you!"
"the thing is if bounties go up then everyones income goes up. this means that everyones buying power / isk goes down which means eventually it levels out that 1 hour of ratting buys you exactly what it did before.this also works for people asking:make my mining lasers mine moremake sites give more lootgive us all free isk!"
"i'm pretty sure bounties were modified in dominion, when pirate infrastructure upgrades enabled infinitely respawning anomalies. i thought they have been modified since then too... on one level, the \"rewards\" for isk making in nullsec should be balanced with the risk of a \"standard ship\" fielded there. the last two years have seen a significant increase in the build costs of ships, and so it is appropriate to increase the rewards in nullsec to maintain the \"risk vs reward\" paradigm. at the same time, more isk for bounties doesn't truly solve the issue. we need more things like revamped ores (which we just got) and the like which keeps nullsec isk earning potential high. more bounties on npc's in nullsec == alright.... but i'd like more scramming frigs and possibly cruisers & bs's too."
"anchored space-junk (cans, bubbles...) are cleaned up via a script at startup if it hasn't been touched within x amount of days (i can't remember the time amount).you can always petition bubble spam if its congesting a system, as causing lag with anchorables is a petitionable offense."
"if the bubbles offend you so much, maybe you could try shooting them?"
"typical goon always constructive"
"first off, the removal time limit of bubbles is very, very long. i've come back to a region i left 6 months before, and found my bubble farms (safe spots where i leave bubbles to quickly grab and replace the ones that get blown up) completely intact and untouched. next, limits on the number of bubbles in system would be awkward when people like myself put up a bubble farm in the middle of space, which would then result in \"no bubbles' being allowed on gates because too many were deployed else where. a limit to bubbles on grid would be the best way to limit the \"100's of bubles\" on grid type of situation. however, this is completely unnecessary. even if the enemy puts 200 bubbles warping a gate grid so thoroughly you would have to travel 200 km's to get out of the bubbles, there are several options already available to you: interdiction nullified t3's can simply warp in and out as if they aren't there. blow up the 1-3 bubbles that inhibit you from immediately warping. a talos can make quick work of even a large t2 bubble, which costs 24m isk and a bunch of their time to setup. if you do it right, they may not even notice the hole in the grid that allows you to immediately warp out when gate spawning. bubbles can be annoying, but they are an amazing tactical tool that i really don't want to see nerfed!!!"
"ccp is one of the few (only?) game publishers that have, for years, embraced and supported third-party tools and robust community sites, and it's paid off tremendously for them. the api allows third-party developers to create innovative and helpful tools for the player base. for the very small cost to ccp of maintaining an api, you the player have your choice of killboards, skill managers, and loadout tools. have you looked at the fansite list? there are dozens of insanely fun and powerful sites that support eve online - all enabled by ccp's api.these tools and sites support and help drive eve's growth over the years. there's no way to accurately count this, but consider: battleclinic serves 1.9 million hits a month and 45,000 people visit the site daily, on average. we estimate that evemon has been installed 2.5 million times. i imagine other popular tools like dotlan maps and eveboard can boast similar stats. now, here's why these numbers are meaningful: at least a few times a week, and typically more often, a player will make a post on bc or a note from our 'contact' page or a tweet or whatever, stating they're subscribing / converting to paid / coming back after hiatus. why? because 'evemon helped lower the initial learning curve'' or 'got hooked on climbing the killboard rankings' or 'got the help they needed on a loadout that kept them playing instead of rage-quitting in frustration' or 'mucked about in eft and got excited to fly a new ship.' and this list of course is endless. multiply these sentiments by all of the people who did the same thing, but didn't post about it. i argue it's hundreds, perhaps even thousands every month that subscribe or come back to eve because of the community sites and tools.you could argue many of my examples above could be just as easily served by an in-house app. but economically why would that make sense for ccp? it would cost money to develop - costs that are currently being borne by the community. it would put the burden of updating and introducing new functionality on ccp, which increases costs. it would eliminate choices for the player and stifle innovation. ccp devs don't operate in a vacuum; they watch the community sites and take away feedback and new ideas. it would frustrate players because ccp can't just add features and try them out--they would have to put new features through an entire development process (probably scrum), meaning as good as ccp is, they just wouldn't be able to react as quickly to the community's ideas or desires. it would impact livelihoods (some community operators derive decent income from their sites, and most i know reinvest that income back into the site). it would impact eve's seo which drives player acquisition and retention. it would undercut eve by giving rise to curse-dot-com sites that hack the client for their functionality. a few years ago, ccp toyed with the idea of a licensing agreement, where community publishers could sell works derived from the eve ip. at one of the meetings during fanfest, i croaked my support (i had lost my voice talking to players at the battleclinic booth). i argued that this would be a great idea because it would add economic incentive for community developers to make the eve ecosystem even richer - but that it needed strong oversight. i volunteered to start or sit on a steering committee, but the idea seems to have gone the way of walking-in-stations so my friend, if anything (and i've argued this for years), the tiny cost of maintaining an api has yielded unquantifiable innovation which drives subscriptions and retention. that seems like good roi to me. left un-discussed in my reply: your argument for eft, evehq, pyfa etc to be integrated into the client is counter-productive to ccp's business model. they want you to spend time in the game (improves subscription revenue) and they want you to sink isk experimenting (improves etc -to- plex sales). there, i said it. a private killboard is worthless; just put a mirror over your monitor if you want to admire yourself"
"yup you"
"dust should have been for pc too which would +++ increase dust players even more. i'd love to play dust but i am not gonna buy an inferior platform to do it."
"would prefer about 1/3 of the way along the spectrum between the current situation and gainaxing."
"i have more of a problem with new characters being created every day and taking up new pilot names than them spamming a local channel. use amarr or rens or somewhere."
"this very much sounds like you're butthurt because you can't prey on un-suspecting miners in null-sec.really, stop your whining and go play another game if you don't like this one.you do realize what will happen if local is removed, right? you will be flying your noobship in about 3 months. because only the bigger alliances (read: goonswarm and co.) will be able to sufficently blockade their entry systems with 1000+ interdiction/warp spheres+24/7 200man blobs to prevent any hostiles to getting even within a 10-system vicinity of their mining fleets, which will be mining under huge protection. and the prices will rise. what happens when mining 10mil/hour you need protection of 2bil worth of ships and pilots? well, prices rise exponentially. because minerals will become the most prized commodity in eve. why? because only precious few will be mining them due to no safety whatsoever.and you, the silent hunter will begin to whine about unfairness again.what will it be next? prevent bubbles forming 200km off the gate, give point immunity to stealth cloakies, really. where does it stop? this game is 95% pvp and 5% pve, the pvp people have immensly huge tools to get their prey and still you whine and whine and whine, how you are unfairly disadvantaged over miners.really, just think on it. you eliminate 90% of miners and the mineral market, and everything that stems from it will crash. simply because the flow of minerals will stop. grind to a halt because you can't get your **** together.all of the points you have made in this thread are noted, but invalid. you're trying to tip the balance. in your favour. you want everything and pvecarebears to have nothing.seems to me, all in all, that your skill and abilities are seriously lacking, if you need so many tools to get that one kill."
"not just delay, local should be totally redesigned, shifting to the way it is implemented in w-space.1) you are able to see only those who willingly manifested their presence.2) you can see any member of your corp or ally.3) others aren't present in local, but there is an unknown vessel signature counter, which displays approximate number of other ships (like, neutrals or minuses to you) in the system3) if your fellow corpsmate/allied pilot encounters someone neutral/hostile to your corp/ally, this one added to the local chat with \"expiration timer\" of sort (displays how much time has passed from last encounter and deletes it from local after, say, 10 minutes). under \"encounters\" i mean he was able to observe it for some time, like one second or two (that will mitigate current game mechanic's drawback, that forces covert ops vessels to recloack after entering the system)"
"more foolish assumptions.i am a miner in null sec.feel free to check my kill board, this is my main.my problem is this absurd lack of risk in my mining area, and how the devs are killing the rewards because some terribad null bears can't stand the idea of being shot at.congratulations.you have now condemned mining to also being a race to get to ice belts first, not just the ore belts.and no, they do not respawn very often, simply because someone always leaves behind scrub items to hold the belt as is.they dash off to another belt somewhere to cherry pick the more profitable ice instead.i am perfectly willing to operate \"at risk\", if it means the devs trust this method to limit the ice coming out of null.if you don't want to be shot at, leave null.it's safer than high sec for too many pve aspects already, which is every bit as ridiculous as it sounds.upgrading local to eliminate all afk influence what if local chat changed, hunting the cloaked..."
"everyone has assumed that i have a very open recruitment process. they are wrong. my recruitment process is very involved and takes time. however new recruits in the game find it daunting and it often puts them off. i have to be completely paranoid to be able to catch the awoxers. i get about one in three applicants are trying to do something nefarious. i fully expect an upsurge after this post.awoxing gives no value at all to eve. it is just a way to ruin someone else's game. i consider people doing it to have a very poor moral code. if someone was seriously trying to insert a spy into a corp then they need to make a greater effort. ok to the real world argument. seems the poster has not had a real job in the corporate sector. firstly, the real world corp actually meets the person that they are going to enter into the corp. next they are on a trial period. no new employee will have access to the corp accounts, the corp secure documents or assets, or to the corp passwords and full info network. it would take months before someone could really work into a position that would harm the corp and that would be only a minor nuisance. furthermore, in the real world there are actual consequences. a bunch of security guys and police officers will turn up at your desk and cart you away. your argument that the real world doesn't have greater security is completely invalid.in my experience, the only people that would support awoxing are people that enjoy screwing with people's game experience. that's a very twisted view of the world. i want to install some basic security for corporation in empire space. as i said in the original post, the ability to attack corp members in empire freely is very powerful. it should be controlled. eve may be a sandbox but that means i should have all the tools to manage my corp that ccp can supply. this is one i believe is necessary."
"every corporation i have worked for has massive security down to door cards to access the lunch room and restricted access to different site buildings. your access is given based on your roll, trust and length of service. but back to \"in game\". why do you have the ability to stop corp members from accessing a pos force field or even joining certain fleets. i think is is a good idea to help maintain a corps integrity and trust in their toons."
"remember when there was an advertisement for eve, and the entire premise of the advertisement was that you can infiltrate a corporation and wreck it from the inside.remember how that ability, that freedom, was literally used to promote the gameand then op comes along and says it adds no value and needs to be removedhahahahahahahahhaha"
"awoxing is a very valuable tool. this game is about being able to do things like infiltrate and destroy a corp from the inside."
"sorry but what do morals have to do with it? using that argument is like saying you are against chess, due to regicide.ridiculous.destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"i disagree with the proposal. i don't do awoxing and i have had it done to a corp i was in . . . but i don't think that granting internal kill roles is the solution.i will be very surprised if you find any support from any members of the csm on this one.mmike azariah ----<U+FEFF> <U+FFFD>|(<U+30C4>)/<U+FFFD>"
"i've been absent from the game for 4 years, and after all that time its still painfull to see how high agility high speed vessels behave in combat. while orbiting a target, they bump into obstacles, like they are are piloted not by a seasoned space combat veteran, but by some green rookie; they drop their speed almost to 0 to perform a sharp change of course under the heavy enemy fire, and just can't measure their speed and distance properly when ordered to approach wreck or containter - with mwd turned on, they always will pass by, then turn 180, pass by again, and only after that, at last, successfully aproach object. all these can easly result in their destruction if happen in the midth of swarm of hostile mobs, because most of them heavily rely on speed tanking. couple that with the fact that in many pockets mobs are intentionally located near structures of different kinds and often its not so easy to drag them aside from it.if this can't be fixed for some reason, it could be mitigated by adding some ability to manually set orbiting trajectory in some intuitive, easy way, and by adding some controls (hotkeys, especially) to adjust it in real time on the fly. currently it can be done only with doubleclicking non-stop, and is extremely tedious. also, ability to control the turn's radius would be of great help. one could change it to higher values in dangerous situation to force his craft not to lose too much speed while maneuvering by perfoming more smooth turns (with greater radius)"
"the probing changes in odyssey were pretty awesome all around. i can however see a few little things which would complete the system and make it perfect.1) when you launch probes and enter the system map, the probes currently are arranged in a default position around the system. if you are an fc or wanting to probe something nearby, it is difficult and takes times to rearrange the probes to the correct position. can we change it so that the probe positioning when you first launch them, so that if you launch them on a gate, you can quickly change the probe range and zoom them in on the gate and hit scan, without having to reposition them.2) the preset formations for pinpoint and spread formations currently have default ranges for the probes. can we change it so it will change the probe's position but not their size so, for example, if you are already at 1au probe range, the pinpointing formation will move the probes to the pinpointing formation and keep them 1au range.3) i'm not sure why you would ever need to have probes at different ranges for different probes. how about a unified probe range selector instead of shift clicking all the probes, then right clicking and going down to the new range,thoughts and ideas? eve down under - australian eve community www.evedownunder.com"
"sothis is what we should have:1. launch probes, which deploy at your current position.2. set probe range.3. click formation.4. probes deploy to their formation scaled to the range they are set.this is what we currently have:at the moment when you click on a formation probes are always deployed to their preset range (4au for pinpoint i believe) at the middle of the solar system, which is great if you want to pinpoint probe say... a carrier sitting at the sun. another contributing factor to the problem is that when we want to reconfigure these formation the all probes except for the centerpoint probes have to be move along two axis.how to fix it:if i were to deploy probes, set their range to 2au then click the formation button it should take the 4au formation and halve the distance from the centerpoint.i would also like to be able to save a custom preset for my probes which operates in the same way, if i set up a preset that is at 4au and save it, if i deploy my probes, set them to 1au it will change the distance from my midpoint probe to 25% of the 4au preset.i know this would become difficult because the game has no way of telling which probe is the anchorpoint but this really is just another button in a right click menu that needs to be added.while i am here i would also like to be able to choose the number of probes i want to use. say a menu that lets me enter a number from 1-8here is a video i prepared earler:"
"if you deploy probes, the initial anchor point should be where you dropped the probes, makes sense and helpful to get those quick ongrid warp in's to get ships at tacs. eve down under - australian eve community www.evedownunder.com"
"thousand times yes. getting the ship signature off of someone who undocks is one of those things that became way more cumbersome after odyssey. this is simple, sensible, and fixes it."
"i believe there is a 24 hour timer on biomass for this exact reason.jint hikaru - miner / salvager / explorer / spacebum in the beginning the universe was created. this has made a lot of people very angry and been widely regarded as a bad move."
"new fotm pops up, i buy a char from the character bizarre, i remap it's skills for fotm, i lol all over your face.fotm gets nerfed, i sell char with fotm skills, i buy a new char from the bizarre, i remap it for the new fotm, lol all over your face again.ok, so you limit it to 1 remap per account per year, i have 12 accounts (most are inactive), i switch to a monthly sub and rotate through these accounts.you've just trashed eve and turned it into some ****** wow \"i r gotta max skill for raid!!!\" game. well done."
"i agree with the skill deletion but with no sp reimbursement. if there was that then i see no need for a remap,not that there ever should be sp remaps, and it keeps with the 'actions have consequence' as whatever time its taken to train the deleted skill would have been totally wasted."
"why should concord keep them out? they punish actions instantly, not retroactively.how about if you have issues with pilots of such a low sec status being in 1.0 systems, you shoot them and make them leave?destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"i'm not setting on a gate waiting for a -10 to come thru the gate.that's what i pay fees and taxes for.how about concord podding them in 1.0 empire?ccp should add tsa agents to docking stations. too low and they say no to docking.or even better, charge/fine you money to dock."
"+1 for option b!very much needed."
"+1 for sanity and no more rsi"
"not an issue which affects me, but my wrist and mouse finger began to hurt just reading the op's description.needs a fix!+1jint hikaru - miner / salvager / explorer / spacebum in the beginning the universe was created. this has made a lot of people very angry and been widely regarded as a bad move."
"he's also right. shoot them."
"i honestly wouldn't worry if i were you. ccp management aren't utter idiots."
"another big government pork barrel solution!why not trust freedom to deal with terrorists?"
"there is a thread that has been started over in \"ideas and features\" that is getting a lot of positive reaction and ideas. maybe it would be better suited here."
"5mil says i can have a spy in his corp inside 3 weeks"
"why not cut to the heart of the actual problem and make it so that accepting new players into the corp is a grantable role. that way only responsible, accountable individuals who can be trusted to investigate applicants properly will be able to bring new people in."
"it is already a directors job/ceos job to accept new members into a corp if you dont trust your director to do the job then why are they there. bad proposal!!!"
"well i did like mining once as a noob. mining is a great corporation effort where you can mine billions worth. it is really mind numbing work though. how anyone could say that miners cannot go afk is ludicrous albeit for a short time and not to use any bots i mean. i would love to see huge alliances mining week after week in null sec having bodyguards to protect their flimsy fleets."
"nope, bounties stayed the same. however anomaly rats are deadspace rats (like rats in missions and plexes), not belt rats which have a higher bounty."
"what do you think will happen to plex prices if there is suddenly more isk being pumped into the game?hint: plex are priced at x hours of player effort, because there's a finite source of them.edit: wait, you are aware that players set plex prices, right?"
"i got told on twitter that if you resize the probes by using the graphical representation of the probes it resizes the formation.tested and works, things just became soo much easier."
"let's hope other csm members will read this thread."
"hi i'm ccp i'm just going to throw away a huge chunk of my income stream to make some ****** on the internet happy."
"all those who are trying to retort with real world examples miss (i hope unintentionally) one very important thing. in real world the corporation in fact has ways to retaliate. some corporations, not so law abiding as others, like different crime syndicates, could actually get the spy's family, gut his childrens in front of his wife, than make her eat their intestines, after what they would probably kill him.. or not. the spy knows it and, you see, this greatly discourage him from such actions. even in case of corporatons of more widespread type, spy can easly hit the jail after being caught and get his life basically ruined. and he won't be able to change his body as easly as one can in eve. so basically trying to refer to rl examples in case of eve is horribly wrong way to put it. and thats why we have a full bunch of artificial restrictions. like, one isn't allowed to impersonate other player or corporation. why won't you object that descision then? in rl no one can forbid you do that. but still you (usually) won't do that, for some reason. for the reason named \"dire consiquences\" which eve universe devoid of. well, almost any mmo, even almost any computer game, devoid of. thats why the topic starter's proposal makes some sense. though, i don't think the way he's chosen is apropriate to deal with it."
"+1 for this. id personally like to see some form of preventive measure to keep pilots in the plex for a certain time once they initiate the counter. that way when you want to go capture something, you would not be able to leave for a preset amount of time"
"i think that's a little too harsh; there would be no compelling reason to try capturing a complex because you'd always be afraid that a big gang was lurking just next door. it makes complete sense for a solo pilot to run from a large gang. but rolling back timers would make a solo pilot think twice about leaving when another solo pilot came in. and any pilot who had absolutely no intention of fighting would have a much more difficult time capturing a complex because every time they left the field they'd have to start all over again."
"essentially, profit from selling loot from wreck isn't in any way different from profit from selling parts gained through salvaging. but for some reason current game mechanics won't allow you to at least defend your property in form of potentially valuable wrecks with arms. i'm not asking to get them all concorded, eve is the universe of many possibilities. but also, its a place where one has to be aware of consequences following his actons, and be able to assess the risks while making the descision. and currently ninja salvaging doesn't carry any risks at all. and on the other hand it's became quite widespread and very frustrating issue for missionrunners. if the ninjas want those wrecks, make them at least try harder to not be killed in the process.as for (probable) perfomance issues, at least, some timer should be added, something around 10-20 minutes, and if a mission runner was absent from a pocket for that long, all wrecks become free salvagable for all"
"this would be a great way for people to trap pve fit ships with pvp gank squads. it would end up just like can flipping."
"they currently can do that by stealing from wrecks as well. but there are lot of those who don't intend to do anything other than stealing your salvage. at least, the descision what to do with the thief should be delegated to player owning the wreck, as it is done in case of stealing loot from it. i sincerely don't see a point in separation of those two cases.with suspect flag added, for example, a gang including a pricy bs doing the job and some cheaper and lesser size ship assisting him and doing salvage, could try to defend their profit from some ninja-salvager on t1 frigate. cheaper one would do the job while bs wouldn't get involved. currently there are no means at all to defend it other than shooting your wrecks."
"+1 for supporti have always wondered why the best salvage ship in the game ( noctis ) has a huge bonus to the tractor range but cannot drag in things you don't own. there is no penalty for salvaging another players things so why not add the suspect flag t"
"huh... haven't seen someone complain about this in awhile.per ccp mitnal:per gm faolchu : per senior gm ytterbium : per ccp prism x : per ccp incognito : (these quotes are kept handy for your convenience at ironfleet.com.)"
"well...given the obvious and overwhelming ccp response on the topic, salvaging should not give a suspect flag -but- we should be able to drag this \"space-junk\" around no matter who 'owns' it.let us tractor wreaks at all times !"
"shahfluffers , people sometimes make bad decisions, even if they are eve game designers. this happened in past, this will happen in future, sad thing. as for this condtradicting qoute,see, how easly it can be transformed:stealing other peoples loot.... this is an intended game mechanic and is in no way an exploit. people stealing your loot from npcs or the player you just blew up are doing nothing wrong. the players are stealing what is effectively floating in a rubbish in space and concord places no value on this stuff.eve is a harsh place you won't always have everything go your way, its a do or die world and people do what they can to get along. if stealing some loot gets them a few more isk someone will do it, it doesn't matter who just blew it up.still, stealing loot is a no-go, why?. its simply rediculous. yes, salvaging can be a mini-profession, and many conclude agreements with mission runners and split the profit. but ninja-salvaging is stealing, from any point of view. and it calls for suspect flag being set on perpetrator. that won't stop those who are going to do it the harsh way, but there should be some consequences for them. all this contradictions make me think the reason ccp don't want to fix it is more of techincal nature, than of game design."
"eve's salvage laws mirror rl salvage laws if you want to bring \"from any point of view\" into it.the other \"point of view\" is that ccp originally introduced salvage as the basis of a new profession, not simply to increase the rewards from missioning.still, no doubt you're bringing a fresh new perspective that the other 1000 salvage whine threads lack."
"this? noas a mission runner (at times) i can imagine someone grabbing the ship carrying the mcguffin i need to complete the mission and towing it way the hell off and demanding ransom.mmike azariah ----<U+FEFF> <U+FFFD>|(<U+30C4>)/<U+FFFD>"
"but the reason why loot stealing is flagged, is because it already exists. therefore a theft has taken place.salvage on the other hand, is completely different and was made this way by design from the start. you need to run a salvager first on a wreck, in order to create the salvage. if someone then somehow manages to steal your salvage, then this too would be flagged.it's a mini profession and as such you are competing with others to run your salvager on the wrecks. if you run your salvager well, then you are rewarded with the newly created salvage. if you fail, then your competitor wins.destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"i don't know for the 13000 bookmarks limit but what i need is subfolders."
"bumping for bookmarks. especially corp ones, and alliance ones would be nice while you're at it."
"i think we could build a bit more game play into it. after all outlaws had different identities and it was always part of the fun to find out who they really were. for example:in order to change your name you would need to get a very high standing with a pirate faction and complete a mission. you will need to have a low concord standing (security standing say -5) before you can talk with this agent as otherwise he will think you are a spy for concord.finish the mission and you will get something from the agent that will help you change your name. but you won't be able to do it as long as you are an outlaw. you will need to grind your standings back up to positive in order for the paperwork to go through regarding how you are reported in local etc.your name will then be changed on your character but there should be ways people can track down who you were. this could include the use of a skill and the use of other agents in the game."
"i think this would complicate things, and i wouldn't use it (just like the filter for hangers) but i see the use and can see it being useful+1"
"reason: bumping heavily abused mainly to devoid ship targeted for suicide ganking of warping ability through interfering with its allining while its being pushed away from gate to ease the looting process afterwards. its also being used by well known group of extorters to disrupt mining activities by bumbping miners out of mining laser's range from asteroids.proposal: after serveral bumping incidents repeatedly happened in a short intervail of time, concord should warp to the perpetrator and issue him a warning to stop his activity immideately, otherwise he will get criminal flag and will be fired upon. probably will be better if after warning they would use a stasis webifer on him, to make him unable to move for some time, to exclude accidental loss of ship in case some glitch happened and player indeed didn't mean no harm; if after receiving a warning and being stasised for 5-10 second he continues with his attempts, it's enough of a reason to apply deadly force."
"bring jukebox back! the current song for whs sucks... same boring bass string intrument on a 6 second loop? kill me now..."
"i've been doing a lot of pi recently, and once you've got your little network set up it does seem kind of lacking. it does need some development time spent on it at some point.\"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"bounties on anyone is more realistic. in real life if a druglord/criminal mastermind doesn't like someone, they can put a 1 bounty on a person, same should be true in eve."
"(1) from context, i think you mean \"implies\" not 'infers'. infer is to listen as imply is to speak.(2) and you're provably incorrect. although there have been occasions of law enforcement organsiations using bounties (eg: 19th century mid western america), there have also been many, many more occasions of governments, criminals or ordinary private individuals using bountes for their own more or less unjust purposes. (eg: judas and the 30 pieces of silver).but you've been told this about 50 times already and refuse to listen, so hey.anyway bounties aren't changing to any kind of \"only people that galdor thinks are bad can have bounties put on them\" system, so feel free to shout at the stars some more.the infinitely distant, infinitely uncaring stars."
"working as intended. although it would be nice for the person who placed the bounty to have the option of removing it. might make for some interesting social interactions between bounty'er and bountee....\"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"we are bickering for nothing. there is nothing wrong with placing bountys on whoever you want. what is needed is a tool to easly filter such bogus bountys out, leaving only most significant ones. like additional filter for overview, which will show (or lighten up) only those with bountys greater than 10/50/300kk, and an ability to search for players with bountys equal or greater to specific amount."
"now this idea i like, more tools to use with bounties, not conditions to limit themmmike azariah ----<U+FEFF> <U+FFFD>|(<U+30C4>)/<U+FFFD>"
"keeping this on the first page.hrolt ceo live free; die proud"
"*double post ignore"
"definitely a no.yet again calling for a dislike button ccp :d"
"supported. mostly because i will support anything that gets attention put back on avatar based game-play development.\"in the age of information, ignorance is a choice.\" www.stateofwar.co.nf"
"you've read my mind. this would be one of the most astonishing additions to eve universe. i would love to see some space las vegas in nulsec npc security zone where decent security maintained by some shady crime syndicate and constant struggle for control over the money flows between players' corporations won't cease even for day. where regular gambling competiotions with breathtaking prizes are held and hundreds of pro gamblers and regular adrenaline addicts flocking from all over the galaxy. or some undegroud (may be even player-controlled, like poses of sort?) gambling houses in hisecs, in hidden ded-space pockets, regulary raided by local militia forces for bountys which autoset on anyone participating in gambling here.what for actual games to be played there, i don't really know how to deal with it. i would like to see something well tested with time, like poker, mahjong, roulette, gambling machines, but that can contradict with the game's backstory."
"you acknowledge government!tsa is a reference to something that all people who fly are familiar with.for eve online it would be the cda = concord docking authority.freedom isn't free.are you saying that negative standing people are terrorists now?i like that...be aware that the concord security agency is listening/reading/recording everything you communicate and tracking you."
"why do you need to sit on a gate? just shoot them when you see them. you seem so bothered by the fact they are there, you must surely be seeing them quite a bit.you pay fees and taxes for concord to exist in high sec, not for them to do the jobs you cannot be bothered to do. or to retroactively add extra penalties.also, why should concord pod them? their pod is no threat to concord and they have already paid whatever penalty was due.so you have choices. don't like them there? then shoot and pod them. can't be bothered to do that? then stop complaining.destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"no."
"when 'sandbox' games start dictating to their player base how they are suppose to play the game is when that game dies. the above suggestion will never be instituted as it would result in the loss of around 45-70% of the player base which would spell the end of ccp. kind of tired of people saying how the eve universe is suppose to be this chaotic and ruthless environment where there is no order. it's not all suppose to be the wild west. empires thrive on commerce and trade and it makes sense that those empires would try and expand the stability and order that are essential for commerce. the idea of small pockets of hi-sec space out in null is kind of interesting. but i also like the idea of being able to lower security ratings for 0.5 and higher for a while. i stick mostly to hi-sec space because i really can't afford to lose 100m vessels every other day to gangkers. it wouldn't be so bad in low-sec space if you had an option to not show up in local or if it was harder/impossible to scan people down in ded space pockets...but so long as both of these tools exist for people who want find you can kill you i see no reason at all to travel into low sec space...."
"every single empire eventually fails, and nearly always they collapse into anarchy, violence and disorder."
"i'm a carebear and i don't like mini-games or whack-a-mole style stuff. exploration used to be a serious pita. they reduced the 'skill' factor of it, which was essentially just whack-a-mole, and it is now fairly fun.if you want more suspense in you're mining activities try fitting out a low-sec mining vessel or mine in an occupied wh. the whack-a-mole game becomes the constant eyes glued to local and/or directional scanner"
"first question: how did you manage to get 13k bookmarks... o.o"
"criminal offense? no. suspect flag? definitely.the game already has built in the tools to make it possible, if they weren't there there would be bumping at all... if one entity collides with another, momentum is transferred. all they need to add is a simple rule set. say, if the entities are not in same fleet, corp, alliance, then after 5 bumps its a warning, then at the 7th bump its a 15 minute flag.as it is now you can bump a freighter out of alignment for an entire day if you have the time. which is clearly not ok. and i'm sure it ends up being additional petition volume costumer service has to deal with.its simple risk - reward. the bumper is having fun, but there's no risk. ergo, something needs fixing."
"i'll just leave this here.gm response on bumping."
"bumping is fun maybe you should try it. and it shouldnt be a problem for miners who are at their computers...are you saying that you are not at your computer when you are mining?"
"how exactly will eve determine which ship bumped the other ?because people will attempt to exploit whatever algorithm ccp uses.what happens when someone tries to play docking games at jita 4-4 ?won't they keep hitting ships every time they undock ?"
"bumping is fine and working as intended.also, shahfluffers has posted the official response to your request.destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"if i park my talos in front of your mining or missioning boat while it's moving, causing you to repeatedly bump me and thus get concorded, you'd consider it fair game, right?"
"now this is a sensible idea."
"this is a proposal to ccp to iterate faction warfare for the winter expansion 2013.i will be brief and address specific issues first then more general ones that this system has:1. awoxers from allied militia2. plex farming3. no front line4. faction tier system5. general lack of incentiveawoxers are a problem in fw. it's an accepted part of life in every other part of the game and i'm not seeking to remove this, however it does need addressing when committed by people from the allied militia. currently if you awox someone from your own militia you get a standings hit and eventually cannot join that militia any longer. the same penalty does not seem to apply for members from allied militias. my fix is simple; a severe standings loss with the victims militia hq and a smaller loss with your own hq. awoxers will eventually find themselves unemployable by either militia.plex farming has been an issue ever since the fw overhaul some 2 years ago. the truth is its still very easy to farm plexes. there is a difficulty in balancing this to make it harder to farm and also not imposing on solo pilots such that they are at a disadvantage when a hostile warps in. therefore i propose a bonus and a nerf. the buff is plexes count down faster at a rate determined by the number of people in the plex. transpose the mechanics of sp generation and you have a ratio that is acceptable. with just a couple of people the effect is not very noticeable but with 20 people you can capture a complex much more easily. the nerf is that the button now warp jams any hostile ships that enter the complex up to 50km away. this should function like an infini-point and leave mwd available for use so that normal combat can occur with the exception that the invading ship cannot escape so easily. the aim here is increase investment in capturing plexes and incentivise group play.the lack of a front line hurts fw a lot. it's hard to get any kind of meaningful fleet on fleet fights unless there is an established front like the enaluri>nennamaila conflict. gameplay suffers as a result as there is little reason to take ground in a logical pattern and becomes a matter of whose farmers are more dedicated. my solution is to disallow systems that are next to enemy systems to be reinforced via system level. similarly as you move further back from each of these front line systems (which are increasing in system level) you get diminishing returns on offensive plexing them (because logically they're more resistant to capture via being further from the front line and by having a higher system level). if a system is captured and flipped over to your opponent, you are blocked from further reinforcing the systems back up the line until they are plexed below their maximum reinforcement level. this will allow flanking tactics to be established and will condense farming activities to fewer systems instead of the exploitable system we have had for 2 years.see this graphical representation of point 3.faction tier system needs reviewing again. i think the current system works well but its difficult to hit tier 3 without already being in a position to over-run your enemy just from the way that plexing works. hitting a higher tier in reference to my 3rd point will become a tangible objective as holding a higher warzone control becomes more feasible. disrupting an opposing faction from getting/holding tier 3 is also a real consideration as they'll constantly be within reach of it and the only way to keep them from it will be to be very aggressive in defence and offence.there is a general lack on incentive to actually participate in fw instead of farming it. super low barrier to entry and easy farming of plexes (or using a stealth bomber to run *most* missions) as well as the mechanics of lp payouts encouraging selfish behaviour are allowing characters to cheaply and efficiently punch well above their weight in isk generation. there aren't really any other parts of the game where you can make 50 mil in an afternoon with a 100k sp character flying a meta-1 atron."
"all of which mitigate but do not prevent. corporation roles prevent things from being done, not mitigate. you can throw as many fancy-smancy keyfobs on a lunchroom door as you want, it's not going to change the person who uses the keycard.war decs, locator agents, mail spam about former wrongdoings, bounties (heh, bad joke), hiring noir, posting about them...yeah, we have no way to retaliate against people who do naughty things in eve."
"if you wanted to name a character as your own, why didn't you create it as your own?the name was part of what you were buying, so you made your choice.jint hikaru - miner / salvager / explorer / spacebum in the beginning the universe was created. this has made a lot of people very angry and been widely regarded as a bad move."
"that response is due to limitations on the game, their resolution is, since the game has no way to deal with it currently, to allow it. its is pointless to link it, because it in no way closes the discussion.try again."
"where does it say that bumping is only allowed because of the \"game limitations?\" all i read was...\"ccp considers the act of bumping a normal game mechanic, and does not class the bumping of another player<U+FFFD>s ship as an exploit\"the only exception made to this was prolonged and sustained bumping from the same people despite all reasonable efforts to avoid it."
"this will be another thread that won't die for years until ccp announce the sparkling new feature to being players to eve: the ability to play mp3s in game! and then they'll act like it's some new thing and not something they took away from us in the first place."
"make so bounties have a time limit. say bounty last 30 days and if not claimed the isk is lost to the system. simple as. or to even add to that, the player that survives the bounty for 30 days gets a percentage of the bounty that was placed on him/her ,and the rest is lost to the system. would make it interesting !"
"i've never been a fan of a time limit for bounties... mostly because it's currently so easy to avoid and stall for time by just sitting in station or going inactive until it expires."
"up, opposite of down.hrolt ceo live free; die proud"
"your proposals just promote a blobby faction war."
"within limits yeah. do you even fw? having fleets be the primary objective instead of solo-plexing would be a breath of fresh air. i guess you wouldn't understand."
"yep i have been in faction war. if you want to see who you can outblob there is always null sec. i don't think faction war should be \"junior null sec\" for those who like to blob but can't compete in null sec. fw imo should be a venue for those who like all forms of pvp including small scale and even solo pvp. it also can involve large scale fights for bunker busts or when both sides happen to be able to field large fleets to fight for a system. currently if you want \"a breath of fresh air\" from larger fleet fights just go try to take someones home system. tell me what militia you are in and i will tell you what system to go for."
"i'd prefer it if you just debate the points in my op."
"i just want timer rollbacks... your ideas have near zero chance of being implemented if ccp cannot even be bothered with implementing timer rollbacks.1. awoxers: a) faction standing requirements for fw should apply to individuals, not corporations. b) allied militia should show up as a different color/option on overview2. your proposal penalizes certain fits (afterburner) by not allowing them to warp out when getting blobbed. ccp also has a very hard time implementing timer rollbacks, i don't think timer speed adjustments are within their capabilities. :)3. frontlines: edit: would rather assign importance to systems, but whatever works. this proposed system will lead to less (small gang/solo) pvp at the expense of a more ordered battlefield. will push players away from plexes and to missions for lp - which will decrease the overall amount of pew. 4. no idea what you're talking about.5. only you can provide incentive for you to participate in fw occupancy warfare. ccp cannot do it for you (sandbox, and all that stuff). ccp already gives you lp for plexes, and lp bonuses for controlling more areas. what more incentive do you need, a medal? yeah, they give that to you as well - if you take all the systems."
"i support op's ideas. another thing that i would like to see changed would be to make the system tier bonuses worth something. right now i have a very hard time understanding how they would help anyone. plus station slots? cheaper clones and broker fees? so what?"
"1) drone space actually has some validity. its crap space, diet nullsec, little bit more sugar than nulsec zero (syndicate)competition for this space is low compared to other regions. i agree its location makes it even harder. perhaps it would be better located as a band around lowsec and npc nullsec. it would be more fitting with the reduced profitability of the drone npcs being closer to empire. cobalt edge and other far outlying drone space would be better served being a different faction of npc due to their location.2) bring on ring mining3) one or two npc lowsec systems per region, hmmm interesting idea. but these would just get as camped."
"i'm okay with this idea if us low/null sec people could also claim highsec systems and make them into nullsec or even just lowsecsupercap nerf - change ewar immunity"
"change is good. adds variability to game and invites turmoil/conflict. a way to slowly change the sec status of all systems based on some sort of metric - either player driven or whatever - should be encouraged."
"just do it, already."
"i support making it concordable or suspect flagging, only because of how quickly the op and the people like him begging for this will regret it the minute they undock from a somewhat busy station, or the minute they cluster together in a belt to mine, or ... etc"
"edit: the entire results can be consulted here:"
"pos01 - allow players empty and fill a silo without having to offline it first02 - make all pos arrays, slots and resources shown as one large list instead of broken up by array03 - make cancelling jobs at pos not cause materials to be lost!04 - allow for pos fuel optimization05 - fix the access to pos from anywhere inside the pos, you still cannot access mobile laboratories from more than 2500m06 - remove the penalties from refining arrays07 - remove the penalties from advanced ship assembly arrays08 - warn players when they use the reactions setup tab and forget to apply something09 - allow pos mods to be build at a posmining10 - introduce a proper mineral compression mechanic to replace the 425mm railgun i, and separated by mineral type.11 - simplification of mining crystals, currently each ore has an individual crystal for tech2 miningmarket and contracts12 - wtb contracts with a duration, and collateral/materials possible from both parties13 - allow drugs (boosters) to be contained in contracts14 - provide api call to access market data.15 - i want to be able to buy a ship and it's fitting from the market with one click from my stored fittings (only partially if necessary)16 - i want to be able to sell a lot of stuff to the highest buy order at the same time, i don't care if it takes some time to make sure the server does not crashhauling17 - create a 'tug class' of ships that can move fitted battleships etc in hisec18 - make deep space transports usefulinventory window19 - remember the last corporation hangar i selected in the inventory windows after i undock and dock20 - in the inventory in pos add a green/red icon in front of the structures so we know what is offline or online21 - add columns for ml and pl info to inventory window / items windowplanet iteration22 - provide api calls to access pi data23 - notifications your pi extractors have finished / add a warning to industry window that you have ecu heads stopped in a planet24 - add warnings to pi window if we forget to set routes and have ecus or factories not receiving or sending materials25 - allows us to move the cc or allow us to choose another default focus structure on a planet26 - in planet tab / industry window, add new radial menu for planet custom offices -> warp to 0/access/align notes: see customofficemenus.png and customofficemenus2.png27 - add global poco window that allows poco owners to see all pocos and remote change their taxes28 - add route automation during pi construction <U+FFFD> note: if i select a new extractor product and start a job, automatically ccp should verify if there is a route set for this product, if not it should search a storage or launch pad linked directly to the ecu or the nearest one (with less link jumps) and if one is found create an automatic route from the extractor to that structure. if i set up a basic factory or advanced factory and select a bpo, automatically ccp should find, for each product it needs, the near storage or launch pad that contains the product in its storage or has a receiving product route, and set up a automatically route with that product from that structure to the factory. it also should create a route of the product it produces to the nearest storage or launch pad.custom offices29 - fix bug that random closes customs office window upon clicking the <U+FFFD>transfer<U+FFFD> button30 - allow the creation of courier contracts from a custom office to a stationinvention and manufacturing31 - increase invention result box size, or make resizes persistent, so that the resultant bpc type and stats are visible without scrolling.32 - add double click support for inventory window -> \"install job\" to bypass the menu usage33 - make the assembly line selection for industry jobs default to the first free slot in the same location as where you last installed a job34 - add ml and pl info to bpo/bpc icons35 - select and use multiple boo/bpc for industry job. ( reduce click fest)36 - when choosing an installation to produce a bpo/bpc at only display places where its possible to produce from that particular bpo/bpc37 - when selecting manufacturing from a bpc the run count defaults to the max runs of the bpc, not 138 - manufacturing/other jobs can use materials inside containers / jobs can be started from blueprints inside containers39 - allow the science and industry window's blueprint tab to display blueprints in containers40 - make it possible to queue manufacturing/science jobs of less than 48 hours / allow \"batches\" of jobs to be done. instead of inventing 1 bpc at a time you can put batches of 20 bpc to invent so you don't need to babysit invention every hour / ability to queue industry/research jobs to the maximum simultaneous time (e.g: queue 3 sets of 10 jobs, 1 hour each = 10 current jobs and 20 in queue) / make it so we can install more jobs that we have skills to run so long as the jobs actively running are under the number we have skills to do / queue system for manufacturing and invention jobs that works just like the skill queue does now"
"unforgiven storm,01,04,25,19,20,29,22,14,23,24,33,40,08,12,13,11"
"wyatt hill, 33, 38, 39, 40, 35, 32, 37, 16, 18, 20, 21, 24, 25"
"akrasjel lanate, 34, 37, 38, 40, 04, 16, 26, 27, 29, 05,"
"kale freeman, 2, 33, 35, 32, 37, 38, 40, 39, 19, 21"
"venus lemercantes, 32, 16, 33, 19, 30, 40, 15"
"aya wulf, 31,33,34,37,14,21,01,13,18,36"
"trebor daehdoow: 28, 14, 05, 24, 22, 23, 19, 09, 16, 25, 29, 08, 20, 21, 27, 33, 36, 37, 40, 26i endorse this product and/or service"
"anarchocap ahashion, 35, 40, 10, 15, 08, 18, 32, 01, 05"
"raltera muvila: 10, 39, 25, 22, 03, 21, 05, 23, 40, 30"
"nyjil lizaru: 38, 39, 40, 37, 33, 31, 36, 25, 17, 26, 30, 15and i admit that i did not participate in the official thread because there were so few industry choices. i figured that this 'just wasn't our expansion'. thank you for trying to rectify that.nyjil's corollary to malcanis' law: \"any attempt by ccp to smooth the learning curve of eve online will be carried out via the addition of extra factors and 'features' such that there is a net increase in complexity.\""
"atmosphear: 11, 23, 30, 06, 05"
"einar matveinen,34,35,38,39,40,23,25,22,18,6,7,5"
"toguri iva,5,7,6,18,22,25,23,40,39,38,35,34"
"wabs,1,2,3,6,7,8,9,12,13,15,17,19,24,26,29,36,38,41,42,48,50,51,53,54,61,65,74,76,84,88,91,94,98"
"cosmic voidson, 11, 10, 33, 37, 38, 39, 40, 14, 15, 22, 23, 24"
"bath sheeba,01,05,09,10,12,13,17,18,21,31,35,37,38and i have to say that the last item on that list(number forty) has to be a troll to tie up every high sec slot everywhere. it might as well be called, \"remove all high sec public industry slots, everywhere.\" heh."
"ransu asanari: 38, 21, 01, 14, 18, 05, 33, 34, 35, 32, 39, 30, 20, 15, 13, 10, 37, 31"
"etienne delacrosse: 35, 02, 14, 18, 40, 32, 36, 37, 21, 34, 30, 33, 05, 01, 25, 31"
"roannon, 06, 22, 23, 24, 29, 25, 03, 09, 20, 01, 16, 33, 27, 30"
"cardavet: 04, 22, 14, 01, 27, 25, 23, 05, 15, 24, 30, 34, 40"
"stack khar-selim: 15, 16, 17, 18, 14, 22, 23, 24, 25, 38, 40"
"cirrowing, 19, 38, 39, 13, 29, 25, 23, 24, 21, 31, 01, 30, 20, 08"
"elena thiesant: 19, 38, 21, 39, 33, 35, 40, 36, 31, 34, 29, 22, 23, 24, 28, 18, 32"
"baalerian, 33, 35, 36, 29, 31, 17, 40, 34, 04, 25"
"galinius valgani: 30, 22, 14, 15, 23, 24, 26, 35, 38, 39, 28"
"maggie dezno, 31,34,39,37,29,30,36,25,33,26,27,32,23,22,20"
"brinelan: 02, 04, 07, 10, 13, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 28, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 40"
"samyon: 23, 24, 19, 17, 16, 39, 38, 05, 10, 29, 04"
"lev taganov: 40, 06, 34, 21, 31, 23, 24, 33, 32, 35"
"barzai mekhar: 40, 28, 24, 02, 32, 23, 05, 07, 20, 25, 29, 30, 10, 33, 37, 08"
"feren alabel: 16, 10, 12, 22, 15, 13, 21, 34, 17, 23, 18, 14"
"gizznitt malikite: 10, 21, 35, 06, 07, 37, 01, 30, 05, 25, 33, 13, 24, 40, 14, 20, 34, 38, 39"
"charbrus metesur: 23, 39, 21, 38, 37, 33, 24, 22"
"infinite force: 06, 02, 11, 05, 03, 07, 08, 09, 01, 13, 20, 21, 25, 29, 33, 34, 35, 18hrolt ceo live free; die proud"
"my apologies for breaking the links you posted, i've been working up updating the website and reformatting things. after a few db hiccups the links are back to working, and should remain as permalinks unless some kind of major redesign happens (not at al likely)."
"eric raeder: 06, 30, 01, 33, 09, 18, 07"
"[jartren]: 30, 13, 10, 23, 25, 37, 26, 27, 40, 34"
"[mike azariah]: 17, 39, 37, 35, 34, 15, 16mike azariah ----<U+FEFF> <U+FFFD>|(<U+30C4>)/<U+FFFD>"
"[yonis pserad]: 17, 23, 30, 24, 01, 22, 03, 04, 10, 40, 26"
"geeshizzle maccloud: 06, 07, 14, 18, 12, 40, 08, 34, 21, 23, 24, 29, 36, 35thanks to trebor for the awesome tool! made the experience of contributing that much better and easier!"
"gnomadic: 06, 02, 11, 05, 03, 07, 08, 09, 01, 13, 20, 21, 25, 29, 33, 34, 35, 18"
"lachoneous: 06, 02, 11, 05, 03, 07, 08, 09, 01, 13, 20, 21, 25, 29, 33, 34, 35, 18"
"gidgiddoni: 06, 02, 11, 05, 03, 07, 08, 09, 01, 13, 20, 21, 25, 29, 33, 34, 35, 18"
"hargrave mandochino, 33, 38, 39, 40, 35, 32, 37, 16, 18, 20, 21, 24, 25"
"rock melter: 05, 09, 10, 11, 16, 28, 30, 40, 13, 20"
"wrathraker: 05, 09, 10, 11, 16, 28, 30, 40, 13, 20"
"the way local works in high,low and null has been since eve came out. funny how it took a decade of the game for the constant whiners to start requesting how \"local should be removed\".did you even read your own whine where i quoted you? you specifically mentioned how the predator has no chance to catch the prey, if the prey is situationally aware.besides, the fact that null-sec mining is safer than high-sec is player defined and influenced problem. ccp has said it many times they'll stay out of player based actions. why would they intervene in your favour? because you took the time and whined like a little b1tch on the forums?please, cry more."
"lol...not crying, sylphy, sending a message to tell those who would hunt pve players like myself to bring the noise.i want to be shot at, and hunted. i want to need more effort to be safe, and have that effort be an opposed contest of skills.not some default option with 100% success rate.and, i love how you make it sound like a challenge, \"if the prey is situationally aware\".yes, because watching local requires you to press.... nothing.it require the additional skills and hardware fitted: none.yep, that sure is a steep obstacle to overcome.and me, crying because noone wants to shoot me.... help me sylphy... shoot me and make me feel better....upgrading local to eliminate all afk influence what if local chat changed, hunting the cloaked..."
"we should just remove concord and hand the work over to player driven police force corporations."
"i did. your proposals have been brought up and rejected several times because they would just make fw more blobby. if you want blobs eve has a place for you - null sec. the only exception is your awoxing idea. xg had a better idea for that. make the ability to be in militia be based on individual standings. i would add that killing allied militia should = a standings hit as well. problem solved."
"why not just change that across the board. i'm sure you and your hotdropping buddies will run out sooner than us miners will :)"
"us miners?just so we are clear, you do not represent my interests, and i am a miner in null.i want back my unlimited ice belts. at the very least, i don't want my rewards rolled back even further.that means we need risk, not this loony tune default mechanic that is killing the risk.upgrading local to eliminate all afk influence what if local chat changed, hunting the cloaked..."
"this is a tool that no one in eve besides a few highsec carebears want the majority of players know and understand that awoxing is a good part of eve and it allows you to get targets that you would not normally be able to get. i am guessing that you have had a rash of awoxing incidents in your corp or this wouldn't even be an issue for you. go put your big boy pants on and fight back against awoxers if it means that much to you or go away cause crying on the forums is not going to get you anywhere."
"you aren't really trying to imply all that you've mentioned are equally disastrous outcomes to having your family tortured or your life and career ruined, are you? war decs, that can be made totally useless just by all members of targeted corp unsubscribing from it for a week. and whom you would declare it to? to some npc corp this alt of an awoxer belonged to before you've let him in your corp? mail spam of specific account, which is just a mere nuisanse, and due to multi-account nature of eve gameplay won't do any harm at all to a player this account belongs to. posting on forums which only will attracts criticism and ironies. is that all you've got? its nothing, and no awoxer/corp spy will ever be frightened by those. he just will create/buy another char, in most cases, it will already be another alt of him. the eve universe offers no solid ways to retaliate in such cases, period. thats why we have some rules that limit player's activities in the game. no impersonation, no repeating, meaningless harrasment of other players - like those. because there is no way to fight it like you would do irl. what topicstarter is trying to propose is just another such rule, thats all. there is no way to somehow check backstory of newly accepted corp member, other than employment history, which hardly can be of help in case of some alt or buyed character. there is no way you could somehow spy on your members, make all their activities logged for your security department to analyze; you can't even trust their former employers because they could be those who are ploting against you in the first place. you can't monitor their communications because no sane awoxer/spy will use ingame mail for such talks, and even chat system (which you can't monitor at all, even through api). in cases where rl human will defenitly know he will pay dear price, eve awoxer who are using fresh alt for the job knows he will pay nothing at all. thats why this should attract attention of game designers crew."
"you couldn't be more wrong. ccp made a decision that salvaging is a profession. and much like maritime law, and pretty much the definition of the word 'salvage' , it is first come, first served.maybe, rather than crying on the forums about it, you should fly with a friend who salvages for you (this is an mmo).or, fit a salvager to your missioning ship.... but that might impact your isk/hour mission setup.. oh noes!or, don't mission in a busy mission hub, to be honest, i'm quite surprised that a 2007 character is complaining about this.jint hikaru - miner / salvager / explorer / spacebum in the beginning the universe was created. this has made a lot of people very angry and been widely regarded as a bad move."
"you're right, can stealing should go back to not flagging you like it used to be."
"i almost thought you were defending the existence of local in favour of pvp pilots. inspite of all your \"valid points\" in the \"add a delay to local\" thread. because your point in that thread keeps punching the punchline that nullsec has no risk due to local existing."
"oh, that is a fair statement.barring pilot error, you cannot catch a pilot in sov null who is in a friendly system with a pos or outpost.hostiles are reduced to being \"annoying\", because we are told to stay docked up. if we undock and let them get a kill, they will come back like ducks after you fed them once.and we can get docked up the moment they appear in local, because by the time they finish loading system we are in warp to that safe.so, unless annoyance can be considered a risk, a pretty fair statement.upgrading local to eliminate all afk influence what if local chat changed, hunting the cloaked..."
"the gallente have some more haulers than other races. so the issue is located there.in future i have to train gallente industrial for minerals, pi or ore transport and minmatar industrial for the ammunition transport ship. well, it got easier to lern these skills but it looks not right.many, many threads have opened to improve the industrial skill pathes and a lot good proposal were found there. but the easiest and fastest way to a temporary solution would be the transfer of - kryos- epithal- miasmos- hoarderto the ore industrial skillpath.in a later rework they can get a ore specific or intakiy syndicate (hoarder) specific repaints.this would lead to pairs of typical, racial haulers small/fast and big/slow with typical, racial slot count and usage.all specials are united under the colors of ore and independant of racial skills.this is a short term proposall in front of an ore industrial ship rework suggestion elsewhere. maybe the ore ships skill path could be advanced as non-racial ship skill path"
"i am not sure how i feel about this...i am pretty sure this is not something that veterans will like but i could be wrong. i will have to ask some of my friends to post how they feel about this."
"what risk does a miner face that a bumper doesn't?"
"why has discussion came down to miners suddenly? bumpers are more of a threat in suicide ganking scheme. here they face almost no risks while basically asist criminals and in many cases its them who make this crime even possible. still, they won't get neither killrights on itself nor criminal flag. such bumping has a very distingiushable pattern. it lasts for such a long time its highly unlikly that can be done unintentionally."
"drav sorin: 15, 16, 18, 05, 28, 24, 36, 40"
"gaeid modiso: 15, 16, 25, 24, 11, 14, 37, 40, 22, 38"
"probag bear: 14, 36, 05, 20, 18, 31, 38"
"ming the merciless: 30, 36, 01, 06, 07, 09, 16, 18, 31, 10"
"bo kantrel: 05, 10, 11, 09, 16, 28, 30, 40, 20"
"kantrel: 05, 10, 11, 09, 16, 28, 30, 40, 20"
"mara rinn: 06, 07, 28, 33, 01, 05, 15, 30, 22, 27"
"p4ulie amatin: 01, 03, 05, 07, 13, 14, 15, 17, 29, 30, 40, 35, 34, 33, 25, 21, 20, 18, 32, 36"
"susanne klatten: 4, 17, 18, 23, 27, 30, 33, 35, 36, 40"
"siri keaton, 33, 38, 39, 40, 35, 32, 37, 16, 18, 20, 21, 24, 25"
"vartan sarkisian 35, 34, 37, 40, 21, 25, 11, 23, 32"
"thanks for the support, the links just need to hold on for 4 more days"
"kiere padecain: 34, 31, 09, 39, 38, 33, 07, 16, 18, 40, 30, 25, 26, 27"
"honeybiscut blackalacha: 34, 31, 40, 09, 39, 38, 33, 07, 16, 18, 30"
"sephira galamore, 06, 05, 27, 01, 23, 03, 07, 08, 15, 16, 20, 21, 34, 25, 29, 32, 35, 33, 36, 38, 37, 39, 04, 31, 40, 09, 26, 30, 17, 28"
"adreyia varaki, 06, 05, 32, 33, 36, 35, 34, 21, 38, 37, 39, 01, 27, 23, 03, 07, 08, 15, 16, 20, 25, 29, 04, 31, 30, 40, 09, 17, 26"
"sierruk: 25, 24, 23, 22, 27, 26, 28, 03, 02, 01, 06"
"merlin centarii : 05, 40, 06, 32, 18, 01, 35, 37, 33, 07, 38, 39"
"thread stickyfied on behalf of the csm!"
"eugene lebovich 6, 1, 5, 28, 23, 39, 40, 4, 24, 36, 37"
"selaria unbertable: 02, 04, 05, 07, 18, 20, 21, 32, 40, 39, 37, 35, 34, 22, 23, 24, 33, 36"
"unkind omen: 16, 13, 40, 38, 06, 07, 33, 37, 10, 15, 23"
"midael: 16, 13, 40, 38, 06, 07, 33, 37, 10, 15, 23"
"[havoc virus]: 05, 06, 03, 15, 17, 04, 10, 13, 14, 01, 24, 23, 25, 28, 40, 07, 18, 22, 35, 36, 33, 37"
"erik finnegan, 30, 17, 10, 27, 19, 15, 13, 9, 3"
"oh you young-ins! eve isn't about all that!it's about your choices impacting the life of your character. just like the real world! :-)"
"looking at the killboards of blown up ratters and miners in nullsec, it seems to require quite a lot. every day.so, since your environment you are in is so flawlessly empty and devoid of hostiles, you either presume or assume its the same in all other nullsec regions."
"oh, i don't assume this, i really have no opinion on the statistics.but other pilots seem to assume this too much, judging by those kills you mentioned.no single pve pilot ever was killed in their home system, except through pilot error.they either made a mistake about another pilot being active, and undocked in an unprepared ship...orthey failed to prepare by aligning to a safe spot, and hitting warp when the hostile enters the system.all the cloaked pilot ever did was take advantage of an opportunity, one handed to them by a mistake on a silver platter.now, if the mechanic to get safe involved an opposed contest of skills, rather than a default one like we have now, that might be different. players might plan on beating other players, instead of a clock.upgrading local to eliminate all afk influence what if local chat changed, hunting the cloaked..."
"this has been bugging me for months and would like to see this fixed in the next update. when adding a new bookmark the drop down list of all your folders is in a randomized order. i like to have many folders to organize my bookmarks and having to scroll the entire list reading very carefully so i can find the correct folder is very frustrating. this should be an easy fix as many other things in the game are sorted alphabetically, and i cannot figure out the mechanic on how the bookmarks are sorted. to me, it seems that the folders are placed in a random order. please fix this. here is a screenshot of what i mean."
"looking at the number of salvage whinethreads in the 2007 forums, i'm not.incidentally, as long as we're being all \"real life\" about it, shooting empire faction rats should incurr a criminal flag should it not?"
"normally when this happens it drops in a can next to the wreck ( i know not always )what if all wrecks that drop loot dropped it into a can siting beside the wreck?salvage hunters can freely drag and salvage wreck's while the mission runner's 'mcguffin' is protected from being moved.i realize it will cause more server load as if effectively doubles the objects in space after a battle but it means my shiny noctis actually has a purpose when cleaning up a battle / mission i was not part of."
"you're right after repeated ship bumping concord should join in with the bumpers and take out the offending miner/freighter etcdisclaimer: viewpoints in this post may not be supporting the op as i don't support it."
"apart from the fact ccp are on the side of the bumpers, they generally exhibit a lot of skill as it's not just approach a lot of the time."
"you missed the point entirely. anything done to penalize bumping will be turned right back around and used against miners and other indutrialists. all one of them has to do is get in your way... then have a friend who doesn't care about dying bump you into him.of course, you could have the mechanics not register the second or third bump... so then the bumpers would just flip it around and bump one of their friends into you.quite basicly, your idea is a lose-lose situation for all miners."
"jack logans, 23, 24, 11, 28, 25"
"stigman zuwadza, 03, 37, 33, 32, 06"
"nickel bomberrr: 35, 40, 08, 07, 06, 10, 11, 13, 17, 18, 23, 34, 36"
"yes i agree, but i would like to have the choice to remove unwanted/unused skill points.and with that choice the consequence is that i will not be reimbursed the skill points for doing this."
"that makes absolutely no sense, so basically what is being asked here, is to allow someone to delete skills to satisfy their ocd?"
"no, delete skills i have no use for and will never have any use for again.example,ccp gave me mining lvl 2 when i created this character. this is a combat character, i have no use for this skill.when planet management first came out, i wanted to give it a try, you know something new, let's try it. i injected all 5 skills and trained each skill to lvl 4. after a few months, i decided that i did not like pi. i will never have any use again for these 5 skills.should i be penalized for trying something new, then deciding that it is not for me? i do not mind losing the skill points & think i should lose the skill points for trying it. i just want to remove it from my skill sheet if i want too. charge me a plex, if you/ccp thinks it is a vanity thing, like plex for re-sculpt."
"i am not sure where you are \"penalized\" for having it."
"seconded. how does having skills you aren't using \"penalize\" you?it's like knowing irrelvevant trivial from the 90s when you are an engineer. it's not useful right now or in the foreseeable future...but it might come in handy if you are randomly invited over to a coworker's \"old school\" game night.i can use myself as an example! i will never be a serious industrialist or miner... yet i can fly exhumers, orcas, and freighters... which i don't intend on ever buying or flying (unless i want to feel cheeky with a skiff)... but those skills might come in handy if there a pos bash and said stuff drops out... you never know."
"and i want to dock in the pleasure hub with the company of some exotic dancers while i gamble and walk around with my avatar...wis and \"fluff stuff\" i don't see coming back around for a long time considering how many things like pos's and such that actually need work and the terrible reaction they got from incarna.if you really must gamble there is eve online hold 'em. ive known players who completely fund their shiny ship habit with it."
"no opinion on the statistics? how about facts? if you fail to observe that, you're talking out of your ass.and yeah, certain people can't simply have an eye out on local/intel channels and warp to a safespot when a (potential) hostile enters their system/pocket. greed and ignorance are by far the two tools that have served the agressors with a fully sized meal so many times.actually, pilots are killed in their home systems all the time. welcome to a game, that isn't bug free. when you're 25km away from any asteroid and your ship fails to enter warp, because it's seemingly stuck on space dust, you lose those precious 12 seconds that it takes for a cloaky hotdropper to get to you and light a cyno. we all know how the procedure goes from there. then there's lack of focus, rl factors (neighbour wants to borrow 2 cups of sugar, telephones, tv, etc) and some annoying game mechanics that prevent you from warping until you click that stupid \"ok\" button (example during alliance tournament).i would agree it's mostly to pilot error, but you have that in pvp as well. you can play \"if\" game all you want.all the cloaked pilot ever does is take advantage of stupidity, ignorance or lack of focus. why should it be any different? the game itself punishes you for the mistakes you do, why would 90% of eve's players have another advantage over us industrialists? isn't it enough that our ships are lacking agility, sublight speeds, manuverability, thickness of defenses and lack of offensive/utility modules?let's make this an insta-gib game. industrialists have 1hp, everything else has 5-10hp. i'm sure everyone would agree on that, since it's totally fair.go look at the forums. go look at killboards. the industrialists are the single most singled out target for all the \"pvp pr0 players\" of eve. who, by the way, don't go flying around looking for skilled and experienced pilots in ship fits that match their skillpoint effective margins. no, the preying on the weak, defensless and non-offensive targets is the main focus.how many people out of 100 new players - brand new, we're not talking about people drawn into the game by their friends to bolster their fleets or alts of people; how many of those 100 players are not taking the \"i'm gonna kill anything that can't shoot back\" way to trying to be a recognizable pilot and fame assorted with that? 99% of pvp pilots already thinks industry branches are boring and how pvp is the only adrenaline-filled enjoyable part of the game.that and seemingly popular way to grief other players to the maximum. because the game allows it.in the end, a lot of people will agree, that changing the way local works would be a good idea. but not without game breaking changes to some other mechanics that local currently is a part of. in other words, making a delay to local without much consideration is like making sure the zebra is blind, deaf and can't run more than 5 feet without a heart-attack so the lioness has an easier job.and that's what this silly proposal stems from. whiny little b1tch3z who need additional tools and powers to get that kill."
"this is the key statement you made.everything else you said was either unsubstantiated, or your opinion.the key point and fact, since you respect facts, remains that pve is not playing against pvp.and i want to, as a pve pilot.if you do not want to compete against other pilots, go to high sec where concord acts in your defense.if you accept that other pilots will attack you outside of high sec, stop complaining when they camp your system.(no sylphy, i am not pointing at you as a complainer specifically)the only reason afk cloaking is not a primary concern in high sec, is concord and the already heavy population of non blues.nrds play is only possible when you accept the presence of neutral pilots in the first place. concord enforces peaceful behavior whenever a war dec is not present, so nrds is not so much an option, as an enforced play aspect.low sec makes no promises, and security status hits do eventually mount up, assuming pilots are not manually entered on watch lists already.in null, it can be possible to play as nbsi, because non blues are far less frequent. i will never say this is good game play, but it does happen a lot.and every system where a cloaked camper is present, clearly advocates for nbsi by their panic ridden avoidance paranoia.that, or they ignore the pilot and continue business as usual. if he proves hostile, a fight happens.you seem to be describing a system where a prepared pilot never needs to face an opponent, or compete against a hostile player directly. they will always have an opportunity to say no to direct interaction, making it only possible if they choose it, or by carelessness / accident miss the opportunity to avoid it.you just made player interaction on this level a punishment, rather than the primary game aspect.that is what we have now, and you are defending it.upgrading local to eliminate all afk influence what if local chat changed, hunting the cloaked..."
"what kind of player interaction are we talking about here? because, what we're doing right now, talking, is player interaction.player interaction is also trading, buying, co-op play in mining, missions, pvp and doesn't necessarily demand you to shoot first and ask questions later to \"interact with other players\". you have a choice of how you'll interact with someone. or if you'll interact with them at all.personally, i'm not bothered by cloaky afk campers. there's 50 systems in providence that i can do my industrial stuff in and all of them won't be camped at the same time and even if they were, i can find other stuff to do.just because i live in carebear hq, doesn't mean i won't sit into a combat ship and defend my home system when it's necessary.at the very least, afk cloaky camping is.. unimaginative. and people say mining is boring. hah. sittign in one system hoping someone will be stupid or ignorant or complacent.. so you can take advantage of that. it's something i wouldn't do even if i got paid for it."
"nor should you.that's the problem with the current mechanic, as a miner i only need to watch local.i don't need to coordinate with other pilots, i don't need to watch intel channels, i don't need to fit for defense against other players.if a hostile enters the system, i don't worry about how clever they are, or if my scanning skills are up to the challenge of detecting them in time to react before i am in danger.i just watch local, see the name, and hit warp. done and done.but, that same source that handed me the information now tells him that i am still there to be hunted, how many other pilots i have to back me up in system, all he needs to know.so, if i do decide to take a chance, he knows if others might join him. and i know if he has others in system too, but neither can anticipate cynos.local is telling both of us too much to make us willing to risk a fight. either it favors me, and he avoids it, or it favors him, and i do.fights happen when the results are either uncertain, or one of the pilots has incomplete information.local makes that difficult to happen.upgrading local to eliminate all afk influence what if local chat changed, hunting the cloaked..."
"if you went to the shop, bought wood and nails and built a table on your own, would that make the table have equal value as purchased components or would there be an added cost for your spending time to assemble it?for everything in eve you do, there is a price. time sink. and for every month of having ability to time sink stuff, you need to pay the piper.personally, i don't use isboxer, but i'm not against it. i 7-box the old fashioned way. but then, those 7 accounts aren't necessarily all doing the same thing. some could be boosting, mining, hauling, doing missions or ratting/anomalies all at the same time as doing pi, manufacturing, overseeing jobs or scouting for pvp targets. i guess someone could say i have an unfair advantage over others, since i can see hostiles entering my system and can get safe on time."
"can i also ask for sane way for exchanging your bookmarks? thats good you can transform it in the game item, but there has to be a way to easly share it through chat or mail also. when in deep null/wormhole space you must uncloak just to make an bookmark item and jettison it for your friend/alt, that can easly drive one mad."
"did an awoxer kill your ability to use paragraphs?"
"no. it shouldn't attract the attention of the game designers. the game designers explicitly advertise these god damn mechanics in their advertisements for the game, showcasing it as a bloody feature. are you lot so off base that you don't understand that ccp want this kind of treachery and backstabbing to be possible? have you missed the point of this game entirely? bloody hell!"
"you know what is so great about this game, you can **** with the minds of other players with out even firing a shot....."
"that is as it should be. organized groups of players have by default - through organized defense and play - an advantage over the lone-wolf variants of pilots.are you saying that, me and my friends who have built a castle, set up watchpoints, guards and pit traps are unfairly advantaged over people who didn't?"
"no, you earned the right to use these structures, and any intel you or your allies took effort to gain.local is helping your opponents far more.the hostile entering your system has no way of knowing who is currently present.they might know about recent mining, or ratting, but they won't know if your patrol happens to be in this system or the next.they have no way of knowing who is docked in that outpost, 3 people, or 100.but local will tell them. more than enough to make a judgement call on whether to attack in this system, or come back another time.and if your gate scouts already spotted this pilot across the last three systems, what great value does local have confirming what you already knew and expected, that they would show up in the next system.local is helping that hunter far more, and making your efforts effectively meaningless.your scout on the gate, may as well have been relaxing docked up in the station. the hostile sees him in system either way, despite the fact he should never have known he was spotted at all. but local tips him off to your defenses like that.upgrading local to eliminate all afk influence what if local chat changed, hunting the cloaked..."
"curious of why eve does not allow plex to skill conversion. meaning 1 x30 day plex traded for 30 days worth of normal skill training time or even like 70% of what a person would normally train during that time but as unallocated skill points to be used where the player wants them. since null space and low sec are dominated by players who have played for 1 to 10 years as a new player you really are stuck in high sec for years until your gunnery skills etc are up to par enough to not be podded in low sec. this creates the feeling of i really came in to this game to late to enjoy it as a new player and really questions whether i or a new person should continue to play it at this point and is it worth waiting in high sec running missions for years before your able to venture off in to low sec. the issue with this never ending problem is the fact that combat is driven by skills. each skill lowers your amount of damage and at the same time strengthen's your gunnary and hit points per level. if some one has say 20 mil skill points in gunnary and a new person only has say 5 mil than its a pretty certain deal whos going to win unless the old school player just flopped and did something stupid which cost them the fight but the chances of that with skills its going to be minimal. as a new player i would love to be able to work for isk and than be able to buy a plex on the market for it to trade it for skills, or even pay 20 dollars to eve to save me 1 month worth of waiting for a couple skills to train to a certain level. with the ever growing issue of this eve eventually will face certain death (or only be played by them who are trying it out or don't want to use a plex for game time who have been in it for years) since this makes it almost pointless for new people to join while at the same time only ensuring people who have played for years continues to stay on which sucks because eve is a good game, its just boring as hell having to wait for skills to train for months. the only other option is to mine for months on end hoping of buying a possible eve charactor with the high skills to get you in to null sec and survive for atleast a few minutes. just something to think about i hope. this marks my 4th time coming back to eve to give it another shot since the plex system came out but im afraid im boring easily by mining and running missions with the hope of one day being able to fly in null sec or low sec with out the never ending fear that there is a 99.9% chance i'll end up podded because my characters are only a year old or newer. don't take this as me dinging eve because of my laziness to play the game and enjoy it. i do enjoy the game as it is, however it seems new players 1 year or fewer are at a disadvantage over the general population of eve who have played for years.to me it just seems in a business profitability mind frame eve would make it better for both new comers and old schoolers. if this was just a game and not a business who cares right?? but since it is a both, and eve's future rests on eve staying alive building in more people every day who end up using plex for game time ultimately avoiding the cost of playing will eventually kill eve and force eve to shutdown unless the company can shift the profit sources correctly. this is just a idea to built upon that. you can't let 2 to 10 year old characters dominate 0.0 sec or 0.1 so on for 2 years making it entirely impossible for a new person to enjoy the game. since high sec is also some what dangerous space but not as much as low by any means this also questions again whether its worth it unless your multi boxing but again there are them who hunt down multi boxers alone in high sec with them targeted, hulks etc a portion of your old player base is truly stopping eve from being what it should be.with that said this is not a rant :p but more a idea to strengthen the game a little more for new comers and old schoolers if the players agree to use the plex to skill conversion."
"as someone who dies mostly to month old fw noobs....what is this rant about again?your argument amongst the wall of text seems to be that a plex conversion to sp would make a level playing field between veterns and new players. your argument seems to be flawed unless you made it so only so much sp could be purchased or what prevents me from buying a butt ton of sp and just giving myself all 398 skills in the game at v? i see these posts all the time amongst my formum trolling and it boils down to some confusion that sp at some level replaces pilot skills. trust me it does not. a person understanding the game mechanics with a couple weeks training in a meta 4 fit frigate can be a threat to a 150m sp player who thinks his sp and faction fittings are going to give him a win. its something unique to eve and its something that keeps me logging in day after day.i started my pvp life at 250k sp. i killed a three year old character who war dec'd my little new player corp, walked outside smoked 5 cigarettes with my hands shaking like a leaf and been hooked ever since. it can be done, and done without trying to buy your way to sp heaven."
"well first off, as i said. its not a rant......so please re-read it as it is simply a way for eve to make more profit and bring in newbs to keep that you are hunting...lowering the thought of this is a pointless game and a waste of my time that newb will have.also nothing keeps you from buying x plex's and getting all skills in the game if you can afford to buy that many plex's and would like to use them for that. so lets say with +5 improved implants with a avg skill points of 2400 per hour times 24 hours = 57,000 skill points. now 57,000 times 7 days = 403,200 skill points. one last time, 403,200 times 28 days worth of game time = 1,612,800 skill points for 550m isk or $20 dollars.so lets look at a average 10 year old character - 120 million skill points divided by 1612800 = 74. 74. that is the amount of plex's you would need to gain 120 million skill points. now lets do this in usd cash. 74 x 20 usd = $1,480. this also comes to 37 billion worth of isk. so if your that rich...please be my guest and dish out $1500 dollars on the game or if you can make 37 billion isk to pay for skills than also be my guess, but lets not forget this is basically already being done on character bazaar.\"the only difference here is, eve makes a profit off of it and new comers have something to drive towards when mining knowing they won't be able to go in to low sec etc any time with in the near future. thanks."
"why can't i like this post a hundred times?"
"because pay-to-win will kill eve. end of story!jint hikaru - miner / salvager / explorer / spacebum in the beginning the universe was created. this has made a lot of people very angry and been widely regarded as a bad move."
"i would rather use that plex to remove unwanted/unused skills that i have.i do not want to be reimbursed for the skill points or skill books."
"you are telling like this is something but this done relatively easy by farming sites in nulls with couple of tenga alts, or sweeping wormholes with capital gangs. like a billion per day or two, its not so hard. if you have an access to specific tools and really motivated to do such a money, you'll be able to, without any magic. so basically its no go as too many will be able to rocket up their leveling progress.but, from other poing of view, its already here. any noob can buy a few plexes, accumulate some isks by selling them and purchase an already skilled character on the char market (and many do so). and here is a problem i can aknowledge - this character may happen to be far from what buyer would wanted to aquire. unneeded skills, wrong specializations, that stuff. and in eve we already have a well developed production line of chars for selling, run by ordinary players. so, by allowing to inject some sps into newly created character to some reasonable extent (like 1 or 2 mills sps max) we would hardly break anything aside from the fact that ccp by doing so will dominate this market and cut these character raisers' profits severely. but new players would still (if they want to and ready to pay for this in real cash) be able to get their already developed (to some extent) character and could choose which exaclty skill build it must has. and ccp would get additional money from additional plexes. seems not so bad to me."
"thank you kyon for seeing it as a debate instead of jumping in with no! lol. i agree on all of your points for sure and i agree for the character who has played for a while to build up to that tenga alts etc to making 1 billion a day its simple. what i'm referring to is what you stated its a win/win for newbs and for eve. since like you said newbs can come in and plex's for new characters and allocate the skills exactly where they want them which isn't a lot of skills for a plex price but it atleast gives them a option.like you said, its relatively easy to make 1 billion isk. eve can't pay its electric bill or dev's with plex's (although come on that would be pretty cool as long as it came with a discount to lol) . so eventually what you end up with right now is a bunch of people buying plex's and paying their monthly fee's to play while eve is forced to only bank on newbs or thoughs who would rather fork up the cash instead so this gives eve another source to go off of.again thanks for debating it :)just a idea is all, companies who don't look at what their customers want (because thats what we are) and find a way to make it reality are the companies who become just another faded memory. every great company or game didn't build it self on the no attitude. they build it on hard work in going over and over the plan until they found a way to keep cost low and still deliver what the customer wanted. i get it, the old schoolers want to rule eve and rule space and change scares them...its cool...i get it! you worked hard for years for what you have....now let some newbs get a chance at the game, cause if high sec becomes to dangerous (already almost there) and low and null you can't fly in than eve the game you worked hard to build your self will be forced to shutdown since no new players will want to stay and most old players are paying with plex's.its a simple equation. if you start paying me in banana's and peanut butter and jelly :d and than bulling my new customers..how can i keep supplying you. think about it eve!p.s. edit* ....and don't tell me to sell my peanut butter and jelly or banana :p"
"destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"counterpoint: there are many people who go into nullsec at a week or two old and never leave.having all your skills to v doesn't mean a thing really. if you don't know how to fly your ship, you'll still be killed by the week old newbie in the barely fit slasher.the problem here is the misconception that you need 120 million sp or whatever to actually survive in nullsec. that's entirely false, and it always has been. all you need is a clue, and some friends.furthermore: i have 14 mil in gunnery, and 26 mil in spaceship command. how much of that do you think is actually relevant for whatever ship i happen to be in at the time? say i'm in a rifter. how does large blaster spec iv help me here? or minmatar carrier v? what about that 2 million sp i dumped into wing command? how does that help?inside of three months, any newbie can be exactly the same as me in a rifter, sp wise. hell, they'll probably beat me in a fight too.there are corps and alliances all over the place who take in newbies, train and support them and wind up with experienced vets who know how to handle themselves and pass on the same treatment to the next crop of adorable newbies. maybe you should look around, find one of them and try the game from a different angle?"
"case in point within 1 week (over 4 years ago) i joined nulsec. this character has almost never been in hi sec. just because you're new doesn't mean you can't jump straight into the deep end.in fact i'd argue the game is easier if you do as your mentality gets adjusted straight away that everything you have you can lose."
"first off, all characters go through the same \"growing pains\" when skilling into any aspect of the game. even a \"bought\" character goes through this pain. next, plex is game time, which can be exchanged (at mostly free market rate) to other players for their isk. that isk they earned through time doing stuff in game. the plex program is actually ingenious, as it allows those with surplus resources (earned by time and energy in game) to swap their ingame assets to those with surplus game time (because of rl resources). your proposition, plex for sp would ruin the \"all characters take the same amount of time to train into a ship\" aspect of this game. this is actually a great equalizer, as the \"rich\" players (and there are many trillionaires in this game) cannot utilize their wealth to gain a sp advantage. if they do use their wealth for an advantage, it is almost always in the form of an asset (officer module) that is at severe risk of loss when used against another player! frankly, your suppositions are also wrong: you don't need to wait a year to pvp in nullsec, lowsec, or highsec. there are many accessible ships and game avenues very quickly accessible to characters less than a month old. i'll concede for capital warfare, or blackops, or other niche areas, there is a skillpoint barrier, but that is a good thing. furthermore, most battles are not two identical ships shoot each other in a fair 1v1. that's not how eve combat functions, outside of rare circumstances. can you do us a favor: what exactly is your hurdles to lowsec and nullsec game content, that you need more sp for?"
"no."
"moriancumer: 06, 02, 11, 05, 03, 07, 08, 09, 01, 13, 20, 21, 25, 29, 33, 34, 35, 18"
"father oblivion: 06, 02, 11, 05, 03, 07, 08, 09, 01, 13, 20, 21, 25, 29, 33, 34, 35, 18"
"i myself would like nested folders, or sorting by jump would be nice as well, better than alphabetizing, imhom"
"i agree that would be a nice feature, but let's not get bogged down with big projects prior to odyssey 1.1. like the title suggests, simply alphabetizing the bookmarks when adding a new bookmark is a very reasonable request. it's a realistic goal a dev can seek for the odyssey 1.1 update.anyone else have any comments?"
"and/or a search function would be doubly as good."
"i thought bookmark folders are sorted alphabetically."
"yes they are, but when you click \"add location\" the list of folders that drops down is not alphabetically bookmarked. i have about 250 folders and when they aren't organized it's a complete pita to find the correct folder."
"this thread is basically going to deal with item clutter after a string of lvl 4s / lvl 3s.it's really easy to get a lot of different items considering how security missions will vary in loot because of the faction you're going up against. i find it hard to believe that anyone would enjoy hammering away trying to sort through all the items so that you can try to maximize your profit. i can remember a lot of times having 250+ items and selling each individually, waiting for he menu to pop up then going onto the next time.i propose that just like being able to shift right click on an item and being able to reprocess them, you should be able to do the same with the items. in addition i propose a filter to a \"sell all\" button that allows you to put on a few variables such as 1) don't sell anything under 20% regional price w/o authorization. 2) put a flag on a meta 4 for item so you can make a sell order.i'm just throwing out a few ideas, i'd imagine that this may conflict with buyers who put very cheap bids on generic items (which i can understand).any input to this thread would be great for the csm to review, i'd bump the thread again with the progress we've made so this doesn't get buried thx."
"while a sell all button seems to have its advantages, i would not support the following...you should take some responsibility in your actions, and not have the game hold your hand through everything.jint hikaru - miner / salvager / explorer / spacebum in the beginning the universe was created. this has made a lot of people very angry and been widely regarded as a bad move."
"i support this idea. personally i pre-filter the loot so that very low item stuff does not get sold manually and instead goes into my reprocess pile to try to keep the number of items to actually be sold to a minimum. but even doing this i often end up with several hundred different items to chuck through the market. i dont check the prices closely, as long as i see a green percentage i ok the sale. being able to do job-lots would be a major improvement for the user aswell as reduce the amount of server queries being pushed down the connections, thereby reducing lag in trade hubs...... looks like win-win to me."
"i've seen this topic before, and support it still. come on, ccp, make the sales of rat droppings easier :)"
"this is beyond mechanics...this stuff is in your head, your own paranoia is ruining your own game, not any one else."
"i am copy-pasting my usual spiel...the skill and ship class system is ingeniously designed such that newbies can compete while providing veteran players with perks that give an edge here and there... but nothing so brokenly overpowered that a newbie has no chance.- all skills cap at level 5. no matter how many years you have played the game, you cannot exceed that limit. and lower level skills (ex. [racial] frigate) are very quick to train relative to more advanced skills (5 to 7 days for frigate level 5? try getting cruiser to level 5. or battlecruiser. or battleship. those are 30+ day skills. same applies for all their respective weapon systems too).- only a limited number of skills affect any one ship, module, weapon system, and specialty at any given time. ex1: someone you are facing has about 20 million sp, but how much of that overall sp is actually combat related? he/she could be a huge industrial player with limited combat skills.ex2: a veteran player has just trained up the skill large hybrid turret to level 5. that skill in no way affects the skill small hybrid turret and thus the veteran will be no better or worse than before at the frigate level.- getting a skill from level 4 to level 5 only adds on an extra 2% here, 5% there (exceptions apply). if you simply train up all the skills within a specialty to level 4 (which takes ~17% of the amount of time it takes to get those skills to level 5), you will find yourself flying at about 80 to 90% of the effectiveness of a multi-year veteran with those same skills in that specific specialty at level 5 (which is something that can be easily overcome with the right module or tactic).- getting a skill to level 5 is supposed to be a painful train. many players (yes, even veteran ones) opt to avoid doing it and instead train up other skills to level 4 (again, because it's faster).- ships and weapons have been balanced against one another. ex: a battleship can potentially instapop a frigate... but the frigate can fly very fast, making it difficult for the battleship's weapons to track, especially at very close range... then again, the battleship can deploy drones to deal with the frigate... and the frigate can shoot the drones down... however the battleship might have a large energy neutralizer fitted to nuke the frigate's capacitor power every 24 seconds... in which case the frigate could use a small nosferatu that sucks out capacitor from the battleship every 3 seconds... etc. etc.- high tech equipment (ex. t2, faction, officer, etc) will not confer a player \"i win\" abilities. they simply give a player a linear edge at an exponentially higher cost.ex: a group of two or three t1-fit frigates that cost about 500 thousand to 1 million isk can kill a faction frigate worth about 50 to 100 million isk... provided they are using the right mods in the right configuration and know what they are doing. tl;dr... - the point of the skill system is to force you to learn the game's mechanics and nuances in cheaper equipment and ships... that way when you do gain access to more expensive equipment and ships, you know how to use them properly (and won't cry as much when they die).- you do not need to have level 5 in any specific skill to be competitive. having level 5 in a skill is simply an edge (exception: when it is required for something else).- more sp is not indicative of a pilot's ability. it just means that the pilot has more options in what he/she can do.- smaller and cheaper ships tend to be more flexible and have more tactical options than larger, more expensive ships.- no one ship is superior to everything in the game. even titans, the largest ship in the game, has an achilles heel; smaller ships.now... for the meat of your ideas... read up on how goonswarm came to power. say what you want about them... but they literally waged wars using the \"zerg rush\" tactic in cheap, and often ****-fit, equipment in addition to cunning diplomacy (which doesn't require any in-game character skills). currently they dominate null-sec and still still use the same tactics... because they are so goddamn effective.correct me if i'm wrong, but you seem not to understand how plex works.players buy plex (in rl) and then sell them to other players (in-game). whether it's a subscription or plex, ccp still gets their money.another way to look at it is: people who sell plex on the market are paying for the subscriptions of others in exchange for isk.and as others have stated... introducing plex for sp won't help newbies at all. - older players (especially the powerful ones out in null-sec) will be able to afford more plexes than any newbie will and still stay ahead in terms of total sp.- it will make newbies think that more sp = more powerful (which i showed above as false)- it deprives the newbie of the painful experiences of being \"new\"... which is necessary as it teaches newbies how to work with what they have rather than just throw money at the problem.- in fact... it makes the beginning experiences of newbies more painful as they will throw their best stuff into a situation and wind up losing it due to lack of experience."
"it would be better if malcanis was here but you are stuck with me . . . he wrote a law saying, basically, any change made to be an advantage to one group will be a bigger advantage to the more established group already in place.plex for sp? goons will now outfit their newbies that much faster. after all, once the renter program gets going they will again be the richest organization in eve.make for an even footing? not unless you believe in pay to win is 'even footing.i worried about the same thing when i joined eve. i was six years late to the party. i'd never catch up, never be as good as the older guys.but what if the older guys wind up in flying coffins (aka supercaps) unable to play unless fc clearance is given. what if the older guys are unwilling to risk the loss and clone fees of their valuable heads?they make alts. new players with the same skill point total as you. or less. only they are richer so they could plex/skill seven ways from sunday. you, short of having a no limit credit card, would always be behind.but right now, as it stands, you have the ability to read, learn about good skill plans. you can get out into null fairly quick if you meet the right recruiter. sure, you will have trouble fitting, sure, you will be at a disadvantage, for a while. but it is your chance to grow, learn, not just swipe a credit card and get in a ship you still have no clue about.killboards are full of poorly fit ships and idiot deaths and every damn time the ones in the know nod and say \"he bought it before he could fly it.\" we don't mean sp when we say thatnoi do not support your ideammike azariah ----<U+FEFF> <U+FFFD>|(<U+30C4>)/<U+FFFD>"
"mike is referring to this."
"i think you should probably play the game for more than 2 months before you go about telling us what the 'old schoolers' want.remember we were also noobs at one point with that seemingly endless list of skills ahead of us. but we managed somehow.also, you are 2 months into the game and you are suggesting a huge change to what is pretty much one of eve's core principles (everyone skills up at the same rate)jint hikaru - miner / salvager / explorer / spacebum in the beginning the universe was created. this has made a lot of people very angry and been widely regarded as a bad move."
"honestly... there's something wrong. it would be great to have smaller jump radius's or... bubbles and points that go out to 50 with out bonuses flame away!am i at 0 or 25?"
"i want the jukebox back too :( please bring it back ccp, my computer is far too crappy to run oog players anyway, and besides the more features you have that sets your game apart from others is better. i dont see why you would take it out in the first place :("
"rubyporto,02,21,07,39,35,20,15,14\"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" -abrazzar \"the risk of having your day ruined by other people is the cornerstone with which eve was built\" -ccp solomon"
"[dusty meg]: 22, 14, 21, 38, 01, 10, 23, 16, 25, 33"
"rhivre: 16, 33, 18, 14, 12, 15, 19, 21, 32, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 40"
"exookiz: 01, 06, 13, 15, 17, 21, 34, 37, 40"
"bamason: 01, 08, 04, 14, 20, 19, 28, 34, 35, 38, 25, 24, 22, 21, 02, 03, 05, 06, 07, 09, 23, 30, 33, 36, 37, 39, 32, 18, 10, 11, 12, 13, 15, 16, 17, 26, 27, 29, 31, 40"
"icuro mekar [your character: [your character name]: 14, 22, 40, 24, 03, 31, 06, 08, 09, 18, 30, 34, 39"
"rutger janssen: 35, 40, 33, 32, 08, 09, 01"
"rublik dust: 40, 35, 21, 34, 02, 03, 14, 20, 19, 33"
"minmat sebtin: 40, 35, 36, 34, 32, 30, 15, 14, 12, 21"
"there are very, very few skills in this game that have a \"drawback\". the afterburner skill used to have a capacitor use drawback, but they fixed that. warp drive operation reduces the cap needed to warp, and could be considered a drawback if attempting to dump cap and make a precision short warp, but that is a very, very niche situation. if you have many, many \"extra\" skills, it is possible they bump you to the next clone grade, but that is, again, a very rare thing, as you need to have an aweful lot of skillpoints to get you there, especially if you are a high skillpoint character. there are two reasons for the \"please let me remove skills\" crowd: a.) ocd: b.) rp: you have a character that you want to be all amarr, but trained some minnie crap at a young age before you went all cva and wish to remedy it for \"rp\" reasons."
"i think i understand this point being that a pilot would have let the item clutter happen and that ccp would help too much by helping you organize your mess. part of the main issue that i would like to address is the fact that you can easily get over 100+ of different items on a lvl 4 mission with several pockets and have to wait for the menu to pop up and load the highest bidder, then also wait for the transaction to complete which even though takes all of 5 seconds it can be a rather slow and methodical process. thank you for your input, the thread seems kind of slow and it's a topic that's kind of been beaten to death"
"alternatively, you could use an arazu, lachesis, proteus, or even a fleet interceptor..."
"0/10, poor execution"
"i want all of this seriously all of this is insanely good stuff that we need now."
"booombox: 40, 35, 21, 34, 02, 03, 14, 20, 19, 33"
"vote ends at 23:59 eve time today.thank you to all that voted so far"
"kitty hekard: 40, 35, 21, 02, 34, 03, 14, 20, 19, 33"
"tebb1288: 34, 38, 14, 16, 17, 21, 23, 39, 10"
"adarnof,6,9,4,30,34,23,24,5,1,8,29,36,14,17,20,21,27,37"
"new pilots have plenty to do in eve with proper guidance. my corp proves this most every day. it's just a matter of people wanting to stick out 7-14 day trains in there first few few months."
"i can see the news headlines now\"20 freighters destroyed by concord on jita gate during traffic jam after unfortunate frigate ends up bumping off all of them simultaneously and goes flying into deep space\"seriously though, if someone is bumping you so that you can't warp and isn't shooting you then report them, a gm will be along shortly. if someone bumps you a few times and you make no attempt to avoid them or leave then... well that's sort of your fault. orbiting alone makes it harder for miners specifically to be bump victims (or gank victims for that matter)"
"let us have our jukebox. now please...."
"doh missed the cutoff"
"nope, sorry guys there is no cut off yet. trebor and half the csm are in planes now and not able to access internet until they reach iceland to run this election results, so you still can vote at least for more 12 hours, probably more.when the election is run trebor will post here to warn everybody that the vote is over.sorry for not having the results but i totally depend of the csm and they are all travelling to the summer summit in iceland. we have to wait until they get there, get in their hotels. rest and them connect to the internet."
"chic botany,35,34,39,30,10,04,05,06,07,03,17"
"ok its over. trebor can do some magic while waiting for a connection in the airport. results will be posted soon. thank you all that voted."
"<U+FFFD>reasonable things<U+FFFD> results <U+FFFD> industry version"
"during the last week, eve industrialists cast their votes to determine which of the 40 industrial <U+FFFD>reasonable things<U+FFFD> i choose from the csm8 crowdsourcing initiative (down from 1363 suggestions submitted by the community). the selection criterion was simple, i filter out all issues by the following tags: industry, pi, pos, mining, market, contracts, hauling, custom offices, invention or manufacturing. i choose 30 by the most amount of likes they had from all of them; them i choose 10 i liked.i would like to thank all those that voted. the csm will discussion with ccp the planning for the winter expansion, this week in iceland, during the summer summit and these results should help guide both parties though discussions if and when an industry issue is raised.the same wright-stv system used in the csm8 elections and csm8 reasonable things initiative was used to rank the items of this vote. in these results, the % figure is what percentage of the current election leader the item had when it was eliminated from the election and gives a rough estimate its popularity. 100% represents the most amount of votes and every other percentage shows the amount of votes received relative to the total cast. as results were eliminated, votes were transferred to the caster's next choice and so on until there was only one choice left.this is the top 10:though the first choice will require a lot of work on ccp's part due to the nature of the industry ui and game mechanics, the rest of the top 10 are improvement of life issues that should be simple to tackle.the csm summit starts this week. please remember that csm and ccp is not obliged to use or do nothing with this list. this is just a guide of player wishes, industrial player wishes. lets just hope ccp reads it and tries to tackle some of these issues while preparing and implementing the winter expansion. we all thank ccp in advance for any effort they put to helping us with these issues.the entire results can be consulted here:"
"please, from this point forward, feel free to use this tread to discuss the results or make questions,"
"damn.. i didn't see the existence of this threat until it was too late.. * mutters *ohwell..point 13 is a real must have in my opinion.. put in a warning if a courier is about to accept a drug containing courier contract or something, but please, make it possible for people to contract drugs to other people.. being a small market that is often 'clandestine' in the sense that the real buyers/sellers tend to sell directly to their customers instead of just dumping their junk on the market, having the ability to put it in contracts would greatly ease this means of selling drugs."
"bump :)it would lower server requestsatm to fit 100 ships, i need to assemble ship, then activate and then fit it x 100 that would be 300 request to fit 100 wich can then be reduced to 1 ;)i personaly would love to fit 500 at once, wich then only 1 request vs 1500"
"1.0"
"please - never let us buy skill points for plex or anything else. it would ruin eve."
"support!"
"tanaka aiko: 15, 16, 23, 30, 40, 25, 06, 01, 09, 33edit : oh well too late."
"zakarumit cz: 17, 18, 03, 04, 07, 38, 08, 16, 15, 33, 21, 34, 35, 37, 05, 06, 09, 01, 39, 40"
"dasola: 09, 35, 06, 01, 36, 20, 10, 02"
"no but i think an awoxer touched him in a bad place."
"supported. timer rollbacks and an enhanced barrier to entry should be first and foremost in any changes to the fw income stream."
"hello fellow players and developers,as a drone-boat pilot, i have noticed a few changes that would drastically improve the ease of use of drones, and would make more sense for their background. i welcome any constructive criticism on these topics:1) change sentry drones. have two modifiers in two separate categories, giving a total of four drones which each shine in their own specific area, as follows:bouncers: make these short-range drones (24 km optimal). give it a higher tracking (as angels are close and orbit fast) but lower damage mod than the garde.curators: increase the damage these drones do, almost to the point of the garde.gardes: keep as is.wardens: increase the tracking of these drones, keeping damage about the same.2) move the 'salvage' option on the right-click menu of salvage drones to the top of the list, instead of putting it between the most unwanted options towards the bottom (scoop to cargo hold and abandon drone).i feel these changes would be simple and improve drone use drastically.edit: corrected grammatical mistake"
"i believe that a pilot should not show in local if docked.i think that a pilot should not show in local.... until he pings his d-scan. if a pilot does not ping d-scan, then that pilot is invisible unless he either uses d-scan, types something in local chat, or is spotted by being on grid with another pilot who is already in system.this works both ways. the local sov-holders are also hidden from any hunters, until either party uses d-scan.of course there are flaws with my ideas above, but it's just a few thoughts which could be modified and made to work. anything that kills afk cloaky camping, and encourages solo/gang roaming must be a good thing."
"you should really look at this thread, if you have not already seen it."
"this whole local thing, albeit a good idea, was put down because ccp said although it broke the \"emersion\" aspect of the game, they felt it necessary to maintain some social aspect. in other words, to make sure you closet nerds will at least feel like there are others that play the game too, and forces you helmet wearing introverts to deal with others."
"actually, the availability of a chat channel to use represents the peak of this effort.the actual pilot roster itself has a demonstrated chilling effect on actual socialization. it is not simply a point of diminishing returns with this list present, it has a negative impact.it too often either lists too many pilots to be meaningful, or exposes too few to feel safe.outside of a corp channel where people you expect to know, and be interested in seeing, local itself is best served being as anonymous as possible.want to increase socialization? offer anonymous comments as an option, with no pilot roster.yes, you will get trash talk, but you will also get everything else.upgrading local to eliminate all afk influence what if local chat changed, hunting the cloaked..."
"easy francis, i am just recanting the previous rounds of this debate and paraphrased what ccp had stated. i could care less whether it is there or not, just like sound, the new warp jump tunnel crap or any other special snowflake stuff that make people get all verklepmt over."
"ccp has also stated they want to kill the pilot list aspect, but they realize so many have come to rely upon it, that they need a better alternative to simply removing it.they are simply trying to avoid another outcry akin to the one about captains quarters, which admittedly in hindsight was more perception of error than actual. too many assumed too much, and perception is never about truth and facts alone.upgrading local to eliminate all afk influence what if local chat changed, hunting the cloaked..."
"so cloaking afk or otherwise is a good counter balance here. right, the perception that peeps have about a scary cloaky is afk is their perception and always not about truth or facts."
"i'm invoking that one law by that one player who may be in this thread already.the idea, ostensibly to help new players, is going to help the old and the rich far more - they can buy the plex with isk earned from their moon goo, or marketeering, or industrial empire, or null/wh sites, etc in order to skip past training time"
"[/quote]every single empire eventually fails, and nearly always they collapse into anarchy, violence and disorder.[/quote]greece, rome, ottoman empire, persian empire, etc, etc, etc. just to name a few. if anything the empires should begin to fall and high sec should begin to become unruly chaos zones until somebody steps up with the ability to seize and hold territory and stabilize things.personally i would love to see some chaos enter into the eve universe via high sec strife. smaller lesser groups within empire space begin to revolt etc, like the minmatar did and begin to carve out their own space with the help of capsuleer fleets (we would demand to be paid of course). we have sansha incursions, why not begin to add empire incursions into each others territory. minmatar begins to randomly invade amarr, and vice versa. khanid throws off amarr completely, etc. there are a ton of things they could do with incursions that would add more pve to the game. hell allow alliances to begin to attack empire for control. i agree with most, the problem is not low or null, the problem is high."
"as stated before by many others, the main thing that would need to be implemented here, is your public character sheet would need a list of former identities. as long as the paper trail is visible, it's fine in my book.but i'd charge for it. if you want to change your name, i think that's a good use for aurum. and that goes for the fact that a lot of dusties have been begging for this ability too. i wouldn't make it a one-time-only deal either. game is going to exist for decades, yo."
"gamer4liff tea has just snorted out my nose.but great advert why this would be a good feature.i would say same costs and rules as character transfer.not in corp etc.limited to 1 change a year.name change would take 1 week to apply so that those who naughty ( exploit ) can be found and petitioned.no joining a corp during name change timeout."
"as a larger 'little fix' it's a good one.just use conditional formatting and filters from excel; it doesn't necessarily have to look great, just be functional."
"well, it made it to the list of reasonable things to be voted upon, but did not make it to the final vote. so, we shall keep this alive until the next time something like that comes up!i thank all of you for the overwhelming support of a simple idea that could make our lives so much easier.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"1.0"
"so, after incarna, as we all know, ccp had to resort itself, and it lead to effectiely the death of wis. we had one expansion after incarna that added to wis, which was the additional merc quarters. since then, nothing. before the riots and all, ccp was gung ho on treating wis as a whole 'nother game, indicating it would receie a large portion of the deelopment effort. i am not asking for that.i think about 15% of eery expansion should be wis. (a good expansion balance in my book would be like 40% major feature reision for the expansion (i.e. retribution = bounties, odyssey = exploration), 20% quality of life enhancements, 15% balancing, 15% walking in stations improements, 10% dust/alkyrie integration work.)there's a lot of potential that's been abandoned. the game is in much better shape than it was during incarna, and the reasons for doing walking in stations now is so much greater than it was then. i think the idea of a common area that dust mercs and ee capsuleers could mingle on a station would add olumes to the feel of game integration. take that, and add in a couple years, ee alkyrie pilots being able to enter that common area from a first-person irtual reality perspectie... and you'e just changed the ball game.team aatar was created, and then team aatar was disassembled, with no outward progress. ccp has nailed the idea of widespread iteration in the last three expansions. wis needs to see that iteration. many of the assets already exist. the bar from the playstation home area would make for a fantastic basic common area. three games can potentially benefit from this one project.reasoning has been gien in the past that it was hard to find meaningful gameplay uses for wis, but i don't think that's necessarily important. ee has often gone from players creating their own gameplay, and then ccp later supporting it. if we open up the area, let the players come up with something to do with it.a point has been made about the amount of effort required being too much to count as a minor step, but i feel minor steps could be taken. while i think between the existing assets/design from ps home, we hae the makings already of a good common area, a first small step, could be allowing one guest to isit your captain's quarters. something as simple as a right-click option in the station occupants list to isit their quarters, along with a accept/reject dialog for the hosting player, akin to a start conersation dialog. (of course, entering someone's quarters should create a priate chat of occupants automatically anyways, so this would make sense to be a near identical dialog.)"
"i'd like to see more walking in stations content, open the door, ect.after the ship balancing and art passes are finished though."
"realistically, it should be possible to coincide these. i would doubt anyone working on walking in stations has expertise with regards to ship balancing and ice ersa. i definitely want the graphics 3 upgrade finished, but that's almost done, art-wise. and some of the initial improements to wis could be done without art. (aforementioned \"isit other person's quarters button\", for example.)"
"i'm torn about this issue.from the 'no' corner:the player in the ops example is paying for 80 accounts, and using 80 all together. each account earns only what each account could do if there were 79 other people playing.you can't ban a player for duplicating commands, as the eula says he must be creating commands.which is the main account, which are the additional accounts? if you accept it's 'wrong' at least one account is not breaking the rules, so which are the ones that are?from the 'yes' corner:one player could mine with 1 ship and make x isk per hourone player could mine with 2 ships and make 2x isk per hourone player could mine with 10 ships and make 10x isk per hourone player couldn't really feasibly mine with 80 ships and make 80x isk per hourergo isboxer is allowing the account that is hauling and selling the product, to make substantially more isk than he could without the oog tool.assuming each account makes more isk than a plex costs, it's not costing the player anything to increase from 10 to 80 accounts, but he's making more money."
"so, two points, one, it's not 40+ accounts on one machine, it's one guy running 10-20 computers.second these setups aren't going to be as effective as 40 individual players for all but the most mundane of tasks.third, these are not macro programs. a \"macro\" is:this is a single instruction being distributed to multiple clients, not a single instruction executing several in-game commands.these command distribution or multi-box programs have been legal in eve for years."
"move to wormholes, problem fixed.sack up, problem fixed.htfu:"
"i know there are continually drives to fix the age old bugs and problems with the game, but recently there seems to be too much focus on fixing the large of the 'little things'.so run a new drive to find and fix bugs. examples should include:titan bridging bug that can only be resolved by a safe log offthe fact that eve gate can't display emails with the same format as in game (links don't appear, bolded and underlined text vanishes; despite these being the only formatting options eve gate allows you to actually use to compose the mailthe fact that linking in game to something in eve that requires you to be logged in, fails with a 404 (it should either take you to a log in page, or log you in since you already are logged into the game)the bug where you can start two pos mods anchoring at the same time, leading to the pos to be completely locked until it is reset at downtimethe fact that you can't drag materials from a blueprint show info window to the market (etc.)the fact that you can't drag a ship type from a fitting window to the market (etc.)the fact that when you drag a person into the eve mail 'to' box, it still opens up a list of 'matching users'overview bugs. how can they still happen, just make it default to personal, then corp if no personal standing, then alliance if no corp standing and be client side derived. solved.i'm not even going to consider graphical errors like sideways warping ships, as this doesn't affect my game play, but it might be a big issue for some...these are issues that i'm sure affect most players most times they play the game, and are in some cases bugs that have existed for years. they really need to be sorted out."
"sadly ccp are not omnipotent nor omnipresent. they can do everything at once all the time.some of those things (like expanded drag and drop functionality) are very obviously and publicly being added over time. some of those bugs have gotten much less frequent as well but a single bug can have multiple causes and therefore be hard to fix entirely."
"great idea.its about time awoxing needed more effort than clicking the apply button and then awox.corp newbies ( including awoxers ) should earn trust on the job not at the front door."
"+1 for timer rollbacks"
"hi sec ganking is acceptable because you get kill rights.however an alt, corpmate or anyone else can loot your items and steal millions of isk worth of your hard earned items. this violates many international laws concerning gambling. you can not have an unfair risk of real world money in game loop holes designed to harm your chances of fair play.ccp profits from every hi sec gank. it takes an average of two to three months for the casual player to recover the lost items. that is a lost of real world money because you have to gain those items again.ccp, by their game design loophole, allows others to take your real world money, via, stolen in game items, thereby extending your play time which cost you more real world money.ccp need to modify their broken rules to allow either:a: no one to loot your items but the person who ganked youb: give you kill rights on who ever loots your itemsc: offer full value insurance to replace what is lost.i have already contacted ccp legal for all their corporate information so i can ask the attorney generals (or that contries equiivelent) to file the appropriate laws suits on behalf of eveonline players.if 5000 loses 1 months worth of real world money because of the game play mechanics, that's a total of $50,000.00 us dollars in come that ccp gets because of its unfair game play mechanics. now how do you feel about ninja looting and ganking in hisec?"
"good luuuuuuuuuuck."
"not without going suspect and risking death themselves if anyone around happens to be paying attention.except that isk is not real-world money, you can't take it out of the game, and eve is not licensed or regulated as a gambling institution. thus no law, gambling related or otherwise, has been violated.then don't haul 2-3 months of loot in one industrial or freighter. ccp only profits if someone buys plex from ccp to recoup those loses. most people don't therefore this argument is erroneous. again, isk is not real-world money. if you buy \"golden ammo\" in another game you don't get to sue every time you miss a shot with it because it has no real world value, you paid the game company for in-game currency which you can then spend as you like.in the case of eve online you buy plex (which is game-time) and can sell this game-time to other players for in-game currency. since you can not then take this in-game currency and turn it into real-world money and the game mechanics are clearly laid out for you (in various places) you have no standing to sue.also this is probably covered in the eula."
"thanks for wasting ccp's time and money - that could be better spent on almost anything else - because you can't accept that you're not immune to ship loss.i trust you will also sue the organisers of the next game of football that you play for permitting and encouraging assault and robbery against you?"
"i refuse to take that seriously."
"not sure if troll thread or someone not heeding robert downey jrs advice in tropic thunder"
"bahahahahahhahahaha!!!!"
"i am locking this for either being an elaborate troll or for discussing legal action against ccp, in which case this should not be handled on the forums."
"sentry drones don't move. thus, they cannot have \"transversal.\""
"just putting this proposal back up to hopefully gain a little more support.dmc"
"+1 since you create a toon before you know the naming conventions of the game.also, if someone howls \"droooooooo\" at me over ts one more time, i'm going to shoot myself in the face."
"hello,i would like to propose the following :-- the ability to filter local chat with , eve only, dust only, or both, players.thanks.kitty."
"ccp i think its time."
"no."
"you're wrong, and missing the important part about player drien content: in order for the players to create their own gameplay there need to be the tools in place to make this possible. putting a player, or two players, or 8 or 100 players in a room together with their aatars doesn't achiee anything unless there is something for them to do in there, and parading up and down in their monocles and aurumpants throwing o7s and drinking pretend space beer in a pretend space bar doesn't count as 'something to do'.meaningful gameplay uses, which tie into and interact with the wider ee unierse, are absolutely key to getting anything of alue out of the whole incarna mess."
"second life disagrees with you.i'd argue that i see a significant amount, in other mmos, of players hanging around in city areas chatting, doing business, managing spreadsheets, etc. now, you can indeed sit in your captain's quarters and do all that, or spin your ship, and do all that. but the feel is ery different. captain's quarters and your ship hangar make you feel like you are in an isolated bubble, een if there's tons of other people in the station.as others hae pointed out in other discussion threads about improing ee, seeing more ships in space has a drastic impact. you want to see \"oh, look, there are other people about.\" a feeling you cannot get in a station. make it so you can see people moing about. throw a stupid dance emote in, and you'e made people ridiculously happy. normal people, anyways.if you want, you can een go so far as to gie yourself a bit of a short-range intel, in allowing people to look out the window on the undock."
"i second this sentiment. all that really needs to be in place to make the space useful is a few interactie tools. integrate character trading, or contracts. throw in a card game (dare i suggest, danger game??) the ability to wander/stand around in a station might eentually hae the same appeal as ship spinning (which i spend at least 10% of my log in time doing.) there is also the potential to lease/rent large conference rooms for your corp/alliance (with/in the same way as hangars are currently.)the potential extends beyond social interaction though: the prospect of customizing captains quarters could lead to an interesting side-economy. rare furniture items, or interactie objects (arcade games) would be interesting. the detail differences in the arious interiors could potentially do a lot to help with immersion. slaes being bartered for in amarr space, tribal ceremonies in matari regions, a quasi-combination of amarr architecture and minmatar trappings in ammatar space... it would make it worth going to a part of space you'e neer once docked in just to see what it's all about inside..."
"i'd spent aurum to change the stuff in my captain's quarters. if it was cool stuff. though that's a decent art workload.raasta, i definitely see mini-games sering a purpose. we already know many players go play other games while in the hangar. or ship spin, which is practically a mini-game in itself. (imagine if ee eer has achieements. congratulations! you just spun for the 100,000th time!)i wonder what mini-games could be integrated with low deelopment effort. slay already exists, and would just need to be ported from playstation home. the hacking mini-game is neat, and i wonder if it could be repurposed as a two-player in-station mini-game as well."
"i must admit... i am not entirely sure where my dislike for the proposal comes from. logically...- it doesn't really hurt to hae it.- it *may* attract people who are interested in that sort of thing into ee (howeer they will, in all likelihood, leae once they realize that the ui is nowhere near as polished as second life or wow and there is ery little functionality to play around with... all because *ccp*)plus...- as long as it doesn't take \"functionality\" or too much deelopment away from in-space stuff and doesn't force spaceship-centric people to join... most people will just grudgingly accept it.- what some (intelligent) people are concerned about is that wis will create a \"second tier\" of gameplay that allows people to isolate themseles from the rest of the game without any ability for anyone to \"get them\" without also \"joining in.\"a good example would be the industrialist to pper dynamic. neither side necessarily needs the other one to ply their trade... but either one can easily manipulate and \"get at\" the other one within their respectie specialties without haing to be the other. and there is no sure fire way for either side to a kid the other.a problem i see with your proposal is that dust and ee can neer be linked in the way you enision. unless dust is ported to the pc, they both use completely radically different physics engines.and now for my personal opinion: i still don't see the point in it.what possible gameplay alue could sitting at a irtual bar hae oer slurping down actual shots oer comms while doing something \"productie?\""
"this deeply upsets me. i am going to unsub all 753 of my accounts and cry unless ccp takes immediate action for what we the players are too pussy to do. woop woop woop woop woop woop."
"you aren't special enough... even with so many accounts. inb4l"
"i'm refering to the \"search\" option of \"personal assets\" toolset. currently assets which were placed into containers in station's hangar, or into the corporate hangar, cannot be located using this featerue. this creates a lot of inconviniece while trying to audit and enumerate one's belongings. at least, there should be an option to add them to the search's result as well."
"sov rental payment, alliance srp for hd fleets, factoring in the costs when you win/buy and lose the systems. your figure might not be too far off...but if you factor in the lost income, that alone can be upwards of 5 million isk per minute."
"good point.i suggest fitting defensively, and undocking to mitigate these losses.upgrading local to eliminate all afk influence what if local chat changed, hunting the cloaked..."
"good point."
"think of the costs of the needed hardware to implement such changes and the cost in human resources. will they be worth it just for the sake of having celestials that actually move ? i do not think so... besides, there are still plenty of more important changes to be made, changes that are more or less at hand for the moment."
"i'd love to see it, i think it'd be a great endeavor, and i do think you'd see the benefit. particularly if the system occasionally had weird alignments and things on occasion.that being said... it's a long way off. the basics of grids and such would be affected, and all that is some of the most low level base code eve runs on, that nobody has touched in ten years. it'd be a massive overhaul of that code. (which admittedly, is due someday anyhow.)there'd be a lot of gameplay adjustments, but i think there's nothing wrong with having bookmarks go out of date. it'd make sense, really. though the removal of ability to hang onto perches long-term would mean gate-based gameplay would change drastically. though i honestly don't think gates should move. they're pointed at other stars, they should be stationary.there could be a case for certain types of dynamic bookmarks. a bookmark being tied to the pos, not a space coordinate, or something like that.game performance might be a huge issue too. where ships would be if planets moved into the same space while they were logged off.i mean... i'd love to see it in eve's second decade. but low priority. i want walking in stations first. =)"
"ok this just made the number 1 slot of stupidest ideas ever...."
"shah, i hae a couple comments:- it's a definite thing that deelopment effort needs to remain small. ccp went too far for incarna. howeer, by taking small bits out of the ee, dust, and alkyrie teams, they can create a compelling cohesie product across all three games without impacting any one game too hard.- the next couple points can be addressed easily. as capsuleers are ulnerable when not all capsuled up, we should assume that first-person combat will not be aailable in a shared space between games. this means that you still hae to undock to do... most of any of the games. it also means it's easy to hae them in the same space despite differing engines. port the graphics assets into each engine. each game is just sending positional and descriptional data between so that each one can render moement properly. also, i figure eentually, dust will someday be using the same carbon-based engine ee is. it's just absolutely impossible to run that on a ps3."
"which means that walking in stations will be completely safe (outside of tinkering with the market) and lack the risk that the rest of ee has to contend with outside of the station. the only way this would be balanced is if the people in station could not affect the rest of ee. which means either...- instancing wis and creating a \"second economy\" (making wis effectiely a game-within-a-game).- taking away the ability for people walking in station to do anything other than... well... walk around.the first option doesn't sit well with me (goes against the mantra of a \"single ee unierse\")the second option makes me question why deelopment time should een be spent on wis. i'm ery sorry... but i laughed really hard at that.i'm no computer programmer... but i spent enough time playing around with code to know that it is nowhere near this simple. games may seem the same and hae the same results on the surface... but game engines generate, \"see,\" and process information differently depending both on how they hae been written and which programming language it has been written in.to hae two different engines communicate they hae to be...- compatible: usually possible when the languages and programming styles are related to one another.- an adapter is created: wine for apple is a good example of this. howeer such adapters usually hae issues with stability and require extra attention wheneer an update on one platform (or both) comes up.basically... what you are saying is this; \"tf2 and battlefield 3 players can both easily join the same serer and play with/against each other. it's just a simple matter of graphics and hitboxes. neermind that they calculate damage differently... or the aiming mechanics are different... etc.\" maybe. i would like to see that. but i wouldn't hold by breath for the next year or two (remember, we're talking about ccp here)."
"you're completely safe in stations now too. i think station content should be interesting, and deelop oer time, but in no way a replacement for space trael. i could see missions that inoled a station-side component, proided that most of the mission was in space.it is that simple, if you aren't talking about combat. all you hae is animations and moement. they don't een hae to be perfect carbon copy in appearance, as long as the space is the same scale, and the people moing within it look roughly the same. as a game programmer, yes it's possible. it does hae challenges, sure, but it's the sort of challenge ccp is good at. insane ideas like putting two games in the same serer.and i don't expect to see dust running on carbon's graphics engine for at least three or four years."
"what i think is really all that needs to be said about multi-boxing / alts in every online game ever:players with many accounts pay ccp more moneyplayers that pay ccp more will always be the preferred customer sadly this is the end of the discussion. ccp may make space ship games but their primary function (like every business) is to make money. considering we cant bring our internet space ship dollars to a competing mmo (none really compare) there is no incentive to ever remove alts / boxers from the game.what alts / boxers do that actually does ruin the game for me:they remove the social requirements for playing eve. i bought into this game with the assumption that social interaction and cooperation was required to reach the highest levels of game play. boxing makes this assumption incorrect. instead of players using each other as resources we simply make a hauling alt, or a scouting alt, or a mining alt. aside from totally destroying certain career paths, this also just greatly detracts from social interaction. taking away that social element of the game penalizes players with actual social skills and rewards those who have trouble connecting with real people. last time i checked thats not how an online game should work! why are we networked together playing an mmo where isolationist behavior is rewarded? why play online at all? i really dont care about the pvper boxer who kills me with 80 rifters because hes not having fun either, but i can understand why lots of people get upset at that kind of play. especially when that boxer shows up at a fleet fight. oh and btw that whole \"one player with 10 accounts is not as efficient as 10 different players\" argument is crap. they are 10,000 times more efficient! a huge part of group pvp is organization and command. with boxing you need 0 communication skills, 0 leadership skills, 0 charisma, 0 loyalty from your group, and 0 friends. how thats not cheating is beyond me... tl;dr:ccp presents eve as a social experience despite allowing boxing. the reason: m.o.n.e.y. you"
"my head hurts.its convenient. you pay for convenience. to me it is intended for those, \"oh **** i could use a couple more sp on that cyno alt for something else i want to do with it scenarios but i really need to stay on track with my main \" i guess 20 bucks wont hurt for a month or 2! shut up and take my money ccp/thread closed"
"it is a quick way to make cyno / pi / trading /hauling /whatever alts. i started using this feature as soon as it came in and will shortly stop using it as my goals for it will be furfilled. at the end of this process i will have a bunch of useful alts that can sell stuff, do pi, light cynos all with multiple jump clones. i could have done this before but i would have had to either stop training on my main for a while or open yet another account, train for a bit and then use plex to transfer the char across to my main account. it is easy + convienient and once done i will retain access to these chars for as long as i play without increasing my long term playing costs. the old system is still available if you prefer that one.money at its root is a form of rationing. when the richest 85 people have as much wealth as the poorest 3.5 billion (50% of humanity) it is clear where the source of poverty is."
"trolling is not allowed.qq threads are only allowed in the out of pod experience forum.thread locked."
"if this is implemented then it should be done as an in-game player provided service run by certified space lawyers.money at its root is a form of rationing. when the richest 85 people have as much wealth as the poorest 3.5 billion (50% of humanity) it is clear where the source of poverty is."
"i will fully support wis when ccp ensures that i can assasinate other people's aatars or clear the jita station traders clustered around the market kiosk with a smartbomb suicide est. until then it is a funny little sidenote that could, imo be totally deleted. captain's quarters is dumb, i only enter it when i play drunk and miss the undock button. there is no reason to enter it so i can sit on my sofa....i'll go sit in the cold tritanium of my cargo hold and count my corpse collection...."
"second life already exists, and has a decade head-start on ccp in terms of aatar-based content. what you're saying here is 'ccp, please spend our subscription money on a watered-down clone of second life rather than spending it on deeloping new features for the game we actually play'."
"if they ban one program, well they could just change the name of it... what the op is really asking for is to ban software to broadcast hardware events. banning something, means policing its use. how do you pretend to police a hardware event? specially when the original event is indistinguishable from the broadcasted one, and according to the very same os the software runs in, they are all the same event!imagine a box. inside the box you have the eve client, outside the box you have the rest of the os and the walls of the box, are made of the eula. the hardware inputs fall into the box, and whether there are other boxes around receiving the same input means nothing, given that they are each individual users, and the eula restricts them into their memory region as a means of safekeeping its own integrity, they cant legally \"know\" that the same input fell on a nearby box. unless they want to undermine the very same legal precedent that made modern eulas possible. which is also the reason all eulas look alike... what, did you really think they were all alike because the companies are cheap and lazy? please don't be so naive. i mean, does everyone here know that we are not players? i guess that's the starting point to any discussion on this matter. we are not players, we are users. if you get killed on a gate by 20 people, you got killed by 20 users, if you get killed by one guy controlling 20 ships, you got killed by 20 users. if you cannot understand this, then this discussion and its complexities escape you and you should just avoid joining the conversation.that said, multiboxing is the biggest cash cow eve has ever seen. the power of any multiboxing fleet is dismal when compared to any real fleet, or even gang. and the drive and interest of the player base on it is so high, that ccp needs to make their own multiboxing software and sell it, now. if there's future on the eve business model, its there. having players paying 200usd a month only to play as targets for pirates? whats not to like? the only things that need changing are the mindset of the pirates... stop flying \"solo pvp\" fits please. webs and point are a waste of midslots. and fly in fleets please... if you refuse to, then don't engage fleets and expect your 1337 space pirate flying skills to save you.any complaint are just complaints about the way eve works. did you get blapped on a lowsec gate? well. what does multiboxing have to do with it? its a design flaw on the game. did your ship get obliterated by 10 ships? well, welcome to eve. if they dropped on you, you should have kept an eye on dscan, if they didn't, then why did you engage? and above all, the biggest problem when people discuss multiboxing is this false belief that \"ccp allows it\", they don't need to allow it. why? well because multiboxing doesn't do anything that would require authorization.multiboxing software does not read memory regions or modifies them, multiboxing software doesn't monitor cache or disk activity, multiboxing software does not make decisions for the player based on feedback from the game. (for example it wont overload your hardeners if you take damage) and multiboxing software doesn't increase the damage, extraction rate, speed, or any other stat on any particular user outside of whats allowed by the game rules.there's nothing to allow, and there's nothing to ban.and the bottom line is always this: do you not like \"it\"? can you not do something about \"it\"? is this not a sandbox? then go out there and shoot them, stop being risk adverse."
"hi, i'm doing this the first time. i had this idea about new drone ui, i just opened photoshop and did what i could for you to visualise this idea. since i'm not photoshop genius, be gentle it's just a rough draft, what you need to imagine it is with eve colours fonts appropriate boxes act. basic navigationlet me take you through it step by step:launch / return buttonthis is going to be one button. upon clicking 'launch' the drones will launch and the button changes to 'return' and vice versa. this will give the ui less buttons. if one set of drones is launched in space and you'd like to launch another set then 'launch' of another set of drones is pressed. the set of drones in spaces automatically returns back to drone bay, once returned the new desired drone set launches.engage / disengage buttonthis button will spawn once the particular set of drones is launched. by clicking 'engage' the set of drones in space will engage the selected target. and of course as with the launch/return button, the engage / disengage button changes its state once pressed.damage indicatorthe indicator will spawn and start flashing when a particular drone is being attacked, that goes for ecm, webs, tp and all offensive modules being applied to a particular drone. once the indicator is clicked the drone will make an attempt to return back to drone bay and immediately launches itself back to space and engages the target the whole set of drones is engaging.groupsthe separation of drones is sorted via three different groups for better navigation. the first group illustrated as 'heavy pwnage !' is the one group which houses up to 5 different sub groups (illustrated as 'hammerheads, ogrezz, my favourite'). all of these groups are fully customisable inside drone bay where you can create folders and folders within folders, name them however you like. the desired drones are dragged and dropped inside these folders.heavy pwnage ! folderis the main folder housing other sub group folders. the drones cannot be dropped into this folder.hammerheads, ogrezz, my favourite foldersthese folders are where the drones are dragged and dropped and are assigned to specific sub group just like now. these folders can house unlimited amount of drones (depending on the size of your drone bay).other foldersthese folders will be particularly designed for ships with greater amount of active drones in space (carriers act). the folders will be created inside folders like hammerheads, ogrezz, my favourites where the user can drag and drop desired drones and amounts of drones to each folder.there should be 'launch all' button which would launch all drones from all the mini groups. each of these groups shall have engage / disengage and launch / return buttons themselves next to them.once a drone is killed from one group it will be possible to drag and drop single drones from group to group. the replaced drone will automatically behave like the drones in the particular group. that means if the group is engaging the drone will launch itself and start engaging the target the group is engaging.there can be multiple master folders that will improve drone separation. there will also be navigation arrows between master groups like 'heavy pwnage !'.example of folder hierarchy :master folderfighterssub foldersdragonfly eniherji firbolg templarminifolders10 dragon 5 dragon / 7 eniherji 8 eniherji ect"
"not sure if photoshop or ms paint"
"much like many people who run multiple accounts simultaneously, i am tired of having to launch each account, individually, and change graphics settings (for multiple displays) and have to roll the dice as far as which display the client will open on, at what resolution etc... is it really that hard to remember which display and resolution individual accounts always use? i like the new launcher, in terms of how quickly you can open multiple clients on different accounts, but seriously... the individual accounts can (as far as i know) maintain whatever your graphics settings are when it comes to the very specific, detailed settings (bloom, effects settings etc.) but they can't always open using the same display or resolution? :/"
