"amarr has been getting worse recently. what we need is, an option to auto block any message that has a link of any kind.necessity is the plea for every infringement of human freedom. it is the argument of tyrants; it is the creed of slaves. - william pitt"
"remove jita local."
"because some folks see isboxer as automation, and gives an unfair advantage?necessity is the plea for every infringement of human freedom. it is the argument of tyrants; it is the creed of slaves. - william pitt"
"i still haven't seen a solid argument proving this. anyone who has said this has either never used or attempted to use this software or simply been trolling. very funny your post also holds no data or proof of this as well."
"kms should only show person with final strike, or person with highest dmg dealt. atm everybody get on it and has perfect k/d ratio so that everyone can feel special."
"also what could be done like the explosion effects can be turned off can we have this as an option to b4 i deside to leave the game my time left is 20 days approx... now want to loose 3000 players see if that puts a dent in the gaming ....i will advise goonswarm of this too if you refuse to roll it back even my girlfriend has has similar effects with the gates like myself she by camera angle was sliding sideways and backwards then was facing straight i have even seen black jumping and a weird other colour like cream in your coffee then after the jump its fine the strain on the eyes from yanking the ship and then go through the gate moste of the bigger gates are all backwards did you not see that i llaughed at so many errors best to back it out of game or get a switch so we don't need to see it thanks"
"bump"
"as i'm sure others have stated, being forced to use a third party application in addition to the eve client is a less than optimal solution. having to tab out of the game at the wrong time can get you blown up. running yet another app in the background can be a performance issue. in addition, ccp removed functionality from the game that many of us found extremely useful and the new \"dynamic\" music system just doesn't cut it. i spend most of my time in low sec and end up hearing the same 2-3 songs over and over.i don't get why the csm members who've replied in this thread are so dismissive. at least humor us and bring this issue up with ccp so that we can get a response straight from the devs as to why the jukebox won't be brought back."
"interesting thought. i would not be opposed to this in conjunction with a general update to the arrays.hrolt ceo live free; die proud"
"you need proof that some people see it as automation? you do understand the phrase right, \"some folks see\" ? it means some people have an opinion.if you can't comprehend that, not much i can do for ya.necessity is the plea for every infringement of human freedom. it is the argument of tyrants; it is the creed of slaves. - william pitt"
"wow, because arguing semantics gets you places, right?even a child could understand i meant proving that this is automation. there is nothing within isoboxer that automates gameplay and i have yet to see solid proof of any arguments stating it is. like you so immaturely made clear people \"see\" it as such and feel free to argue against it despite not trying it or learning about it.automation = auto miners and bots.isoboxer = keystroke broadcasting. if you think the two are the same, you are wrong"
"i do not think isboxer is automation.i do not think sending keystrokes across multi clients is automation.however, for a game that prides itself on sandbox style always on pvp in all forms ( market, ships, mining ) is seems odd that ccp would allow the use of a paid 3rd party application that lets one person control many accounts.the argument about the accelerated gaining of isk holds true on the $ / account level but when there are 20+ players funneling money to one account, that account breaks that spirit of the eula.this could be argued endlessly but the fact is having more that 5 accounts putting money into only one is ridiculous and will continue to drive people away from the game.want 50 people to give you money for nothing? start a cult.edit:oh and the 'accelerated rate' can easily be measured by the time it takes to alt-tab from client to client."
"seriously... did you just create this character to copy someone else's old joke?pretty lame.jint hikaru - miner / salvager / explorer / spacebum in the beginning the universe was created. this has made a lot of people very angry and been widely regarded as a bad move."
"i'm coming up to 1k bookmarks, and i wasn't aware there was a limit.i can easily see the need for that many if you consistantly travel through null - low and require safe spots, gate and station tacticals etc.so, yes please, can we increase the limit."
"this would be great...totally agree"
"post this module to build items such as pos tcu i hub pocoeasley done add this as an assembly array so you don't need a station to freighter to move the modules.build it in system in stead job done!"
"need more likes.hrolt ceo live free; die proud"
"rofl, no ah, i was responding to the question \"why is this thread still alive?\" for whatever reason, you feel the need to read more into my reply than was there. you should get a job on tv, you can be one of those mindless talking heads that parses every word of a speech and spew mindless bull **** about your theories derived from 'reading between the lines'.necessity is the plea for every infringement of human freedom. it is the argument of tyrants; it is the creed of slaves. - william pitt"
"+1ccp said they would do this but then got distracted into fiddling with the way lp is paid out. (end result: fw still broken) i would love to know if this is still being worked on. people who want to run and hide from all pvp would still be able to do fw"
"i didn't realize you could get the stats that way. it's very interesting.seven of the top 10 in the victorypointslastweek section have none or very few engagements recorded on eve-kill, those that do primarily lose unfitted ships or fit more than one warp core stabilizer. for example, the top character for victory points last week was mitsuyo ichinumi who only lost unfit condors. devora dora (4th) is only 2 weeks old and has no recorded kills or losses. and last starfigter (7th) has no recorded kills or losses. others have very few kills or losses, but are losing primarily warp core stabilized ships to ships with large alpha or those of us smart enough to fit multiple points and get lucky catching them.edit: in fact, if you look at the corpoisk corporation's kill history and members, you will see that they are all losing unfitted or warp core stabilized ships and some members are have been on both sides of the war (pak zeitgeist). two of its members are in the top ten last week (devora dora and last starfigter). this is pretty obviously taking advantage of a broken system. i'd love to link to killboards here."
"+1i am in fw to easily support my pvp habit. however not having the timers roll back is just silly. both from a lore pov and a gameplay pov.i personally would also go a step further by removing lp for d-plexing. and add multiple single ship spawns in plex"
"personally, i use afk cloak tactic all the time and here's why: i have to do it because of the local channel.if local did not show player names of everyone in system, we wouldn't need afk cloaking. it's that simple.so lets remove local chat and get rid of afk cloaking at same time!"
"you're not going to find a single person who opposes this. +1 that enabling a \"switch characters\" or \"return to login screen\" button in the esc. menu is a short fix, requiring minimal dev time to implement, for significant payoff in user experience -- especially now with dct giving me a reason to switch between chars on the same account."
"hey csm dudes, did ccp have anything (not nda covered) to say on this?"
"*** i know this is a repetitive topic, so if it has been mentioned for this csm already, please forgive me. i did try searching for a similar topic but the only one i could find was back in 2011 ***as many of us, from my experience anyway, have already stated, we would like better graphics in eve. in fact, this thread has nearly 100 pages of support for better graphics.however, i digress. with ccp stating that they are concerned about people not having computers which can support higher quality graphics, why not release the better graphics separately so that, for example,machinima creators can make better films. this should help everyone as ccp only need to release the better graphics (they can make it limited through registration if they do not want everyone having them) while the players can effectively give free advertising to eve through their machinimas.i would like to know what you guys think about this idea as well. so many of us want more shiny and it is obvious not everyone can support it, but if it is done this way, the graphics can be slowly implemented to the community and it is up to the end-user as to whether they believe their computer is capable of handling it."
"i don't remember how many 100s of times i checked the show info window for ship / drone attributes... i'm sure i'm not the only one losing himself in it.i think infos in the attributes tab isn't clear enough and i was thinking about an easier way to display it. could it be possible to make the attributes tab for ships and drones look like the fitting panel (the info part on the right of the panel)? easy to check, you can find the info you're looking for without even reading everything (just looking at shield/armor/damage logos) nor scrolling for 5min to see the info at the end of the list."
"its quite the testimony to the persistence of the eve community that this is still being chased. a system that plays tracks that lots of people have said they dont like listening to but allows them to skip over for the tiny handful that they do like listening to...... if ccp can bring it back without crippling some other apparently unrelated system, i say that they should. given ccps track record for adding stuff without breaking other stuff though ...... hmmmmi think i'll stick to listening to my mp3s and cds with the eve music turned off. some of the eve music is good, but sadly, most of it is just noise and whales humping.i rate eve's music on a par with wis, utterly irrelevant and a waste of effort."
"i would agree with you mostly, dorrann, though i personally enjoy the whales humping, but i think there is a very large difference in the development resources used by wis vs. what's used by the jukebox. it had the functionality to add your own music to the jukebox folder and play it in-game via the jukebox, and to create your own playlists. sadly, i discovered this feature mere days before it was removed, and i did not get around to playing with it.i think if people knew about what the jukebox could have done for them, they would have liked it more. also, i do not believe it costs much more development time and programming code than the ambient music system. i'd like to have both in my game. and a zone shouldn't have one 8-minute track of nothing playing on an infinite loop! not everyone makes a quick flight through nullsec before jumping right back to highsec! there are people who actually live in nullsec! *shock* they don't wanna hear that hissy crap 24/7!"
"should role back a lot faster than they tick down imo.like 4s every sec"
"absolutely agree with this proposal. there have been several other threads on this subject, so let's hope someone gets on sorting it out.agreed.also i suggest multiple npc spawns during countdown (say once every n/5 minutes, n being the original plex timer) and balancing of npcs so that a cloaky stabbed condor can't take out npc cruisers. (sorry taoist, only read your post after i posted x)).as for lp for dplexing, that is less of a problem i thought it would be initially in terms of farming. you'll mostly see farmers offensive plexing, usually in backwater/quiet systems anyway. they are all about efficiency of their efforts so dplexing is not their primary concern. if dplex payouts were to change i'd go with my original proposal (made before lp for dplex was introduced) - direct defensive plexing lps to system upgrade status contributions. no lp's for farmers, but some rewards for defenders. some other fw related stuff: - would also be nice if they balanced fw missions across races, but that's another story.- give us system upgrade benefits which were originally proposed pre-retribution."
"+1 for this proposal - personally i think they should roll back 4 times faster so if a stabbed cloaky lp farmer cloaks up in a plex i enter i can hang around (as a neutral pirate) and let it count down quickly. if the farmer isn't willing to fight for his"
"+1 would love to see this implemented"
"i find it a little pointless having a covert ship in null sec when it can be easiy decloaked when caught in a bubble. (dont get me started on static bubbles)allow a new mod like the t3 nullifer to be able to be added to covert shipsta"
"dear god no."
"i think they should shake up the complexes a bit. remove the idea of small, medium and large complexes [its too predictable], make multiple people decrease the amount of time to capture an area [for of course reduced reward when multiple people do a plex as now], maybe add those roll-back timers, maybe multiple capture areas of a complex [say some will have three outposts instead of one] and when you enter a plex maybe generate random npcs [of same or different types, frigs with battleships for example], get rid of the acceleration gates."
"can you imagine the forum rage from the null-bear contingent....jint hikaru - miner / salvager / explorer / spacebum in the beginning the universe was created. this has made a lot of people very angry and been widely regarded as a bad move."
"first time you afk at station over 15 minutes you get warning. second time ban. afkers ruin my game."
"really this is your idea for the assembly hall....it's pretty lame.... just saying.jint hikaru - miner / salvager / explorer / spacebum in the beginning the universe was created. this has made a lot of people very angry and been widely regarded as a bad move."
"aww, so you don't like afk players and you want the whole community to change. i thought ideas here were supposed to be for the benefit for at least a reasonable portion of the community. to be afk is their decision and, as is natural to eve, it carries risks. they choose to accept those risks, leaving them a target for other players. afk is part of the game and that is highly unlikely to change (especially not through near immediate bans)"
"11/10, a wonderful post. i laughed, i cried, it was better than cats."
"still a better love story than twilight.kainos kerensky \"prepare for teh vandersex!\""
"thread closed."
"at the least the largest refining array should be able to reach 100% or near 100% refine if my skills are good enough to get there. really long wait times plus an at best max of 75% is stupid crazy."
"+1 a year on, adding my support to this idea.it's never made sense to me that station refining is instant with full return, and pos refining takes time plus limited to max 75%. it should be exactly the opposite. let the stations have instant refine, but t"
"no if you dont like local then move to w-space.an auto logoff if you're inactive after say 30-60 mins or so is a good idea imo, there is no legit reason to be maintaining those people's accounts online if they arent at the computer. now if they are at the computer then sure let them stay online but if they aren't just log them off."
"+1 for option b!!!!!!111!!!111111!!!1"
"while this woudl be nice and all for those videos, it would never then be implemented in game.why?same reason we dont have dx11 and wont have ti for quite a while.eve for whatever reason has a fairly large playerbase of people using old-as-dirt computers with mulitple accounts running, who will amit that yes they want shiny, but they absolutely refuse to upgrade their computer for any reason, and threaten to quit playing should they not be able to run all 5 of their clients at once on their stock-windows-xp."
"the above topic was deleted since the opening post was in violation of forum rules.forum rule 5. trolling is prohibited."
"hmmm i think i could get behind something like that +1"
"i have a question. why do people say if you don't like local go to w-space? does that make that a valid argument? if so, then can i present a new argument using much of the same wording. \"if you don't like afk cloakers, go to high sec.\" \"if you don't like pvp, go to hello kitty online.\"\"if you don't like how people can affect you in a online game, go play a single player game.\"do you need me to continue? next part, a bot can be quite easily programmed to wiggle your mouse around so you can stay 'active.'"
"you don't even need a bot. it can be done without breaking the eula and keep you online.destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"this is why i was proposing this. it would not be implemented in-game. instead, an external download can be used to provide the texture maps needed when making 3d models/pictures and the like. those who complain about their low-spec pc's don't have to download and shouldn't (because they wouldn't be able to use them effectively anyway).as far as i can tell, the only reasons an external release could be blocked would be that ccp don't have the facilities to support the download or they don't want to release game assets publicly.don't get me wrong, i know the chances of this occurring is slim, however as the csm is a player elected council representing the community in front of ccp, it may be an opportunity to raise a long-term issue in a new way which may appeal to ccp while still offering some of us the opportunity to improve our creations."
"it's faction warfare not carebear"
"can i get one of those birds that repeatedly dip down and position it so it just hits spacebar repeatedly to keep me active"
"i'm on the 'quit whining about afk cloaks' side of the fence. i mean seriously, afk and/or cloaked or not, you play in a sandbox game where anything can and likely will happen over the course of your gameplay experience. deal with it. assume you're out in space with a suspected or known cloaky camper. you can't know if he's afk or not but you don't need to. let me go into a few scenarios for you.1. safe spots. if you fear that you may be attacked by a cloaked ship, make safespots in your favored regions/systems. not hard to do and it makes their goals more difficult to accomplish. if getting ambushed while traveling the pre-established pipelines between gates and other landmarks, don't use them. make your own routes.2. afk is afk for a reason. any number of reasons really. the bottom line here is the player has other priorities irl too, just like you do, just like i do for that matter. count your blessings and quit with the 'poor me' attitude crap. you consented to this 'sandbox' experience. 3. if you have a problem with an afk camper, cloaked or not, how many 'star systems' does this game offer? that's right too many for me to even bother trying to count. if one 'system' has a camper, relocate, get on with your life and quit crying on the forums about your lack of creativity. if relocation is not an option, i promise you a wardec is sure to turn up the heat, maybe the camper will react maybe not, but i know you'll get inside his head by doing this.4. ever heard of spy vs. spy? find out where this guy lives and go pay his home turf a little 'visit' with your merry little band of outlaws. i've been involved in such tactics and it does work. for a little while or a long while, the point being if he is responsible to a corp or alliance, they will call for his help.i could go on and on like this all day.there is always a solution to any problem that doesn't involve crying to ccp. get creative and let ccp worry about more important issues than some whiny childish antics because you don't want to think on your feet."
"sorry that you're bad at evading decloakers.maybe you could try not sucking?"
"i remember ccp showing some sort of tessellation video awhile back on how if roids broke into smaller pieces and scattered when they collided with a ship. perhaps this idea would give that idea sustenance"
"no, its much more about time/cost of labor analysis, copyright, and client security. to do the high-res texture pack, ccp would need to devote dev time to creating a method for the client resources to be loaded on the client's end depending on the texture packs available on the user's machine. regardless of a person's ability to render the textures, ccp would need to handle multiple situations and provide debugging tools for cases where out-dated textures might affect client performance. then ccp needs to devote additional dev resources to maintaining the regular textures that ship with the client, as well as the new high-res pack. in the end, ccp doubles their workload for each patch where even a slight tweak to an alpha layer is the only graphic change. as well, adding methods to custom load a texture pack only increases the amount of information that the user can glean from the client's public-accessible data. the more you open up the client code to be poked around in, the more possible security holes you open for botters and nefarious ner-do-wellers to exploit the client. so, on top of the dev resources to maintain the texture packs with each release, you add additional dev time to security analysis.finally, adding the texture options will only lead to headaches down the road during code refactoring. eventually, ccp will need to move up to dx11 as dx9 gets pushed out of the market (the day is nowhere soon, though). at that time, the engine will need some significant re-writing, if it's not already done. anything that works with the graphics engine is going to need a fine-tooth combing to ensure compatibility, and a highres texture option will only present additional headaches during a full code review.the highres texture pack would be awesome to have, but eve isn't exactly like skyrim et. al. where mods can just be dropped in willy-nilly. as an mmo, ccp has to make choices based on whether they can devote the dev time to maintaining the project in the long-run. we already saw the \"classic\" graphics option get dropped in favor of the trinity engine for the same reason: dev time was being wasted maintaining old code and old graphics. it might be nice for the niche group that'd really like the high-res pack, but it's not really in ccp's best interests to devote the devtime to the project in the long run."
"ok, maybe i didn't explain what i was proposing properly. what i am suggesting is that no changes should be made ot the client or any part of the actual game for that matter. instead, a situation like the following could occur. a zip file is released by ccp which contains .jpg and .png files which can then be used to reconstruct the bump maps, specularity maps and texture maps required for modelling. anyway, if ccp have already stated they have the textures and can give them to use now, the only \"dev time\" required would be to dedicate a tiny fraction of a the server for the texture downloads."
"i don't see how this even has to be out of game. a tiny company in the balkans managed to package spaceforce: rogue universe with 3 separate rendering engines, down to shader module 2.0 for the windows 95 users...the visual difference between the 3 engines is absolutely huge, making an interesting contrast when you switch between them.ccp doesn't even need to do new work. just package the 2003 graphics engine back into eve, and all the whine goes away."
"as an amarrian may i say i support this as well?"
"they should come with a buyer beware sticker, just look at what happened to homer. destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"afk cloaking - possibly the safest activity in eve for the risk adverse griefer.which is why it's fans seem to have so much time to post utter bollocks on the forums."
"that's a highly compelling and detailed argument you put forward. do you have an rss feed or newsletter, i can subscribe to?destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"the one and only way to make covert ops be truely covert would be to remove it from local...but that will never happen because it would bring actual risk to 0.0 which would be completely unacceptable of course."
"i'll take a big ol' helping of suggestion b as well, please."
"sorry for not replying sooner. it's a tricky line to tread. i think i can say that they're definitely still working on improving the launcher."
"as a grade-a ship spinner myself i totally support this idea. make it so, ccp."
"you realize that art has stated that these 4x size ship textures are the ones they make in house from the beginning, and the ones we see ingame are simply lower resolution versions of them? they won't be doing 'twice the work' to maintain the higher res v3 textures, as the ones they work with before resizing and packaging are the high res onesyou make a good point about the packaging and delivery, but this is what they offered to do the work for if enough support was shown."
"whilst i didn't like all the songs, i loved the ability to pick and choose what i listened to and when.now, having returned after almost 2 years off, i have to go to soem other website out of eve (not even able to use the igb..should we expect that to go soon too? i mean...we have firefox, chrome and ie for that too right?). having to tab out or what have you just to play music that was in the game originally but removed is really a sub optimal approch and suggested fix. almost ot the point of being very very lazy design.if it ain't broke, don't fix it.would be nice to get it back but i sadly doubt anything would happen, especially with a csm that doesn't seem to care."
"agreed, afk clocking goes against the spirit of the game, no ship should be 100% safe in space. this is what the pvpers carry on about when a mission runner or a miner loses a big ship to a ganker and complains about it.afk clocking, playing the logging off logging on game, and covert hot drops in general make it far too easy for bad carebear pvpers with there fleets of billion isk black opps battleships, covert tengus and bomber fleets to pick and choose easy targets and pad their killboards with endless kills of mining barges and complex running ships.one fix would be to make a long cycle probe that scans down cloaked ships in system, like make it take 15 mins to get results.another would be to change the way covert cynos work so people who use them actually need to use them covertly, not ontop of a warp disrupted target."
"that's like saying if you don't like afk cloaking, move to high sec where the bad man can't touch you.afk cloaking and local chat are 2 sides of the same coin. you can't have one without the other. any change has to effect both sides of the issue"
"optimism factor: increased."
"option b: winner! i would like to take the opportunity to thank everyone for their support in this thread, especially the csm's. please spread the word to any other players who would be willing to support this idea, by adding their comments or likes to the thread. and it's true, that most players agree that it is quite bizarre that such a 'common sense' idea hasn't been implemented to date, but i can confirm that after asking a ccp rep in help channel, (following the release of oydssey) he did confirm that a majority of players have been asking for this and they will work towards it in future patches. good stuff."
"."
"i propose to help curtail data harvesting via that ccp raise the price for receiving a detailed kill-mail to 10 million on the part of the per individual bounty poster. a bounty below that amount would still receive a mail but simply saying \"so-and-so has been killed and their bounty now is x isk.\" a bounty over 10 million -- or another amount if any people have ideas what would be a deterrant -- would receive a detailed kill-mail showing all of the involved parties, equipment, location etc.thank you for considering.the grabbing hands, grab all they can. everything counts... - depeche mode"
"can we please get some horizontal scroll bars ingame?"
"why?"
"bear with me. i'll just cloak up and put something together."
"bumping for visibility given the serious nature of the topic.please csm's look into this."
"it's been over a month, has any dev taken the time to verify whether or not this is true?"
"it's already been confirmed that the igb is vulnerable to exploits that were patched in chrome 4.x but no dev has commented on this which from an assurance perspective is troubling.the linked quote above is only a denial of service vulnerability that makes the browser crash which is fairly harmless but if a vulnerability that exists in chromium 4.x still works then every other exploit newer than this also will succeed.many of them are serious sandbox violations.if you browse this website with the igb it clearly displays the browser version as chromium/chrome 3.x and also shows that the igb posesses the ability to use host system java binary which alone is a known high security risk if left outdated."
"you posting stuff does not a confirmation make especially not in something of this technical of a nature."
"noted i am both experienced and qualified to diagnose issues of such a technical nature. it only remains to be seen if the dev's will actually do anything about it. so far they have done nothing for several years."
"weird, i ran the same website as you did, it doesn't detect flash nor java. probably because the igb doesn't even have flash or java plug-ins to begin with so it cannot bridge to the executables on the computer (and i really don't know how you got this result on your igb)."
"i've never used the in game browser, because i have no control over it. i either alt tab out or had my laptop on next to me.this thread comes as no surprise tbh, but thanks all the same.destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"if you only use internet explorer which less people do now than firefox or chrome you wouldn't have the correct flash plugin installed in your system. it's been an urban myth within the eve community for years that the igb had \"disabled features\" for added security such as not having flash player, java and such but i submit that added security if it ever existed is more or less nonexistent with an ancient insecure web browser version.also if the browser runs in it's own process and can detect the host system's flash and java binaries it can potentially use them or they can potentially be used.also if your using a mac that may be another reason why it wasn't detected. the mac client runs in an emulator.my eve client also is not installed in the default location... i don't know if anyone else will get a different result from that web page. it's entirely possible but if being installed in c:\program files is what the eve client relies on to provide security to the insecure software installed with it that's a poor security policy.above all else there's some hard questions for ccp to answer. the csm needs to seriously consider asking them."
"if you had bothered to read the thread instead of jumping to conclusions, you would have noticed that i already had previously posted my example of abuse on page 3."
"my suggestion is that ccp needs to not be half-assed about any kind of law enforcement system for one thing. in order for a corp to be able to honestly label a player as a corp thief, there needs to be a mechanic in place for member voting to pass by majority vote to decide if a corp member is a 'thief.' it doesn't need to require for 100% of the corp members to pass a vote due to random game times, but it would need at least 75% of a corp vote imo. there are plenty of mmos that are able to add all kinds of guild functionality, so a voting system solely to convict a corp criminal is far from an unusual concept."
"really? the game is all based on \"scamming\" have you played the \"game\" much? there is a whole other universe outside of jita. the reason jita is the largest trading hub in almost every mmo is because of the rest of the game. scamming is part of eve lure and lore and legend its a sandbox that is as close to real world good and evil as a game can get the only thing missing in eve is prostitution. for a good time call me ;)brought to you by -barony of vulnezia mmo micro nation- www.vulnezia.com be a part of the world's first mmo micro nation"
"+1 depending on how it is implemented."
"basically, promoting some thoughts of mine here."
"+1the timer could go by how many are in the plex.more friendlies faster timer.more enemies/neuts the timer slows and possibly goes backwardsso if a players of caldari is capturing a gallente and he is by himself then it goes normal speed.if a gallente mil"
"i fully support any kind of \"timer resets\" or \"backwards running timers\" proposals. it was even considered for inferno and i basically mentioned it in every thread i saw devs lurking back than. but devs dropped it (they probably ran out of time, can't remember the reason).there are several different versions which do more or less the same:- timer reset (immediate)- backwards running (slow but automatic)- quick decontest (timer runs faster till default state is reached)so game designers would have enough options to balance it up and down (could be even system upgrade lvl dependent)so yeah +1edit: what makes me a bit sad is that ccp repeatedly tried to fix the problem but they never fixed it at the root: there is still no incentive to stay in a plex and fight. plexers which run make progress with 0 risk investment (still). there should be no progress if you can't defend a plex. plex layout changes didn't help (people where complaining back then that they can't point plexers quick enough since the beacon was too far away from the warpin -> bullshit that was not the problem the problem was and still is that there is no incentive to fight)"
"everyone has a great point but the bottom line is that afk cloaking is faulty in the game only because there is no \"counter\" to it.afk mining , its easy and its legal to do but there are ways other players can counter afk miners by bumping or ganking.afk travel, its easy, lazy, legal to do but there are in game counters to it called gankingafk missions, was countered when they changed the npc ai to attack dronesafk cloaking.... anything?....waiting..... nope ....still no counter to it. the afk cloaker has all the power. i am all for afk cloaking but i am also for in game counters to it.my team at vulnezia university have already discovered a counter to afk cloakers.it's called acw or anti cloak warfarea \"depth charge\" module is fit to a destroyer class ship and has \"depth charges\" . it is used to hunt down and probe out any kind of cloaked vessel. it is not perfect and takes patience but in the right hands a destroyer can hunt down and destroy an afk cloaker.now if i can just get ccp to buy my \"depth charge\" module idea i will be filthy rich!brought to you by -barony of vulnezia mmo micro nation- www.vulnezia.com be a part of the world's first mmo micro nation"
"the counter is called local."
"indeed. they can either close it, or stop relying upon it's instant intel so much.destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"t3 have those thats enough"
"i'm using windows 8 and i'm pretty sure that you need a working plug-in to support the binaries for the browser which i'm pretty sure doesn't support plug-ins.it is indeed something that needs to be looked-at and this had been discussed at the fanfest that ccp didn't knew what they wanted to do with it, since players where using it they couldn't really scrap it and updating it would be a hard thing to do (my first guess is that they might be using webkit libraries for more then just browser, but i could be wrong)."
"if you had read the thread, you would have seen me relying to that post with questions.how about some answers, instead of silly posts suggesting gms views.destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"err i missed something i did not know that every other mmo was infested with jita. omg omg drama drama drama."
"i am a seller of plexmy job has me working 80+ hours a week.i am lucky if i have 2 hours a week to play.i am a casual playeri pay for subscription every 3 months for 3 accounti buy upto additional 9 plex to buy stuff so i can die in a horrid blaze of glory as i am a sucky pilot.i play the game to to have fun.i am the worlds worst industrialist.with the money i spend, even though i am not active, i fund ccp development equal to 6 subscriptionseve needs money to run its game, and people like me i provide the income so progression of fixes and expansions will continue with out me eve would turn into you can play earth and beyond a game that is trying to be rebuilt by volunteers if there was not plex, rmt would be rampant. as if i had not been banned by then i would have been buying rmt isk to fund my activities. resulting in bots taking up cpu and ccp getting none of my money.you say that when i loose a ship it does not hurt.i have had to endure extra long work hours, my wage sucks, to earn the cash.when i buy something new, sure i may buy expensive stuff, unlike wow, the having the best gear does not mean i will win,so it does hurt."
"no, now go crawl back under your bridge little troll."
"i don't see why, an armed militia pilot will always make an unarmed weeks old farmer take off and they can wind back down the plex themselves and get their own lp if they want it. it's not like the farmer poses any danger to anyone with a gun.the plexes aren't there for pirates to get goodfites or whatever so the fact that he isn't forced to stay in the plex when a neutral warps in is working as intended, neuts aren't supposed to have a big effect on the outcome of sovereignty or it's gonna get abused to hell and back. i sure don't want to see people starting to use non-milita alts for defensive plexing because you get no warning in local, that would be much worse than whatever frustration you get for not catching a guy with wcs.for the record i never used an unarmed or stabbed ship in a plex. but i do sometimes warp out when some neut tard warps in, sue me."
"what do you think the alt does while you undo the damage he did in the plex? he plexes another system or waits at you in the other plex in the same system. now you can choose tho hunt him around all the time or decontest. in any case he already won since you alone can not undo the damage he did while he runs or plexes. his risk investment: 0, he probably multiboxes mutiple pexes at once. your risk investment: a combat ship. he makes progress while running away, you do not while willing to fight. why should you plex in combat ships again?why should you be able to take over systems without being able to defend the plex you are in? imagine it is war and everybody cloaks."
"please note how you, if you want to have the lp from the site you scared the farmer away, have to run a timer for longer than default and get paid the same. it's unattractive to run these sites if you're for the lp. so if you want those lp for yourself, you ignore the farmer and go get your own plex. and at this time you might actually just change ship to a farming wcs cloaky aswell. which makes plexing a pve expierience unless you have guys entering plexes in hope for enemies who are also up for pvp wanna shoo away the bad farmer or actually get a fight. and most of the time once a fight's on the horizon people tend to call in as much backup as possible, but can't blame em, it's their blindness for killboard effectiveness."
"sounds like a fair proposal.+1destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"thanks, got myself a new sig.also i fully support this. i've had some great fights against fw plexers but they are extremely rare."
"afk cloakers say local is the problem, no more local for intel (like wh space) problem fixed.afk cloakers say local is the problem, no more local for intel (like wh space) problem fixed.lets see, in wh space, you can't hot drop ether, so that covert ops ship with scanner probes sitting afk in system, becomes just that, a covert ops ship with scanner probesin null sec, lets look at what it is, well it could be 20 bomber, 10 ewar ships and 10 black opps battleships waiting to blow your ass up, with 0 warning apart from local and instantly jump back out again once your pod is space dust all in the time it takes your pvp defence fleet to undock. and that's in a cyno jammed systemwithout cyno jamming..........well, could be anything.so, back to these reds sitting \"afk\" in local, thing is we don't know if they are afk or not, so yes, an afk red can't hurt anyone, but that's like saying falling from a 100 story building will not hurt either, it's the hitting the ground that hurts.same with the reds in local, afk they don't hurt, but when they have finished their sleep, done an 8 hour day at work and gone to the movies, to come back and see there's a mining op on, or a bunch of battleships doing a complex, boom he has his free kills, no risk, 5 mins spent at the keyboard and the easiest pvp in the game, hell even high sec mission runner have more chance of losing a ship.afk missions.....goneafk ice mining.....goneafk freighting....goneafk ganking.....next to go lets hopeedited to include no local in wh space, also no hot drops, and limited access points. also wh space has better rewards too, for those willing to put up with the short comings off it, like no local, no jump clones and no stations, no markets and no friends.no local in sov space would mean every gate in null sec would need to be camped with fast lock ship just to run one mining operation and then covert opps ships still get through gate camps.sov space should be dependable. if reds come into system, all we ask is for a fair way off getting them back out again."
"wh space is completely different to null, even if local was the same. you can't compare the two and that's not the point. the point is local is the reason people afk, but stating this fact doesn't also mean that some of us want any change. for we believe it is already balanced.when people say that no one in wh space complains about afk cloakers, it's true. for how would they even know they are there? that is the point and nothing more.you are correct though, you simply do not know if they are afk or not. this is the major flaw in that argument that gunslinger keeps highlighting. this complaint isn't even about those afk, it's about active play and reducing the uncertainty associated with cloaking and it's fuddling of local intel.but your claim of 'no risk' is quite frankly ridiculous. if you wish to hand an enemy no risk, then you shoulder that fault completely. because if you had accepted that he was most likely not afk, you would have been ratting in a pvp ship, in a gang, or mining in a large group with protection. in other words, be prepared.i couldn't comment on afk missioning, as i find it boring as hell anyway and haven't heard if people still do it or not.people keep saying afk ice mining is gone, but i've yet to be told exactly what stops them activating the laser and going afk. as before.also afk freighting is still very much alive, but as always there are risks involved.the final one. no one and i mean no one, has ever ganked anyone afk. to even suggest this is to be quite honest, ridiculous. what's next, comparing it with botting? or would you like to also throw in the complaint, that it's an exploit? please.destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"well i did only add it for mission runner's sake... heh at the time didn't wat it to be completely about me ;)  3rd party & location services ~ tjorven einherjar valkyrja ~ to do business please enter this channel: inf 3rd party"
"and its hard for me too believe only one csm posted tbh. this is a fantastic idea. this would allow me too move the fitted ships i need to inva... move in into a wh.+1"
"the is being abused in this way, among others:data gathering, either for a) game-play spying, metagaming or b) bot, \"real money\" operations.valuable data is in the kill-mail. kill-mail includes my ship, fittings, location, time, etc. it also contains my attackers information. some of these things can be considered character data, and some i would consider user data. things that i make a decision about such as my movements, time of day i play, i consider my user data and private to me as a player, to only be given to people i approve.for 100k i have a \"tracking pixel\" or cookie attached to me which i cannot rid myself of. if i die and the bounty is expended, the bounty poster applies the same amount again. this has happened to me a few times, by the same person.i agreed to let ccp use my user data and sometimes share my user data with 3rd parties. when i think of a 3rd party i think of another legitimate business, that is bound by some kind of corporate or business structure (and legal structures), that for whatever reason ccp feels needs to share my user data is deemed appropriate.i did not agree to share my user data with other players. where i go, when i go there, is private. if you disagree and consider my movements and tracking part of game play, i contend the price of my data should be much higher than 100k. (edited to add) consider that the regular recipient of a kill mail as the attacker has risked his/her ship, in some cases security status, in order to attack me. they have \"earned\" their kill-mail by taking a risk that is worth over 100k in most cases. so it is established that kill-mail does have an isk value attached. also, when i engage in combat with another player my location/time details is not an issue since i have willingly entered game-play and revealed those things on my own accord.(end edit)of course, a bounty placer can receive the game play satisfaction of receiving a simple undetailed mail telling them their target has been killed. for game play purposes, this should satisfy if they are only putting a 100k on, that just seems their game-play \"ire\" must not be too great. if it truly is important to them to see my kill-mail details, for satisfaction of course, they should pay more.what i mean by the above is i do question the sincerity of bounty placement, and player motivations, and i think the isk amount should be adjusted to reflect this sincerity.how much more? well, perhaps ccp could compile their data on those 100/111k bounty posters and look to see their patterns and come up with a isk figure. earlier i put forward 10 mil as a number, but i really am unsure what would be a proper amount.if you need a game play rationale, i read this the other day*...\"bounty office personell threaten strike\"\"today bounty office chief bobbalouis fettucine announced there may be a labor strike. the staff are angry over the longer working hours since we implemented the new system. the amount of time to process the kill mails has some staff working overtime, which is costly to the office. we have also reason to believe that marketing agencies are using the kill mails to bolster their marketing efforts as well as corporations are using the data to monitor turf. well, everyone is a bit upset over being used for cheap data gathering and the workers are now demanding more pay.\"worker papier sorebottom is leading the labor effort and is hosting a sign-making gathering in the next few days. anyone interested in volunteering can bring pre-made signage saying \"we are not your data drones!\"* i just made that up.the grabbing hands, grab all they can. everything counts... - depeche mode"
"while we are at it ccp should remove titans, supercaps, jump clones, and charge 70 dollars a month.. lets get a real edge going man.. /sarcasmworst idea ever."
"actually i agree with what the persons saying-i get ccp's point of the dual training but i get this persons point of spending a plex cost of 20 dollars for it. this alt will only be logged in training while there will continue to be only 1 allowable character to be used on the account at any given time. so it boils down to this -main character - already 14.95 a monthalt character - 19.99 a monthonly one character can be used at any given time.alt is only logged in to say 10 minutes a day to check skill training and some times not logged on for a entire week due to the length of some skills.so say you have one skill that takes 1 week to train and you need to do 4 of them. for 4 log ins for a total of a months time it cost you $20 + 14.95 for your main equaling 34.95 just for your character.this is no way a viable option and no offense but really screams greed lol. i love eve and the idea of eve but that upsets me personally to see them do that to the player base.but then again i guess its like you said, if you buy it with out wieghing the options i guess its the same as giving away 500mil isk for a cargo expander. just a little crazy the scaming cause people don't do the math has gone beyond the game. which is funny because if one of the players takes advantage of the game this way it breaks the rules lol. i think eve is going to see most of the users for this like me will use in game plex bought from the market with isk i've earned and eventually lead this to crashing the plex system.another example of this which proves the point. i just created a alt (mind you using a plex i bought with isk which makes eve 0 extra dollars) and my first thing i want to train is spaceship command to level 5. why well simple, this is one of the most important skills in flying anything...total training time coming out gate is 5 days and 17 hours. now lets say i want to do this to another skill like say cybernetics so i can install implants and boost my training time...well there went 15 days for just level 5, then lets talk about the 5 other days it takes to get to lvl 5.then there is caldari frigate, for sure gonna want that up to atleast lvl 3. well there go's 7 hours the first lvl, 1 day and 17 hrs the second lvl and then 9 days and 18 hours the 3rd. so say i paid cash for the plex...i spent 20 dollars for what? here better yet let me tell you what i just paid for if i did pay cash -i paid for a tune who can't fly with my other toon, who is gonna take forever to be able to use...so basically i paid for something to set and not be used for a couple months...yay me!who knows maybe this is a good way for anyone to farm characters. not a know it all but how i see it personally.just my 2 cents :d/me slowly walks away...."
"ok.destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"wow its hard to believe that a company who owns eve and makes hundreds of thousands of dollars if not millions a year can be so stupid enough to not listen to their own forums when some one says hey, this is going to cost you out the ass. so question is who pushed this idea, the dev's? what they need a new feature?? cause i know the user base wouldn't of thought about this on a level where they pay 34.95 a month for 2 accounts mind you and can only use one.who in their right mind is that stupid....for 2 accounts monthly your only talking 14.95 each, hello math alert thats 30 dollars or 29.9 a month..lolyour paying 34.95 for 2 accounts one you can't access.here let me break it down easier since obviously you have a problem.you have 2 home phones. one you use 2 times a month and pay 40 dollars for. the second phone you use about 50 to 60 times a month, you spend 35 for the second phone. you just wasted 40 dollars...i mean i'm worried about how many of you live in a shack piggy backed off someones network lol since you can't do normal math on investing your money.ok im done this is #%!ing hiliarious lol...."
"if nothing else, then your ego is thriving parity what makes you think that an on paper unaligned entity making the same suggestion that entities from all four militias have been making for years, carries more weight? ... hahahahaha.last word was that ccp was rather happy with fw currently, but i fear the truth is much more dire and that there are some in iceland who see the idiocy of current but are either hushed by higher up are experiencing a brain freeze when trying to figure out what can be done.in any case; good luck with your endeavour."
"i fully support this. +1in addition, i would support a few other changes that i believe would improve fw gameplay. -no warp stabs in deadspace. fw, ded complexes, missions, all of them.-no cloaks in deadspace. (exceptions being ships capable of covops cloaks)-'allied' militia should show as they truly are, neutral.-acceleration gate activation should not interrupt target locking. (this is seriously wrong, it makes about as much sense as 1+1=3)i think these changes would be a good way to improve fw gameplay without a full overhaul. on the flip side; i would also support a full fw overhaul including 4 (or more with yarr factions) faction ffa, combination of warzones into a single large warzone that all can participate in, and system upgrades similar to 0.0 increasing the value of upgraded space (better complexes, pi, exploration sites, ect...) but that is a lofty idea far from implementation, and i would prefer a fix that doesn't take forever and a day to become practical."
"sorry for the misunderstanding, was meaning no risk for the ganker cloaky camping and 0 risk to his fleet waiting on him to hot drop them. it's bad game play when one person can shut down a system say containing 40 because that one person wants to pick and choose an easy target like a solo mining barge from a new to pocket corp.i'm not complaining about pvp, i'm just saying at the moment cloaky campers have it way too easy. fair is fair, if they want to come into system and look for targets, that's ok. miners and complex runners just dock up and wait for them to leave or get into pvp ships and try to engage. but going afk for 1 to 10 hours is a game play mechanics exploit plain and simple. getting in pvp ships isn't an option, because they most likely will not engage. docking up simply means people who live in that system can no longer play eve. and continuing to work in system is what the camper wants, so when he gets back to his computer he gets the pick of targets."
"it's also bad gameplay when people can use a mechanic that provides them with instant and accurate intel on who is in a system at any given time without exerting any effort.you want one type of bad gameplay gone? work on fixing the bad game mechanic that it is trying to counter. so basically... you want people to fight on your terms? if you are pveing... no one should threaten you. if you are all ready to fight... then people can come at you.sorry... but my 5 to 10 man gangs have no interest in getting squashed by 50+ man fleets.besides... attacking an alliance shouldn't just be limited to fleet brawls and sov. attacking industry and pve with small groups should be equally viable (currently afk cloaking achieves this).also... lol @ \"fair.\" good sir... that is the entire point of using pvp ships to do pve. if you present yourself as too much of a threat, the cloaker won't engage and you can continue making money. eventually the cloaker will get bored and either attack someone he/she shouldn't (and die) or just leave.ffs... you do realize that this makes you seem more cowardly than high-sec miners... right?the high-sec miner has to deal with the constant threat of all those neutrals being a possible suicide ganker. they have no idea who it might be or when such an action may come... even making themselves unprofitable isn't a guarantee that lol-gankers won't show up... and yet they still continue to ply their trade. usually without support.you are part of a 0.0 alliance made up of hundreds or thousands of people... many of them on at any given time... so you usually have support nearby. you always know who is and isn't a threat based on local (if it isn't blue, it's a hostile). your gear in is system. you have bubbles that can make entry into a system very hard. you can put up special pos mods to mitigate the risk of certain things (ex. cyno jammer).explain to me how a high-sec miner can play eve when he/she is under constant duress from unknowns with limited support and options... but a single. person. presents such a threat that they can prevent hundreds or even thousands of other players from playing?i'm sorry... but no person in the game has the ability (or should have the ability) to pick and choose any and all engagements. even while pveing or doing industry stuff. not without paying penalties (which cloaking ships do by generally being more frail than their tech 1 variants).i suggest you live in high-sec or low-sec for awhile to learn how to live with and manage actual risk."
"and like i said, if you want to hand the ganker zero risk, then you take that error on your own shoulders.if you mean before they attack and whilst they are cloaked up, then it's zero risk for both sides. (not actually zero but it's your term and semantics.) but we are talking about active play here and in those moments the risk to them is your responsibility.as far as one person shutting down a system. sorry no. no one cloaked and afk can stop you using gates, docking, undocking, possing up, using modules, refitting ships, forming gangs, etc, etc. the only one stopping you, is you.if you don't wish to be prepared for action and give them zero risk when it arrives, then that is your fault and your fault alone.how do they have it easier than you and your local chat channel? the fact you point out that whenever an enemy arrives they dock up, shows exactly what the problem is here. i say this often but it needs saying. this is not a chicken and egg situation here, as we know what came first. local. afking came later, in an attempt to fuddle it's instant intel.but joke is that you still have the upper edge here. because even though local intel is a guarantee 23.5/7, the psychological effects from afking are not. there are also things you can do to mitigate the threat, when they engage.as it stands local works so well in null, that null can now be considered safer than high or low sec space. it even had an intel boost not long ago, flashing with new arrivals. now you're here expecting yet more intel, but not expecting to give up the 'on a plate' version you already have. but bemoaning those pointing out, that local is the reason for your woes.do you honestly think that because you use local, that others wouldn't try to use it against you?you may want it to be an exploit, but it's most definitely not one.i'm glad you see there is an option, but you dismiss it because you don't think they will engage. as shahfluffers said, isn't that the point? if they don't, you won. if they do and you were prepared and they diaf, you won. even if they hot drop more than you and you all go up in flames. isn't this a good thing? wouldn't you learn from that and change methods for next time? after all, you're not complaining about pvp here.destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"local doesn't give us a list of who is good, ie defenders, miners, complex runners, sov holders and who is bad, trouble makers, gankers and lame ass pvpers. the rules set down by the sov holder does. those welcome in the space and who follow rules are set as friendly, those who we don't want in the systems are set as unfriendly.no intel from local would be the death of eve. all sources of isk and minerals outside of high sec and wh space would be shut down completely, null sec would be empty like low sec.well, sovereignty space is sovereignty space, if 50 online live in the system, and you invade their space with a 10 man fleet, expect 50 people to come out in pvp ships and blow your ass up. if you want \"fair\" pvp, go do faction warfare or something. gankers are the lowest form of scum in the eve universe so they get treated as such.fair point, still not valid, complex rats are immune to ewar, so that is pointless, webbers and warp disrupters are just wasted slots, and pvp type ship, like assault ships and destroyers are useless at pve. mining barges are impossible to fit for pvp. point is also invalid that the pve ships are usually tanking the rats as well, making it easy for a ganker to come in a bomber and get a free kill.yes, pvpers like yourself hate high sec miners, some who mine in the more popular systems get ganked, so what, they have local too, it isn't to hard to find a system that isn't so overpopulated and get to know the locals and do the same checks we do in null sec.in high sec, yer you can loose your ship, but gankers are restricted to cheap ships, like destoryers, have a time limit to destroy the ship in and more importantly can't hot drop. also high sec is for everyone, it isn't owned by anyone.industrial, mining and pve players aren't interested in a fair fight, if u threaten our activities, we want to jump in defence ships and blow your ass clean back to your home station, we want to destroy every ship that is hot dropped in and not let a single pod get out alive. and we want to do it fast, so we can get back to why we play the game, ie industry, mining and pve.pvpers are just there to use up and destroy the ships we make that they buy from us and fly, so we can make more, buy us free game time with the plexes they love to sell us and take a good beating when they misbehave like long term camping cloaked in \"hostile\" space."
"everyone is welcome to show some support for this proposal.no need to be shy, just step right up and post a +1.dmc"
"not sure if serious.if you are, i suggest reading the tos and eula.oh and lol.destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"here, let me break it down for you. does it have a limited and niche appeal? yes. are you forced to use it? no. is this a replacement for a second account? no. could it be cheaper to get a second account? yes, at around 3 months per char. should it be cheaper than standard pricing to use? hell no. this niche system works out cheaper for short term training of alts, than getting a second account. i could see the argument regarding cost, if ccp had removed all other options, they haven't.but hey, rant on some more why ccp shouldn't offer this flexibility and why they shouldn't make money in the business they are in. hilarious indeed.destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"this is one of those threads that just makes me shake my head.dct is not intended to be used forever. if you need to train a character long term, chances are you want it to be logged in along with your main at some point. so get a second account.her's a perfect example of what dct was meant for:i want an alt that can do exploration so i too can bask in the glory of finding faction pos bpcs. turns out i have an alt, that for 30 days of training, can have those skills maxed out. i'm really not going to use the character a lot, mostly when i'm either bored or broke. this sounds like a job for:a) staring a second account (or sixth in my case).b) dual character training.since i only plan on logging the character on occasionally, starting another account seems like a real waste of time before we even look at the plex costs. and since i can max the skills i need in under 30 days (27 to be precise), this is exactly the kind of scenario that dct was meant to solve. i can spend on plex and get a character i need, as opposed to 4 (or whatever it costs to start a new account and train for 30 days), saving me money in the long run (since i don't have to continuously plex that account to keep the one toon active), and the hassle of managing another account. as it's also one of my cyno alts, the character now has dual purposes, and i don't have to interrupt training my moros pilot for 30 days.dct for the win, in this case. cheaper, better, less :effort:."
"sure, you just mentioned it. 'you could move\".this isn't just a afk cloaky issue, but the whole cloaky/cyno/local dynamic: they lead to passive game play. if a cloaky 'red' is in your system, your actions are limited. you can't realistically organize and track them down, you can't continue to mine/pve with escorts because of a cyno, so the answer is to just do something else or go somewhere else. passivity to the issue of a 'red'. this is the smart thing to do, but game mechanics that rewards passivity... aren't the best."
"you want to allow cynos in wh?"
"local is part of the problem... but it isn't the problem. the issue is much more complicated."
"this. the problem isn't with afk cloaking itself. it's that an afk cloaker by his presence is impacting on other players while not needing to be at the keyboard, or even in their mum's basement for hours on end. all this without the afk cloaker running any risk to his ship whatsoever.there should be risks to afk cloaking. right now there are none.it ought be be possible to scan down afk cloakers with the right skills and equipment."
"it should be possible to scan down all cloaked ships... just very difficult, but at the same time local needs to be addressed. it has to be a package.the ability to scan down cloaked ships, might mean they would have to stay on the move. safe point to safe point, etc. the active cloaky would have a considerable advantage over the afk one.change the mechanics so that whether the players are the hunters or the hunted the advantages goes to those who are organized and active. right now the game play favors the passive.better game play in my opinion."
"yes it should be a package of changes. you'll find even those of us that like the status quo, would agree to that. a difficult way to find cloaks within that package.but no change or nerf to cloaks should happen until or without, that package containing a removal of intel from local. this would mean you have to work for intel and not get it handed to you on a plate.although i'm not sure the poster you quoted would agree to that.destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"he may not, but...neither the hunter or hunter should live risk free, yet that seems to be the system that has developed for the most part: the cloaked hunter can walk away for 23 1/2 hour secure in the knowledge he is safe and the nullbear can see the instantly see danger and bear somewhere else. the balance is off. adjusting it would be good for the game. imo"
"the \"nullbear\" can dock up in a station that's protected by 4 sets of timers..."
"*) put 0.0 local on 1 minute delay*) allow overview scanner to show data from directional scanner, so you are constantly aware of things within 14 au radius*) add 15 seconds spooling timer for cyno, so once it lit, people can't jump for 15 secondsafter that, it would be alright to add \"afk\" flag in local that goes up after 10 minutes of no client input"
"train up your alt enough to get good standings with locator agent, then just log him in any time you need info"
"july bump"
"you won't need those restrictions if some form of timer reset is implemented."
"1. local is fine how it is. gankers just whine about seeing expensive ships safe-ing up when they enter a system where they aren't welcome. of course people aren't just going to let you kill their pride and joy.2. cynos need a rethink. spooling up is a good idea. at the moment people are scared of being hot dropped, hence the needs for huge defensive fleets of super cheap ships just to take out a single threat.3. being long term afk in hostile space needs to go. yer, scouting in a cloaked covert opps ship is a valid tactic, but leaving your character online while you aren't even home, just because you know it frustrates defensive fleets and stops normal operations inside that system is an abuse of that mechanic. ccp is all about cracking down on systems and ways setting things up so machine code can't play the game for you, and stopping people from only minimally being at the keyboard like old school ice mining or auto clearing mission rooms with domi drone boats. lets see them do it for pvp too.4. maybe make special faction scan probes that can scan down cloaked ships. require very high levels of scanning skills to use them effectively and give them long cycle times. let the players take control of there own space, after all that's the whole point of sovereignty. sov holders taking the place of concord and npc factions to control their own bit of space and lives in it and who doesn't.pvpers carry on about what they call \"nullbears\", but lets not forget when pvpers carry on about special favors for them like removing local channel intel because it's too \"scary\" for them, they are being carebears themselves. ccp has given pvpers lots of things like covert hot drops, bombers, tier 3 battlecruises, black opps battleships and even more destroyers to make pvp more easy, none really have any real use outside of pvp and ganking. time to give something back to the rest of the people who play eve."
"cynos are a separate mechanic. if you have issues with them, make a thread.as far as local is concerned, it's directly related to afking. if you want your easy mode intel system to remain unchanged, then afking will remain unchanged. this includes any changes/nerfs to cloaks.destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"cynos are related to cloaking. cloaking is related to local and afk. all these issues are interconnectedright now 0.0 in friendly alliance space is too secure. it's almost same level of security as high sec, if not more secure if you take into account war decs. this is simply unacceptable. 0.0 has to become less secure, the way it was when the game started"
"cynos do not need cloaks to work and they are unrelated to being afk, as they are an active mechanic. local on the other hand is directly related to being afk, as it simply wouldn't work without it. that's my point.but as usual these people moan about pilots being afk, but try and include active mechanics in an attempt to help their cause. should we then include the fact it's home ground for them and as such, they have more friends, docking, refitting, ships, ammo supplies, repairs etc etc? no, because it's simply moving away from the point. which is apparently, being afk.but totally agree with you, null atm is too safe. i would say it could be argued it's safer than high/low sec. mostly due to how well local intel works in sov null. local even had an intel boost not long ago and if cloaks are nerfed without a change to local intel, it would become ridiculously safe.destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"why should they even bother with the likes of you? expand on them, let them develop a relationship that has to be maintained. they start at level 1 and can only 'improve' by player doing their dirty laundry .. lowsec agents might order a hit .. highsec agents a base courier job.relationship deteriorate over time.levels are on a \"per player\" basis so the random guy who only use them once in a blue moon will only have access to a level one whereas the bounty hunter who has a cot at the agents office will quickly have a level four available.with agent level the accuracy, speed and options of the service they provide improves .. from 'target in constellation x' to 'docked in station y, currently picking his nose'.we need less \"free intel\" in eve, not more .. make us work for it!"
"thats a pretty shoddy answer. was the jukebox broken, did it intefere with some other part of the game, did it cause on grid lag when you hot dropped your crew in while al listening to your favourite ig track. actually while we are at it lets takeaway the ig browser too, because eve shouldn't do that either as there are a multitude of oog browsers you can usewhat was the reason it was taken away, certainly not for performance reasons."
"this exactly.those of you talking about development time and game issues are just spouting off, you guys have no idea what you're talking about. if you hate the jukebox that much, you can just turn it off. i don't see why you have to go flame our thread needlessly."
"the jukebox died in fire as it was used to run python inject scripts"
"ccp have buttons that make isk grow on trees. hence no value there.but rl moniez... that doesnt grow on trees.0/10"
"it's too late now, the damage is done by plex. love it or hate it, if ccp took away plex now, the game would die. that simple, it's here to stay."
"what damage exactly?oh and this would mean that whatever damage you are referring too, has been happening since 2004. all the plex did, was simplify etc/gtc sales.destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"i strongly disagree here. (though i fully support the op for a timer rollback).what i don't want to see is plexing become is a \"get in a blob and run people out of plexes activity\". the biggest thing i like about fw is that for warzone control, unlike nullsec, it's about dispersion of force, not concentration of force.making the rollback faster than the capture makes it more efficient to eject people out of plexes with a blob."
"without covert cynos being able to be used in their current form, ie warp a bomber or t3 on top of the person you want to gank, lock, set warp disrupter, hot drop a fleet of alts in, kill, hot drop them straight out again, a cloaky camper in system is a lot less of an issue.cloaky camping isn't an issue in ether wh or high sec because they lack the possibility of hot drops, not because of the lack local channel intel."
"cynos are an active mechanic. if you have an issue with them, make a thread about it. or decide if it's active play you wish to nerf, or being afk.cynos work rather well in low sec and still afking isn't an issue there. but because low didn't fit your argument, you left it out.also i don't think i've ever seen a complaint about afking, in npc null. but let's ignore that as well, because it doesn't help your argument either.local doesn't work in wh, so afking is pointless. it doesn't work as well in high, low or npc null, as it does in sov null. simply because there are so many unknown pilots around in those systems. their openness, means locals intel power is reduced.destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"whatever motives you have, even ulterior, this ship would be exceptionally useful.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"sounds like a great idea to me +1"
"keeping this at the top.hrolt ceo live free; die proud"
"thread title is \"proposed fix to \"cloaky campy\"\" not remove afkers because they are dangerous. if a red in local is afk or not is beside the point, it's that they are using the fact that you are 100% safe when you clock at a safe point. this lets them engage and hot drop at a time of their own choosing.just to make it clear, while cloaked, they are 100% safe, when they engage they risk their ship and pod just like any other normal pvp activity.fact is, unless we metagame these guys and get into their ts3 or fleet, we don't know if they are active or afk, current mechanics means they don't even need combat scan probes out or come out of cloak to find targets.the benefit they get from being afk for many hours is it frustrates defensive forces trying to bait these tards out of cloak to remove them from system and gives people who live in the system a false scene of security thinking that he is afk.local, whs, high sec, npc lowsec/null sec all have nothing to do with the issue.the issue is if a person can befit from being afk cloaked in hostile space, at the moment, yes they can, that is why they do it in the first place.most other afk activities have been removed from the game, (except for macro scamming/spamming in trade hubs). why not physiological warfare as well. (yes having a potential of an instant bomber fleet hot drop plays a big part in this)the point of my argument isn't to remove reds from null sec, leave that to the players, just give us a way where they need to be active in hostile space, or log off."
"this thread brought up afk cloaking.to assume it is not tied into local chat is a glaring failure to recognize the cause and effect relationship they share.actually suggesting that the problem begins with the pilot using afk cloaking tactics, ignores enough to be considered mislead.i shall try to explain a few details that are usually glossed over crudely, but hold the truth.afk cloaking: this is done in response to local chat flawlessly reporting pilot presence. it dumbs down the interaction between pilots by outright telling all parties who is present. without this crutch, use of sensors, strategy, and cooperation would be needed to fill the void.what does it achieve?it creates a flaw in the usual flow of cause and effect for life in many systems. often, a neutral or hostile pilot is seen entering, and activity is suspended until they leave. there is trivial risk, as standard procedure often involves being ready to get safe in the time frame provided by this instant alarm. hostile pilots who refuse to leave are subsequently hunted down.when the \"afk cloaking\" pilot enters, he disrupts this process, by not leaving. further, since this intel tool persistently shows him present, the default response of suspending activity is perpetually pushed as chosen reaction.this devalues the intel tool, as it is now being used against the native pve pilots instead of helping them.if local were removed, sensors strategy and cooperation would be placed as valuable means of protecting pve income assets.it would also be pointless to afk cloak, as noone would be aware of your presence while you were passive.it is widely anticipated that any change to local which stopped free cloaking awareness would also include a means to hunt cloaked ships.summary: that free intel tool favored by so many can be used by the hunters too.hot dropping: bridging is intended to bypass reinforced blockades and travel time. here, it has been fine tuned to avoid advertising the presence of a fleet to the free intel tool as well by delaying the easily recognizable population spike till the last possible moment. the intention is to deny the warning local provides, although it still reports the presence of the cyno boat enough to be associated with afk cloaking instead.quite simply, while pve pilots would never resume regular activities with a hostile fleet present, they are sometimes willing to gamble over whether a cloaked vessel represents that level of threat at a given time.sorry about the length, but the mindless repetition of \"afk cloaking is bad mmkay\" sounds foolish.upgrading local to eliminate all afk influence what if local chat changed, hunting the cloaked..."
"afk cloaking also gains no isk for their activities for their risk of trucking a rather heavily nerfed vessel across space and time through gates and so on, just to sit in your system. =)"
"but the op is about afking, but yet again as that point didn't fit your argument, you ignored it.oh and just to make it clear. if you want to use the 100% safe argument, then it works both ways. but again, this fact doesn't fit your argument.why should you know if they are afk? that would be yet more intel, on top of the already easy mode intel system called local. the fact that you dismissed options earlier in the thread, doesn't mean they don't exist.local is the reason for people afking. other space systems, are merely good barometers to the cause of your woes.oh and there is no benefit. no isk or items gained. they hope that you stop doing activities, but that's not a guarantee. but even if you did stop it's your loss, not their gain.you mentioned the removal of certain afk activities before. i did respond post 81, but you ignored that too. (i'm seeing a pattern here)maybe answer that post?why should psychological warfare be removed? i'm not sure you understand what that term means.destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"the scary part, where they feel unsafe, that's the only part they want removed.(cloaking ships are hiding, and could jump out at them)oh!remove the confusing part too, where they are not clear on whether someone will be shooting at them.(cloaking ships might be armed too!)hmmm... come to think of it, i have their solution!dal rayl: give me all your stuff, and just quit logging into a pvp game. you just are not cut out for this kind of stress.(noone can shoot or scare you if you don't log in)upgrading local to eliminate all afk influence what if local chat changed, hunting the cloaked..."
"that's the hilarious part, actually. it only has the potential to create risk because any risk would be an increase over what many have right now, regardless of how unlikely such risk would actually be.local helps the hunter far more than the pve pilot working out of friendly sov systems in null.here is something that seems difficult for many to grasp, but is an important detail that those hunting will not have an advantage because of local being missing.the advantage will always belong to whoever has sov, simply because the intel channels and patrols supplying them will be a huge advantage.those hunting in hostile territory will be on their own, and with no local to artificially tell them where everyone is, chances are they will have no idea.they can, of course, guess, or do research to learn where people usually hang out, but unless someone spies for them and tips them where to look, they will be effectively blind.local is never the friend of pve. pve has a far more obvious advantage trading it in for an intel channel while the hunters are blind.upgrading local to eliminate all afk influence what if local chat changed, hunting the cloaked..."
"it also lets you scan down which cans you have to pick up - whether picking up data is useful or just the parts / material cans. as materials can contain the salvage and if cargo scanner displays only salvage in it then we know to pick those. if it would not be this way it would be terribad. i would not like to simply random-pick the cans ...."
"heh we do already work for it. as for having another alt trained up to do the work, well i have a few doing that already to bridge the gap, but its, in my mind, an unnecessary waste of time, building the rep required for the lvl 4's and then flying between them in order to track a target.however i can understand the 'frustration' one has in thinking its free info to the lucky guys who has locator's on stand-by (even if they earned them) so maybe they could have a notification from their own agents they might have the same + standings with that would inform them that someone was on their tail. for a prepaid fee of course for such information from their own contacts.this would only happen however if they both had standings with the same corporation by chance. that way no affiliated corporations would have the interest in the goings on between two pilots.  3rd party & location services ~ tjorven einherjar valkyrja ~ to do business please enter this channel: inf 3rd party"
"i know this has been brought up many times but for many of us when we started playing this game we were not serious about the game and gave our characters poor names. we also bought characters with poor names because that's all that is sold on the character bazaar. i for one have characters i would love to be able to rename. the nature of the game and the time it takes to train characters makes it pointless to start new characters for the sake of a name change. for example i have two toons at 65 and 83 million sp you are talking 3 to 4 years to get that back if i remade them.i propose a one time name change per account not character for a fee along with conditions.sec status must be at 3 or above. character has no petitions against them. account has never been suspended by ccp. once a name change has occurred all people with that character on their watch list will receive a eve mail notification of the character changing their name so you can identify who's character that is on your list.i also want to bring up a point, people always fight this idea cuz they say criminals can erase what they have done. for a second humor me, this would be a one time deal per \"account\". now with the character bazaar you can change out characters and erase you actions every week if you wanted too and as we have seen money is now object for many people as seen by the things people do in the game. if you only change a name their actions will still be known due to the eve mail and by their kill and loss stats that will still be attached.weigh that in your mind before you fight this proposal.character bazaar = unlimited identity erasecharacter rename = just a name change"
"i like it.necessity is the plea for every infringement of human freedom. it is the argument of tyrants; it is the creed of slaves. - william pitt"
"remove the sec status thing from the conditions and it's a great idea"
"+1bra-less boob bounce + wis"
"what about isboxing trial accounts to build destroyer mobs?is that legit?they are not paying for the extra dps. so they are getting it for free.every 10 days or so you can spawn a new blob if you want to get fancy and do invites you can have that blob for 10 days at a time.free gmail account.send invitesrecieve invitesstart and train accountsblaster boat destroyer dps drones a few days laterpick the area's highest value targetscollect loot.i dunno is that legit?"
"the flaw in this is getting around the one trial account per ip limit ccp implements. it is so restrictive that you can not log in payed accounts from the same ip that a trial account is logged in at. annoying, but smart."
"80 accounts, 80 ice. however many players behind those accounts, it is still 80 accounts."
"mag, i see you in alot of afk cloaking threads, and i disagree with almost 80% of what you say. however, i agree with this, for the most part. no free intel, no way to afk cloak. a simple tradeoff. i will try to outline my problem with afk cloakers: 1. i run a mining barge, which can be destroyed by a cloaker before i even have a chance to align, either by hotdrop, or by bombs. 2. if the \"afk cloaker\" goes online when i am out mining, chances are that i will be dead before i have a chance to do anything about it. 3. so, i sit in station, because there is a cloaky in every system within 2 jumps.i believe that local should simply not show cloaked characters, and it should not be available to them when cloaked. or give characters the option to shut off local if they please. if you shut it off, you can't be seen. in return for this, there would have to be a way to gather intel on cloaked ships. there would have to be a way to avoid certian death in my mining barge. while local is a very unbalanced mechanic, it's all i have to keep me from getting blown up without a chance.i know i am in null-sec, and i have to expect some risk for my reward, but get rid of local without a balancer? i couldn't mine enough ore to replace all the ships i would lose.edit: and stop saying that there is no reward for afk cloaking, people. if there was no reward, people just wouldn't do it."
"i just throw in my ideas about not giving the cloakers the chance to go afk (at least not for a long time):#1 idea: let the cloak cost fuel. this would make the decision of \"going cloaky\" more important, either if the pilot has the chance to resupply soon, or if it is actually any use to go cloak. on a second note, if fuel runs out anytime, the afk-cloaker get's uncloaked and can be hunted down. #2 idea: let the cloak have a cycle time. i'm imagining a cloaking module that behave like a mining turret, just without auto-repeat. it can be started, it can be stopped anytime in between, and if the cloaker is not sitting infront of his computer (i assume for honest, non-botting player) he will get decloaked. the only thing that would then need to be tuned is how much the cycle lasts.ofcourse these two ideas could only help a little bit on this subject. the intel tool is something that would need to be looked aswell (delayed local???), but in the topic of op, afk cloaking could be hit with the ideas above.[u]things that would make eve better:[/u] nrds - remove local - balance cloak - sov-mechanic changes - less qq"
"it's all a matter of perspective, lets look at 3 people, person a, b and cperson a is a ganker, he or she hates big fleet pvp and sov space warfare and just loves flying a bomber (favorite ship), covert opps tengu or covert opps scouting ship. person a's favorite activity is blowing up miners and complex runners, because he knows that upsets the person flying the mining ship or complex runner. person a believes that eve is a pvp game and anyone who thinks otherwise deserves to be blown up. person a thinks that instant local is a broken part of the game and needs to be removed, so travels to system x and leaves his character online cloaked 23 and <U+FFFD> hours to try to negate the effect of instant local intel.person a is a member of a <U+FFFD>clocky camping corp<U+FFFD> or npc corp where it<U+FFFD>s hard to trace him back to his home system. though he is a member of a standing fleet of another corp who lives in system y, the standing fleet are ready to hot drop 24 hours a day and have many cloaky campers set up in other systems with known enemies, ie miners and complex pilots.person b is a miner, he has a few accounts and loves to mine and buy his or her game time with isk. he lives in system x, he thinks that local intel isn<U+FFFD>t the best solution to keeping his ships safe, but it<U+FFFD>s the only one he has at the moment. he just wants to log on to eve and do a bit of mining and socialize with his friends in the pocket where he or she lives.person c is a pvper who does sov warfare, he isn<U+FFFD>t interested in ganking and defends system x because it<U+FFFD>s his alliance<U+FFFD>s system and wants miners to mine so he can use the minerals to build ships, that he pays for by doing a bit of complex running when things are quiet, he also does a bit of mining himself when neededperson a has his character camped in cloak in system x, he then leaves it online and goes to work for 8 hours. an hour after person a goes to work person c logs on, sees a red in local, gathers his defence fleet and tries to bait person a out of cloak. after 30 minutes of this person c gives up on this and looks for the home system of person a to go pos bashing in that system. after failing this too, because person a<U+FFFD>s corp doesn<U+FFFD>t hold sov, or appear to live in a sov system, person c goes to work on something else.6 hours from person a going afk person b logs on, sees a hostile in local and doesn<U+FFFD>t undock, he looks for another system to mine in but sees they are all camped or too hot to mine in, so he stays docked and waits for person a to leave system or be blown up, nether happens, so 2 hours later he goes mining anywayperson a comes home, sees a mining fleet in system warps to the and hot drops successfully killing all the mining barges. for his 5 minutes at the keyboard he has killed 2 mining barges and an orca.person b has lost his 2 mining barges, and an orca, 2 hours of game time where he could be mining and knows because of this person a will stay in system to try for more killsperson c cops the blame for not defending the system, but he too has wasted an hour trying to bait person a out of cloak and punish his or her corp for cloaky campingperson a, by going afk cloaked has evaded person c<U+FFFD>s system defence, frustrated person b out of station. while still appearing afk he has set things up for a instant gank of 3 ships, that he successfully pulled off, after this he goes out with his friends and watches a movie, still leaving his character online cloaked and afk.for the next few hours the sov holders in system x treat him as active and try baiting all over again.where is the balance in this, person a blames local channel intel for the problem, knowing that taking away local channel will make ganking even easier.person b just doesn<U+FFFD>t want to be ganked, he wants person c to make it a safer system where he can happily mine. he hates that all his time has been wasted just for 5 minutes that the ganker has just had and knows he can<U+FFFD>t do much about the problem other than help with the baiting.person c wishes he could do something about cloaky campers in his system, but knows nothing can be done when a person isn<U+FFFD>t active.lets give person c a scan probe that can scan down cloakers after they have been cloaked in one system continuously for 15 minutes.person c logs on to see that a hostile is cloaked in system x, he uses the probe to scan the person down and instructs all the friendlies in system to get into newbie ships, fleets them and warps to person a bumping him out of cloak and killing person as bomber and pod with a fleet of newbie ships. person a no longer goes afk cloaked in hostile space. person a logs off instead when he goes for extended afk giving the people in the system x some warning when he comes back online because they have him in watch list. he still gets some kills because people still make mistakes.person b is happy because he can mine again, but keeps his eyes on his watch list for person a because person a is a known troublemaker.person c knows when person a or any other ganker is active in his or her systems because they no longer risk going for extended afks online and now can defend his sov space against him or any other ganker with baiting and gate camping.local intel is another issue, yes, it needs some work, but sov space or any other null sec system still needs ways for those who live in the systems to operate in those system without giving gankers easy mode kills. local intel should be talked about in a separate thread as changes to it affect almost every aspect of null sec living."
"your example falls apart here.all details subsequent to this are invalid as a result.reason: you actually had a pve player as the responsible party in this tragedy. they created the opportunity by poor choice.they do not own that system. no system is owned beyond a building permit, so plan on hostiles.they knew a hostile was present, irregardless of how active they may seem at any given time.they had an option to mine, mine with defensive protection, or mine in another location.after deciding they could not do anything but mine there, they then decided to not just mine, but do so in a manner unsafe.at the very least, the orca should have been in a pos, and not at risk.mining? create two bookmarks, bombers do it all the time. bounce between them, so no matter what you are aligned to something not just sitting at zero.add to this, they had three accounts?swap out the orca entirely, and get a ship to web up the two mining barges.they can fly aligned at 75% and re-align much faster if you do it right.null sec, where effort is expected.high sec, if you can't handle risk in this part of the game even, time to re-evaluate your expectations.upgrading local to eliminate all afk influence what if local chat changed, hunting the cloaked..."
"i'm in them because people ask for change, without understanding the mechanics at work. simply blaming cloaks in the regard of afking, is just plain wrong. i'll always fight for balance.your points.1. are you saying that you would mine alone with an enemy in local, without any protection, or without taking precautions? sounds to me like you would deserve to lose your ship, if this is the case.2. if you see him log in, then you could organise your alliance to protect and quite easily save your ship. if you mean him returning to his keyboard, then see 1.3. there are options available to people who live in null, but most don't wish to use them. or as in dal rayl's case, dismiss them out of hand. if you decide to sit in the station, then that is your choice. it's not something the cloaker can force upon you. but yes, local not showing cloaked pilots would remove the point of afk cloaking. i could see the need for a way to locate cloaked ships, if this was the case. but it would need to be balanced in a way, that didn't mean cloaked ships became useless. but i hope you see that afking would still continue.as far as reward is concerned, it's rather simple. people do it in the hope that pilots in local stop their activities. but it's in no way a guarantee.the afker gains no isk or items, so i guess you think someone's loss is a reward? that being able to affect someone's mind to the extent that they log off, or simply dock/pos up is a reward? the only reward i see, is to the pilot logging or docking. the reward to them, is loss of earnings for being bad at the game. but the cloaker gains nothing.if you think that someone dying as a result of not taking precautions before hand, is a reward? then i disagree. that's an opportunity and the reward is given to the pilot that hands out that opportunity.destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"and they would be right, as almost everything in eve is player verses player.destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"not going to go into detail, but i have discussed mining fleet vs cloaker tactics with people in my alliance at length, and everything that is thought of is shot down with explanation. now, as a miner, i would be happy to see cloaking nerfed, but i realise that there are a great many people who do not want that. if possible, i would like to find a solution that eliminates the possiblility of afk cloaking, but does not affect active cloakers, at least not enough to make people not want to use cloaks. i also see it as a foregone conclusion that, for there to be any changes affecting cloaks, the issue with local chat has to be solved as well.but, for any of this to be a possibility, people on both sides of the fence need to get together and think of a solution. a solution that would be fair, one that drives conflict, instead of discouraging conflict. a solution that encourages mining fleets with proper defences, and cloakers who can overcome those defences. no-one should be safe, but still get a tangible reward for their efforts.now what i just said is a tall order. no single person is going to come up with this solution. take me for example. i am a null-sec miner, almost exclusively. i don't have the experience with the game to even suggest solutions. all i know is that this is an age old issue, where miners have tried different tactics to combat afk cloakers time and time again, and failed. you will not convince me that there is no issue here, just as i won't convince many that local chat isn't an issue. these are issues that people want solved, and they are not mutually exclusive. many in this thread can agree on this.i am getting tired of all these afk cloaking threads, and all these local chat threads, that just keep repeating all the same arguments.(and i have only been looking for the last 2 weeks. there are many people who can claim years of seeing this.) let's stop arguing over whether this is an issue or not, and focus on getting what all these people want. edit:i have seen many posts regarding pos upgrades that combat cloaking. i agree with the general concept, as it limits effectiveness to the systems with such an upgrade, and to the people controlling it. (also creating an isk sink, possibly requiring fuel to operate?) however, most of these solutions are horribly unbalanced, encouraging pvp-safe pve activities in nullsec. now, a pos solution that encourages nullbears to get out there, and hunt the cloakies, requiring time, isk, risk and effort to do so, is what i think is needed."
"so, to have an opinion on this myself, i consider myself to be objective.some perhaps might disagree, but at the very least i am drawing off of experience from both sides of this issue, which is making me consider them both with interest in keeping them fun to play.i am a miner. i mine, i rat as needed, and i even have an orca with appropriate skills to boost with.(can't claim a rorqual, those things are too bloody expensive)i am also a cloaked player, although i find my situation one that makes afk cloaking impractical for me.i would, however, be targeting the enemies of my corporation / alliance if it were possible to do so with a bomber / blops / what have you. and by targeting, i mean their miners and pve group in general. economic targets.see, this game style is like two halves of a whole. mining and pve on one side, hunting that type on the other, and the experiences from either actually helping both play better.except, as many note, it is not possible to hunt miners or ratters in null, not really. as i know from direct experience, we can get safe the moment a hostile enters the system, since local displays them immediately. my intel channels usually tell me before this can even happen, but the point remains.and, unexpectedly for some crying about afk cloaking perhaps, being able to get safe that reliably with guaranteed intel is actually hurting miners.the devs realize we can't be caught, unless we screw up. an attacker cannot force a failure in the sequence of events between their arrival in system, and our warping to safety.so they have the ore, and now the ice too, spawning in limited fields for the versions that have the most isk value.first come, first serve, the fields respawn after a delay, if & when they are cleared.this means they can have a few rocks left floating, and not respawn, if those last few were not worth someone's efforts.that means yes, while you can pretty much guarantee a miner's safety, you cannot guarantee they will have anything worth mining. first come first serve pretty much means there is not enough for everyone, in this case.so yeah, i want the miners and ratters more vulnerable. i want to need more effort to stay safe, and hopefully the devs will consider mining dangerous enough then to make the ore and ice flow freely, relying on our risks to limit our activities rather than simply limits to the available things to mine at all.upgrading local to eliminate all afk influence what if local chat changed, hunting the cloaked..."
"yes, the more i read these threads, the more i am convinced that local has a huge part in this issue.and it should be possible to hunt us miners. and it should be possible for those miners to have a way to fight back, or at least with the right equipment and skills, to hold out or have a means to escape. and i realise that right now we have an awesome way to escape. it's called local, and it is so effective, that we don't even need to worry about pvp, as long as we dock up. this is not a good thing."
"sorry, no ...[u]things that would make eve better:[/u] nrds - remove local - balance cloak - sov-mechanic changes - less qq"
"there should be achievement points for ship spinnning likeship spinning iship spinning iiadept ship spinner titleship spinning iiiship spinning ivmaster ship spinner title etc."
"hrm,a good buff would be keep a running total of how much ship spinning a player has done. not being a big ship spinner myself, i gave it a whirl while watching tv, and seeing 1000 in blue was ... such a huge accomplishment."
"i can see why people want this. i also think that a bit of thought was put into this thread. it may need tweaking, but thumbs up from me.edit: such a change may need a bit of effort from the devs to bring about, and they have some pretty full plates, as i understand it. though i like the idea, on second thought, i see alot of bigger issues that i would like fixed before they work on stuff like this."
"the concept is a good one, might need tweaking, in my opinion.however, i will always say, \"fix current issues before bringing in new features.\"then i get laughed at, because everyone knows new features bring in new players, and more money."
"i want jukebox.reasons aside, that's it.i want jukebox."
"no, my example doesn't include the perfect miner who has an interceptor their ready to insta warp the mining barges out at all times and yes the miners makes a mistakes. the orca should be at a pos, the miners should have a pvp support fleet and he shouldn't be solo with a red in system.but like i said it's about perspective, gankers want to gank, miners want to mine and sov holders want to set the rules for the systems they hold and keep people inside those systems safe. all of these things are ok. i've just shown that leaving afk camping in the game gains the pvper a huge advantage, removing local intel from game without replacing it with something equally strong gives them so great of an advantage it no longer makes sov space workable any more. however removing long term cloaking from the game doesn't take away that much form the pvper, he just switches from going afk cloaked to going off line in system. in doing that the locals who live and work in that system now know when he is active and when he is not. he still gets kills because miners and complex runners still make mistakes, like you pointed out that person b did and to add to that, person c defense, of system x is baiting, so relies on person a engaging the bait, but however, game time is not wasted worrying about if an hostile in system is active or not.as for ownership of space, that's a matter of perspective too"
"in that case, going by your example you still reference, the real problem is poor judgement.i agree, the only way a hunter will catch a pve ship in null is if the miners use bad decision making skills as you described.as for ownership perspective, that's easy. you control what you own. if you control the gates, you own them. that is exclusive to effort, not sov.upgrading local to eliminate all afk influence what if local chat changed, hunting the cloaked..."
"i agree, pve-ers who make mistakes loose ships, pve-ers who don't make mistakes don't loose ships. gankers will still get kills, because there will always be new miners and complex runners coming to null.local intel has been in eve since the start of the game, it's a hard habit to change. nbsi and nrds rules are built around local intel and for nbsi system, if a non blue is in system, he will be actively hunted, for nrds, they need to know you are a troublemaker first. gates can be camped, red poses blown up and stations control who docks inside them by standings. what's more, sov can change hands with sov warfare.this is really beside the point, cloaky campers get an advantage by screwing with the game of the people who live in the systems they camp, otherwise they wouldn't be doing it.getting rid of cloaky campers doesn't take much from the game of the gankers who use the mechanic, because they just switch to logging off and on inside their target systemseveryone else gains because there are no longer inactive reds in systems they live in."
"yes new players will be killed. but why should mechanics change, because old players don't want to use the tools currently provided? but it's ok to change it, because new players will still be there to die?yes local has been in the game a long time, but it was never intended to be the free intel tool is currently is. the standings in local came about, after a large alliance found ways to manipulate it to show that information. ccp reacted by handing that option to all. they have wanted for many many years, to remove the intel from local. but it's not that easy and so far, they cannot think of a way to do this.you say everyone else gains, but fail to see local is the issue here. you want to remove uncertainty from your intel tool, but fail to see that any nerf to cloaking, wouldn't stop others using local against you.the main issues i have with these threads are as follows. not understanding the actual mechanics at play, yet wanting change. wanting to stop afking, yet wanting to keep the reason for it. not wishing to utilise current tools to play the game, but expecting new ones or nerfs. wanting null to be even safer, when it could be argued it's already safer than high/low sec space. claiming to talk about afking, yet constantly bemoaning active play and mechanics in their argument. i'll make it simple.as and until intel is removed from local and made an active mechanic. afking will continue. no amount of cloak nerf requests and ideas will change this.but understand this.if local was change in a way that meant you had to work for it. that it wasn't instant easy mode as it is now. we can all see that if this was to happen, cloaks would need to be changed.but while ever local exists as is, people will continue to try to use it against you. you don't need a cloak to cause this psychological effect, just local in it's current form.but at what point do we stop? i'd wager even with these changes, people will still complain that they can see people in the new intel mechanic, but (insert poor reason here) can't find them. counters to counters to counters. at some point we have to stop being given counters.we are at a point of balance, due to cloaks not being so covert and local being so powerful. bad in some ways, but balanced all the same. i personally like the status quo. but if there are changes to be made, it has to involve local completely.destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"ok, so let's start with local. nikk narrel proposed a solution in the features and ideas discussion that removes non-active pilots from local. this would include cloaked ships, docked ships, and those within the shields of a pos. i agree with this solution for the most part, though i am not sure about the pos part.personally, i think all players should be able to enter \"silent mode\", where they do not show up in local, and can not access it.i would like to discuss the merits and flaw of these solutions, before moving on to any adjustments affecting cloaking.nikk's thread"
"as i pointed out in the thread, if you are inside the shield of a pos you are disconnected from local's pilot list.but, in a technique popular with carriers already, these pos using pilots can stick their craft juuuusst a little outside, till it is considered out of the shield.see local, watch local, but duck back inside if feeling threatened.now, if something hits them while they are sticking out, it could possibly bounce them out of safety... and smaller ships bounce easy.there is a little risk, for a little reward.upgrading local to eliminate all afk influence what if local chat changed, hunting the cloaked..."
"i like this idea. there is nothing wrong with making pve (missions) less repetetive. it would be interesting to see if isk/h actually went up despite the missions being less profitable simply because you would have to pay attention because you havent done that same mission a gazillion times before."
"i do like the idea in case you total botched your name or your ideas change over time on what is a good screen name"
"this must be done. my very first eve character is really in need of a name change. i really don't wanna delete him, because he's of significance to me, for reasons i've just said. too old, too significant to delete. he was the first i created, and a reminder of my early days in the game.ccp must go through with this.i wholeheartedly agree with this.i've also read that ccp offered a free name change service for players in the early days of the game, apparently."
"yea i liked it so we could put in our own sound tracks and things"
"i was thinking this for high sec corps but it would work good in low sec too.ideacorporation own dead space where they can put a tower make things like normal. but it has 2 or more acceleration gates one to get to the space where the tower is another one linking it to a mining site where there is fraction rats attacking the miners. gives a reason to war a corp. enables corporation that are not in null to have a decent income and adds a totaly new way of fighting in eve.1. corporation has to buy leases form what ever station is in the space. the corporation has to have of a standing of 5.00 of what ever fraction there lease is form. (exp) caldari navy station in the system corporation buys a 30 day lease form the lp store to put up a station there2. only a limited amount of space accelerator gates in system. (exp) it gives corporation a reason to fight in war decs3. corporation war dec someone with a tower in the dead space and gain control over it if the corporation fails to defend it or if lease is up it goes open.4. once war dec is finished the defending corp has 1 week immunity.5. only one dead space can be owned by a corporation. (exp) to prevent one corporation form owning them all6.dead space can have more than one acceleration gate leading to ice sites roids or rats. sites can offer a limited amount of rare roids or ice.7.high sec the acceleration gate will not let cap ships access. low sec its low sec.8. if the lease expires the ded space has to be re probed and leased, also it is relocated.9. the first acceleration gate is unlocked to every one, but can be fielded to allow no access but guns,e.x.t towers are only allowed in the second or more space accelerator gates.10. if i have ideas11. any ideas?reason why i thought this was a good idea is that why i got into eve was i thought players could control there own acceleration gates but i never happened, now this gives a reason to join a corp in high sec and go to war.this idea has been asked for time and time again but it has not been released"
"1. your reasons for doing this are completely invalid as highsec corps make plenty of isk from missions, incursions, and mining and the biggest reason to war a corp will always be to collect tears.2. killing a highsec pos takes entirely too much effort for most corps to bother doing. if the corp is large enough to be able to field the numbers to takedown a defended pos then they are more than likely operating in nullsec and dont care about highsec. 3. there are extremely few corps that have a corp standing of 5.00 with a npc corp so extremely few would even be able to use this feature"
"i liked the idea of increasing roll-back based on system upgrade level. wouldn't/shouldn't be much, say 10% per level so that defenders get more of a benefit out of the lp dump .. 10% equates to -1/3rd and it would in any case only apply until timer is reset.the \"blob system/plexes\" is already the m.o. as it is the only 'speedy' way of insuring the plexes and it is the only way of attacking hq systems where the generic farmer, which are usually used for the bulk plexing, are easily countered by just a few defenders.will never be applicable more than a few jumps from a hq at any rate as the operational sphere of mains is minuscule to say the least, practically all plexing outside of hq+2j is done by alts/ninjas/farmers.whole thing needs revision, but roll-back remains the single most effective (on paper) tourniquet that can be applied until such a time that devs realise they ****** fw up and can spare the time to sort their mess."
"this thread seems to have gone off the rails again.remove local intel (that's been in the game from the start) and ccp would need to replace it with a tool for defenders to use that is ether equal or stronger, don't like trying to gank with local intel messing up your day, go do ganks in wh space.....but hang on, no hot drops in wh space, guess you gankers are going to have to get skills.make local intel weaker, by removing people in station, in poses and afk cloaked from the list and you have the probem of what happens when they come back from afk, leave station or exit the pos. unlike logging back on in system, their is no warning, so for the afk problem, not fixed, only made worse. pos bubbles would be fine, because u can just fly out before you warp, stations would become more painful, because you would need to undock a scout ship first, or have friends giving you system intel.stations aren't as overpowered as these gankers are saying they are. they can be bubbled, ships can be bumped away from them and so on. when someone is in station, they are safe, so what. if they want to pvp you, they will come out and pvp you, otherwise they will just wait for you to go away.defenders should always have benefits over attackers when defending their own space, otherwise there is no point to holding sovereignty.back to my point with the afk cloaker time wasters. if person a logs off in system x, person c doesn't have to waste his game time baiting someone who is afk, person b can mine for 2 or so hours after he logs on, he still might loose his ships when person a comes home from work and logs back on again, but his time would not be wasted by an afk cloaker.gankers wine about lack of targets in this game, make null sec more ganker friendly, make high sec more ganker friendly, give mining barges less hit points, give covert hot drops longer ranges, make it so they can't see us in local and so on and so on, what they don't realize is they already have low sec and 0.5 systems, because of this no one who is a non ganker, and has at least half a brain will risk ships in these systems because of all the gankers hanging out in them.gankers are really their own worst enemy lol"
"claiming local benefits pve as much, if not more, than a player driven intel channel, networking players together...very disingenuous.first, unless you are in sov null to begin with, there is constant traffic by non blue players.any one of which, if not directly hostile, could be just as likely the eyes for pilots who are very hostile.but then, let's say you are in sov null space.here is something that is difficult for many to grasp, but is an important detail that those hunting will not have an advantage because of local being missing.the advantage will always belong to whoever has sov, simply because the intel channels and patrols supplying them will be a huge advantage.those hunting in hostile territory will be on their own, and with no local to artificially tell them where everyone is, chances are they will have no idea.they can, of course, guess, or do research to learn where people usually hang out, but unless someone spies for them and tips them where to look, they will be effectively blind.local is never the friend of pve. pve has a far more obvious advantage trading it in for an intel channel while the hunters are blind.upgrading local to eliminate all afk influence what if local chat changed, hunting the cloaked..."
"i for one believe claokign to be broken for an entirely differnent set of reasons than affecting pve. but ill tell you why wh, low, and npc null don't complain about cloaky camping, npc null/ low: income is derived 90% by missions, in a mission site you can't light a cyno, and it cant be found without using combat scanner probes, so yes you can afk cloak active cloak w/e, but you cant appear in someones mission site without giving a telltale warning to them, your probes. you also can't hot drop directly on top of them. im not sure you still can do it, but you used to be able to do the missions in unprobable or at least very very hard to probe t3's ships. wh: no cyno's no hotdrops, and again sites have to be scanned down by core probes, or ships in space have to be scanned down by combat probes, both of which appear on dscan. im going to go with the side of local isnt the problem, claoking in this scenario isnt the problem either. i like the current nullsec sites (though i don't actually run them myself) not requiring probes, so i think if i were to propose anything i would say it be this, if your cloaked no dscan. so you can still cloak all you want in and stay there all day, but you cant find me and i cant find you unless you take risk. we both have the same amount of intel, i know your there you know im there but neither of us know where the other is in system or what ships where in. if you want to find me, you have to decloak and drop probes then recloak in which case i can see your probes on dscan, or spend the time to warp around system to find me, instead of spending 30-60 seconds dscannign and knowing with a high degree of certainty where i am. additionally i would pair this with a small change to cyno activation mechanics, you cant activate a cyno after decloaking for 45 seconds. to introduce some more risk into the equation for the pve'r, i would say give certain kinds of battleship rats that appear in the various sites the ability to warp disrupt, making ti so there held down longer and taking more risk allowing for more opportunities to be caught.i don't rat, at all, but the current situation is all sorts of unbalanced and if you can't see that a fridge was dropped on your head when you were a small child. i however don't believe 1 change can fix the imbalance, i think if your going to introduce real risk, or a nerf to the cloaker, you need to also add some additional risk to the pve'r, to bring balance to the equation, make the one possible to catch and the other easier to get into trouble.the issue again is not local though, (i actually like the idea of 1 minute delay on null local which strikes me as a pretty good balance on time)is what i written perfect, no far from it, but it at least has some semblance of being reasonable. best part you can still afk and make local dangerous, but at least the pve'r has some semblance of a chance to shoot you when you make your move."
"local is a give away to the hunters of pve pilots in two different ways.on the one hand, it persistently presents the hunter as a threat in system, while they actually need to make no effort.for the second part, it tells the hunter exactly which systems have targets in them. information they could never be certain of otherwise.local only helps local sov pve pilots in one way.the warning they get when the hunter first enters the system.the mutual awareness local shares past that point clearly favors the hunter.want to move to another system? local shows you vanish from the list, so a hunter can check if you are still online, and if so, knows to follow you. your continued presence is the useful intel benefiting the hunter, and local is handing it to them for free.in many cases, they had no idea anyone was there in the first place. they can't dock in the alliance owned outpost to check it, and they have no intel channels outside their own sov space, if at all.upgrading local to eliminate all afk influence what if local chat changed, hunting the cloaked..."
"gnosis salvage command ship by gang assist modulesso could there be in the future an opportunity for this?to make more sense and maybe a better perspective:gnosis salvage command ship (by gang assist modules) would be to salvaging crews what orca is to mining with gang assist modules."
"no no no..... eve does not need name changes.if you buy a character then you should look for one with a name you want as well as the skills you are looking for.if you chose a bad name in the first place, suck it up, you made that decision.jint hikaru - miner / salvager / explorer / spacebum in the beginning the universe was created. this has made a lot of people very angry and been widely regarded as a bad move."
"it must not. causes more issues than it solves.destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"really? please do tell what the issues it causes are?"
"use the search function..... they have been laid out many times before.jint hikaru - miner / salvager / explorer / spacebum in the beginning the universe was created. this has made a lot of people very angry and been widely regarded as a bad move."
"and if you would have used the search function (or even a little bit of the brain god gave you) you'd see that the only possible issue would be keeping those who had those chars on their contacts/watchlist updated with the info as well which is easily solvable by sending a notification to those people so they also know that xxxxx is now known as yyyyy. the ingame functions (presence on watchlist, standings that have been assigned to the char) would automatically update thus being a non-issue themselves. an entry in the employment history could be also be done so that all those who didn't have that char on the watchlist/contacts would know that char's old name. the ingame functions are all based on the char id with is a string of numbers that never changes (and has no need to in order to change the char name) and killboards would be able to automatically update the char name as well the next time they got a km with that name on it with a simple api call of \""
"you're typical, arrogant, eve dork, that has nothing to bring to the table but negativity. man, gamers make me laugh sometimes. kind of like when you talk about how a game console should have backwards compatibility, and how some moronic fanboy will come up with just about anything to say \"no, no... there should be no backwards compatibility\". omega, that's forward thinking. anyone who disagrees just got logically pimp-slapped. i deleted one of my characters that was in a corp, and...and the corp got a notification afterwards?! *gasp*+1'd"
"here's another solution to killboards having the correct name, have an api call that lists all the chars that have changed their names within the last 30 days?. results for the api call would be both the old name and new name so any killboard could automate the update and have very little impact on the api server."
"i see this thread is still being ignored to death by everyone csm & ccptoo bad, easy fix, and the arguments are quite fair imho."
"csm said they'd put this on their list a page or two back. originally, they completely shot it down (prior csm).this is a great addition to null, wh, low and high sec.don't have standings in empire, use a pos.there are lots of good reasons - even some not posted yet - why this should be implemented.go, go, gadget csm!!hrolt ceo live free; die proud"
"i have pushed the idea to ccp. it is going to be up to them. other than that please post this idea on csm small things. burn the land and boil the sea you can't take the sky from me"
"thanks for the update.i posted this on the csm small things thread last week. thanks for the reminder.hrolt ceo live free; die proud"
"it never ceases to amaze me how any attempt to fix a mechanic which is obviously broken here immediately draws a loud chorus of ccp fanboys who are apparently in favor of never changing anything ever because the game is just perfect as it is, and everything is always working as intended.the problem is that spam from disposable zero-skill characters carries no penalty whatsoever, and has grown to the point that it makes the use of jita local for anything other than spamming not worthwhile. eventually this will spread to all the populous areas, as people increasingly ignore jita local, making it profitable to spam elsewhere instead. the obvious solution is intelligent, user-configurable spam controls.either allow us to block characters under a certain number of skill points (which would mean that we wouldn't see new high-skill spam bots every day, so our block commands would actually work), or allow us to block messages from people already blocked by greater than a% + b of the people in local chat, or ideally allow us to write our own formula using these variables for who we don't want to see.the existing situation makes reasonable interactions impossible, simply because ccp can't be bothered to allow us to block spam intelligently."
"nay on your idea also.but because i understand your frustration as i am also a bit ocd.then as this is not a fix but an idea to soothe your eyes; do what i do and finish the skills you started to train.makes my character skill sheet look good. if that's too much to handle well i'd also say htfu because you shoulda' planned your direction better  3rd party & location services ~ tjorven einherjar valkyrja ~ to do business please enter this channel: inf 3rd party"
"yer, i get that, local shows everyone's hands, ganking pvpers get to know who the good marks are, so will actively hunt them and people who live in null sec get to know the gankers by name, and exactly what they fly and what they do from experience and kill boards, so they too actively hunt down these gankers.big difference is defenders don't usually use covert opps hot drops to defend, they use more traditional pvp fleets. only covert hot droppers in sov null sec benefit from the cloaky camper tacit as pointed out in this thread.the only benefit they get from cloaky camping is their targets get no warning when they come back from afk, as per all grav sites, belts and standard complexes they can warp to cloaked, without the need for probes that show up on dscan.the cost of allowing them to do this is that their little tacit effectively can shut down industry and pve in the system they camp in if they are known to be any good at hot dropping.some hot droppers already use logging off and logging back on as a tacit to try to lower the targets guard, this is a known tacit and information about reds logging off in system is shared on intel channels.big difference is loggers don't waste large amounts of the targets time, force them to work in other systems and shut down systems.lets look at fixes.give cloaks a 10 min manual cycle or consume fuel, this would work, although it's not popular with people who use cloaks and doesn't add anything to the game.make cloaked ships have a scannable signature after being cloaked for longer than 10 mins without warping, this would add something for defenders to do into the game, wouldn't be popular with cloakersmake it so your ship warps to a safe point after being afk for 10 or 15 mins and disappears just like logging off, removes the person from local channel and turn local off for him/her too, but doesn't log the person off the game. when the person comes back for afk, his ship autowarps back to his previous point just like logging on, he appears in local straight away, and he can see others in local straight away, but can't do anything until his ship is out of autowarp. ie turn afk cloakers into loggers without actually logging them off the game."
"i see lots of nerfs and you not wanting to change the mechanic giving you the problem. but for it to be a problem, would mean we don't already have solutions. wouldn't it?you do know that you can get the same effect, without a cloak? which kinda pours scorn on your supposed fixes now doesn't it.lets get back to basics here. when someone is afk, which mechanic are they using to interact with you?it's a one word answer.but i do find your stance rather puzzling. let's see what you said in another thread.so you think learning from it, means complaining about it and asking for nerfs?all i see is a poor attitude towards others play styles, which means you do not have balance in your thoughts when considering change.we're simply going round in circles here. us pointing out your problem and ways to solve it. you lot not wishing to use the current mechanics as solutions, but instead wanting to nerf the effect rather than the cause. it's all rather tiresome.destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"when you consider the basis for your arguments is so easily countered and subsequently dismissed using facts and logic, why do you even make such obviously baseless suggestions?more traditional pvp fleets?is this some attempt at humor?if we, (and i am with no doubts a null pve player), were to engage in pvp ship combat on a regular basis, we might have some overall preference. but we don't.we are doing economic support, the combat support guys are quite often not even in the same region. traditional fleets are not a pve concept, they are relevant exclusively to ship combat. we form fleets for boosting, and when it makes sense for things like mining efficiency and hauling logistics.if we can get a titan bridge or use a blops one, (blops not common unless maybe some kind of exotic scouting for sites), we take the bridge with gratitude, since it is usually needed for combat elsewhere.again, local is screamingly helpful to the 'pvp ship combat' hunter here.unless they happen to be on grid with a target at the time they come back, for all they know they came back to a deserted and empty system.without local, they have no intel to tell them who is docked in the outpost, or at the pos. if they do a scan at a pos, they will get every unoccupied ship sitting near the tower, so that is not much help.upgrading local to eliminate all afk influence what if local chat changed, hunting the cloaked..."
"sure.... the game may have an unchangeable string of numbers to identify each player, but as a player, i recognize other players only by their name.not everyone in the game is on my watchlist.... not even the regulars in my local system are. however i recognize these people by their name and i know what some of them are likely to do.with a name change function, any name i don't recognize could potentially be someone i do know with a name change.so now i have to check the name change history of everyone around me in case they used to be someone i knew.anyhoo, i would rather not get into an argument about this, the only people who seem to want changes are:1. i chose a stupid name and now i'm fed up with it. [tough, your choice, live with it]and2. i bought a character so i didn't have to train one up, but i don't like the name. [tough, you knew what you were buying when you bought it]good luck with your proposed huge game changes to address your specific wants.jint hikaru - miner / salvager / explorer / spacebum in the beginning the universe was created. this has made a lot of people very angry and been widely regarded as a bad move."
"i literally cannot support this proposal hard enough.honestly don't restrict it, make it an isk sink by having a name chance cost 3x your skillpoint count from a concord agent or something like that. or even a flat bill each time.there's a real simple workaround to the whole \"people changing their names to avoid punishment for past deeds\" problem, add a new tab to the public character sheet of each char, prior names, and have them show up in a people and places search as \" [current name] (former name: [former name])\" when the former name is searched.e: also for watch-listed people, just kick an evemail notification to a person when somebody on their watch list changes name. i doubt it could produce more spam than the \"thing under attack in x\" notifications.a mechanic for changing names exists, it's just gm only, so it's not like it's conceptually impossible. i see no reason that namechanges can't happen with appropriate steps taken to prevent people from disappearing utterly."
"the things mentioned above that disapprove of name changes are valid problems but in my eyes easy solves. things like kill mails for example. i really don't know how they work on a coding level but kill mails are attached to api's no? so if you changed the name wouldn't that be reflected in the kill mail?i can also relate to identifying people by name, i live out in null sec with my other characters and you do get to know people by their names as potential hot droppers or fc's, etc... at the same time though that is why i proposed a one time name change per account. more than likely if they are well known for their name they won't change it and may choose to change another character on their account. others have also mentioned a tab with their past name.to me its a no brainier, their employment will be the same, there kill mails will be the same, you will be able to quickly identify that person again even if there is no tab and such. you learned once rather quickly who they were and i am sure you can again. besides whats to stop said character to going to the character bazaar and selling that character and buying a new one. i don't hear any tears about that... \"cough cough\".lastly all i ever see in any of theses posts are the deeds you won't be able to see their deeds! give me a break. people ask for api keys for a reason when joining a corp, not character names, api !!! they look to see past communications and forum posts. they look at isk transactions. even then people don't identify problems. i know someone who stole 6 dreads from a corp he was in then sold them and he still has no problem joining major alliance corps as they never notice the transactions as devious. he tells people he use to build them with an alt. so when people talk about deeds get over it. if you want to cry over a high sec freighter gank well that will be in their kill mails cause that's attached to the api, that deed will still be there.if there are more visible \"deeds\" attached to accounts that would be erased by a name change lets talk about them and address them rather than say \"the deeds\"."
"i dunno, keeping people names i feel is almost the definition of \"actions have consequences\" and that means that you have to have the silver tongue to trick people not changing a bit of code in your name.plus i'll be honest i like the individuality of the stupid names :)"
"tuesday bump"
"the multiple overview proposal probably ends up doing the same thing but could be easier to use.imagine you could do the following:- have as many tabs as you want- be able to drag a tab out of the overview, creating multiple overview windowsso you could have a window for gates, targets, drones and maybe friends while still having the option to switch between tabs (e.g swap from drones to loot...)i strongly believe that having multiple small lists is significantly easier to use as having one large listbut i am not against the filter proposal. having an option to show only the 5 closest targets in one of the overview windows would be kick ass."
"ignore de'veldrin , she is nothing but a common troll. we should be used to them on the internet by now. besides her argument has no validity and makes no sense. like i said a common troll, who is most likely just an angry person who hates themselves deep down, hence why she is \"that guy.\" or perhaps she takes the opposite stance because she does not want to be the same as everyone else, which honestly makes her the same as every troll on the internet. that shows and immense weakness of character, so honestly we should feel bad for her as she is clearly a shallow and empty individual, sad panda it's funny these kinds of people fancy themselves intelligent beyond most and hence behave in a condescending manner completely unaware of how ignorant it really makes them sound. go sit in in you corner sweetheart and contemplate the next stupid thing you will say. i wait with bated breath for your retort, you're hatred gives me power. on a note more related to to the topic, i do miss the jukebox itself as well. \"glowing red dust\" is the ****. while the jukebox may not be necessity, but rather a convenience due to the fact that someone put it on sound cloud, thank you by the way my man, it is appreciated by the mass of the player population and ccp would be wise not to upset the people paying their salary. we the people buy your game, and while some players may just be whiny bitches, (who if ccp catered to the weak link constantly, which was blizzards downfall with wow, you get just that, a broken piece of garbage) there is something to be said about listening to your subscribers. most times, as i play a rasti minmatar, i just throw on some reggae and mine the belts. ccp, please reincorporate the jukebox. thank you."
"it is funny how these troll kiddies fancy themselves ccp developers because they eat nachos all day sitting on their asses reading pc gamer."
"you need remote refrigerator oven pre-heat skill for that"
"thank you chitsa."
"plex for removal of unwanted skills!!!you do not get reimbursed for skill points or skill books."
"i think local should be removed, while at the same time d-scan shoud get a big re-vamp."
"i'll be honest the noctis is already such a good ship i'm not sure a command ship for this kind of thing is needed. i could maybe see it as a module but that's it. already we are getting to the point that the actual length of salvage times versus player interaction times are almost equal. boosting the hard coded times wouldn't net you that much more per hr."
"this is my birthday week. one day just doesn't cut it. i'll be 68.i'm on social security in the us -- yea, i know -- and live at half the poverty level. that's what you might get after a crime free do-what-you-are-asked life here. boom down; pity party now over.i've been paying for this game since 2007. i was just thinking that if an old poor person plays eve for some years, they deserve a break.i wouldn't dare suggest that getting retired geniuses in this game might make a positive impact; after all a big part of the game is doing crap that grandmother isn't watching. heh.i would like ccp to consider giving some human terms to the poorest and most intelligent part of the faithful eve community.don't flame me. thanks."
"if $10 a month is too much then you shouldn't be playing. that's of course if you can't afford plex in game."
"what, specifically, would you like ccp to do to encourage more senior citizens to play eve? and keep in mind there would have to be safeguards to prevent younger players from pretending to be older ones, or using their grandparents as shills, and that these safeguards would have to be simple and cheap to implement.i look forward to hearing your proposal."
"i have no idea if this request is reasonable or not, as i have no clue what the op is asking for."
"being the second oldest member of the csm, next to trebor, i wanted to toss my two cents in.old age does bring in a lot of changes. ccp has already addressed some with the ability to enlarge fonts. asking for a ccp to give a seniors discount (which is what i believe the op is doing) is something i have yet to see in any mmo. with the gaming population aging this may be the front edge of a growing issue in the gaming community and the more complex games (such as eve) will be the first to see it.but trebor is right . . . verification of age to keep some tween from getting a seniors discount is something that would need a lot of detail coverage. sorry but we cannot 'just take someones word for it' since i hear some players are prone to take advantage of any trust given them.mmike azariah ----<U+FEFF> <U+FFFD>|(<U+30C4>)/<U+FFFD>"
"is age verification even possible for an international audience ?"
"having never run missions i still kind of like this idea. the main problem comes in matching risk/reward and making sure noone games it. if there is a gm or similar looking over them before they end in game then i could get behind it. maybe have an editor like garys mod style of thing.the best thing though to keep the game interesting is not to be in hi-sec doing missions though. there is a whole world of a game out there that is all about competition and brushing up against rivals. it's like going to the seaside and bringing a paddling pool."
"actions have consequences... then say character bazaar.the only consequence in is eve is you do something stupid and you lose isk. everything else is an illusion that is alive in peoples heads."
"after nearly a decade, the novelty wears pretty thin. i made this char when i was 14 in 2004.again though, there are real simple ways to preserve actions having consequences, this is not an impossible design challenge."
"1.) there needs to be an alias tab on your character sheet that shows your complete name history. 2.) your corp history should absolutely never be erased. 3.) your corp history tab should also include the name you were known as at that time. 4.) i see absolutely no reason for the sec status requirement. who gives a **** about people aggressing in lowsec!! the whole point is to keep track of scammers, awoxers, thieves, spies, and similar delinquents, which have nothing to do with sec status! 5.) limited use is necessary, but not required. 1 per year would probably be sufficient. finally, i'm not sure it's worth the effort. what happens to the \"old names\" that keep getting taken? how do you handle joe changing his name to sam, and john changing his name to joe? that could be incredibly confusing and best not permitted. also, you do realize this will create tons of \"name scams\"; think about the new \"chribba\" scams, where peopel pose as chribba over and over and over to steal with his reputation (then again, this probably already happens). in the end, this could be implemented with the above caveats, i'm just not sure it is worth the troubles."
"the csm is currently in conversation with ccp on this issue.i doubt you'll get much traction for the +3.0 sec status requirement though."
"much thanks, malcanis. any method of renaming would be much appreciated."
"in a universe where your name is at times more influential than your guns - i would vote not to name changes.as far as ppl imposing as me (impostors) that happens quite often and it's against the eula so said pilots gets the punishment that serves them./c"
"any name change of a character with such a large influence would quickly be propagated. especially if the character was an infamous scammer. moreover, people with influential names would be much less likely to change them, so it would be a fringe case at best for the influential, especially if namechanges were prohibitively expensive or required a large sacrifice (such as a % chunk of sp, god forbid).and again, nobody is asking for people to be allowed to be given totally clean slates with no traceable history.there's zero rp justification to not have name changes available. eve is a dark place after all, and adding a low hoop (clicking a tab on their char's info) for people to jump through to read somebody's name history would not be the end of the world. quite the contrary, it would be a good follow up to the changes in the bounty expansion in a narrative sense.hrm, best kick a notification to people who put bounties on the namechanging char as well when they change names, if anything like this ever gets implemented."
"i'm pretty glad i didn't let 14 year old me name malc :"
"(that would not have ended well)"
"ooh... woah. we're actually getting ccp to see this, and getting feedback? that's awesome..i'm just hoping it goes through. limited as being a one-time thing. that'd probably be the best approach. at least that's what i think. one-time character change, so it doesn't get our of control.i'm hoping it happens."
"let's make this crazy idea a reality.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"i'd move my entire corp into lowsec if these pos changes were made."
"before the high sec ice nerf, it was common to see people using huge amounts of accounts to afk ice mine with isboxer, but then, everyone who ice mined then did it afk.now you could certainly do it in null sec with large and xlarge grav sites, 80 accounts may take down one of those dam spods, but then again, it would be a fox in the chicken house if a ganker found them.only other thing i could think of for 80 accounts, is the potato farm of death, 79 domi's and a command ship, the 79 domi's set their sentries to assist the the command ship (maybe super carrier) the alpha from that should be able to bring down any subcap, no tackle needed."
"i do agree that if eve was free to play, and anyone could start a ton of accounts, anything that gave even a 10% edge by allowing some automation would generate threads like these, and even then, i would not be vocal about getting it \"banned\".if someone was to enter the ccp tournament with only 1 player, and that player controlled 8 ships, i don't see how they would beat any team that had 8 individual players for example, and if they in fact did manage to do so and could repeat the performance, to me that would point more to the fact that the eve combat mechanics might be lacking, and not that isboxer is the problem.isboxer offers added flexibility in running multiple eve accounts, which ccp already tells us is perfectly fine. if you guys really think it makes that flexibility \"overpowered\" then i suggest you ask ccp to make the eve activities more active and engaging, and use of what you call \"keypress broadcast\" would become unusable."
"the problem isn't someone being afk cloaked, it's what he or she does when they come back to the keyboard and that's what people in sov null worry about.the whole insta gank covert hot dropping is the cause of this and being able to warp to nearly everyone doing something in sov null without launching scan probes. until these issues have been fixed, people who live in sov null still need a way to see threats coming into system.gankers don't go around killing other gankers, because their favorite ship, the bomber, is pretty useless at killing other bombers, generally, bombers are only good at killing mining barges, hence their main use. anyone who has ever put a bomber together knows they are easy mode pvp, all gank no tank, just put torp lanchers on them and you have 400dps + dps at over 40km on the mining barge of your choice.it's sov holders who want probes to scan down cloakers because good sov holders should be able to clear out the reds in a system, even if the reds are afk. removing cloakers for local will only smash a already partly broken system.when will people get the message, cause an alliance trouble and they set you to red, this means they don't want you in their space, they want to blow your ship up and your pod to remove you as a threat.maybe we fix local and make it a sov holder and standing thing, so reds (nrds) or anyone who isn't blue (nbsi) can't see it"
"yes, because the fact we can already get safe in sov null 100% effectively is not already overpowered.news flash, when an opponent cannot control events enough to force a failure in your defense, that is an \"i win\" button.you are specifically asking to remove the stalemate that you are not even accepting any responsibility for!you only want it to be resolved in your favor.and that mind boggling assumption that this is your space, wtf?!you have a building permit. grab that outpost, anchor that pos and customs office, you are done.you can only have gate control through persistent effort, and if you can't control who comes thorugh it, then you did not try hard enough, blame yourself for that or accept you can't stop people from coming.either way, you don't own the rights to being in the system, since the game does not honor or respect any claims you might make in that direction.get over the idea that you have non existent rights on that level. in null, might makes right, so don't expect other players to leave your system because you are posting here.upgrading local to eliminate all afk influence what if local chat changed, hunting the cloaked..."
"lol. sp? is that a \"senior person\"?thanks for your responses. another eve player telling me to not play? that's cold, dude. : )so, forget verifying age. i forget how lying people are.*sigh*i know this is a teen game. but eve is not a teen world to me. my aunt lillian dragged me onto a roof to watch the first sputnik capsule race across the sky. i was 12. i share a love of space that doesn't notice age groups.rock on!!"
"a, i think, relatively simple change of allowing players to set the default on/off/last state of modules in the fitting menu.in depth, this means that if a player sets a module to be on by default, it would turn on automatically after undock, warp exit, jumping or other occasions that may have disabled a module.the setting of defaulting to \"last\" just means to retain the last state it was on, that was selected by player input."
"that's a csm tag not a ccp tag beside his name :)"
"first off malcanis, thank you for making it a topic of the csm and second i don't much care about the +3.0 sec status. i was just trying to make it less criminal friendly.chribba and gamer4liff also had good input to the topic and what gamer4liff said i agree with. the thing i can't stress the most though is to make it a one time deal per account to prevent this from being abused."
"i wouldn't make it a 1 time deal per account but rather have a very long cooldown (3-4 months at the min, maybe even 6 months?) before that account would be allowed to name change again."
"sorry gamer4liff, but clicking through peoples bio to see if they were someone else adds another complexity to eve that just isn't an enjoyable gaming experience. let me give an example:lets say, i live in a quiet system, happily mining. i 'know' the locals and people who frequent the system. there are a couple of people i watch out for:'evildude666' - this guy suicide ganks miners.'bumpmeister' - this guy bumps people off a belt he wants to mine himself.if i see one of these guys enter local, i modify my behavior to suit the situation.now with name changes.... every unknown who enters local, i have to click 'show pilot info', select the 'alias' tab.... i basically spend my gaming time checking the aliases of people. not fun.all that name changes will accomplish is make 'known' pilots, 'unknowns' again. (and in a game where actions have consequences, this should not be allowed)yes i am aware eve is a 'dark' place, people harp on about realism, and we can do this in rl so why not in eve.... but it boils down to this... eve is a game! it needs to be enjoyable.... adding more tedium, for the sake of 'realism' will not help the game.please note: i have not addressed the char bazaar... that is a necessary evil that i don't think should be allowed, but i understand why it is in place.jint hikaru - miner / salvager / explorer / spacebum in the beginning the universe was created. this has made a lot of people very angry and been widely regarded as a bad move."
"if properly implemented you would get an evemail notification sent to you that he changed his name if you set his standings (which i'm imagining you would if you're really keeping track of people by individuals and not their corporations). that would be sufficient notice.also no offense but if you're mining in lowsec with a new unknown neut in system, you're kind of leaving yourself open to attack at a baseline level, regardless of any namechange mechanics. if it's really a quiet system i also wouldn't see a problem with somebody clicking and showing info on new people as they enter the system. you say it like it would be an undue burden of time, but it wouldn't be any longer than auditing new individuals entering the system normally.good input though, and i see where you're coming from. it's good that we don't lose consequences of actions."
"in my experience the pirates with -10.0 sec are generally pretty proud of their reputation and would have no particular wish to change their name to escape that rep.the \"criminals\" who would want to whitewash their characters names are (much like in real life) rarely the sort of pirates who get chased by the police. you don't take a sec hit for margin trade scams or corp thefts or pyramid schemes or awoxing or spying. sec status is a non issue here tbh."
"i was actually thinking about hi-sec for my example.also, even with setting standings, a name change turns a 'known' someone, into an 'unknown' someone. (until i spend time checking bio's)jint hikaru - miner / salvager / explorer / spacebum in the beginning the universe was created. this has made a lot of people very angry and been widely regarded as a bad move."
"fair point.upon further reflection of the example though, if you set them a standing (as you should if you're keeping track of people individually and all), their bad standing would still be preserved through the name change and you'd see a fairly large red flag whenever they entered local chat seeing the standing next to their name. if i'm remembering the existing system working like that right."
"jint has been posting in this topic since it was first created and we've been saying the entire time he'd get a notification (in fact it's in the very first post). he's either incapable of reading or trolling."
"so this would probably take a lot of work, kinda restructuring of a lot of things in the game, but it would be cool and add a lot to the realism factor of eve, which is a big part of the appeal of eve in the first place.- planets that orbit the suni'm sure any eve player with a basic understanding of astronomy has at one point or another wondered about this. planets in real life orbit the sun, so why don't planets in eve do the same thing?- stations anchored to these planets would also orbit the sunthis is where it would become somewhat tricky, since if this is implemented, every day after downtime, or at some point, each station and planet would actually move its position in space along its orbit. this would make it so the distances between the planets and stargates would change on a day-to-day basis. so sometimes that warp from the station in rens to frarn gate or to the abudban gate in rens is 40 au, but then later in the year, maybe it is a 20 au warp. (i'm just making these numbers up for argument sake.)the planets closer to the sun would take less time to complete an orbit, and those further would take much longer to complete an orbit.- gates orbiting the sunwhether or not the stargates would move along an orbit in the same way as planets would be up to ccp. i would assume they would since if you look at a solar system map, the stargates appear to be on an orbital line, they just never change position on it.in null-sec this could be a huge change to the dynamics of certain areas. for example in curse, you can enter doril through the sendaya gate, but only one of the stations is in d-scan range from there, and the out-gates (utopia and jorund) are right next to each other, but on the opposite end of the system.if gates followed an actual orbit around the sun of a solar system, this would not always be the case. sometimes the utopia gate and the jorund gate would be across the system from one another (depending on their distance from the sun and chosen path of orbit).one issue i can already think of is how gate and station tacticals would be affected if the gates and stations actually moved from their spots every day.i'm sure there are a lot of other things to consider with this implementation, but i expect everyone reading this to comment, critique, analyze the possible outcome. i'm personally a pvper and wouldn't like to see any implementations negatively affect pvp, but i don't think that would be the case with this one."
"this has been suggested countless times, and i still fully support it. the only bookmarks i think we really need are the pos bookmarks, since they don't otherwise show up in an easily accessible location. if the planets orbit, the moons do, and if the moons orbit, the pos does. that means pos bookmarks would get screwed.gate, station, and planet tacticals aren't really as important, imo. but that's just my opinion, and i'm sure there are those who vehemently disagree.aside from all that, it's really not a balancing thing. it's more of a technical issue that ccp has already said they don't quite know how to work out, or simply don't have the time or resources to devote to it.supported anyways."
"since eve doesn't use a newtonian flight model, having celestials moving while we fly could cause problems. problems like the gate moving faster than the freighter trying to use it. that can be fixed by keeping everything stationary while eve is up, only shifting things during downtime.bookmarks can be handled by binding each one to a celestial, and moving them with the celestial."
"from what i recall of the other posts on this subject... having orbiting bodies makes the servers meltdown.sometimes we have to step back and say \"yes it would be cool, but would it actually make the game and gameplay any better?\"i would have to say, for the amount of work required, it wouldn't make the game any different to how it is now.jint hikaru - miner / salvager / explorer / spacebum in the beginning the universe was created. this has made a lot of people very angry and been widely regarded as a bad move."
"as far as i can see nikk, your argument goes like this.when a ship is cloaked, it's properly cloaked, no one can see the pilot in local intel, the cloaked ship's pilot can't see anyone else in local intel ether.you claim the effect will be, gankers will not be able to see who is online in system without decloaking, therefor will not benifit from the afk tactic. you also argue that local gives too much intel to gankers, and the gankers use it to form their target list.first point would be ok, if miners and ratters didn't live with the threat of insta gank from a covert opps fleet hot dropping in and destroying all their ships then hot dropping back out again before the defense fleet shows up. even if the miners or ratters are bait, the ganker usually only is at risk of loosing the cyno ship. the people doing this don't usually have anything to do with sov warfare, don't care about loot or isk and usually don't even care what corp or alliance their targets are in, they just want to blow someones ship up for ***** and giggles. this is the reason, as someone invoked in corp/alliance leadership that i personally don't like to see 1 miner or ratter being lost to a ganker, from any corp that operates inside the system our corp alliance works in ever. loose one non pvp/defence ship and the cloaky campers just start hanging around like pesky flys.second point, even if cloaks are perfect and the cloaker can't be seen in local, they still benefit. i can't leave my mining ship in a belt online and go to work, come home do some quick mining without having to go though log on screens, undocking and so on, then go see a movie with friends leaving my ship online in space, so i can check the rocks when i come home. well gankers can, and in hostile space with current cloak mechanics. only difference being, removing him from local, others will not be able to see he is there, so will have to treat all systems as if they have a cloaker threat in system, even if their is no cloaker.third point, from my own experience, local intel isn't the main thing gankers use to target systems, sovereignty mining index and sov holding alliance policies are. yer, they get to know their target systems and if new people show up, they hang around more, but an increase in mining index has a far bigger effect. take the mining index from 3 to 4 and you are almost guaranteed to get some new gankers hanging around for a while doing the cloaky camp in systems in and around the one with the increase in mining index, until they get bored of getting zero kills, then they go away.being 100% safe (not loosing ships) when mining, ratting or doing complexes in null sov space is currently not only the best defense from gankers, it's currently the only defense. this has come about about because pvp ganking is so dam effective. nerf covert cynos or cloaking, then we might be able to talk about changes to local intel."
"thank you for numbering the points, i appreciate this detail.this assumes more than a few details.first, my ideas come hand in hand with a method to detect cloaked vessels.i will be glad to link the thread if you wish, otherwise i claim it to be the most balanced method possible in the absence of local intel revealing cloaked presence freely.hot dropping is a delicate procedure, and only practical if both the target and the dropper has constant and reliable intel on exactly how many pilots are present in the system.by explanation, it is the only way for a target to be attacked by multiple dps ships minus the obvious warning currently being provided. you see a spike in local from half a dozen ships and you have no doubts regarding your lack of safety.for the dropper, you never ever want to drop into an enemy fleet, since the only functional way a drop succeeds is by using overwhelming force, often supplemented by target's surprise and confusion. unless you have local to verify your drop zone is clear, you are asking for a very expensive disaster.pointing out the obvious: if they can't see cloaked in local, sneak the cloaked vessels in quietly before hand. no load time, and everyone can warp together to the target.i would never assume that you were a botter, so no, of course you cannot genuinely afk mine.this would be a source of direct isk income with zero direct effort, and would therefore break the eula of this game.you could, however, cripple the fitting on your exhumer by fitting a cloak, the same way your presumed opponents must do.then you would indeed be able to do everything you just suggested.this is also building on previous assumptions, debunked above.it is enough to point out, that doing a proactive scan for cloaked vessels before operating would be a practical step.you may see cause to do routine patrols as well. you would expect some effort on the part of a cloaked pilot to insert themselves into your system, matching this by being vigilant seems fair. so, as you described, your hunters are going to considerable effort to research your location, and following it up with some rather cunning stealthy logistics to place themselves inside their target area.you, on the other hand, want to sit back on the past achievements your corp or alliance made by acquiring the sov, so they could build the pos / outposts you reside in.you then follow this up with free intel, requiring no effort from you beyond being at your keyboard to use.in effect then, regarding your safety: we have a one time effort from your associates, followed by minimum paying attention and not making bad decisions from yourself.from the cloaked menace: persistent need for research, required in the form of tracking mining indexes, knowing your target's policies on the alliance level, and finally then they get to watch local to see who is present for shooting.in a game meant to demonstrate a competition by effort, why is one side showing a different level?upgrading local to eliminate all afk influence what if local chat changed, hunting the cloaked..."
"cloaks requiring some sort of fuel, yes please. other than that it works fine."
"for those of you who don't know, ccp recently hired former ea exec sean decker to the position of \"senior vice president of product development\"this is a very disturbing move, hiring somebody with a known reputation of creating pay to win systems, and generally considering gamers as cattle to squeeze every last drop of money out of through micro-transactions.even more disturbing is the fact that he has still yet to come forward to the community and introduce himself, maybe in an attempt to allay some of our well founded fears and concerns. in synergy with the above point, ccp has been very tight-lipped about him, save for the official announcement on their webpage. link to ccp announcementmy proposal is simple, the csm should use their leverage to get decker to address us, the community. short of that, we need some reason as to why he is being kept hidden away.- mig"
"why should he? from the commentary so far here there's pretty much nothing he can say that won't get a response involving flaming torches and pitchforks."
"its far better than hiding. i mean really, it shows that he actually cares to give it a go."
"i would like the ability to create folders inside of folders for bookmarks in the places tab. it'd allow for easier management of your bookmarks while in the places tab. i've pretty much stopped making bms on my scout pilot because it's a hassle to go through dozens upon dozens of folders while tryign to organize or find a particular bm and it was nauseating to switch computers and open the places tab to find over a thousand bookmarks lying about with no folders and insane names due to the increasingly conviluted naming schemes i kept coming up with just so i know where in space the bookmark is located.i'd much rather wish to expand to different folders when right clicking in space than to scroll down through my local bookmarks in a system, particularly when i have several dozen bookmarks of the type i'm looking for in that system.it's no coincidence allowing for folders inside of folders is standard on pretty much any os or program. it's the best method we've come up with for storing information for ease of access to date."
"yes i know you have been saying that a notification would be sent out. 'if you have that person set to some level of standing'maybe i am playing eve 'wrong', but i personally don't have everyone i recognize in eve setup with a standing. i'm sure there are people out there, in the bigger alliances, or regulars in the more lawless parts of the eve universe who have hundreds of people setup in their standings. if people start regularly changing their names, thats going to be a nightmare to keep track of.even so, with this idea we are now playing 'keep track of notifications about who is who', and if you ask me it adds another layer of complexity which does not make eve more fun to play. (and it is a game, which is supposed to be enjoyable)as you can probably tell, i don't support name-changes in eve. never have.. never will. i'm sorry if you think i'm 'incapable of reading' (i'm not!) or that i'm trolling (also not).fly safe!jint hikaru - miner / salvager / explorer / spacebum in the beginning the universe was created. this has made a lot of people very angry and been widely regarded as a bad move."
"eve is a game of choices. if you dun goofed then thats the end of it. you move on."
"got a friend in my corp who petitions the lack of orbital vectors on planets/moons and stations once a month. hes never missed a month and is 7 years old (in eve lol)thats is dedication to a belief"
"it should require 1 mil isk per minute to stay docked safely in null sec stations."
"mate, this is the eve forums... you get a pitchfork just for logging in and a flaming torch for posting your first post.however there are a few things he could say that would avoid the burning and the poking.....jint hikaru - miner / salvager / explorer / spacebum in the beginning the universe was created. this has made a lot of people very angry and been widely regarded as a bad move."
"actually i know for a fact he has posted on the eve forums."
"mind linking the thread? i have sure not been able to find a trace of him."
"in the thread speculating about what sean deckers ccp name would be."
"thats descriptive. can you link the specific post/name?also, if you know he has seen the forums, why has he not addressed the community? seems a bit odd."
"if you're retired, then presumably you have a fair amount of free time? if you can raise ~500m isk a month (and you can) then you can play for free via plex, which is specifically in the game to allow time rich, cash poor players to play."
"i have put this suggestion, 'nested bookmarks' into the little things thread. hopefully it will make it through the winnowing of ideasm"
"huh i missed that could you link it for me mikei wish to gief supports"
"i've recalled a couple of other ideas, so adding them here too:1) in planetary mode, while you are trying to survey the surface, your best and most anticipated option is a relatively small region where most of resources of your interest located in a sufficient amount. so you have to choose one of them from list, find a couple of hotspots, then switch to another - and here we are, without a clue where those previously scanned hotspots now are. there should be possibility to set some kind of surface bookmark with corresponding resource symbol and player typed comment, to ease further exploration for more and more intersecting hotspot regions.2) possibility to sell your colony through contracting system, like any other property, with some ability for a potentional buyer to estimate resoures' distribution around it without the need to go there in flesh, would be very useful.3) possibility to issue courier contracts to outsource logistics (allowing someone contracted to grab ur products from one customs office and transport them to another, or to the station), without the need to drag them first to the nearest station by yourslef, will be of great help .should allow person, contracted for the job, to access specified amount of goods (and only this one stack of it!) to be transfered in the customs office."
"yeah, and it's funny how they give us a choice to change our entire character's appearance, but not the name. in some ways, that's even moreso changing than a name change.you could use the real world as an example. what's a greater change? changing your name? or getting surgery to drastically change your appearance...? all characters, from what i can see, have been flagged for recustomization if you haven't already done so... so, yeah.give my character a nosejob, eyelift, etc. take the pornstar route, or change their name?hmm.... that's a tough one. i can't tell which is a greater change..."
"mag's talks about posting serious replies and thorough statements, yet when people have done this time and again, his only retort is \"lol\"? that's called losing any credibility in the discussion is what that is. both myself and others have stated clear and logical reasons why it is absurd to allow bounty placement to be done for such fickle and idiotic reasons. lastly, mag suggested reading the tos rules to revillee, yet rules 1-3 clearly show reasons why the abuse of bounty placement should be halted by ccp. there is zero reason why anyone should be able to place a bounty on another player due to mere words typed in chat that they didn't like. it is absurd."
"yet you have still failed to say why the is being abused. 1-3 do not show anything of the sort.let's read them shall we.1. you may not abuse, harass or threaten another player or authorized representative of ccp, including customer service personnel and volunteers. this includes, but is not limited to: filing support tickets with false information in an attempt to gain from it or have someone else suffer from it; sending excessive e-mails, eve-mails or support tickets; obstructing ccp employees from doing their jobs; refusal to follow the instructions of a ccp employee; or implying favoritism by a ccp employee.no mention of placement of bounties there, for reasons you may not like. so let's look at two.2. you may not use any abusive, defamatory, ethnically or racially offensive, harassing, harmful, hateful, obscene, offensive, sexually explicit, threatening or vulgar language. (alternate spelling or partial masking of such words will be reprimanded in the same manner as the actual use of such words.)no mention of bounties there either. just talk of abusive language etc. so now to three.3. you may not organize nor be a member of any corporation or group within eve online that is based on or advocates any anti-ethnic, anti-gay, anti-religious, racist, sexist or other hate-mongering philosophies.hmm still nothing regarding bounties, just more about racism and general anti-ness. all of which we would agree is bad.so yes, when i said 'lol' i meant it. because if you had bothered to read them, as well as revillee, you can quite plainly see it doesn't fit your argument one bit. instead you keep claiming abuse, but have failed as of yet to show exactly what that abuse is. time and again.revillee claimed ccp broke third party rules, by including players in that list. in a game, an mmo game, their mmo game at that and you think i should take that stance seriously? really?sandbox games mean you can build and do whatever you wish, to reach your goals within the rules and boundaries of the game. but it also means others can try to stop you and make you fail, so that they may succeed in reaching theirs.which means there is absolutely no reason why someone cannot place a bounty, for mere words used in a chat. none whatsoever. you may think it petty, you may think it spiteful, but you not liking it does not constitute abuse nor reason for change.finally, let me quote a dev for you. i've already posted it in the thread, but you seem not to have read it.random feelings of spite? hmmm, i think you may have a problem son.destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"mag, you already proved you could care less about discussing the topic with any sense of logic so taking the tos literally out of context without understanding the wide scope it covers, does not further your efforts in trolling the topic.as i have said, i already posted earlier in the thread how the was being abused, and i will not re-post my statement to enable your laziness so feel free to read it yourself."
"there seem to be alot of highsec ganking going on with really low sp characters in catalysts or other crap ships. to rebalance this ccp should rethink how sec hits work for piracy. ie. if a freighter is killed then the aggressors should take a hit equivilant to the ships size classification. freighters and bs would result in high sec hits whereas frigates would be the lowest. they could even modify the amount based on the security of the system as well 0.5 would be different from 1.0.it just doesnt seem right that a few catalysts costing 5m can easily down a freighter or t3 or bs in highsec without sever consequences. losing 50m worth of catalysts is easily offset by suiciding anything of slight value."
"i'm on social security and getting money from the government. please give me more handouts."
"ship spinning is a useless feature that should never have been re-added to the game. i do not support this at all."
"so far your argument is based on, \"i feel putting a bounty on someone for reasons i don't comprehend or like is wrong.\"the basic counter argument that mag has made (that i also made earlier in this thread) is that the reason for putting a bounty on someone is purely subjective. you can't honestly state that \"x\" reason is a \"good reason\" for putting a bounty on someone as another person will feel the complete opposite.this entire argument we are having is case and point of that. you feel that putting a bounty on someone because you don't like them is a bad reason... we feel that it is completely acceptable."
"false, i never said i don't comprehend why those abusing the post bounties. you are using an informal fallacy to base your argument on. i understand very clearly that those abusing the are doing so to satisfy their own ego in order to bully other players into not speaking freely in chat or enjoying the game as it is without being harassed by those exploiting an under-developed feature of the game. whether i like it or not is irrelevant and is not inductive of whether the is in need of being fixed or not. i also can very clearly state that 'x' reason is a good reason for putting a bounty on someone because bounties are not something that ccp invented, it is based on a real system in the real world. that being said, it's not legal in that system to place a bounty on someone for something someone says either. again, i am not the only one who obviously feels this way about the problem or the thread wouldn't exist. just because you lack the decency or a sense of morals to see the problem, doesn't mean anyone has or will ever put up with it. why you added that last part \"we\" i am not sure since you are only one person and have zero authority to speak for anyone but yourself."
"whether people put bounties on others for their own egotistical reasons is not something you can say is \"bad\" though. it's a perfectly valid reason to those people who do it. there is a man who lives in california who would beg to differ with you on that point. he created a rather inflammatory film depicting a certain religion in a bad way... then got a bounty placed on him by a politician on the other side of the world.or how in early american history bounties were put out for the scalps of native americans (any would do... even the innocent ones... because who was really going to to notice the difference?).even now there are bounties being placed on other people for perceived notions of how things should be.see... this is where you've gone wrong. - you can't enforce \"morality\" with mechanics. at least... not in a way that people can't take advantage of without resorting to ever more draconian mechanics that will chip away at the whole sandbox concept of eve bit by bit (because you'd be taking away freedoms to enforce behavior that you consider to be \"right\").- there is no correct version of \"morality\" (again, our argument is proof of this). i'll keep hammering this point; what you consider \"moral\" may or may not be what i consider \"moral.\"i personally don't see a problem with random bounties being put on people for what people say. in fact, i've done it myself. in eve, i often find that i'm more offended by what people say (for whatever reason) than what they do.- the most flexible, and least mechanically intensive, option for anyone (ccp especially) is to keep the system and tools as open as possible so people can use them for whatever reason they deem as \"right.\""
"and you dear sir, yet again avoided the topic. your attempt to side step the issue by saying i'm trolling the topic, is an obvious ploy and rather silly.you could prove me wrong, instead of ignoring the topic and my answers to your posts. show me exactly what in the tos is being broken. as i already quoted and replied to your earlier posts, merely point out where you show the is being abused. a link or quote will do.you can clearly state that you think 'x' is a good reason. but as it's not your place to dictate or decide other peoples reasoning, it's a rather pointless argument to make.ccp may not have invented the , but within the game of eve their rules apply to their . legality doesn't come into it. in fact one could argue the legality issue was removed, when they changed the .people posting saying there is a problem, does not equate to there being one. unless of course they can clearly show what the problem is. so far, you and others have not done this. you, even when repeatedly asked, avoid doing so.also morals don't come into it either, unless it can be clearly shown that the eula or tos is being broken in that way. such as the use of racism, sexism etc. none of which are involved in this. unless those getting the bounty said something. they are after all, the ones typing.we are playing a game, with rules. just like any other game, people are allowed to use the tools provided, as long as they stick to the rules. complaining about morals in this instance, is like complaining about regicide in chess.i've clearly shown what ccp think to random acts of spite, in bounty placements. clearly they don't have issues with their sandbox game, being played as a sandbox game. you on the other hand, do. what you are after is called a themepark, which means you are either in the wrong game, or need to adapt.destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"the op, although i do not suspect he has followed this logic through to the conclusion, is suggesting that bounties gain a specific limit.they must be approved by either popular vote, or limited to specific circumstances.these are spiteful things in some cases, and desperate attempts at justice in others.should everything in the game have such limits?how would this be a sandbox game then?upgrading local to eliminate all afk influence what if local chat changed, hunting the cloaked..."
"@shafluffers:\"whether people put bounties on others for their own egotistical reasons is not something you can say is \"bad\" though. it's a perfectly valid reason to those people who do it. \"wrong again, those exploiting the are using it as an excuse, not "
"see... now we're going in circles again.you are literally stating that there are \"right\" and \"wrong\" (see: \"valid\" and \"invalid\") reasons for putting a bounty on someone. i'm pointing out that what people consider \"valid\" varies from person to person and that you can't, in any way, say those reasons you don't consider valid are \"excuses.\" to those people, their reasons are perfectly valid and saying otherwise infringes upon the freedom of the \"sandbox.\"it's literally no different than someone saying, \"i don't like the reason/way you play this game... you have to play it in a way i deem fit!\"i never made any mention of the man's imprisonment or what happened in benghazi (... seriously?). i was simply pointing out that he made a film (which is a form of expression protected under us law) and that a random person decided to put a bounty on the man due to being offended... which illustrates my point perfectly because the filmmaker did nothing wrong (legally) in making the film... it just really bothered someone (who found it a perfectly justifiable reason to put a price on the man's head). except the bounty mechanics won't cause all that (or have caused any of that in the 7-8 months they have been active). they don't change any of the current combat mechanics... concord rules still apply... and because of the way the payout system works you won't really become a target unless you fly something \"expensive\" (even with a super high bounty on your head).and there is no problem with that. because again... their reason is valid/justified to them. and that's really all that matters in this dystopian game.then why do i not agree with your version of how things should be? obviously they are not as universal as you think."
"proberly been sayed before but rly would love this stufffor a corp having a option to fit like 100 ships within 1 click would be awesome, or less if smal corp or playerto not have a big serverload yust buildin a fittingdelay when dooing italso a nice adition would be a option to have shipnames added to the fitting managementedit: so basicly a adon to fitting management to have a box with x ... for the amount of ships ya want done"
"even for a individual person this could be usefull.+1 from me[u]things that would make eve better:[/u] nrds - remove local - balance cloak - sov-mechanic changes - less qq"
"this wouldn't change anything. most of us who suicide gank are already have -10 security status (or close to)... which is the lowest you can go. why not? i know real life examples are bad and all but...a 200,000 dollar shoulder-fired missile has the capacity to blow up a multi-million dollar helicopter or plane. as far as consequences are concerned; players who suicide gank...- already take a security status penalty (which is quite large when the security status of the victim is high).- lose their ship (100% guaranteed loss that ship insurance doesn't cover).- are not guaranteed getting loot... or the loot they want at least (~50/50 odds that a weapon, module, or cargo item will drop)- have to organize and plan to take out anything beefier than an untanked hauler or mining barge (no small feat... the term \"herding cats\" applies here).- will have to deal with the faction police harassing them if their security status goes below -5.0... which means that they can't really fly anything bigger than a cruiser or so without the risk of getting scrammed, webbed, and blown up by said faction police.- will have to deal with the added threat of other players if their security status goes below -5.0... as you can be shot at by anyone and everyone without penalty anywhere in the game for as long as you stay below -5.0and why shouldn't a lot of organized cheaper ships be able to nuke a larger, more expensive ship?"
"not sure if 10 catalysts can suicide gank a t3 or bs but i do know they cant take down a freighter as that req's several bs's. you might want to research a bit more next time you make a proposal."
"they have downed freighters with destroyers, yust alot of them ;o wich still means its cheap but needs a bigger group to doit"
"to gank a freighter it takes (with max skills)...- about ~95+ pure gank-fit catalysts (that are entirely meta 0 fit) to down a freighter in ~3 volleys... - ~85 if you overload with the same fit... - ~60 if overloaded and tech 2 fitted (which also raises the total cost to about 600+ million compared to the 200 mil needed using just tech 1 fits).again... scrounging up and organizing that many people is no small feat. and less desirable too as you'll have to split up all the loot between all those people."
"maybe if you had an idea of the mechanics at work here, you could be better informed.please tell us just how many gank fit catalysts, you can put together for 50 mil. then let us know what you could suicide gank with them.asking for arbitrary changes to sec hits, with little to no knowledge of the game, is asking for trouble.destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"and how often irl that happens in \"hisec\" areas, like in washington or london? how easly one can pull such a thing, and if it's not that easy to pull, than for what reason? irl world we have a whole layer of national security constantly working behind the scenes, and of course, by background story, we have it in eve universe too. but in fact it manifests itself only after the trigger has been pulled. yea, the eve uni is much more turbulent and wild, but that've already gone too far. i have no problem with ganking someone with valuable posessions, with not so cheap suicide ship involved, that somehow reflect the need to make some efforts and spend funds to prepare and commit such atrocity in high secure area. so, to somehow balance this we need such level of concord's reaction time and dps, that will call for proportionate fund investment from suicide ganker.and there are one other head of this hydra - because it not so costly of a trade, it allows for sg for fun, when ur just kill anyone you like/don't like, without any real profit. and combine this with unprecendent ease of aquiring another fully functional (not a trial!) alt in eve for the moment..- they don't really care and can switch alts from time to time.- as the topicstarter has already wrote, they lose cheap vessel and blow up very expensive- still they will profit in the long term, and low cost of commiting such atrocities make possible for do them for sheer fun- that's not so big of a deal, and they get profit from it, anyway- not so big deal, start another alt/buy another character- not really, in highsec u won't find so much pvp-hungry and brave enough players, and most of them have other things to do than to attack scary outlaw, most will fear this is a trap.because, if we speak in terms of eve is real, most of them would have been preemptivly stopped by national security and police, and turned into examples why someone shouldn't mess with the service. and because if, irl, we had an outrage with intense increasing of murders and property damaging in higly civilized urban areas, these services would reacted quickly and came in arms to stabilize situation and get the city block or even whole city under control. and that dinamic reaction of law enforcment agencies is completely absent from eve too. so to compare it with irl's state of affairs as it is is basically wrong. eve consists of huge pile of abstractions and artificial, far-fetched restrictions, added to the game just to balance things which ccp can't/doesnt want to simulate properly. and this particular aspect isn't well balanced currently."
"if your so afraid of losing a frieghter then why not fly an orca? a properly fit orca gets much more tank than a frieghter and so is much harder to kill and is cheaper than freighters."
"and +1million times"
"if the government refuses to besocialist and take care of our bills for us, someone has to. tis why i love canada, if your old enough ro young enough to not be paying on taxes, you can spend your time severely injuring yourself in drunken stunts with friends, and dont even have to worry about hospital bills"
"so you want to have your tank modules running all alone right after undocking? idea for the laziness and from me a clear \"no\".or even the cloak after jumping? bigger \"no\" for this. just hit the key or click the mouse and done.[u]things that would make eve better:[/u] nrds - remove local - balance cloak - sov-mechanic changes - less qq"
"i think the op wants to have his tank running while autopiloting around."
"dunno if anyone else has it, but i got killrights that can be activated on players on my overview, but often it dont showup until i actualy click on the char itselfmayby i yust have to reinstall eve orso"
"it is a game of choices, yes, but there is almost always an in-game solution to overcome mistakes, and the mistakes hurt, but they are not permanently debilitating. lose a ship stupidly? don't fly like that again. got scammed? don't fall for the scam again. undock with 20 plex in your hold in an ibis from jita 4-4? etc. here the problem is constant and all but unavoidable, the only \"solution\" is to purchase a new char with isk, or start over, quite immersion breaking.the game has been moving toward having no permanent way to screw up your char for a while now, years ago you could not remap your attributes, or change your face. i see no reason it can't be taken one step further and allow people to change their names, with proper and reasonable implementation."
"excellent to see the csm getting involved. :) and happy to see this thread still alive. this must happen!"
"and my microwave prefreeze my paminto loaf. thank you ccp for automating everything in our lives. it's far to difficult to launch a music player i have to alt tab to to play music in the background. ugh.."
"@shahfluffers:\"see... now we're going in circles again.\"no, you are going in circles because you keep trying to simplify the issue by thinking i am breaking this down as right and wrong. you have posted that same comment several times in this thread. it d"
"like i said, i have read and replied to previous posts of yours. not once have you shown where the abuse is. because you don't like how someone is using the , does not constitute abuse or exploit.yes the tos and eula are far reaching and loosely based in order to encompass all ccp deem inappropriate. but your problem is, ccp don't have an issue with how it's being used. i've even quoted a dev saying as much. i can provide links to this quote, if needed. you on the other hand, have yet failed to show how the parts of the tos you indicated are being broken. or show any member of ccp agreeing with you. simply saying a gm said something, doesn't quite cut it.no, people posting there is a problem, doesn't default into there being one. they have to actually show a problem. simply stating it as fact, doesn't make it so. i acknowledge you have an issue with people placing bounties for reasons you don't like. but that does not mean the is being abused or exploited. it merely means you don't like it.also including the term exploit, will not make you any more correct than before. it merely shows how desperate you are.i've read all you previous posts and have not once seen abuse being shown or proven. if you had any faith in what you are saying, you wouldn't have any problems doing what i ask, or continuing to argue the point. the fact you're now not replying speaks volumes.i started not long after beta, but both your time in the game and mine is irrelevant to what a sandbox game is. you obviously don't understand what one is. even though eve is classed as a sandbox game, it's not a true sandbox in the literal term. eve has rules and boundaries, but this makes it playable. a true sandbox does equal anarchy, but the fact you didn't know this doesn't surprise me.the only thing you got right was the following:yes it does allow for all styles. this means styles that interfere with yours and ones you may not like. you on the other hand think all styles are fine, as long as they do not interfere with you. that is wrong and would mean a themepark, not the other way around.so as i've read and replied to all, not yet seeing what i ask for, i'll ask again.please show me why the system is being abused. if you feel you've already done this, please show me where. a link will suffice.destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"underlined conflicting statements. morals inherently deal with proper and improper behavior... the difference between right and wrong. which differs from person to person.i see no problem with putting a bounty on someone out of spite. you do. we will never come to agreement on this.however you are trying to take away a freedom i enjoy... so i will fight your efforts to curtail it. you mean like the \"real systems\" of bounty placing that i showed through various articles? systems that are/were much less structured, bloody, and spiteful than anything we have in eve?actually... yes... eve is more like the wild west than you think it is.this is a \"future\" filled with greed, economic poverty, bribery, soulless economics, back-stabbing, slavery, terrorists, suicide bombers, super spies, prostitution, psychopaths, tribal/factional infighting, torture, mass murder, genocide, drug dealing, extortion, blackmail, genetic manipulation, \"living death,\" anarchy, orwellian security, etc. etc.obviously we are either not reading the same lore or interpreting it the same way.read what i said very carefully. i, in no way, said that his imprisonment had anything to do with his film (it had nothing to do with it). and yes... there was a bounty for his head... placed upon him by a pakistani politician... in the order of 10k usd... due to being \"offended\" by the film (which, again, had nothing to do with his imprisonment).so yes... if you want eve to be more like the real world... it's a very valid point to this discussion. which, again, proves that the \"correct version\" of morality is not as universal as you are making it out to be.believe it or not... some people think and perceive the world differently than you do. and forcing your version (or what you perceive to be a \"valid\" version) of what is \"correct\" does not jive with the concept of a sandbox... which is anarchistic at its core (see: anyone if free to do what they want, but other players are allowed to do the same thing for better or wose)."
"@shafluffers:apparently you are abandoning the debate since you refuse to acknowledge the commonly known difference of dictionary-defined english words as well as disregarding cited argument points recognized by any accredited university. my points are ba"
"to claim morality is objective rather than subjective, is to deny the existence of cultures and societies where different moral values exist."
"in the eve sandbox, why do people keep bringing up fairness? and golly gee, ccp put in a game mechanic and the players are using it as they see fit, rather than as the devs had originally envisioned it? call tmc, that's gotta be news...anybody can place a bounty on anybody, that seems the definition of fairness to me..."
"oh, pal, u probably haven't met cloak-fan boys yet. those will jump out of their pants sighting any reasonable suggestion to somehow fix/enhance this quite simplistic and unbalanced (in current its state) aspect of the game and will die gripping firmly to the 5-10 years old mechanics they accustomed to."
"+1me needs loads of trashers ;)"
"i know a few people who would sing joyously if this were implemented.+1 mmike azariah ----<U+FEFF> <U+FFFD>|(<U+30C4>)/<U+FFFD>"
"so then couldn't bookmarks be re-calibrated through a ship scan warp to a planet and then your bookmarks could automatically be adjusted based on the bodys location in space. or better yet a ship scan could determine how far things have shifter since your last visit based on the traversal of the planets around the star.anyways i still feel that this feature would be amazing and promote more scanning making all space more like wormhole space and therefore so much more fun but i do see the huge technical difficulties but if there's ever a way conceived ccp this would be awesome and brings the game that much more close to real life and allowing the game software to move forward in the future to controlling our real space ships humans wont leave earth why should we. the ships can do the heavy lifting through telepathy over wide band something will invent in the future :)."
"i'm with you i think there should be roll back timer i know that with out this the system is severely broken in that you can earn hundreds of millions of isk per hour with the current system using the tactic described. we were able to partially test this with the markee dragon stream. if it wasn't streamed there wouldn't have been so many snipers and much more profitable but still it was proven doable."
"highsec could stand to be reduced in size by a percentile of its systems. lowsec could be expanded by the same margin. but what i cannot disagree with is that nullsec is broken from an accessibility viewpoint. in terms of physical access routes it is in desperate need of at least twice as many gates in/out. as for power projection if this is a question of empires being too large and not using the space they already have then let's shorten bridge lengths. let's condense them. -20% to jump bridge range in the next patch. if successful roll out to -50% of todays bridge range. condense the empires by limiting their maneuvers and by necessity they will lose some ground, piece by piece. as for mining changes all i see is inflation going insane. new players can't afford these prices. a caracal today is literally 4x the price of what i paid for my first one and that was when i could barely afford one. your average newbie i highly, highly doubt practices all disciplines of eve and certainly is in no hurry to start the mandatory 2-4 alts this game demands in order to be self-sufficient. botting/isboxing is the same thing as far as i'm concerned, they're pay to win by virtue of paying more $ for higher productivity and only because ccp keep hamfisting players abilities to get a handle on resources/production. this bizarre and sad oligarchy of merchants and manufacturers i see regardless of whether they are nullsec alts or otherwise are strangling the game to death. if you want to fix mining my proposal is simple: make it impossible to manufacture t2 equipment inside highsec. maybe even restrict it to nullsec operations only. pretty much the same thing i have said for 3 years. plex is overused by highsec players to fund their game because they're inadequately able to supply their own materials and ships. they have no real progression laid before them. all advice i see given on forums and places like 4chan is \"spreadsheets in space\" \"zzzzz\" or \"join a nullsec corp straight away don't do the tutorials\". ccp alledeges the latter group have the highest retention rate but i doubt that it's that much higher than everywhere else. too much time is required to make it in this game, the ratio of winners to losers is skewed with most being losers and a couple of winners. in a previous csm summit a ccp person more or less outright stated that it doesn't matter how tiresome or tedious you make highsec, people will stay there no matter what. i know that my first adventures in to lowsec were hilariously dangerous as the spiteful little chimps dragging their knuckles over how good they are at killing newbs was punctuated with lost ships and paranoia. instead of having lowsec corporations actively recruit members they're encouraged by game mechanics to pillage everything that enters their space which only further cements lowsecs terrible reputation especially when combined with the low risk/reward situation. i'm getting tired of writing. this is just running over old ground. all of it related to the map and its interdependent game mechanics. i have more fun on sisi than i do on tq these days and that's a very dangerous thing because sisi is pretty one-dimensional."
"i can't see a reason for this just because you can already salvage so quickly in a destroyer or a noctis that this doesn't make a whole lot of since to me."
"ye i know..it's just that it seems there can be so much more."
"the new crimewatch got invented last winter, but there are a few things, that arent good.the criminal flag prevents you from warping or docking, when you are not in a pod. i want to see players, that are fleeting from concord and dock up. i dont know, why this was an exploit, as it was indide of normal game mechanics. you should be able to kill a hauler at a station and then warp away, fleet from concord and dock on station, as soon as your weapontimer ended.so the criminal flag allows only other players and concord to attack, you can still warp and dock.suspectflag:the problem: you can play stationgames with it, looting a can, wait for someone that shoots you, and then just dock and undock, till the timer expiries. then you take out something bigger and kill the guys, that attacked you.the solution:add a new flag called limited suspectflag (or thiefflag)the limited suspectflag is only for stealing loot from wrecks and containers. or remote assisting players in limited engagements. with the actual system, you can also use npc alts to protect wrecks from corpfights. without theyr own risk. this will not remove the stationgames, but makes them harder, as you will need to spend an utillity hi-slot for a remorerepair module. and you have to wait if someone makes a suicide gank. or you need an activaitable killright on you, that gets activated by an alt. but getting a suspectflag for stealing loot is too much. the limited suspectflag allows all members of a corporation (that includes npc corps too) and his alliance to attack the thief for 15 minutes. goodbye canflipstationgames.<U+FFFD>"
"the criminal flag means you cannot dock and this is by design. you should never be allowed to escape concords punishment, for obvious reasons.the suspect flag is simply a lower level of flagging and as such docking is allowed. but if you decide to attack a pilot with a suspect flag on a station, then you have to expect the chance he'll dock and shoot you. you have options in those situations and if you chose badly, then you only have yourself to blame.there is no need for a solution, as options are already available. but i shall talk about your request.the fact you chose to include npc alts in order to justify this new flag, means it's already off to a bad start. if your corp needs to protect loot, then they need to get organised and do that as a corp. don't look to the game to hold your hand in this regard.one thing almost all know, is that station games suck. if you wish to participate in station games, then you have to expect this and understand what could happen. breaking the new flagging rules to accommodate station games, is not the answer.destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"i think it would be amazing if the reputation tab was used more often with the ability to add comments to your reputation settings. this would allow for the marking of people who just like to scam other players or allow people to be warned about just general d bag's. the current system really doesn't have much use except to see who you should shoot or not shoot based on your current alignments. i'm not saying this should change just that the comments system would be pretty awesome.it would allow for the creation of nice people in the game because if they have a reputation that's going to follow them around saying they just grief people and are just annoying to be around.this also allows for positive comments which could potentially be integrated into the market system allowing for good and bad reputation comments. being allowed to be added for people who place items at super inflated prices in the hopes someone's not paying enough attention and loses a billion isk on some ammo. then we could maybe get a sort market option by sellers rep eliminating more of the accidental buys. yes i know there is the percentage settings and they do work pretty well.just a quick idea i had anyone else think it's decent or maybe needs a bit of tweaking through constructive criticism."
"i'm not really sure what this gentlemen is asking for since you can now play for free and if he is retired there is no reason if he is reasonably good at the game that he doesn't potentially have the ability to earn enough isk for a plex or two per month. i guess maybe he's asking to be able to convert plex back into cash so he can pay real bills otherwise i don't see a point to this post. sorry maybe if you added more details to what your looking for you could change my mind."
"i'm sorry, but i do find it amusing that someone who gave themselves a name ending in 4life, (misspelled presumably because the correct spelling was already taken?), is such a strong campaigner for a name change system. jint hikaru - miner / salvager / explorer / spacebum in the beginning the universe was created. this has made a lot of people very angry and been widely regarded as a bad move."
"i've had a lot, a lot, of time to think about this.the reason for the misspelling is that i originally created the char with the correct spelling in 2004, but the tutorial bugged out and i couldn't progress. so i created this one, then deleted the old one with the correct spelling.i was a dumb kid, ok?"
"good lord, are people still wasting time with this?"
"apparently morals have nothing to do with someone deciding, what is good or bad and the isn't fair. because fair in a sandbox game, means respecting others play styles and not interfering with them. because of anarchy.destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"since when is making the use of the assembly hall for voicing matters that concern players a waste of time? never. it is fairly odd a csm of all people would say something as biased as that. the last time i checked, csms are to serve the players as liaisons to ccp due to their being elected by the players. not make snide comments when a player makes use of their own assembly hall forum.@roannon:fairness was brought up because fairness was in ccp's direct quote is why.on a similar note it boggles my mind also that ccp just last year made it very clear after the 2012 fanfest panel bullying incident that ccp does not endorse harassment in any form, yet the new is exactly that, a bully enabler. <U+FFFD>i want to reassure you that ccp in no way condones the harassment of players, especially those who suffer from depression or suicidal thoughts, as we understand the possible consequences of such abhorrent behavior,<U+FFFD> ccp<U+FFFD>s ned coker said.\""
"the is a weapon, it is simply less direct than a turret or missile.any abuse of this weapon that is demonstrated to be harassment can be handled appropriately.since the bounty has no meaning, or harassment potential, if weapons are not used towards that target, should we also place more limits on these weapons that can be mounted on turrets or missiles?upgrading local to eliminate all afk influence what if local chat changed, hunting the cloaked..."
"would be great!+1"
"i like this idea."
"+1 would love this too :)"
"no need to flame just look at eve kill. getting past the 5 man talos gank and the 10 man brutix ganks you find 6 mails on the first page of 5+b kills done by catalysts."
"it costs a lot more than \"50m\" to down a freighter.hint: those catalysts need things like guns and damage modsit's a fundamental mistake to try and balance things on hull cost alone. for instance, velators are free; to \"balance\" a freighter against the cost of ganking with noobships, you'd need to give freighters infinite ehp.the paradox is resolved by including the factor of player effort. yes, 20 catalysts can kill a freighter. that's absolutely fine, because 20 catalysts can kill just about anything - you can easily kill a carrier with that much dps for instance.tl;dr: no."
"the one link you gave which was even remotely catalyst only, was this one. but at only 16,033 damage, it's obviously a follow on hit after a failed first attempt. one of which we have no idea of the ships involved.although a good attempt at side tracking it doesn't answer the tasks i put to you, based on your 50 million limit.so i'll ask again.please tell us just how many gank fit catalysts, you can put together for 50 mil. then let us know what you could suicide gank with them.destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"not really, no. the only thing that there's a lot of is people whining about it because of what a shock it is.also, even there were a lot of them, so what? it's not like the size of the ships used is in any way relevant.there are severe consequenes, and the value of the ships involved is utterly and completely irrelevant. if anything, being able to kill expensive ships with cheap ships means that the game is properly balanced.please provide and price-check said fit. by the way, in none of the links you provided seemed did the cats seem to have more than (at best, being very generious) 700 dps <U+FFFD> most seemed to have had 400-500."
"real life examples are bad.if you ram your car into my car intentionally, you will not receive insurance.there is a very simple way to fix this.if concord is involved in killing you, you get no insurance pay out.if you really still want to nuke me, go for it. but it will cost you the whole amount, as it should."
"would you rather players do thisthe topic of isboxer and multiboxing always get associated with botting, automation etc, and it always seems to have the same arguments against it. most of the opposition, from what i gather are from people that don't quite grasp the concept and functionality of isboxer, syenergy, or whatever the new flavor of the month is. broadcasting keys to multiple clients is not the same as scripting multiple keys and commands to a client(s) in terms of automation. autonomous programs do not require human input aside from turning on and running. in no way can isboxer do that without an additional third party program or script. can isboxer be used to macro and/or keybind? yes, but that is nothing different that a logitech g15 or a razer keyboard can do and that is \"legal\" because it still requires input from a human. bottom line is this- if ccp went crazy and banned isboxer, i would not lose a minute of sleep, because i have, as i am sure many others out there do, the resources and capability to set up hardware to do what isboxer can with equal to, or greater proficiency.edit- do not pay attention to the above links article. it is old and does not reflect ccp's current view on the matter of multiboxing. i am sure that some of you quote ninjas would read it without looking at the date or researching the article and have a field day."
"exactly my view that people seem to miss, it's a character you don't need to pay for while you're not using.i have a hauler/freighter second char, i don't move things that often (once a month/couple of months) so it just sits there, and when i need a ton of stuff moved it's there.this would be unwise and impractical to have a second account for, what you are paying the extra for is training an account that never goes away or becomes inactive."
"on a more cerebral note i think it's fascinating. are we going to see a repeat of the incarna fiasco? is hiring someone who comes from a company that has been literally sued for creative slave-labour conditions on its staff really the right choice?to play devil's advocate ccp have hired him to control the products' development and direction. ea might be horrifying monsters but their strategies for successful business still work somewhat. they haven't hired him as cfo or any other top level position, he still gets his instructions from someone else up the chain from him. i can see this going one of two ways: the death of ccp through some kind of elaborate corporate espionage act, or ccp's final acceptance in the mainstream through wod and dust."
"here's his profile"
"although its not very well explained, i think you are suggesting that i can put a comment in your standings to say \"this guys is trustworthy\", and the rest of eve can read it????you really need to think these things through before posting them. how can you not see how this would be abused?????what if an entire alliance decided to get all its members to down-vote you.... or all mark you as \"this guy has sexual relations with goats\"or that guy with the 50 accounts uses all his alts to up-vote all his characters.... sorry, but its a bad idea!jint hikaru - miner / salvager / explorer / spacebum in the beginning the universe was created. this has made a lot of people very angry and been widely regarded as a bad move."
"i can't think of any way that this could possibly abused.such a shame that you, conseptionism, are a notorious scammer, awoxer and spy and that i have no way of telling the whole cluster this.(naturally anything that i put into a rep comment is 100% trustworthy and reliable and people should believe me)"
"the amount of moderation that would then need to accompany such a system would be ludicrous.for example, given the opportunity, i would leave a comment on the poster above me involving genetalia or an ascii emote because he's a jerk, he smells, and is the most trustworthy 3rd party service in the game."
"i do think this is a good idea"
"perhaps you were thinking of the meaning of liff?"
"good to see galdor still clutching at straws and involving an unrelated quote from ccp.let me show you some quotes, that are related to bounties.destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"@nikk: essentially you are right. those exploiting the current are using it as a weapon against those they cannot openly attack as freely as they would like since those players they target do not normally stoop to their level."
"you have succintly described what a is for."
"stoop to their level? i take it then you have never won at a game of chess then, as you wouldn't stoop so low as to be involved in regicide.but you are correct, it is a weapon but a rather blunt one at that. but it is working as intended. destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"what would this add to gameplay? seems to me that it would be neat the first day then be totally ignored after that.. lot of work for what amounts to not much at all."
"keep trying. you've still not found a km, to match your magical 50 million cost using catalysts only.also could you please show us proof, of the 11 million max cost per catalyst you mention that's involved in that km?thank you kindly.destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"highsec ganking is at an all time low.i really dislike people like the op - no matter how many buffs they get, they still scream and cry for more.sad."
"also, the price is irrelevant.the entire idea that your ship should be immune to a ship that costs less (or twenty of them) is just pants on head idiotic.just biomass yourself, op. you don't understand this game."
"someone gets it... i do the same with some industrial alts that i need but haven't been able to train up without stopping training on my combat characters."
