"so you're essentially asking ccp to give away free game time. no."
"what are you smoking? tell you what, stop smoking it, get a clue, then realise how daft you're being.destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"okay, so now everyone buys plex, that makes ccp no money, because they just spawn magically... how exactly do you expect ccp to survive as a company? i eagerly await your obviously highly informed opinion."
"i had been wondering what software people were using to multibox with, thanks for clueing me up on it! =)"
"aye, i'm not up for doing daily wh op's with red capital ship blobs getting involved keep it classy please."
"this is a very interesting thread so i'm bumping this.i think you can dramatically nerf high sec just by modifying the content of belts, example:1.0: only veldspar, some concentrated veldspar, very rare scordite. small pirate gangs roaming (powerful enough to kill an unexpecting and poorly equiped venture)0.9: same. maybe a bit more concentrated veldspar and scordite0.8: same as 0.9. some rare condensed scordite0.7: add some dense veldspar. and rarely massive scordite. pirates are stronger, lonely ventures can not survive long. need to group for protection. maybe implement a system that gives the opportunity to frigates pirate oriented players to freely shoot someone (only getting the suspicious tag, only in belts)0.6: same, add plagioclase and the occasional azure plagioclase. more roids. rats now attack with the occasional destroyers. even small parties are at risk.0.5: same, now pvp pirates players do not suffer any tag and anyone can shoot anyone freely in a roid belt. only place where you can find rich plagioclase.thoughts?"
"according to forum rules,thread locked."
"i get it. he wants to take away nullsecs abilitity to generate income & give it to highsec mission runners instead."
"i thought it was clear that i would remove bounty and increase lp.the point would be to not remove barriers of entry, but have some loop holes through it.while i am biting.high sec dont need boosting, it needs fixing. null sec is what needs a boost, but not a monopoly oriented one."
"so then add as part of the tutorial and all new players get reasonable insurance quotes from the npc corps."
"you still haven't come up with an explanation as why removing insurance is a great idea & how it could be replaced by the players."
"you never asked."
"it's the whole point of a proposal & what separates a proposal from a bad post."
"ignore the fact that's called insurance. it's really just a pvp subsidy so that people without shedloads of isk will continue to get blown up.also, y u trollin' again?"
"because there is absolutely no way at all that an auto-blocking feature wouldn't block people who had nothing to do with jita bot spam. you would end up with pretty much everyone in your block list. i also don't agree with account blocking if it's going to tell you the persons account name. actually i don't agree with account blocking at all."
"could you elaborate why you think it is a bad idea at all? personally i don't care if it actually tells me the account name so i would be fine if it did not give out that information and just showed the character names as normal."
"because proposal is too mainstream :3first of all be indulgent with my english as i'm french and i just woke up (yeah yeah who cares just tell your noobish ideas already):from what i already read in the forum most players want more interaction between their own characters, some kind of meeting point in every station to walk around with some neat features. while that's quite cool i believe we should be more ambitious.why not implement the possibility of walking in your own ship, and create some interaction with your crew? even for the frigate-class there should be at least 15-20 npcs just to operate the vessel. of course not every one of them should be interactive, there will be key roles (quartermaster. engine operator, second in command... if you played me or ftl you can relate to this in some extent). being efficient in your interaction should be very important, as it can make you win or lose fights.in the same idea, players could board other players ships in station and help command the ship of their friends!another idea that i have would be to implement maintenance costs to the ship. like paying for fuel, maintain guns, keep food reserves..."
"+1 for option 2."
"draleth,thank you very much for showing support.please, feel free to inform your friends and corp mates about this proposal.dmc"
"i have to say the 'dynamic music' system we have now is ok, in a sense it gives an accurate sense of fitting: for example, when entering lowsec or a wh, music suddenly changes to a more fitting one, remembering where you are.however, it turns itself to be annoying when travelling around in the same type of space, let's say highsec, and music changes apparently randomly every 2 systems, right when i am enjoying the song. sometimes it's even more bizarre, logging in with a certain song and then changing just seconds after seeing my docked ship. moreover, while all songs are great (including the new wh-0.0 ones), you can end up tired of being forced to hear the same ones over and over again, having to change space type to hear something different (even a quick wh trip ends up to be boring in that sense; i prefer not to imagine living there or in nullsec).i'd vote for being able to enable the old jukebox or the new one at will, from game settings, so you can hear the song you want or keeping the location-sensible mode active whenever you want. oh, and please, add the new wh-0.0 themes to the old jukebox."
"looking for more love to the pos refining arrays now that pos's are going to get some confirmed luvin!hrolt ceo live free; die proud"
"i +1 a change to the pos refinery arrays. they are currently a massive headache to wh corps who can't afford/fly a rorqual."
"i just want to point out that ccp legalized crime by including it as a valid game mechanic in the eula."
"i don't think the op knows how the plex selling system works ingame. if he did he wouldn't have made this ridiculous thread.summary of eves last four expansions:"
"let me translate that for you into english.so swiping your real life cash everytime you lose a ship takes the edge of an encounter? did your brain logic have some polarity reversal or something?"
"see what happened? you got trolled by rl poor ppl who play internet spaceship game for free. some ppl are rl rich, they're known here in eve as noobs, others are rl poor, known as 1337 vets. here, bums make fun of normal ppl. don't take that away from them."
"people who buy plex help pay for the free icecream ccp hands out to you every month.in world of tanks, newbcake schoolkids moan about people with jobs buying lowes to make in-game credits, but they can't bend their little minds around the fact that those premium tank buyers are paying for their free gameplay.( selling plex officially also makes gold farmers cry, and encourages them to go pollute other mmos. )"
"its called the power of [insert number here] as advertised by ccp.working as intended."
"it sounds like you're suggesting making belts in 0.5 system essentially nullsec pockets where anyone can attack you and the only consequences for such an action are the consequences you can inflict upon them... the reality is, the belt system already functions similar to this: 1.0 - 0.5... increasing belt worth, decreasing concord response time to criminal actions. 0.1 - 0.4... theoretically increasing belt worth (although not in practice), no concord response to criminal actions.. .limited protection on gates and stations from sentry guns.. 0.0 best belts, lawless.... the problems are: a.) belt value-sec status gradient needs rebalancing. b.) mining is generally a low-effort activity... while npc's do become more potent with lower sec status, it's the risk of assault from other players that poses the most threat to you... and that threat is binary in nature (extreme threat if a neutral is present, and no threat if they are not.). there is no real gradient to player-induced danger on an individual... the gradient doesn't exist until you examine gang vs gang..."
"^ this.please just stop posting, op. get a little experience under your belt first before suggesting major game changes.summary of eves last four expansions:"
"uhm, no! :grumpy cat:"
"eve feels small enough as it is. it doesn't need any help getting smaller."
"i like the idea.every time i go to jita 4 i see a huge number of ships, all in each others way exiting the station. a busy spaceport like this probably whould benefit from having multiple number of exits and such. the look of the station isn't a big thing for me as such but it seems reasonable that the busyest trade hub ingame whould have a more extravagant look than others."
"just because your entire corporation is full of ridiculously cowardly carebears who will scatter at the sight of a single other player does not mean that other player and what he's doing is overpowered. it just means you're cowards and have no right to the nullsec space you're claiming.man up or go to highsec."
"currently i am running my own corporation and alliance in null sec. the corporation itself is very new player friendly, and tried to encourage new players to get involved in null sec activities, but one of the biggest problems that i have noticed is while yes they can loot and salvage behind more experienced players, or rat in groups, when the corporation is quiet, there is nothing for them to do.lets say we have a player who's only been playing for 3 days, and can only fly a frigate. he's on during the quieter times when not many people are around, what can he/she do? the anomolies will tear him to pieces, even the lowest null sec anoms like a hidden den. the belt rats? those too. he can't mine because of said rats too.what i would like to see is not a change in the anomolies themselves, but adding in the 'high sec anoms', such as hideaways, burrows and refuges. having these anomolies in the null sec anom list would give new players something they can actually do on their own, while being part of a group as a whole.so tl:dr-week old players can't run null sec anoms solo-add hideaways, burrows and refuges to the null sec anoms list-it will encourage more players to get into null sec and allianceswhat do you lot think of the idea?"
"currently, players in highsec are abusing corp mechanics to avoid wardecs ... if they get a wardec, they leave corp, or disband it and then reform it.( btw, james315 also uses this mechanism to grief miners who wardec his one man holding corp ... heh )i suggest that leaving a corp during a wardec should result in every one of your opponents getting a free one month killright.disbanding a corp during a wardec should result in the same.forming a corp should not be something a player does lightly. (if you just want a social group in-game, make a chat channel )"
"why? i mean what do you think this would achieve - aside from locking people into a way they can't win, i mean. do you expect this will suddenly make them change their behavior and come out to fight?or, more likely, will they simply log into their alts, in an alt corporation, and continue to ignore the wardec?the risk averse are not going to suddenly man-up and start undocking to fight. if they wanted to fight, they'd be fighting without any extra \"incentives\". all your proposal will seemingly do is make alt characters in alt corps standard issue for any corporation that wants to avoid wardecs.also, they aren't abusing the mechanics - they're using them in the way ccp has stated time and time again they are allowed to use them. so if you want to blame someone, blame the guys with the rule book."
"they can either fight ... or they can hide. either is fine. not being able to use your main for a month is a fitting punishment for someone who is completely risk averse.but they should not be able to just walk away from a wardec without consequences.and yes, this behavior is currently allowed. proposing a game change is the correct way to fix this."
"*yawn*kick everyone. reform. lol @ dec'erscan't kick/killright still generated?sweet! recruit players... wardec corp with alt... kick everyone....enjoy 30d of free pew pew.except then, people would be even less inclined to join corps which is counterproductive to ccp goals.next."
"i like it."
"personally i like achievements, i find them funny and motivating, even though they're nothing else than a tag. as long as they don't modify game mechanics, and encourage people to try more things, why not?"
"i'd like to add in to this proposal if i may.we should also receive an audible alarm when our drones initially start to take damage.when a drone is taking damage, it should flash red in the drone control window in the same way players in the watch list window flash red when they start taking damage.summary of eves last four expansions:"
"thumbs up for this. more drone transparency. this will make droneboats more manageable and using drones all-around more fun and meaningful. a lot of feedback from what happens to your drones is missing. and for god's sake make a hotkey for mining drone's mine repeatedly."
"i agree with this. many times i've missed my drones where being damaged, because i only have a little screen (which i have to expand several times) and my camera to notice they're being attacked. and i'm not a drone boat user. i hope this and other drone issues are being improved in the next expansio or major update."
"a few cloaked afk ships cannot shut down an entire constellation. they cannot, in fact, do anything. no modules can be activated while cloaked, no actions can be taken while afk. they cannot shut down anything. the only people who can shut down the constellation are the residents.also what kind of imbecilic world do you live in where suggesting corporations/alliances in nullsec have defense fleets is nothing more than \"troll statements\"?go back to highsec, little bear."
"well, that's a decent start. thank you for having the human decency for doing that.no...no...no...did you not read any of the old threads when you used the search tool?i had such high hopes for this one"
"only time will tell unfortunately.o/ cellydon't mistake fact for arrogance, supposition for fact, or disagreement for dismissal. perception is unique in that it can be shared or singular. run with the pack if you wish, but think for yourself. a sandwich can be a great motivator."
"in some ways pos warfare was superior.large alliances rarely fought over their space until the bitter end - more often than not if the defender lost too many fights early in the conquest they would implode and try to evac what they could. this left swathes of space ready to be taken by the agresssor.starbases claiming sov would eventually run out of fuel, meaning they could be rather quickly destroyed without the protection of hardeners and the delay of a reinforcement timer.however under dominion, sov structures take no effort to maintain aside from ensuring the auto-pay button is clicked, and many alliances would rather keep paying for their former space simply to make the victors grind through multiple reinforcement timers. what's more, these structures automatically regenerate their shield in around 7 hours, and don't need manual intervention to replace stront and restore the reinf timer. therefore it's quite easy to inflict a constant, dull structure grind on a victorious opponent with next to no effort or risk at all. this is bad gameplay, pure and simple.and of course there was also the option to 'kite' towers, bringing subsequent battles into more dubious timezones for attackers able to put that effort in. no such luck in dominion, reinforcement timers are so safe and secure that cross-timezone wars become pointless. dominion was an abortion of an expansion that gave us a half-finished sovereignty system which not only failed to fix the flaws of its predecessor, but in many respects also magnified those flaws. what we need is a system that allows sov to be affected by a larger variety of factors, not all of which are boring structure shoots."
"buying plex does benefit those who do the real world grind for money, if that's how they choose to spend it. arguably eves real time skill system also benefits those with other commitments. i have no problem with it, and given the average eve player is an older gamer, i think it's a good match."
"let them buy their plex, they are too stupid to actually make that isk them selves, people who aren't lazy or too stupid will continue to make more isk and play the game for nothing.also form a business perspective during these time's plex is a very clever idea, it helps ccp continue to pay its staff even with the trouble with the banks in iceland and the rest of the world."
"my personal opinion is that eve should be a free-for-all.i recognize that the logical consequence of unrestricted warfare is that the strong will prey on the weak.the goals of war in both eve and in real-life are to disarm the enemy, and to enforce political goals to varying degrees. this can involve, to varying degrees, the destruction of armies, the invasion of territory, and the breaking of the enemy's will. warfare in high-sec, whether concord sanctioned or not, involves the destruction of enemy assets, and the destruction of the enemy's will to fight. due to game mechanics, territory control in high-sec is a dubious goal.i take it for my premise that the main complaints about high-sec violence chiefly revolve around the fact that most high-sec residents, especially primarily pve players have no desire, will or ability to fight. against aggressors with both the will and capability to conduct war, unprepared defenders never stand a chance. some high-sec wars seem to be stale-mates, or cases where the aggressor does not continue the war, and the defender does not make the war mutual. i'd argue that the statistical majority of these cases are events where war-dec evasion, in the form of defending members dropping their corporation and reorganize in holding corporations and other forms of social gatherings, and making use of the game mechanics to generally avoid war. in some instances, it may well be that the aggressor does not have the capacity to overcome the defenders, in which case, the most logical course of action for the aggressor would be to stop the war.the only case where a high-sec defender would suffer any meaningful loss from attempting to evade a war-dec would be if there are substantial corp assets such as poses and expensive offices.high-sec warfare in eve is as all warfare, conducted for political reasons. in the most extreme form of war, the goal would be the destruction of organizations, and the disbandment of a gathering of players; just as in the most extreme forms of null-sec or real-life war, the goal would be the annihilation of the opposing political body. limited forms of war in high-sec would involve the destruction of assets, be it ships, or structures; it can also involve the containment or the erosion of the enemy's capabilities, by inhibiting income generating activities or recruitment.the primary reaction of players who avoid war is denial. they never wanted to be in a situation where they could suffer loss. they are often outraged that another party would have the nerve to interfere with their activities. as a result, they do not respond to war as a form of social intercourse, where one party, being unable to fight would be forced to treat or surrender. rather, they try to ignore the problem, and use every game mechanic available, or even meta-game appeals to game-masters to avoid conflict.the tension between those who desire to force aggression on others and those who seek to avoid or rather, ignore conflict at any cost, is often seen as a social problem in eve. as a problem between \"solo\" or anti-social players, who only want activities, be it pvp or pve, at their own pace. and those who in my opinion, rightfully insist on full interaction between all players.ripard teg, for example, compared unrestricted aggression between players and groups of players as \"high-level\" players being allowed to crush \"low-level\" players. many critics of this view would dismiss the notion of distinguishing players or corporations as being \"higher level\" or \"lower level\" because eve online contains no clear in-built indicators of player-progression or skill. the social and realism aspects of the game makes mechanics like skill-points less decisive, or rather, a poor indicator, in determining an individual's or group's capabilities and performance in the game. i propose that the difference between the performance of players and groups of players in eve online rests entirely in the meta-game. organization, strategy and psychology are more often the defining factors of a group's abilities rather than the actual ships and modules that the game mechanics empower them to use. for this reason, it is impossible to implement any game mechanics that measure groups. but based on cursory estimates of the disposition of groups of players, it is still easy to tell the outcome of any conflict.if some organizations are indisputably stronger than other organizations, should they then be allowed to aggress weaker organisations in high-sec? proponents of aggression would argue that nature must run its course in eve. the strong will survive, those with the will to build strong organizations will prosper. opponents of unrestricted high-sec aggression will argue that this would lead the the annihilation of the weak, which to them is a bad thing. some go on to say that players with no desire to fight, being forced into conflict will result in the loss of subscription revenue, which would be a bad thing for ccp. (in fact entire arguments are formed around the gain and loss of subscription revenue.) the main problem with an argument revolving around subscription revenues is that it assumes that ccp's best course of action for the game is to capture as diverse a player base as possible. they would go on to say that low and null-sec are pvp outlets for players, and that high-sec should be a place for pve players to play in peace.i believe that the essence of warfare and combat in eve is the ability to pursue the conflict to decisive ends.continued."
"continued:i believe that the essence of warfare and combat in eve is the ability to pursue the conflict to decisive ends. anything else would turn eve into a sports game, with pvp as an \"outlet\" for aggression and pretty player explosions. pvp in eve is not a contest as a starcraft match is a contest. but rather, war in eve is a form of politics. one group exerting its will on another through force.suicide ganking is another story, more on that later...the questionnaire is here:"
"not every questions answered, i mostly let out the wardecs because i do not really care enough about them at the moment.1. who should be (suicide) ganking in high-sec?anyone who wants to suicide gank in high-sec. i would just put those people into a corner. if they are interested in that, and want to learn how concord-mechanic works, how you can trick them, and how a gank ultimatly works, should just ask, or do it.2. who should be ganked in high-sec?anyone. eve is an non-consensiual game. anyone is always in danger. who to be ganked is a question for the one who ganks, and not the one who will be ganked.3. why should these people gank and be ganked high-sec? (especially when economic considerations are disregarded by the aggressors)s.o. because it is part of the game - an ecenomic loss is not really an argument. a simple ganking ship can be funded within a very short time.10. does a new player have a right to avoid pvp in high-sec? does this only apply in rookie systems?no, instead the tutorial should make a clear point of how to protect himself from other players, and how to act to avoid beeing ganked. afk mining, autopiloting, botting in missions...11. considering statement 10: does a new corporation have the right to avoid pvp in high-sec? nope. when you make a cooperation you gave to put funds and money into it, thus giving it already enough though to think about the topic \"could i be ganked or infiltrated.\"11b. if we consider corporations that are \"newbie friendly\" or that brand themselves as places for new players to learn the game? does this or should this affect the \"ethics\" of wardecs?i doubt that most of the corps who say \"we are newbie friendly\" actually provide help for the new ones. yes, maybe a little, but they really just want some pilots to use. for cooperations who actually do it - just the new ones how to avoid pvp, as already mentioned.all this considered, what is the future of high-sec aggression?12. considering that high-sec aggression in the form of predatory war-decs and suicide ganking is not a violation of the eula although it is seen as and popularly labeled as \"griefing\".it would be griefing if the gankers hunt down one target, all the time. from what i have gathered, most of the gankers have their own reasons. they fly in, pick a target at random a gank. they don't say \"let's fubar him over for the next week.\"13. also considering that many concessions have been made to the pacifist community in the form of mining barge buffs, and the permissibility of war-dec evasions.as already mentioned - their might be a lot of \"pacifism\", it is still a pvp game.14. and bearing in mind that a statistical majority of characters accumulate their wealth in high-sec.they do, but protecting themselves against harm is a rather simple matter. no afking, no anti-tanking, not botting.15. should we be encouraging or discouraging high-sec aggression?neither. this should be balanced out by itself.16. \"harsh competition in high-sec costs us subscription revenue\" - does this warrant any interference with high-sec aggression? would the game be better if high-sec was a less competitive environment? well, if ccp is so hard on their money, they should change high sec to no pvp at all. but that would - on the other hand - ruin the game for a lot of other people too, and they had to change a lot of things as well. i am sure they won't make this.17. would the game be better or worse if there was more prevalence of high-sec aggression?i would say it would be better, because more exciting and tense. but, that's just my opinion."
"1. whoever wants to2. whoever the ganker wants to gank3. because your not safe anywhere? for the lols and tears? make up your own reasons?yes4. avoiding pvp is a choice. 5. so you should only agress when your sure to die?6. there are a myriad of ways to avoid a wardec from disbanding, hiring mercs, moving to low/null, joining an npc corp7. dec whoever you want.8. to allow people kill others and avoid concord consequenses.9. since when? big sov blocs have always been free to gank/dec people anywhere they want....9b. call it what you want, do it or don't...its your choice.10. no. always being in danger is part of eve's charm11. no.11b. no.target f1-f8?12. consider it what you want...your free do do it or not...thats a personal choice.13. barges are buffed and you can avoid wardecs but you can't avoid pvp against a determined opponet.14. ok its beared in mind15. kill them all and let whatever diety you do or do not subscribe to sort it out?15b. free as a bird to do what you want to who you want when you want16. no.17. it would still be eve....its fine, leave it alone....if anything high sec is still too safe and too easy to make massive quantities of isk in virtually free from danger...."
"answering just 2 (who should be ganked in hs)- anyone that refuses to take appropriate countermeasures.seriously, it's not hard to recognise that if you are mining in a nice shiny hulk, the seven catalysts on d-scan are not your friends, and not even neutral. that's plenty of warning to avoid a gank.noone that uses the market is immune to market pvp (undercutting), noone that mines is immune to resource pvp (someone else beating you to the best asteroids/icefields), noone that undocks should be immune to ship v ship pvp."
"uh, thanks for the responses. i didn't intend it to be a questionaire, they're just guiding questions and comments that i put down while thinking the issue through. and i just happen to do my thinking in a resolution format."
"ganking and wardecs need to be made easier and more fun. they've piled on nerf after nerf to them over the years, but why? the main draw of eve is how open it is, and basically how much of an arse you can be. they used to promote such things in the bloody trailers. i mean no one joins up to eve because of the pve - at least in other mmos the pve is colourful and varied, in eve it's red crosses on a spreadsheet."
"made a proper survey form to get some scientific data, i hope to see responses from all sorts of players."
"1. who should be (suicide) ganking in high-sec?anyone who wants to. 2. who should be ganked in high-sec?anyone the gankers deem a worthy target, for whatever reasons they have come up with for that worth.3. why should these people gank and be ganked high-sec? (especially when economic considerations are disregarded by the aggressors)crazy loot in the cargohold, running their mouth, target of a merc contract, whatever,should wardecs exist outside of rvb and giant null-coalitions settling scores in trade hubs?yes4. considering that many people avoid pvp like the plague, and the prevalence of dec avoidance,yes5. considering that anyone with half a brain-stem would commit aggression when there are favourable chances of winning,yes6. noting the outrage over the infanticide of vulnerable corporations and alliances, yes7. who should be deccing whom?anyone and everyone. 8. why should they be in wardecs? in a structureless, sovless high-sec, does there even need to be a reason?settle scores, drive off the other guys, stake a claim (as best as possible) to a system, etc.9. \"stronger corporations and alliances should not be able to harm weaker corporations and alliances in high-sec.\" i assume that no-one would even consider this notion in low or null-sec, but is this statement valid in high-sec?no9b. if a null-sec entity launches a vicious propaganda campaign against another null-sec entity, noone really cares.but a high-sec entity launches a vicious military and psychological campaign against a weaker high-sec entity. and this is called, bullying, griefing, new-player and new-corp infanticide, etc.grow up. james 315 is spouting all kinds of rhetoric about \"ebil miners\" ... and the miners are doing the same thing about him. 10. does a new player have a right to avoid pvp in high-sec? does this only apply in rookie systems?no, not entirely. if they're subject to different rules than the rest of us, they'll be in for even more of a shock than they already are. hell, just look at the whining of \"older\" players who have only missioned or mined for the last 4 years.miners -- take about 1 year to get all mining and refining sills to 5, maybe 18 months (note, last time i did this was when the learning skills were a thing).missioners -- you're already training combat skills.there's no excuse for a four year old character to not have at least the basic skills necessary to fly a meta-fit cruiser or bc well.11. considering statement 10: does a new corporation have the right to avoid pvp in high-sec? no.11b. if we consider corporations that are \"newbie friendly\" or that brand themselves as places for new players to learn the game? does this or should this affect the \"ethics\" of wardecs?no. shielding players against eve (for any reason) is a bad thing.all this considered, what is the future of high-sec aggression?12. considering that high-sec aggression in the form of predatory war-decs and suicide ganking is not a violation of the eula although it is seen as and popularly labeled as \"griefing\".it's not griefing per ccp. stop applying non-eve expectations to eve.13. also considering that many concessions have been made to the pacifist community in the form of mining barge buffs, and the permissibility of war-dec evasions.this was a bad move on ccp's part. miners only learned that \"a ret fit for max yield will outmine a 'tanky' mack\" (sic). nothing has changed.14. and bearing in mind that a statistical majority of characters accumulate their wealth in high-sec.ok ... this shouldn't be the case.15. should we be encouraging or discouraging high-sec aggression?yes.15b. and to what extent?turn it up to 11.16. \"harsh competition in high-sec costs us subscription revenue\" - does this warrant any interference with high-sec aggression? would the game be better if high-sec was a less competitive environment? no to both. 17. would the game be better or worse if there was more prevalence of high-sec aggression?that depends. ccp would need to htfu first and get back where they used to be (i.e. most responses about \"it's not fairrrr!!\" were responded to with \"them's the ropes, get used to it\")"
"thanks for taking the time to write a long answer.anyone who does not want to write me an essay should use the multiple choice questionnaire. i hope to see some carebear responses in there too!"
"1. who should be (suicide) ganking in high-sec?anybody who can or wants to.2. who should be ganked in high-sec?anybody that others want to gank.3. why should these people gank and be ganked high-sec? (especially when economic considerations are disregarded by the aggressors)if people make themselves victims by the way they play, then they should be treated as such by those who are predators.3a. should wardecs exist outside of rvb and giant null-coalitions settling scores in trade hubs?definitely, war decs are a way to inflict both psychological and economic warfare on others.4. considering that many people avoid pvp like the plague, and the prevalence of dec avoidance,emphatically yes, we're playing eve precisely because it's not a copy of every other mmo out there.5. considering that anyone with half a brain-stem would commit aggression when there are favourable chances of winning,once again emphatically yes.6. noting the outrage over the infanticide of vulnerable corporations and alliances,if vulnerable corps and alliances were immune to war decs then they would become the norm, and that's not good for eve as a game, or an idea. it's up to corporations and alliances to organise themselves so that they aren't vulnerable, not ccp.7. who should be deccing whom?anybody who feels that they have a reason to, just for lols or because they can.8. why should they be in wardecs? in a structureless, sovless high-sec, does there even need to be a reason?highsec isn't absolute safety, and neither should it be. war is a natural progression that is encouraged by the single shard and the competitive nature of the game.9. \"stronger corporations and alliances should not be able to harm weaker corporations and alliances in high-sec.\" i assume that no-one would even consider this notion in low or null-sec, but is this statement valid in high-sec?no, see my answer to 6.9b. if a null-sec entity launches a vicious propaganda campaign against another null-sec entity, noone really cares.but a high-sec entity launches a vicious military and psychological campaign against a weaker high-sec entity. and this is called, bullying, griefing, new-player and new-corp infanticide, etc.too many people think that highsec should be safe, they need to have that illusion broken as soon as possible, eve is a competitive game, no one should be immune to unwanted aggression.10. does a new player have a right to avoid pvp in high-sec? does this only apply in rookie systems?no, while in a rookie system they are technically in nursery school and pretty safe, the moment they leave rookie systems they are valid targets, if they never experience pvp, they never learn from the experience.11. considering statement 10: does a new corporation have the right to avoid pvp in high-sec? no, a new corporation becomes a valid pvp target the moment it is formed. npc corps already fill the role of corporations that are for all intents and purposes immune to pvp, although that's not necessarily a good thing, people who are pvp averse gather in npc corps and use them as a decshield, it gives them the ability to affect others without others being able to overly affect them.11b. if we consider corporations that are \"newbie friendly\" or that brand themselves as places for new players to learn the game? does this or should this affect the \"ethics\" of wardecs?no, newbie friendly corps and teaching corps such as eve-uni should be teaching their members to protect themselves from predators, if they fail to do so, then they aren't newbie friendly or teaching corps, they're just terrible corps.all this considered, what is the future of high-sec aggression?12. considering that high-sec aggression in the form of predatory war-decs and suicide ganking is not a violation of the eula although it is seen as and popularly labeled as \"griefing\".griefing is defined by ccp, what players think is griefing is irrelevant, no matter what other games have taught them about what is and what is not acceptable.13. also considering that many concessions have been made to the pacifist community in the form of mining barge buffs, and the permissibility of war-dec evasions.the mining barge ehp buffs weren't needed, a tanked prebuff barge was already unprofitable to gank for the most part. as it is the current barges are unbalanced, the mackinaw is king of the hill for the afk.14. and bearing in mind that a statistical majority of characters accumulate their wealth in high-sec.most nullsec players have isk making alts in highsec because the industry balance is skewed badly in favour of highsec. player owned stations should be better for industry than npc owned ones.15. should we be encouraging or discouraging high-sec aggression?we should be encouraging more people to shoot at each other in highsec, destruction drives the economy, and it drives the player run stories.15b. and to what extent?as much as possible, crank it all the way up.16. \"harsh competition in high-sec costs us subscription revenue\" - does this warrant any interference with high-sec aggression? would the game be better if high-sec was a less competitive environment? emphatically no to both questions. ccp have stated in the past that they see themselves as janitors, therefore they should not interfere unless something is broken. eve is a niche game, catering to the lowest common denominator would kill the game, and the ideal that ccp set out to achieve. it's not meant to be a copy of every other mmo that just happens to be set in space, it's meant to be a representation of an alternate reality where the protagonists are immortal and where warfare is just another way of doing business.17. would the game be better or worse if there was more prevalence of high-sec aggression?it would be better, despite the amount of anguish it would generate from players who've come from lesser games."
"thanks for the well thought through response, jonah. the statements in the first post are just a photocopy of my thoughts. if you want to write an essay, you can use whatever structure or style you wish. but i'm glad if you find my comments useful.in other news, i've finally gotten carebear responses. keep em coming."
"1. who should be (suicide) ganking in high-sec? anyone who wants to. 2. who should be ganked in high-sec? anyone the gankers deem a worthy target, for whatever reasons they have come up with for that worth. 3. why should these people gank and be ganked high-sec? (especially when economic considerations are disregarded by the aggressors) crazy loot in the cargohold, running their mouth, target of a merc contract, posting surveys on the forums, etc... should wardecs exist outside of rvb and giant null-coalitions settling scores in trade hubs? absolutely 4. considering that many people avoid pvp like the plague, and the prevalence of dec avoidance, with very few exceptions, everything you do in this game indirectly or directly competes with another pilot, typically through economic means. as such, they should always be subject to ship-to-ship pvp, which is the most direct form of competition in game! while i fully support the idea there is a time to fight and a time to run... i firmly believe that the simplicity of war dec avoidance is simply broken. there should be a mechanism that ultimately encourages you to operate under the dangers presented by the wardec rather than simply remove yourself from danger. 5. considering that anyone with half a brain-stem would commit aggression when there are favourable chances of winning, winning... how do you define winning? is it wiping out your enemy ships and salvaging the field? is it destroying more isk than you lose? is it cockblocking your opponent? is it getting your opponent to disband? is it surviving, hardening up, learning new things, trying out a new tactic, or simply enjoying your time playing? we are all stuck on the standard gaming concept that winning is not suffering loses... be it stuff, lives, etc... but in a game where you respawn indefinitely, where you can accrue as much resources as you desire, winning is ambiguous enough that both sides can fight, and both sides can \"win\" simultaneously. in short... yes! 6. noting the outrage over the infanticide of vulnerable corporations and alliances, the need to htfu, adapt, or go npc. 7. who should be deccing whom? anyone and everyone. 8. why should they be in wardecs? in a structureless, sovless high-sec, does there even need to be a reason? settle scores, drive off the other guys, stake a claim (as best as possible) to a system, etc. -- you do bring up a good point with this question: highsec needs more vulnerable assets! this will encourage more conflict, both for offense and defense! 9. \"stronger corporations and alliances should not be able to harm weaker corporations and alliances in high-sec.\" i assume that no-one would even consider this notion in low or null-sec, but is this statement valid in high-sec? that statement is ridiculous, no matter the sec status.... 9b. if a null-sec entity launches a vicious propaganda campaign against another null-sec entity, noone really cares.but a high-sec entity launches a vicious military and psychological campaign against a weaker high-sec entity. and this is called, bullying, griefing, new-player and new-corp infanticide, etc. bullying a corp does not equate to bullying a person... if you make a corp, it is subjected to being bullied... accept it! 10. does a new player have a right to avoid pvp in high-sec? does this only apply in rookie systems? no... a new player does not have the right to avoid pvp... and rookie systems pvp protections are generally a bad thing... 11. considering statement 10: does a new corporation have the right to avoid pvp in high-sec? absolutely no. 11b. if we consider corporations that are \"newbie friendly\" or that brand themselves as places for new players to learn the game? does this or should this affect the \"ethics\" of wardecs? no. shielding players against eve (for any reason) is a bad thing. 12. considering that high-sec aggression in the form of predatory war-decs and suicide ganking is not a violation of the eula although it is seen as and popularly labeled as \"griefing\". suicide ganking a 100% viable tactic... it should be encouraged, not discouraged.. all corps should be subject to predatory wars... that's the danger in being in a non-npc corp. npc corps should hinder game play more (steeper taxes, refining taxes, market taxes, etc) 13. also considering that many concessions have been made to the pacifist community in the form of mining barge buffs, and the permissibility of war-dec evasions. the mining barge changes were ok.. but not quite optimal. t1 mining barges should have slightly lower tanks, making max yield fits more susceptible to suicide ganking. 14. and bearing in mind that a statistical majority of characters accumulate their wealth in high-sec. conflict is quite often economically motivated... if highsec represents the largets economic activity, it should be subjected to all forms of conflict! 15. should we be encouraging high-sec aggression? conflict should be allowed to chase the money/resources... anywhere.. 15b. to what extent? players should have the opportunity to defend themselves from losses... 16. \"harsh competition in high-sec costs us subscription revenue\" - does this warrant any interference? would the game be better if high-sec was a less competitive environment? no to both. 17. would the game be better or worse if there was more prevalence of high-sec aggression?[*] better: conflict drives our economy, it creates content, and is a good for the game!!!"
"this.destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"even if there was a time limit you would still complain."
"what the wormholer said.what you experiencing is mostly fear, and perceptions created by power projection. one way to fight a war in a video game is to convince the enemy they are going to have such a bad time trying to oppose you that they should do something else instead.deal with it, it's null-sec after all.though i'd love to see the same happen in high-sec warfare. (war target in system, everyone dock up... oh no, he's from dt to dt, panic!...)"
"if a noob can't run solo, maybe someone could hold his hand while he learns to walk."
"well, so constructive. my god, what an insperation. how about go back to the troll cave. we're talking about giving new players something they can actually do within their first week of playing!"
"there are things they can do in highsec, in fact i'd much rather more things are added to highsec rather than nullsec because the renting of space in null is causing stagnation and now nobody is fighting but i also kind of agree with you that more things for new players should be added in general."
"killrights for dropping corp is a bit much, but there definitely needs to be some form of penalty or limitations.even if you just extended a 24 hour period in which they were still valid targets while concord sorted the paperwork out i'd be very happy. instantly being free from war decs makes them pointless"
"joining a corp and creating a corp should be a serious decision.not something to do for lols.grief corps would encourage people to research before joining. in fact, this is a fine idea ... the new order should start a special mining division, and recruit in the forums and eve university's job faire. thanx!"
"24 hours is too short.a week maybe. but i still think a month is required to make corp membership serious business."
"there should be a corp mechanism that ultimately encourages you to operate under the dangers presented by the wardec rather than simply remove yourself from danger. this idea simply makes removing yourself from danger more difficult... also, who exactly gets the killright? the ceo? what if they leave an alliance? the ceo of the executor corp? certainly not everyone in the corp/alliance, as that would be ridiculous!!"
"ramming a capital ship through a fleet of subcaps? yeah"
"i find all your ideas desirable; i approve."
"no. pos sov was horrible, not that the current mechanic is any better. personally i think invaders should only have to anchor maybe 4 sbu's which in turn makes a central bunker vulnerable, give it the hp of a medium tower with a re-enforced timer. if the defenders kick the crap out of the invaders, they blow up the sbu's in less than 24 hrs and the timer stops. if your getting steam rolled a system can be lost in a little over a day and a half with minimal grinding. that leaves the invaders vulnerable while sbu anchoring and bunker busting, gives defenders an additional 24 hrs to get their defense crap together or they loose the system. due to real world time zones you can't make taking sov bubba clyde easy or your going to log in after work and find another time zone just rolled you in your sleep, but on the other hand not make it so mindnumblingly boring your alliance starts cheering at the prospects of a mining op. pos sov falls into the later category. no thanks."
"it's looks like a great idea, although i've read just a few pages.i think i'll read it all a bit later on the e-book :)"
"so when do you plan to upload the pi 3.0?"
"just reached page 30.\"ogame with graphics\" - that's what i've thought about while reading the military part. cool and the civilian one too... i don't want to spend much time on active gameplay, will it be ratting or ship pvp. so it'll be cool to play this game as the caesar. to build a big city, and make it my main game style. without a rush, just planning and watching it from my balcony in the command center :)the very cool thing could be walking/driving around your city while waiting for somehing to complete, and maybe accidently come up with some new idea for the city..."
"i have hopes of publishing it in august 2013."
"i've just read the part about the social banks and the loans.the loans part is fine, but what about the deposits? they should exsist together. because when you start a bank, you don't just giving avay loans from your pocket, the main source for loans is the money from the client's deposits. loan interest > deposit interest = proffit."
"oh, that's not very soon :)"
"the large, xl and capital shipyards on the planet looks a bit strange.because the battleship or capital ship can't just take off the surface and fly to the orbit.they can be constructed, of course. but how to deliver them to the orbit after that? in the rl, they're launching the large things in space part-by-part. the repackaged ship looks like a disasembled to the smaller parts to use the cargo space more efficiently... but such a large ships can only be transported via freighter, which i don't think can land on the planets..."
"the deposits are facilitated by the existing corp wallet payment mechanics.players can make direct deposits into the bank by giving isk to the corp wallet the bank is linked to. i dont see a reason to formally code an interface for deposits given the existing mechanics in place.in terms of actually creating a \"wallet division\" for every person who \"banks\" with that corporation... might prove to be a massive albeit impossible undertaking given some technical limitations.... but i read some interesting things about hanger revamps with the odyssey expansion.. so lets wait and see what that pos revamp brings before we start mulling over ideas about delimiting corp wallet divisions. maybe the hanger revamp idea could be applied to wallet divisions."
"getting some great responses, including those from carebears. hope to see more."
"1. who should be (suicide) ganking in high-sec?anyone willing to accept the consequences.2. who should be ganked in high-sec?anyone deemed a worthy target for any reason.3. why should these people gank and be ganked high-sec? (especially when economic considerations are disregarded by the aggressors)if the aggressors are not getting anything out of the gank, their target has most likely wronged them in some way. it could be an enemy's mission alt, it could be a competitor. if the target is profitable to gank simply because of their cargo or fittings, that is acceptable - it is up to you to decide how much you are willing to risk in a single ship, and if you show callous disregard for your assets, you shouldn't mind being relieved of them.should wardecs exist outside of rvb and giant null-coalitions settling scores in trade hubs?absolutely. nobody should be exempt from wardecs. the idea that any new corp that pops up is simply being slaughtered is a work of fiction and hyperbole.7. who should be deccing whom?anyone should be able to dec anybody. it is not up to us to determine who should declare war on whom, but to make that option available.8. why should they be in wardecs? in a structureless, sovless high-sec, does there even need to be a reason?hisec is not structureless, because last i checked, you can anchor a pos.9. \"stronger corporations and alliances should not be able to harm weaker corporations and alliances in high-sec.\" i assume that no-one would even consider this notion in low or null-sec, but is this statement valid in high-sec?that statement is not valid anywhere. there is no metric that one can reasonably use to determine organizational strength and implementing any such thing into game mechanics makes it utterly easy for a corp/alliance to declare offensive wardecs while avoiding counter wardecs. before sub-bc t1 ships \"mattered\", a corp like brave newbies would not stand a chance against groups a tenth their size.9b. if a null-sec entity launches a vicious propaganda campaign against another null-sec entity, noone really cares.but a high-sec entity launches a vicious military and psychological campaign against a weaker high-sec entity. and this is called, bullying, griefing, new-player and new-corp infanticide, etc.this is not bullying or griefing. harden the **** up, this is eve. if you and your corp are worth being demonized by another entity, you have clearly done something to justify that.10. does a new player have a right to avoid pvp in high-sec? does this only apply in rookie systems?only in rookie systems, and this rule should not be used to allow older players to hide behind the veil of a rookie system for gm protection.11. considering statement 10: does a new corporation have the right to avoid pvp in high-sec? absolutely not.11b. if we consider corporations that are \"newbie friendly\" or that brand themselves as places for new players to learn the game? does this or should this affect the \"ethics\" of wardecs?the \"ethics\" of wardecs are not a ccp policy and should not be. if someone declares war on, say, eve university, any consequences they face should be from the uni themselves or from their allies.all this considered, what is the future of high-sec aggression?the current problem with wardecs, from what i see, is that it is too easy to evade wardecs. not just for the defenders, but for the aggressors. if a wardec backfires on you, you shouldn't be able to simply turtle up. if you get wardecced, you have other options to exercise: seek allies, get your members into cheap ships (hello buffed t1 cruisers) and harass the aggressors, or be creative. this is a sandbox for a reason.12. considering that high-sec aggression in the form of predatory war-decs and suicide ganking is not a violation of the eula although it is seen as and popularly labeled as \"griefing\".what ccp defines as griefing and what the playerbase define as griefing are two separate concepts and have always been.13. also considering that many concessions have been made to the pacifist community in the form of mining barge buffs, and the permissibility of war-dec evasions.wardec evasion should have been made subject to punitive action when they revamped wardecs. ccp made that concession and has not retracted it, despite making wardecs less one-sided with the ability to bring in defenders. the barge buff should have enabled the choice between yield or tank to be more meaningful, not simply giving them a free tank. ccp have shown that they disregard balance when dealing with highsec.14. and bearing in mind that a statistical majority of characters accumulate their wealth in high-sec.the excess availability of wealth in highsec is one reason why new players are unable to compete there.15. should we be encouraging or discouraging high-sec aggression?neither. this game is not about pushing players away from one activity or towards another. it should, however, be allowed.16. \"harsh competition in high-sec costs us subscription revenue\" - does this warrant any interference with high-sec aggression? would the game be better if high-sec was a less competitive environment?harsh competition in high-sec is a result of excessive rewards for veterans being available in highsec, compared to pitiful rewards for newbies. address the cause, not the symptoms. ccp is not losing subscription revenue, considering that they are gaining players faster than ever as a result of allowing newbies to be more competitive.17. would the game be better or worse if there was more prevalence of high-sec aggression?highsec should not be a fragfest like darkfall. it should also not be a pvp-restricted area. there is a balance, but we are pushing towards the latter. this is unacceptable. \"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" - abrazzar"
"i'm getting about 20% carebear responses, been asking in the e-uni and ultra-shiny incursion channels."
"how do you identify carebear responses with that survey? just because someone thinks you should be allowed to wardec other corps with impunity does not mean you aren't a carebear! there are a significant portion of highsec \"carebears\" that know how to handle the risks of being wardecced, that know how to handle the risks of being suicide ganked, and have no difficulty adapting to how these \"aggressors\" alter their environment. there are also many people that may have tried theft, suicide ganking, wardecs, etc... but that doesn't make them not a carebear. in short, i get the impression your biased in how you categorize pilots!"
"i'm just using the term in a very broad sense to refer to non-aggressive players.from the individual responses, i do see quite a few players who won't harm a fly, but are more than happy to play in a more aggressive environment."
"this is true. note that some of the loudest voices arguing to nerf highsec aggression out there (ripard teg, trebor) are people that nobody could honestly call carebears, just pvpers who happen to prefer the null sec experience.i would be interested in seeing the results of your survey, it seems like everybody in this thread is pretty much pro-highsec aggression, myself included, but i am sure that many people out there feel differently. the lack of diversity of opinions here is probably pretty good evidence of how few people actually look at this sub forum. (how can we get more carebear tears in this thread, hmmm...)"
"results can be viewed here:"
"any news on if ccp decided to assign someone to fix this?make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"you're actually wrong about mining in its current state. in the current system it's generally lowsec ores >= arkonor > highsec ores >= other nullsec ores in terms of isk/m3. arkonor is about tied with lowsec rocks and you can find lowsec rocks in limited quantities in parts of 0.0 but not in grav belts, and a lot of low-end nullsec ores are completely terrible and worse than highsec. despite being the most valuable lowsec is still not worth mining in due to how very small the price increase is over highsec mining income, which is probably the best place to mine. people have talked about mining changes ad naseum so i'm not going to reiterate arguments on that, just making a small correction to the current state of the game.on the risk of nullsec, as a 0.0 resident i'd like the punishment of losing your space in nullsec very high, not only in losing lucrative opportunity/asset locking in station but in losing industrial infrastructure. there is also a cost (you could define this as an increased risk or decreased reward) to be shouldered by the nullsec entity as it engages in defending its holdings to avoid the risks you mention above. of course everyone pvps in all areas in space, but the stakes need to be raised in nullsec such that people are willing to put fleets on the line to defend their infrastructure where in higher security you are able to avoid a fight that seems too risky by just docking up with no consequence.note that i don't really care to have an argument with people about whether and to what degree nullsec is like the above paragraph now, but rather describing how i think nullsec risk should work in a perfect world."
"i recently described a possible feature and workaround for many of these related issues..personal division hangarswith a pdh you could let any slot usage behave like personal when used from a corp pos.the slots would show up on both corporate and personal list, but with cancel rights from ceo only.a few more tweaks would ofc be needed, but it does seem to resolve some of this.also other members could be granted access to the pdh and thus take from that storage and even use private bpos.if someone has pos slot rights and take rights in the pdh of an active builder, that person can also cancel those private jobs.note personal access to pdh to other corp members can be granted by ceo or the pdh owner himself.just a few ideas that would help many pos issues.. and station hangar issues.."
"for god's sake...this forum too? really learn about the search button feature, or try google. or since these things appear beyond your comprehension,"
"really. so when my rapier is cloaked can it launch fighters? can it rep other ships? can it transfer energy to another player's cap?the answers are no, no and no.seems you just don't understand the game's mechanics. go learn them, then you wont look so ignorant when you post."
"0/10 troll..considering he didn't even need to use the search function...there was another \"waaaaaaa! cloakers!\" post 7 posts below this one still on the same page...but since the op can't even manage to operate in a forum correctly how can we expect they can manage to escape the cloaked ship that is more powerful than a carrier (where can i buy one of these btw...i want one!). fail troll is fail troll. p.s. when you quit can i have your stuff??"
"a really nice idea would be to add a variation of interbus system. so you could move equipment from station to pos when at the station, if you had needed roles.the pos would have rat like convoys, that would be \"owned\" by pos owner. sort of like lost/left drones. if shot down the interbus would be impossible, until respawn.the remote admin of certain things from station to pos would be nice , but it should be with a connection delay. 2-5 min to initiate contact. the need to go manually to the pos should not be removed. also you should not be able to move between facilities. the remote would send the commands, but they would not be initiated until the timer is completed. a bit like anchoring, so that mechanism is somewhere in the code for reuse i would assume.."
"i'm a firm believer that we should allow planetary networks to have manufacturing and research slots that can be used from the building types on the networks."
"i think slots planet side makes perfect sense. just now we can not attack planet structures, so a balance would be needed.basically like pos modules, but with half the effectiveness (speed). to not compete with pos that risk aggression.this would make sure stations dont run out of potential slots. there would be a need to add fuel of some sort or the benefits would be to high. i have suggested elsewhere about changes to pi, and adding need for populations, like marines, laborers and scientists etc. using a mechanic similar to over heating, work force exhausted, labor overworked state, that would be fixed importing new labor, recreation etc.. basically creating boostings buffs debuffs mechnics..also i suggested changing storage limits to pure transport capacity limits, so you could work from buffers and would not worry about overflow, but only on upgrading the lines and moving manually at a labor over heating cost \"overtime\" basically."
"if you haven't already, you might want to look at this topic in the assembly hall.it covers allot of what your talking about with regards to pi."
"that is a very nice collection of ideas.. but really as two step pointed out huge complicated solutions wont really help..simpler ideas in short presentation, that inspire ccp or gives solutions that work somewhat within the current framework and code..if you shorten things down and do smaller part demos, i think you would get further..what i just suggested in the above is an example, i am asking for things that only need a days work of code. change container sizes in pi installations to infinite or very large, and put the bottleneck in the launch pad at 25000 m3. this is hardly any change, but the potential is huge.then adding a feature that already exist in weapon, give it a bit different graphics and change the names. again this is very easy. the buff/debuff is also already partly in the game, and features ccp is already working on. boosts from dust is already announced. adding a state to an item is not that hard, and if its function is basically the same as using nanopaste its hardly extensive code.what you ask for is the full developer team to create a whole new feature from scratch. that rarely happen in any game.you vision is rather awesome though."
"the highsec community would adapt to such a change. something like....players would stay in npc corps and join channels and mailing lists and pay a recurring fee (tax) to participate in events. players would create indy/research players that sit in highsec pos's and do nothing else. what benefits does a corp provide in highsec that can't be side-stepped?you could encourage participation through rewards but that would shift a balance....if a pilot was rewarded for staying in a corp that was wardecced (ie, rewarded for pvp) it would result in even less reasons for pilots to venture into low/null where pvp is a way of life and there are no extra incentives."
"the problem with all the ideas like this is the \"carrot and stick\" problem. you have to carefully balance the carrot (positive incentives) with the stick (negative incentives). too much carrot results in no one doing anything else. but too much stick is just as bad, as the players will simply go do something else.your idea is, to be frank, all stick. all you would do is convince the risk averse players that player corporations are too much trouble and they'd just stay in their npc corps where they don't have to deal with it, then you'd be back here in a month asking for a nerf for npc corps, which will in turn just hurt the new players and drive them out of the game.let's toss the roleplay bs aside for a minute - what the \"new order\" is really after is the ability to freely kill non-combatants. and that's fine, go shoot them. but don't act like you're in it for the good of the game when you suggest ideas that make it harder for them to avoid you. it's biased self-interest, nothing more."
"we also need kamikaze modules that we can pack with munitions to give our flying bombs more kick.and slashers will become the new catalyst..."
"all good theater, film and gaming experiences rely on an audiences/participants ability to \"suspend disbelief\", by removing the jukebox feature and making me go into the real world to manipulate my ambient sound while playing; you have substantially diminished my ability to suspend disbelief, as a result; i enjoy the game less and you as a company provide less value. eg: when i began a battle in the past the ambient noise/music automatically changed to let me know i was in a battle; i don't want to do this manually because if i do i will no longer feel like i am in a battle, but rather; that i am in front of a screen. i don't want to be in front of a screen, i want to be in a space battle."
"okay, are you going to drop this survey in, say, rancer local or just carebear groups?because i'll laugh if somebody uses the results of this as a talking point when the groups sampled are incredibly biased one way \"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" - abrazzar"
"to be fair, i saw that he also advertised this in c&p and on www.minerbumping.com. rancer local could be good though. pretty funny comments on there."
"idea for using aurum in metagame and 3rd party services.ccp creates a well designed metagame portal website.eve-life or something similar.this site hosts different outlets and services. like artists, video links, podcasts etc.all these services are created by the players as kickstarter like project pages.the project then has a donate button. this makes you able to directly donate isk to a service or project. first is startup and a donation target to start the service. when the service is running it show weekly revenues from donations. the project creator can then cash in the isk to his character or get aurum that can be used on any character on his account. preferably the aurum should also be possible to somehow cash in for real life value, but only things from eve products. this could be buying keychains etc. after such items have left ccp its free for the private person to resell these on something like ebay or to friends, fools and family.wont this cause a potential competition and loss to ccp revenues?no not really the added value the project holder has created and invested tim ein has more value then any competition, basically he is voluntarily donating his time and labor to create content and value to ccp, that would directly be linked into the revenue producing plex and subscription economy.personally i believe most projects would cash only in isk, because you would need some considerable volume to want to try and convert to any real value in this system. also i think a lot would invest in plex for themselves and their affiliates and supporters.to mention examples of a recent very impressive labor that would have been very suuited to this model would be xander phoenas crossing zebra candidate interviews. he did 28 candidates of about 1 hour each, and put in post production and preproduction research to total something around 120 hours total work. that is equivalent to almost a months full time effort, or 3 weeks at least. that means he produced content equivalent to 4000$ using icelandic avg salaries. you would have to get a lot of donations to be able to extract that value in any way. so lets say he got quite a lot of donations, maybe 1000$ worth of equivalent plex conversion. would it not be fair if he could withdraw physical values for say at least half of that? this is only the player voluntary donated ones.. i would say that once a metagame reach a certain consistant level of donations, ccp should consider making that persons account a legacy account, where no payment to play way needed. if traded that status should ofc be lost. i think something along this would really make sure some of the players that risk burnout or rage-breaks or real life commitment issues would still feel strongly connected to eve without being able to maintain ingame activity, or even keep up metagame productivity."
"i think it's better to make the deposits support bu this bank mechanic too. there is a reasons.1. the main reason why the people don't invest isk in deposits is that there is no guarantee - it's can be yet another scam, which is currently working, but can be closed anytime with all the money. in rl banks there is at least some insurance - if bank is collapsed, y'll be able to get your deposit back. it's an only reason to keep the money there - the lowest % in the world, it's hardly a income...well, it's kinda hard to do such insurance in eve, but there is at least can be a mechanism to prevent an obvious scams...2. i was thinking about an opening some project like that when i'll have more time for game. but what stopped me is that when(if) i'll have many customers, i'll spend all of my time just checking the isk transfers... well, with crest i think it'll be easier."
"just finished reading.it's the first time i see such a detailed proposal.altough i can argue with a few things, the whole idea is great. i think i'd made it my main profession in eve, along with the current mining and industry.the strong part of it is that there is a wis elements. i'm still looking forward to the avatar gameplay, although there is no reason for any hopes.the skills are cool too. a lot to train and this is good - the current pi are nothing without an alts, so it's not my type.well, good luck with that! are there were any comments from ccp about this?"
"1. anyone with the will and means to do so. it's a sandbox.2. anyone who makes themselves an obvious target, especially while wardecced. bonus points for people who make themselves look juicy to bait gankers into failing at ganks.3.for the gankers, the fact that it's a sandbox. for the gankees (of the subset who i declared *should* be ganked), it's because the consequence of protecting capsuleers from their folly is to fill new eden with fools.should wardecs exist outside of rvb and giant null-coalitions settling scores in trade hubs?yes. sand. box.4.aaaaaand now you're using leading questions, thus cheapening the survey and skewing the results. which, in turn, makes it easier for nuuuuu no ganks evar whiners to point to your skewed methodology and shout you down. stop that.5. a statement which assumes there are no other concerns behind aggressive action that whether or not you can win, which is wrong. also, see 4's statement about leading questions.6.this would be much less of a problem if the in-game resources properly explained both the advantages and disadvantages to being in a player-owned corp, instead of cheerfully telling inexperienced eggers that it's a great idea to leave the undeccability of their npc corps to enter into a much more vulnerable state that they don't fully understand yet. also, why would you add a leading question that leads in the opposite direction from where the others were leading?7.people out for fights should dec people similarly out for fights, people out for easy kills should dec the weak, and the weak should mob up to counter-dec and crush the people trying to prey on them. don't get mad, get even.8. it sounds like fun should be reason enough. by extension, we need a mindset among juicy-looking highseccers that it sounds like fun to crush those who would seek to prey upon you, drive them from the grid, and hear the lamentations of their insurers.9. nope.9b. it's almost like the the people being targeted by psychological and political campaigns are responding with psychological and political campaigns. gasp!10.rookie systems should remain gank-free, as they are. tutorials should explain how to not be a juicy target for gankers, or how to look like a softer target than you are so you can laugh as gankers fail their attempts and get nuked by the cops. the remaining umpteen squillion high-sec systems should remain places where ganking can and will happen.11. see my answer to 6 - the thing that needs to be done is for the game to include a proper explanation of the risks, as well as the rewards, of going player-corp.11b.nope. treating this as an ethical concern would raise an easy opportunity for corps to label themselves as \"new-player-friendly\" or whatever for a cheap, easy shift in public opinion. e-uni already does it, ffs.all this considered, what is the future of high-sec aggression?if proper in-game explanations of the risks of being in a player-run corp are implemented, i expect to see the supply of easy targets drying up, leading to a general reduction in high-sec aggression outside of suicide ganking.12. once again, leading questions. see also my answer to 9b - what goes for the goose goes for the gander, including swaying public opinion by decrying the people who give you trouble.13. war-dec evasion is the counter to war-decs. the counter to war-dec evasion, by extension, is to insure some cheap-fit tier 3 bcs and go suicide ganking. also, leading question.14. people keep their wealth in high-sec because that's where it's easiest to get to their wealth, and they earn their wealth in high-sec because that's the easiest way to get their wealth to high-sec. no point getting yourself a ton of cool ships if you can never reach them to get into the cockpit, after all.15. neither. what we should be doing is making good information about risks available to newkids - partially to educate the ones who were just uneducated, and partially to tell the ones who knew and tried anyways that you knew the risks, now htfu or stfu.15b. we need... information. information. information. (in other news, i am the new number two. don't ask of what.)16. ahahahahahahahahaha no. anything that draws one group of people will repel other groups of people. increasing the game's friendliness to carebears such as myself will in turn lead to the people who like shooting at us looking for another game.17. worse for some, better for others. who the \"some\" are, and who the \"others\" are, depends on what sort of aggression is spiking - i would love to see more once-peaceful highseccers lay their vengeance upon aggressors, mainly because it would sort out weak-willed give-me-easy-kills whiners from the people with the actual will to fight."
"that survey result is full of it. note how half the ppl have been playing for more than 3 years, then consider the average player retention rate in eve is 6 months... it's safe to say if what these ppl wants, goes, retention rate will be even less than 6 months."
"citation needed"
"right, its not \"legalizing crime to prevent crime\". besides that though, buying plex from ccp directly with ingame money hurts the game since your not paying them a subsciption, for every plex you buy from another player, ccp has made almost 20 usd (compared to the 15 for a recurring subscription), it also helps the playerbase. do you know how many people buy plex from other players because they cant afford an account? alot. plex allows those people to have someone else buy their gametime for them, with isk being given as compansation/thankyou.not to mention is ccp accepted the isk directly for gametime, it would royally break plex, because ccp would constantly have to redo the price to compensate for average player income so they dont go broke (read as, making sure almost no one can realistically afford it). right now plex is balanced because, depending on the market/economy, they can range from anywhere between 400-750mil.of course, theres also the basic rmt prevention, and that every dollar someone spends on ccp instead of a chinese golf-farmer gets put right back into eve to help fund those two free yearly expansions."
"first of all, let me bow down to your obvious collective forum warrior superiority. but alas, i do not care about the forums much, so please, let a rambling buffoon speak for a moment.also, i have to state right now that i do not partake in faction warfare which my suggestion is regarding. (i am a naughty pirate) i am somewhat interested in getting involved in it, but in its current state, it has put me off somewhat.my idea is somewhat multifaceted, and would be something of a major overhaul from ccp's perspective, but i think there might be some potential. what i am proposing is that the current broken system be changed into a mixture of exploration (and its subsequent mini-professions) and incursions, in a manner of speaking.before you obvious trolls start bashing, let me continue. i will admit that this is a rough draft, and not a complete proposal, so there may be areas that i've missed, or aren't complete. if you find any, please at least try expand on my post. in other words, if you don't have anything constructive to say, please be quiet ;)the first, and most obvious part, is that all sites are similar in style to incursions to run. ranging from the scouts to the headquarter class sites in principle. (as in, the number of people required to run them, though not to the same degree) perhaps these require different systems, or maybe there can have a mixture of classes in the same system. that's open to discussion. the real change is that these sites require scanning down, and these sites also do not have acceleration gates. completion of these sites yields lp's, and influences the system control, much like in incursions. once this influence is completely down, a final site is ran, (like the mother ship site) to transfer sovereignty over to the attacking faction. during this time though, the defending faction's influence (aka sov) regenerates a certain amount over time, thus requiring a maintained presence.so, you what? that didn't make sense?* attackers have to continuously probe down sites, and run them to attack the sovereignty. lp gains for completion of sites* defenders simply have to do what it says in the tin. defend their space. (ie, kill the attackers) lp gains for successfully defending a site (as in, once a site has been started, prevent the attacking forces from completing it within a particular time frame, where it de-spawns. rewards in the form of lp gains? this would need fine tuning for balance / exploiting purposes)* acceleration gates are removed to increase the risk,and to promote pvp* the longer a certain faction holds sov, the faster sites spawn, (incentive for the attackers), where as the defenders receive different benefits. (i don't want to go down the same penalties as incursions though. perhaps the current sov mechanic regarding docking/clones etc is sufficient?)i had considered that the lack of gates means things like cyno's and capitals appearing in the sites. initially, i thought this would be a problem, but the more i thought about it, i don't believe it would be too much of a problem, because those capitals would attract attention, and fights would escalate as a result.i have tried to predict with a mechanic like this, how these risk averse fw lp farmers would behave. to be honest, i can't imagine the behaviour changing much in the grand scheme of things, but at least there is a greater element of risk since you can't stab up, cloak up and afk the site to farm those lp's.another area of concern with this proposal i can see is how these sites scale. for obvious reasons, you want to keep the entry level low, so that there is content for everyone yet scaling the difficulty in the higher tiers to promote co-operation and fleet composition. for the sake of examples, how about the following:scouts: achievable in 2-3 man groups, designed for frigates.vanguards: achievable in groups of 5-6, designed for cruisers, assault: achievable in groups of 10-15. designed for mixture of cruisers / battlecruisers.headquarter: achievable in groups of 16-20: designed for a mixture of cruisers, battlecruisers and battleships.i have given samples here, but the thing thats important here, is that all of these should be achievable with tech 1 ships, and there also needs to be a way to encourage people to fill various roles, though i assume that could be achieved with the use of allowing npc's ewar capability?"
"everyone is probably familiar with the sansha incursions that pop up across space, how they spawn communities and drama, drop bpcs for sansha ships and loot and otherwise act like as the high end of reliable group pve play. well, the fluff (lore, storylines, player rp etc.) doesn't seem to have any single reason why only sansha's nation engages in these mass raids of top tier npc ships, to be opposed by mercenary capsuleers funded by concord. these make little sense, and also have no option for pirates or other enemies of the npc empires.suggested changes and features1: why not include other factions launching incursions, with mostly pirate incursions happening in high sec, empire incursions that gain lp with pirate factions added in lowsec and both varieties in null sec?2: if the spawn conditions for the constellations were tweaked slightly on a faction by faction basis, it would also increase the number of incursions spawned in space other than amarr fairly rapidly.3: also, use incursions as a way to temporarily modify the rules of space, so you have low-sec with functioning police occasionally if there is a \"concord pacification expedition\" in a given lowsec area, or a highsec area without as a high influence pirate incursion.4: use the expanded incursions to then seed limited runs of pirate or empire faction ships to be put through real world test, as a ship with a limited but unknown number in the game world has a limited lifespan as a usable ship type for any combat activity. examples: empire faction battlecruisers seeded in assault and hq sites from empire incursions.pros:1: increased immersion and player choice2: more requirements for different fittings, tactics and such to balance the high isk/hour of the established incursion communities.3: ability to add new content in a manner which makes sense in universe, while limiting long term problems if a feature.4: more accessibility to incursions for enemies of the amarr.5: added realism and fill gaps in the lore, ability to run \"semi-hot\" war as well as the factional warfare proxy war.cons:1: more space open to being interupted by incursions2: more requirements for different fittings, tactics and such act as high barrier to entry for newer players.3: more complex code for incursion spawns, and many more hotdropped threadnaughts about incursion spawn mechanics and mom politics."
"i think these threads are just part of an elaborate bot. we all know that the only people who complain about cloakers in their system are people who run farming bots, maybe the bots have been upgraded to spew drivel on the forums demanding the removal or nerfing of cloaks."
"prior to this weekend a collection of scripts had been introduced by a member of the goons as well as by trebor that allowed block voting to be done. if you trusted and/or blindly choose to follow either one of those scripts it allowed a simple one click approach to voting that ensured block voting on a massive scale. for some reason a member of ccp's staff decided to first introduce some sort of work around that disabled the scripts from working - forcing you back to a blank voting form. there was no information put out that these things would be interrupted, they were simply made unusable and changes made to the voting site that corrected and point of fact did make the process easier but not as easy as it could have been. most things done on an alliance level are automated these days because it's the only way to manage organizations with thousands of members. so why not voting? they still have to click the button to submit their votes.discussion - why was it deemed necessary to implement these changes and does this not show that once again ccp is refusing to communicate unilateral changes to their playerbase."
"it seems that ccp is continuing to quietly manipulate csm politics from behind the curtain. of course they want the non-block (and least vocal) candidates to be elected because it will make their lives easier over the coming year. it is becoming obvious that those who manage the election have their own agenda."
"that is my fear as well. i understand the desire on ccp's part that not want an entrenched politico environment as part of the csm, as they would be in a better position to expose the gaming community to the happenings within the company. but this just smacks of blatant election tampering to me."
"political assassination, anyone? i guess 4 years of outspoken criticism from trebor was enough for ccp to deal with."
"easy is not always good... a huge part of the political process is motivating potential voters to vote... the script has three negatives: 1.) it's not available to everyone. the script makes voting very simple, taking the decision efforts completely out of the picture. this really disenfranchises the non-block candidates because they not only have the block-support system, they have to compete with the eve-made-easy mode. 2.) the script not only makes things easy, but guarantees how people vote (when they use it). lets say your block gets 2000 voters... if they have to manually enter votes, a huge portion of them will alter the order of the list, will omit names of people they dislike, not bother filling out the entire list, and will make plenty of personal changes that ultimately improve the democratic process while undermining much of the power-block's potency. 3.) if the three largest coalitions in the game came to a consensus on who should be on the list, and had all their members one-click vote for all candidates, they essentially game the system and insert only their \"desired candidates\". and lets be frank, coalition politics are way too much bathroom stall, you scratch my back, i'll blow you... politicking! i don't think that's the most kosher/healthiest way to populate the csm."
"incorrect actually. the ability to \"create your own block\" was made publicly available. you simply typed in the name of the candidates, and hit submit. the link could then be shared with anyone. you make the exact point of why this was a good thing for power-blocks. the script also did not block any possibility of changing your votes. the csm is there to directly represent a huge portion of players. if the largest collection of players in mass decide on xyz candidate then that is in fact the best choice for them. talking about blow jobs and sucking each others dicks don't really have a place in the discussion but its nice to know where your mind's at."
"how is this any different then the csm vote match site (which is designed explicitly for people who haven't been paying attention)? at least the script has full transparency. for all we know the people behind the vote match site could be manipulating the data to steer people into voting for the candidates that they prefer."
"my ignorance shows.... this should be publicized by ccp so people know its out there then... (if they allow it). pages like this: alek's endorsement of the csm candidates could then have the link at the bottom too.... good for power blocks does not mean good for the game... balance is what is truly needed, both in terms of politicking, as well as in terms of game mechanics. if most forums had a \"discussion section\" listing the pro's & con's of candidates, and put a link on the bottom with their order... i'd be completely down for it. however, i feel with the current voting system, the csm votes will become a bargaining chip... eventually turning the csm voting process into a game of diplomacy between eve power blocks... i don't think this is a favorable outcome, as it eliminates many of the grass-roots candidates that often represent a sizeable, yet uncoordinated playbase. the script isn't central to the issue... although i fear it will help exacerbate it."
"if the script auto-appeared on the bottom of the vote-match site... then it would be much more reasonable... and it sounds like it can. as for bias in the vote-match site.. i'm sure it exists..."
"fun fact: 85% of eve playerbase is in highsec. that's the 85% that don't vote... unless if it's one click. ccp put out your fire before you burnt yourself. where's the gratitude?"
"if you can't fill out your own ballot, you shouldn't be voting. this is a stupid topic."
"hello derp herp pod !my suggestion is simple:unlock the training skill on a second character from the same account after x months/years of subscriptionfor example:total of 5 years subscription the second slots is unlocked and can be trainedtotal of 10 years subscription the third slots is unlocked and can be trainedu'll make your players happy and addict, enjoy $$$"
"no!terrible idea.you do realize that you can train a character on slot two or three any time you want!jint hikaru - miner / salvager / explorer / spacebum in the beginning the universe was created. this has made a lot of people very angry and been widely regarded as a bad move."
"this.destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"show me another game where you can train multiple characters on the same account at the same time."
"i have a ringtone of you yelling at someone that scammed you."
"keep this post on topic as the forum rules state."
"so long as they don't replace the current anoms, i don't see why not. more stuff for new players to do by themselves is never a bad thing."
"just small and very simple solution to information streams..why not add a pane on all item info that can load info by a search done by server on eve-wiki?it could just be a button the takes your ingame browser to the wiki entry.. or something fancier..an added epic feature would be letting wiki edits be done directly using game client credentials..maybe control abuse by needing an ingame skill."
"there is one thing that would be exceptionally handy... is an \"option\" to allow the 3d stellar map to ever so slowly rotate, or have a wobble cycle. i've noticed i get a clearer understanding of the 3d depth when i wobble the 3d map as i look at it. i remember way back, in \"privateer: the darkening, the star map in that ..you could set to rotate. and it seems to allow the brain to comprehend better the 3d depth of view.thank you for your time"
"the 3d map can die in fire. give us dotlan style 2d map, with all its functionality, in game."
"i'm going to try and bring this up as non ragey as possible. the new ai is annoying. i am just coming back to eve after an extended break so i'm sorry if this has already been brought up. i have heard rumor that this new ai was to make afk mission running impossible. well it succeeded, but it also made any drone boat practically useless as a mission ship.now i spent 3 years getting to the point my character is at. yes i can fly many things. yes i can fly a missile ship. i fly a drone boat because it is, well was, the most profitable for those of us who took the time and commanded them.now i can't have light drones out to kill the frigates at all since they immediatly focus fire when i pull them out. i can eventually glitch the ai and get them to all stay on me, but that takes almost half an hour. generally i'll lose at least one drone in that timeframe.why bother with drone boats now. why not just take them out of the game. they can't hold aggro since they only have 4 weapon slots. everything breaks off of them because of the massive tank they can have.this is the second time the devs have \"fixed\" something that didn't need fixing. why rework the ships? no need. quit ruining the game by making up **** to do so you can justify your job.instead add content instead of trying to \"fix\" what isn't broken."
"this has been brought up before. many times. there are so many problems with the new ai it's stupid. but ccp seems to be sticking to its guns on this one (mostly because a few people massively abused the former dumbness of the ai and lots of players asked for the ai to be less dumb).however... one way to keep the ai focused on you is to use ewar... any ewar... or remote repair. i use a target painter myself."
"i am greatly in favor of this as well."
"interesting ideas. worth taking a look at i think."
"this is some crazy magical space world where death is trivialized, and yet there seems to be no way to perform a basic sex change operation. this can't be technically complicated for ccp do implement and i really want to have some sweet female genitalia instead of goofy male one. i mean, have you ever seen a penis, it looks ridiculous."
"i too would like to be able to swap out wangs like i do with ships"
"*unzips**uses it to smack op's face*no... it isn't.  albert."
"yeah why don't you go vote tea party or **** your own sister or whatever it is you people do."
"+1, i have often felt a deep sense of regret that i did not take the opportunity to live my wildest dreams in making my avatar a female so that i can experience life as it was meant to be experienced. please do this ccp!!!!"
"i always wondered what blawrf would look like with a nice pair of knockers and appropriate, matching nethers.+1"
"oh no afk cloaker, better drink my own ****."
"just a short question:i am searching for a candidate with the quest to help the smaller and not so important players. so my question is, who goes to ccp and talk about these cloaking-system in eve.a few player can disturb small alliances for a long time so they become serious problems. ccp have to create a way to find cloaked afk-neuts.is there a candidate who want to fix it?"
"there is. his name is riverini and i believe that he has the full unwavering direct support of the mittani, montolio, elo knight, dns black, and vuk lau (via write in support from his internet cafe). you should totally just put his name there and ignore anyone else. also: oh no afk cloaker, better drink my own ****."
"you should unlock slots by killing monsters and gaining xp."
"up to the top. big deal here. need changes added.hrolt ceo live free; die proud"
"so it's yet another case of few ruining it for the many? i hate to sound like the old guy but i miss the old days. apocrypha was the last time, it seems, that the game added content.sorry i'll leave the forums now. i never read them anyway."
"news for you, they're gonna nerf t3s so wh economy dies. well, the subs that aren't already useless, that is."
"ahhh, another \"i have to think, waaah\" thread regarding the \"new\" ai.man up, we've dealt with the same ai for years in wormholes (from npcs that hit a lot harder, too)"
"off topic replies. topic locked."
"+1 nice idea"
"does it really make a difference how many players decide to stay on? eve is not for everyone. we're a weird niche who enjoy staring at spreadsheets all day, brutally cruel pvp, mind numbingly boring pve, or all of the above.we can't cater to the instant-gratification, e-sports generation of gamers without breaking eve."
"you're about to get a whole lot of data."
"congratulations, your data shows that nobody but a minority is crying over the current mechanics."
"you should run for csm. give the pubbies a voice."
"shut up forever."
"i filled out your form. i also added in the comments section my contention that tier 3 battlecruisers made suicide attacks much cheaper to perform. its time for ccp to admit its crimewatch system has failed. haulers will line up with a station and grab the loot and enter warp almost simultaneously. then they remain docked until the suspect status subsides. tier 3 battlecruisers enjoy dps bonuses and 8 turret slots, something not available to many battleships. their cost to damage output has completely changed the frequency of ganks. its time for tier 3 battlecruisers to be removed from the game, and they need to revert to the older system where it was nearly impossible to grind your way back from a -10 sec status. if you get below minus 5 i think its become clear how you want to play the game and you shouldn't be allowed in high sec anymore. especially with the safety features that prevent 'mistakes'"
"in pure cost to damage terms, catalysts and thrashers are more efficient than taloses and tornados. upshipping helps if the number of characters available is a limitting factor.everyone could help by sending them survey links to their gank victims. we need more carebear responses."
"\"themittani says hi!\"uh... thanks, goons. send out those survey links for me, will ya?"
"you need to ask better survey questions. \"how satisfied with current mechanics are you...\" think it through. someone could be dissatisfied because they make suicide ganking too easy or too hard. several of your survey questions are basically worthless because you phrased them very poorly."
"if you want to play a single player spaceships game, go play one."
"i guess i could have split that one into two questions."
"for any bears that need a breather from all that ganking, i recommend artemis spaceship bridge simulator! play it with your corpmates while waiting out your wardec!"
"your question sheets are a mess, both of them. but i will go with the second one, just because you separated the suggestive, manipulative part from the real questions, so i can more easily ignore it. i also filled out your google form already, but i would like to take the chance and elaborate a little:1. who should be ganking and who should be ganked in high sec?whoever wants to gank somebody should be able to try at least and therefor nobody should be immune to suicide ganking. while it is a good thing that there are ways to avoid being ganked most of the time with a little bit of know how and common sense, nobody should ever be \"untouchable\" in eve. this would probably break a lot of things and take away from the sandbox, that is so unique to eve.2. what does the public consider to be valid motives for the act of suicide ganking?i don't really know about the public, but for me that would be anything the ganker could come up with. eve is a game where you can just go and shoot someone because you don't like his face, his playstyle, his ship or just because you feel like shooting some random guy at the perimeter gate, and that is a good thing.3. who should take part in war-decs?well, that's a weird question right there. nobody should be \"immune\" to war decs, if that is what you are asking. because if there was a way to gain immunity from war decs, people would exploit that to hell and back.4. what motives, if any, are considered valid by the public for the practice of high-sec war-decs?once again, i am not \"the public\", but i consider any motive \"valid\". you don't even need a motive at all. how do they say? whatever drives your boat, man!5. should stronger corporations and alliances be allowed to harm weaker corporations and alliances in high-sec?yes of course! apart from disallowing this being a stupid idea, larger corps would just split up into smaller ones, if they wanted to declare war on someone.6. do new players have a right to avoid player aggression in high-sec outside of rookie systems?anyone has the right and to a degree the means to avoid player aggression. should they gain immunity: hell no. instead ccp should make it clear to everyone, that new eden is a harsh and cruel place, where pvp does in fact happen, if you want it or not. in fact, i would even like to see a tutorial part where newbies are asked to blow up other unsuspecting newbies. that would be hilarious, new players would know what they are getting into and no harm would be done, since noobships don't cost anything.7. considering question 6., should new corporations be allowed to avoid player aggression?hell no. people would just remake their corporations every so often. very stupid idea.8. should \"training\" and \"newbie friendly\" corps have special considerations made for them for avoiding player aggression?no. but i would really like to see the criteria that make a corp a \"newbie friendly\" or \"training\" corp. 9. should we be encouraging or discouraging high-sec aggression?like i said, especially newer players should get encouraged to try pvp or at least they should get prepared for it. an industrial- or business-oriented pilot can avoid stupid losses most of the time, but only if he actuall knows about pvp, war mechanics and suicide ganking. if you don't know what the ****, you will lose ships in hilarious ways.i have killed enough \"industrialists\" because they thought they were safe, either because they thought they could hide from me (lol, locator) or that their shiny expensive battleship could easily beat my cheap and ugly little rustbucket or other stupid reasons.10. would the game be better or worse if there was more prevalence of high-sec aggression?i don't know, but does it matter? i like the amount of pew pew in high sec as it is."
"hi-sec statistics:five standard deviations,five dead mackinaws."
"no prob guy, an all-all broadcast got you a whole lot more data."
":facepalm:"
"i've done wormholes you twit. i know the ai that used to be in them. hell i did them when they were first added to the game. don't preach to me about something i already know about. how about next time before you make an ass out of yourself for assuming ask a question. or maybe you would like a jump to conclusions mat for your basement?my problem with new ai is it makes drone boats useless to solo in. some of us don't like to play a video game with the likes of you.also i tried using a target painter on a group. they still went after the drones.i used to love this game. hell even when i wouldn't play i would still pay my subscription. now the game feels soft. a whole lot of hand holding is going on. especially for any player with an account under a year old.plex was the first mistake. there have been many since and they seem to be growing exponentially.good luck with something that used to be good thegunslinger42. be proud you are supporting the degradation of something that used to be special."
"something i would love to see is a shortcut key for tags. even a single hot key that just tags target sequential. select target press hot key tag 1 is applied select next target press hot key tag 2 is applied etc. something simple but it would be nice.even possible auto tagging broadcasted targets sequentially ?"
"i love the candidates this time around. go roc! there has been concern over how to determine how active a csm member has been, and what rule or standard should be in effect to establish if a csm has been in violation by inactivity. i want to suggest that the csm could have a bi-weekly assembly hall topic, which is posted by each csm member, beginning with the elected chair, and alternating down until the 14th member. i'm not doing the math atm - damnit, i just did anyway - i see there would be only 2 posts per the 14 candidates a year by this method. if we keep this by the primary 9 members, that would be 4, i suppose. if a csm fails to comply with a set word count and post by that deadline (word-count determined by the csm members) then that csm will have forfeited their position to an alternate with the closest votes and is demoted to the rear of the csm poll as the 14th member. i don't think there should be second chances. there are only 4 posts required by this method and it provides a great avenue for all of us to follow what that particular csm chooses to discuss and be able to follow for the remaining 3/4 posts to see their gain with ccp in these related issues and provide a great place for pilot feedback via the forum. i like this idea, as it alleviates much of the stress involved in being burdened with the secretary/vice secretary positions and the weight that they carry for the others in being so. thank you for your time and patience. -oreb ps. hopefully this could be placed on the launcher as \"csm # update\" or some such. csm's that have a blog could easily link their post or paste it here."
"that would be great. a small convinience. i sure wish the clone activation delay was for each individual clone. :("
"+1 very useful idea!"
"it keeps on trucking, slowly but surely."
"just wanted to change current track.. oops.i also want jukebox to be back."
"read the doc...and i love it. this would add so much more depth to the game and tie in the dust bunnies with the world in a seamless fashion. let us hope ccp will take a look at the proposal.excellent work btw!"
"updated the front page. doesn't it look better now? no more guiding questions for your essays. but i'll still look at your long responses if you write them."
"signed."
"my question here is what would you do if someone was fighting you and you got drones dumped on you? would you not want to take care of them first since they would be causing more damage to you, or do you go for the drone ship itself? i believe that would be a choice of strategy and there usually are more than one way to do something. i don't have a problem with it as is, i just drop the drones, target a rat in a group and plow into them with my ship...they have no choice but to fight me when i am in their face! i don't let up so they tend to not be able to attack the drones as much. it seems to work just fine and i usually don't loose any drones in the process. maybe you should think about changing your tactics and find out what works. i for one enjoy a challenge, and smarter ai is just that.just my 2 isk on it..."
"i have tried doing just that and for some reason they still lock drones instantly. am i supposed to now go back and get into a frigate to kill the frigate ships because the 4 frigates in a room instantly lock and focus fire a single drone?i can't make money doing missions anymore is the biggest problem. even if i leave out the drones and loose a few that's still a 3mil hit on drones alone and that's if it's only light drones. i don't spend that much on t2 ammo in a mission.yes i agree with you that i would target drones first. hell it's the first thing i do most of the time anyway. even if they aren't a drone boat. but, i'm not fighting a player. is there money to be made fighting a player? i mean real money. the chance modules will drop is too low and i don't do piracy.this issue is just the issue that finally pushed me over the edge to complain. yes i'm complaining and i make no reservations about it. it was complainers who brought this change about so i figure fight fire with fire. i'm not saying make the ai dumb, but instead of all of the frigates locking and targeting one drone how about a couple to one drone and a couple to the other. at least then it would seem like the time i put into training drone defense skills would count for something.on a side note no i had no idea they were going to nerf t3 ships as well. i can't really say that it surprises me. the trend is to get more low level players in so they can buy plex. just dump plex for **** sake. it's making the high level characters useless in terms of balance. trying to balance out the fact that high level characters can just pay for their sub by afk running. dump plex and all that changes. prices on ships will go back up as they should. people will have to earn their keep instead of just playing a game basically for free.i'm mainly pissed because for the most part the people like me who still paid for a subscription where the ones paying for the \"expansions\". even though that isn't what they are anymore.in the end it seems like everywhere i go they loyal get screwed. ccp doesn't listen to the player anymore, they listen to whiners. so that's what i'm doing. i'm whining till i get some positive results. because as the twit from earlier said \"waaaaah\" it's not the way i want it so change an entire game just for little old me."
"allow the use of ."
"they're done with fw for the time being. this could be for another sovereignty struggle somewhere else in low sec or npc null sec."
"well this is not entirely true since you can set the roles to be able to use a cha/sma higher than the role that grants them access, meaning if you set it up propper you can have a few levels of security on who can access which cha/sma but it's still not really safe. (which nothing in eve otta be) we used to run secure and unsecure hangars and sma's so we had 2 levels of security.other than that yes corp management is horribly broken, if people want to steel stuff they should make work off of it, gain trust, get roles etc. and no only letting someone that put in the job cancel it is not a good idea, but being able to set multiple labs up with different role requirements to operate them would be."
"baboliiiiiiiiiiiiiii"
"+1honestly, this would get me interested in doing incursions.as it stands now you need to have the right ship and fit or everyone thinks you are a noob and it's tough to get into a fleet."
"this isn't necessarily intended to lower the entry level of incursions. as i see it, incursions and wormholes are the two top ends of pve content with incursions being the top end of group pve, and wormholes being the top of solo pve. as for getting the right ship and fit, ask in one of the newbie friendly community channels and they'll help you out. warp to me incursions in particular will take almost anything that will survive a site."
"thank you both for your support. if you would please pass this idea along to others that you know so we can keep the support coming.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"1. who should be (suicide) ganking in high-sec?honestly....anyone its eve.2. who should be ganked in high-sec?again this could be answered with anyone but it really depends on the ganker's choices and preferences.3. why should these people gank and be ganked high-sec? (especially when economic considerations are disregarded by the aggressors)usually economic considerations are disregarded by the aggressors because there aren't enough consequences when you gank. for example: you gank a hulk which is worth upwards of 200mil depending on its fit it could drop atleast twice the amount in loot of what your gank ship cost. not to mention salvage. so you loose a cat worth maybe 2mil big deal you just killed a target worth more than 200mil.again if the guy wasn't paying attention to what they were doing then by all means gank them eventually they will learn.however, the consequences are minimal when you think about how easy it is to get around them. so you have an alt that took you all of 10 hours to train in to a gank fit destroyer that now has horrible sec status and is killed by concord constantly, has a crazy bounty and tons of those miners that you ganked now are making iskies off you selling their kill rights on you. oops deleted the character created a new one wahoo ganking spree!!!!. i bet a lot of inmates in today's correctional facilities wish they could do the same. but heh its a game gotta have fun some one right!should wardecs exist outside of rvb and giant null-coalitions settling scores in trade hubs?err last i checked they did already.....however the war dec system is flawed big time. you have one side saying that there should be a reason behind the decs based off a game mechanic of some kind (usually carebears or players that don't want to participate in pvp) then you got the other side that doesn't want to pay a dime to dec someone else. i see both sides as both destroying and helping the game. in all honesty i would rather keep what we currently have but add on the ability to dec npc factions........mmmmm.........carebears.....tastie......not to mention all the botters etc. etc.4. considering that many people avoid pvp like the plague, and the prevalence of dec avoidance,lol well ask yourself do you avoid someone trying to kill you like the plague in real life? i understand its just a game but heh some people don't like to get killed in a game. just like some people like to kill others in a game. its that whole moral mental thing that shrinks have been studying for years and trying to explain yah-dah yah-dah.5. considering that anyone with half a brain-stem would commit aggression when there are favourable chances of winning,yeah.....6. noting the outrage over the infanticide of vulnerable corporations and alliances,okay...7. who should be deccing whom?anyone could potentially dec anyone. this is where the whole war dec balancing comes into play. the game would be dec fest if there was no cost to decs or limit to the number of decs you could potentially have. in the extreme after maybe about a year or so, the only mining and traffic you would see in high sec would be people in npc corps. low would be as empty as it is today. there would be a couple of large null sec corps that would either all be friendly with each other or all be at war with each other. i believe it would be very difficult for new players.8. why should they be in wardecs? in a structureless, sovless high-sec, does there even need to be a reason?see this is where ya lost me. the main factions have sov in high-sec and they create something like the un (concord) to police those systems. hence why you need a dec to attack with out concord involvement in empire space.9. \"stronger corporations and alliances should not be able to harm weaker corporations and alliances in high-sec.\" i assume that no-one would even consider this notion in low or null-sec, but is this statement valid in high-sec?its a bullshit statement by a carebear, the strong prey on the weak. its how the world goes round. for those of you that don't understand this look up nature followed by carnivore. 9b. if a null-sec entity launches a vicious propaganda campaign against another null-sec entity, noone really cares.but a high-sec entity launches a vicious military and psychological campaign against a weaker high-sec entity. and this is called, bullying, griefing, new-player and new-corp infanticide, etc.don't think i've seen this one"
"10. does a new player have a right to avoid pvp in high-sec? does this only apply in rookie systems?yes and no, i believe that a new player should be granted a certain amount of time to get their feet under them. however this time is officially over if they aggress someone else first. which means all you guys out there that think of ways to get people to aggress you have at it lol. as for the rookie systems isn't high sec all rookie systems in the fact that pvp is well kinda prevented.11. considering statement 10: does a new corporation have the right to avoid pvp in high-sec?no, by creating a corporation you are proclaiming to eve that i am an adult and i can handle what ever comes my way.11b. if we consider corporations that are \"newbie friendly\" or that brand themselves as places for new players to learn the game? does this or should this affect the \"ethics\" of wardecs?no, most newbie friendly corps are look for mindless minions would no habits and are not yet tainted by the game to do work similar to that of work drones in a beehive.12. considering that high-sec aggression in the form of predatory war-decs and suicide ganking is not a violation of the eula although it is seen as and popularly labeled as \"griefing\".griefing is anything that happens to cause grief. for example a terrorist is only a terrorist to those that they cause terror too. however to the terrorist they could be freedom fighters, or a sovereign nation. same goes for griefers. a griefer is only a griefer to those they cause grief too. otherwise a griefer could consider themselves a newbie trainer, or a pirate, or just your average pvp player. its all about perception. just remind yourself that eventually like all narcissitic actions they are eventually self-defeating. 13. also considering that many concessions have been made to the pacifist community in the form of mining barge buffs, and the permissibility of war-dec evasions.ok this is where we differ. a mining barge \"rebalance\" has been needed for a \"long long\" time. also out of the 6 barges and 1 frigate gankers can still solo gank 4 of the barges and the frigate. and a determined predator can kill anything. as for war-dec evasions. they have made it harder for aggressors to get out of war and almost impossible for the defenders to do so. if you leave a corp after they have been decced even if you join any other corp including a npc corp you can still be shot at for a period of time by the original aggressor. if your corp closes all members can still be shot at by the aggressor. you can't evade or \"shed\" a dec anymore. you can however call on help easier, rather then your help having to \"pay\" to dec the people deccing you they can join as your ally. however, the war-dec system is still flawed and if i get a chance i'll post something in a third post because i don't believe that i will have enough room in this one.14. and bearing in mind that a statistical majority of characters accumulate their wealth in high-sec.i believe that has been proven incorrect on many occasions. while the high-sec market is where a majority of transactions take place. a majority of the wealth is accumulated in null sec and held by null sec players.15. should we be encouraging or discouraging high-sec aggression?i believe we should be encouraging it to the point of constructive competition, and discouraging destructive actions that could potentially harm the game.15b. and to what extent?when i get into further war-dec improvement possibilities in the next post you'll understand.16. \"harsh competition in high-sec costs us subscription revenue\" - does this warrant any interference with high-sec aggression? would the game be better if high-sec was a less competitive environment?the quoted statement is a farce. competition is what drives markets and interaction between people. as for the whole aggression thing read 3rd post.17. would the game be better or worse if there was more prevalence of high-sec aggression?don't know, i believe it would be better, but you can't have a free-for-all with no mechanics or way to protect or defend yourself. eventually the people claiming to be predators would be come prey themselves. think of the vampire bite scenario. in order to feed a vampire has to bite its victim. if this bite were to turn the victim into a vampire every time the vampire feeds which could be as many times as 3 times a day or as few times as once a week eventually the entire population of the world would be turned into vampires. vampires don't conceive like humans do, vampires can't feed on other vampires. so eventually the food source for the vampires would vanish. much like in even the cheap ships and easy prey would leave the game eventually leaving only the pirates and pvpers that don't do any manufacturing and the game would slowly but surely die."
"so as we all know the war-dec system is flawed. there are a lot of different views on this arguement but mainly its two extreme sides. one side is \"no decs, no cost, free-for-all\" the other side is \"high cost, must have a reason based off game mechanics, must have consent of both sides for war\". both are well extreme, i believe that either one would destroy the game. if you have a total free for all it would be difficult to attract new players. while the game might receive a few, it would shed more players then gain and in the long run the lower number of players would mean fewer engagements which would mean more players would quit because they were looking for a fight and didn't get one. if we swing to the other side, we would end up with a game that was all hunky dory and basically a space version of the classic fantasy mmos we have today like wow, guildwars, and final fantasy with out the colorful pve storylines.so what should we dowell balance is the key to everything...lets feng shui the war-dec system lolfirst off things that i believe are currently wrong with just the war-dec system- 24 hour waiting period- fixed dec length and pay period- cost- no market warfare abilities- can't dec npc corps/factions- unable to counteri am going to try and stay as focused on the war-dec system as possible being that i don't want to get off on some tangent about pvp and other systems that have flaws and could be better perfected in my opinion.anyway the 24 hour waiting period before the war starts is kind of a moot point. i understand there needs to be a cool down period otherwise everyone parked outside jita would dec any freighter pilots corp then proceed to pop the freighter with out concord intervention. however, the 24 hour long waiting period is a little excessive i believe it should be more like 4 hours. because in all honesty you declared war to fight correct so why not fight in the same day and not have to wait till the following day or later to begin that fight. also 4 hours is more then enough time for an \"active\" corp to put up defenses or send out information to its members. if its members are running bots, or are alts etc. etc. that do things with out reading eve-mails, notifications, or checking corp/alliance chat then they deserve to die.the fixed dec length of one week then having to renew it every week is so annoying. so you dec a corp/alliance you pay for the first week and you are stuck in it for a week. you could potentially renew every week however the defending side knows all this and can just log off for a week thus screwing you over. you have to then decide to dec for another week or not. so you choose not to they all log back on and a week later you dec again same corp. same thing, this time you go for another week maybe three same thing one or two pop on to check if they are still decced. how annoying is that eventually you don't dec them again, and they still cause you problems. so why not a day by day payment period. a slider would work well here under the war tab in corp menus. it could go from say 1 day to 1 month and you pay accordingly. then at the end of the period you could choose to renew and continue the war or cancel it. choice is yours.cost now here is a big problem. while a lot of people believe its cheap still others believe its super expensive. especially when deccing larger corps. personally i believe it shouldn't be a variable the whole idea of a war cost multiplier is well demeaning. a corp should be able to dec as many corps as they wish of any size they wish. so a one man corp can dec 100, 1000 man corps if they can afford it. i did believe back in the day when corp to corp was 2mil and corp to alliance was 50mil was a little off. i do like the fixed flat rate of 50mil across the board corp to corp or corp to alliance etc. however i never did like the dec multiplier or the new member multiplier. it should be a fixed amount and as stated above the corp or alliance should have the ability to adjust how long they wish to dec.this is a big one, currently we have no market warfare abilities when a war dec is issued. you could undercut orders but how do you know your not undercutting allies. you could buy out opponents but how do you know your not funding your enemies. with trade warfare abilities you could impose embargoes, tariffs, blockades and other trade sanctions. this could destabilize and potentially harm the defending or attacking corp more than killing ships would. however i'm sure there would have to be a mechanic involving some sort of isk value be paid to cover these sort of actions.the inability to declare war on an npc corp or faction would seem to be the most frustrating of all the flaws in the war dec system. i mean think about it, the factions can attack each other why can't a stand alone corp or alliance attack the factions. in so doing you could declare war against gallente and gain major standings with caldari for it. this while a small tangent would effect not only the war-dec system but the faction warfare system as well. you would have to move new players into un-decable factions such as concord, or have them with out corp or faction. this way you could declare war even against concord. wonder what the out come of that would be. dec concord and you dec all of eve? hrm....sounds fun!now here comes the balance. money talks, if you want to counter a dec you have to pay for it. why not have the ability to pay concord protection money. basically if your corp or alliance has a overall positive security standing you can pay concord to void any wars that come your way. so if corp a wants to dec corp b who is paying concord protection money corp a doesn't loose any isk and can't dec corp b. however if corp b's security status drops below positive or under a certain amount say +5.0 then corp b can dec corp a."
"i've participated in your little survey, altough i think such a survey is a complete waste of time. eve is a sandbox, and everyone should have a place in it. if a carebear wants to avoid pvp, there is nothing wrong with it. if a priate wants to suicide someone, there is nothing wrong with it either. anyone should be able to do what he wants. there needs to be room for everyone :)"
"the question not improving dps anymore, so target painters not a issue. problem what to do with drones if they spend 70% of time flying to target and back to drone bay? and also they die every time , orges especially. my ship is droneboat, and now it useless, drones useless, sp in drones useless. i want to swap droneboats to direct damage ships."
"ive been running level 4 missions on my alt partially to see what all the fuss is about. i used an sni with no ewar and hob ii's. over the last week ive lost 5 drones to a combination of negligence on my part or because if a rat is almost dead sometimes i'll just let the drone die. it might cut into mission profits but 1 bs rat later the drone is paid for. from my observations sending drones more than 15-20km from your ship is turning them into kamakazis. when they get aggro, and they will, they will die before they get back to your ship. i usually wait until the little buggers are looking in my windshield before i put the hobs out. soon as i get a red drone health bar i yank in and re-deploy soon as i have all red-boxes on me. some missions seem to be worse than others, for some reason sancha seem to especially hate drones in my experience, not sure if that is just a fluke or not. also although drones are supposed to be targeted by size yesterday i had a rat in a cyclone trying to shoot my hob ii. not sure what was up with that but i managed to get it back in safely. frigate rats are usually my last priority clearing rooms and i can tank them indefinitly so having to recall a couple times is not a deal breaker. all in all missions are still a fast means to earn decent isk with virtually no risk at all. i'll take the \"reality\" of rats shooting drones over the \"reality\" of what would happen if i actually jumped my sni into 10 dramiels, 8 cynabals, 6 cyclones and 5 machariels. maybe ccp should put realistic fits on mission rats..."
"its still bad, so gl going to fix it somewhere else....to the op, nice idea +1, one small change, any none fw player will not be able to warp to the site. sorry pirate...<U+FFFD>"
"when the other side just has a bigger blob then that's it, end of story. and i'm not talking fighting force here, just more players earning isk by plexing in wcs ships.i would rather that all had t2 bonus all the time than this.this has been put up many times before, so i guess the text is landing on deaf ears too. just pissed off that nothing is being done about it."
"be nice if they could make the un-dock a little easier in the process too, perhaps have 4 exits to help lower the bumping of ships."
"would be amazing. add vip-lounges (for cq) for iskies where you can see what's going on on the outside and you have a pretty solid isk sink on top of a nice eye-candy."
"i current maintain 3 accounts. when i went to vote i had to sign out and in, out and in. on the last account, it did not allow me to vote, it only presented me with the \"your vote in the csm election was anonymously registered\" message. so frankly, i'm not sure if that account voted properly or not.in general, i would say that:1. i have no receipt for my votes, so basically i can't tell if they were properly tallied.2. i would rate the ease, clarity and enjoyment of the voting process a 0.5 out of 10.thanks for listening."
"+1i also think that adding the potential to have bpc's for the incursion factions ships drop in sites would be nice. i can go ratting in an amarr .5 and potentially get a cruor bpc off a high sec rat, but don't even think twice about leaving behind countl"
"add siege mod for titans that improves theyre tracking to the old daysbut they would have to siege 5 minute cycles = titans get used more and will generate more content"
"players who fly and pvp in low sec get punitive security status just by engaging in what is typically consensual pvp.this is because the first of two players who \"touch\" a player or ship. in most cases, players not only are willing to engage, but consider risky behavior part of \"why\" they are in low-sec.so i recommend the following to reduce the number of sec reducing incidents:- dramatically increase the suspect timer when performing an action in low sec. like to 60 min. this will make people who are engaging in pvp get much fewer sec status when brawling with other pro-pvp players.- reduce the security status hit when someone has their suspect timer on. so for example they get a -0.1% hit if they engage when they are not currently flagged as suspect, but only -0.05%. this makes players who are planning on engaging in pvp a reason to proactively turn on the suspect timer.- provide a \"turn on suspect\" toggle and/or a \"when in low-sec enable suspect\".because of the benefits of having suspect turned on, enable a way to keep your suspect timer turned on whenever you are in a low sec system.podding can still take a sec status hit.what can happen is that low sec corps can institute a \"suspect only\" policy, allowing pvp among consenting players. this means that players can live and pvp in low sec without being forced into pirate sec status by only engaging war targets, active pvp players and pirates."
"please add bitcoin as a payment option for either plex or subscriptions! this is really a no brainer."
"yep, it really is a no-brainer, no intelligent company should ever accept unestablished and non-govenment backed currency (even though the physical and virtual value of those government backed bills are faith-based at best).maybe in 10-20 years, if bitcoins are still \"stable\" and carry a predictable and consistent value, ccp can consider it.whats that? they arent stable, and vary wildly in value now? well, then i guess hell no."
"doesn't that seem a little ineffective to you? i mean by having to wait for them to be in your face. what is the point of having all the done modules to extend control range? not to mention the time it takes a bs to get into that position. half the time i try and do that if i'm not shooting at them they run away if i slow down. so basically if i'm not charging in they turn tail.isn't the point of a drone ship to sit off 80km away and slow boat to the gate while the drones do the dirty work? that's the point of other bs is to sit at a good clip away. am i perceiving this wrong? are we not going to have two different styles of play anymore? well more than two, but these are the main. is it headed in the direction of up close and the way of the sniper bs, or any class ship for that matter, is going to be a thing of the past?this has gone beyond my original question, but it's still prevalent to the matter at hand. which has moved on from a simple mission ai issue to a deeper degradation of a once spectacular game."
"aye mentioned quite a few times (including by me).it is the main factor for fw becoming stale, but ccp have already said, \"we're happy with fw\".... in other words... they don't do fw as everyone in fw know the downfalls of tier 1."
"or... better yet... attack the plethora of -10s found throughout low-sec with impunity. no sec-status hit, no gate/station guns, no suspect timer.you can also go -10 yourself and bait people into attacking you. or attack them anyways (because most people are too skittish to attack you unless you are taking gate/station gun fire)."
"in all honesty good idea....bad delivery.....i would like to see jump bridges in high sec. however for what you are talking about i don't see it happening a jump bridge is good for what 5 light years the distance between all those systems exceeds that. also compared to other jump capable ships a jump bridge jump range is way shorter especially if you have the skills leveled.the reason there is a lot of empty space in null and low is because there is about double if not triple the number of systems allocated to low and null as compared to high. not to mention the fact that a majority of players spend their time in high sec rather than null. i know players that live in null though and a lot of them spend time in large groups moving around looking for things to do.in reality though every time i see someone say eve is small i laugh. there is currently 53191 players online at this very moment according to"
"yeah, because additional internet spaceship pixile clones cost money to make, right?"
"destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"yes, the game does cost money to run..."
"and it doesn't have to run had a few extra subscriptions not been there."
"it has grown stale for a lot of reasons, i was with amarr and gunship for that matter doing some fw pew and have to agree that t1 should be buffed, i like the tier system but maybe only a -15% lp payout for t1t4 is broken because well..... it is most likely the best isk in the game...my spreadsheets for lp conversion are a bit out of date but i was easily earning 320-350k lps and 35-40mill isk in rewards per trip of running l4s duel boxing bombers. this would take me about, 2 or 2.5 hoursthis was around 120mill isk an hour at 850 isk per lp (pretty easy to find if you looked), even moving navy battleships would get you around 800 and move lp fastnow that im in a c5, i have to say for just earning isk an l4 fw would be better, its about the same isk, maybe a bit less, but in fw you can do it non stop all you want, and your duel boxing two ships for a combined total of 100mill iskin the c5 im watching my back the best i can in a billiion isk fit tengu it still is fun in the wh and really enjoying the challenges and being able to fly ships that you really cant in fw but....the risk to reward is really screwed in fwthis would also be the same compared to null, where in a faction or pirate bs with carrier support you might make 25-35mill more isk an hour than a guy duel boxing bombers in minnie fw, but your risking 4 -5 billion isk in assents in null and often cloakly camped or in war so you cant run havens, while in fw you can be in an npc corp and churn out all you wantthis is why it has become a heaven of alts"
"yeah, i gather that one of the points of this proposal was to save the inevitable sec-status hit that one would be faced with when engaging non -10 targets (or > -5.0) in low-sec <U+FFFD> thereby avoiding the limitations imposed on a character with low sec status (i.e. no high-sec entry).i think that the overall idea of making changes to the current security status mechanics in low-sec pvp is worthy of further discussion. this could only improve the profile of engagements and available targets in this area and potentially reduce one of the barriers of entry to low-sec."
"being -10, doesn't mean 'no high sec entry'.destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"thanks mag's.poor choice of words there, i agree but i think that everyone is well aware of the limitations placed on -10 player in high-sec space, which was what i was getting at. i am also aware fully of ways to be > -5.0 and still function without any significant issues in low-sec (alts, neutral logistics etc.) but this is beside the point - i only mention it here to avoid the inevitable: \"you can still be -10 and get ships etc out via (a), (b), (c)... from high-sec\" argument."
"+1 in principle.for fact, see signature."
"this idea is incredibly popular, despite the fact that it not only flies in the face of what ccp imagines planetary industry to be like, but also splits up pi into three categories even when it would be far better to have them all integrated with each other entirely."
"ccp have been free to finish their pi mini-game with follow up expansions, post their plans for pi in terms of how it will evolve and tie in with dust and incarna, or comment on this ever evolving suggestion for the last 3 years...... or as long as this topic and its predecessors have been running on the old forums lobbying for continued development of those gaming dimensions.they haven't bothered. we have instead been granted refinements of pi as is. i.e. no more click fest extractors, we have ecus, moveable drill heads, better interfaces etc. which is nice, we're grateful. but in terms of what's next for pi, nothing.more over, given the sheer lack of information in the public domain around what ccp's plans are for pi...it stands to reason that your making broad, unsubstantiated sweeping statements about what ccp wants...so this topic has become popular because its based on an f&i discussion, such as what ccp rice is currently doing with the battleship revamp around the megathron and hyperion.... where the community out here debate and form a consensus about what would be a great addition to have, having substantiated why and thinking it out properly so it not only ties in well with the current game mechanics we know, love and love to hate, but that it also provides the opportunity to add value to your gaming experience while adding overall depth to the eve universe in terms of things to do and places to go do it in. sadly, this facet alone makes this idea overly complex because it impacts much more things in eve that your spaceship.in terms of your opinion of having a single command center category that can build everything, you'll be changing existing pi and upsetting allot of people in the process. the whole point of this expansion concept-manifestation was to not touch the existing industrial pi networks while adding more flesh and game play options to its bare bones for the people who want to take it further."
"did you get your economics education the same place as your spelling skills?in today's world economy any fiat currency (and they all are) has no intrinsic value and is thus susceptible to fluctuation and even collapse. virtual decentralized and non-government attached units of value for trade would be of great benefit in continuing your \"virtual existence\" whilst all the rest of the worlds currencies spiral into collapse. don't you want to be able to still play eve from your bunker? nothing in today's hyper connected world takes 10-20 years to either improve or decay. most experts are saying that bitcoin will prove itself somewhere between 12-18 months. you can determine a exchange rate based on fluctuating market values; have you heard of forex, do you know how currencies are traded?"
"it is kind of appropriate to allow subscriptions in a currency that amounts to little more than a real-life version of the typical eve ponzi scheme."
"i think anyone that truely wishes to see some change in fw should stage a protest. thoigh im not sure it would help unless done on a scale of huge sizehonestly everyone should mass change to ome side and farm the **** out of it. will take ccp 3 momths and they will change it up lol if not sooner"
"currently celestial objects can be located very close to player owned structures, and example of this is the station in vfk-iv which is located 100km from the physical location of a moon.this is both unrealistic and impacting game play as cloaking devices cannot be used as intended.it is unrealistic that such a large structure comparable in size to the moon would be at a distance of 100km, as gravity would prevent this.this also hampers the effective use of cloaking devices, for example in vfk-iv you will be uncloaked in a close proximity to the station. as the majority pilots do not have the distance to celestial objects on their overview the object acts as an effective giant hidden uncloaking sphere.i propose that player owned structures should be 10,000km+ away from celestial objects."
"maybe the moon isn't very dense? like a giant sphere made of pumice."
"i agree!you cannot predict where a celestial is in relation to another object. this makes it dangerous to try and sneak in when in reality you are many km's away but still get decloaked."
"like the idea as well. +1 from me. in fact: anything that makes logistics more viable without diminishing the size of the overall galaxy (like jf<U+FFFD>s and jumpdrives did in general) would probably get a +1 from mebut i guess that is another story told another time"
"thanks for the +1 and comment. my goal isn't to diminish the vastness of new eden. just make transporting things across said vastness a little more... \"user friendly.\"i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"thank you for the link here. the document was a very interesting read. if you'd ever apply for csm you'd surely had my vote to promote this.allow me to add some points of critisism tough:there are many repetitive passages about the planetary an lunar facilities which in effect are the same. possibly you could pull the two togheter and make emphasisized passages about the differences applying (eg pos effects, custom offices, atmosphere.)i would also like to voice my disagreement about the habitability classification of the planets. i'd suggest a master of orion approach on planet type boni/mali that are more diverse than just population growth effects such as population size bonus on planets with own atmosphere (upper four on the list), maintenance penalty on planets with harsh climate (more heating on ice planets), reinforced structures on storm, lava and plasma planets incurring a building cost penalty. moons should be classified as barren planets imho. to my opinion it should be more likehabitable:temperateoceanicicestorm------------- upper have atmosphere (and water), lower have none and would need a complete hermetic sealed encapsulation -------------adding to building and maintenance cost)barren/moonslavaplasmagas (no solid nor fluid ground to build on, basically a settlement of any kind would in effect be a very planet near space station facing gravity and grave atmospheric pressure)hostilein the military installations i miss some sort of security contracting center as a kind of dustie base where the authorized city officials can contract mercs to assist local ground defense on a player set set of conditions like capturing/recapturing districts via domination, capture the flag or depletion of respawns, defending for an amount of time, sabotage, extraction and escort, emergency evacuation of goods roughly resembling the sidetasks in mass effectvice versa the invading fleet could have a ship-module (drop-off invason command center or so) allowing for troop deployment as soon as the ship is within range (usable for dust-mercs with or without npc soldiers, vehicles, etc)"
"bump for fanfest."
"how do you you reckon? after the initial farmwar patch/expansion (inferno, june 2012) it took 4-5 months to get a change through .. that is what we have now (oct. 2012) and it is coming up on its eight months anniversary.i am all for hope, but it should be founded on reasonable expectations and not blind faith.problem for me is that i have lost all sight of what ccp actually wants fw to be in relation to the rest of eve and have a sneaking suspicion that they have themselves lost sight of it .. no other explanation fits, changes have been semi random and follow-through non-existent almost as if they they are using trial-and-error as a tool"
"well 3 months if it truely was a mass move to one fw side....as in, get minnies t5 and amarr would have near zero active pilots....milk the isk as much as one can, show our incomes, post it, recruit as many isk jew horders as you can...... just get pve guys and show them how to spam l4s, crash the isk per lp market :-pi think it would be fun, could get on some eve news if done right and could turn some headsim thinking right now of making a fw minnie corp...... \"amarrians need isk too\" or something along them lines lol"
"overview need some love in next update, last inventory improvements where great, so tweaking this most important part of ui would be at least beneficial .definitely, + 1."
"i guess i should have come back to this thread huh?because otherwise players would be able to easily manipulate it to create deep safes."
"the game is expanding, there is more players than ever before. low seec missions they are almost useless in terms of risk vs reward compared to their hs counter parts. fw are nice since they can be blitz in a stealth bomber and yield about 14k lp per mission with high lp to isk. missions are other words ulseless in terms of risk vs reward. i don't see a way to fix this issue without removing lvl 4 missios from hs. no one really wants that so ill leave it at that. adding more isk for the low sec counterpart would be more of an issue than a fix. low sec exploration its mmeh. terms of isk per hour its maybe maybe on par with lvl 3s. you make get lucky and get a pirate cruiser hull, a faction medium mod or medium faction tower. you can't really fix this without buffing null sec exploration so another stand stilllow sec mining isk is ok. there is a lot of high yield ore in the belts. only issue is you can't control the space as well as 0.0 some fixes. add more low sec space. this will allow more miners to have belts. allow temp anchored warp bubbles. these can't be in line with a star gate or station. they should be unstable. so lasting about 1-3 hours before they need to be replaced. boosters they need to be looked at again. yeah they are good and all for what they do atm but there should be rare sites that offer the null sec gas. maybe look into having them effect more systems than what they do now. remove the high sec net between all regions this making it you must go through 1 to a few jumps of low sec to get between regions. the effects of this change there will be larger trade margins with region trading as not all traders would want to take the risk of traveling through low sec. people can use blockcade runners to preform trades to move larger loads it would require more team work (in a lot of cases more alts lol) would make eve a more rough environment as it once was. maybe even add some lvl 1,2 and maybe lvl 3 pirate faction agents. not in stations. the ones sitting in space. this would make risk doing the agents as you can get ganked as you are talking to the agent. lp pay outs should only take in 0.0 [*] i'm not a fan of gate camping. there should be more than 1 route between empires. some direct ones but there should be a good number of indirect ways between empires. i hate gate camping and it is not real pvp. 30vs1 is not really a fight."
"zlake wrote:the game is expanding, there is more players than ever before. low seec missions they are almost useless in terms of risk vs reward compared to their hs counter parts. almost useless to you, maybe."
"malcanis wrote:zlake wrote:the game is expanding, there is more players than ever before. low seec missions they are almost useless in terms of risk vs reward compared to their hs counter parts. almost useless to you, maybe.he does have some valid points though, i think. low sec really tends to be quite dead as soon you get a few jumps away from high sec, apart from your occasional -10 pirate cruising through, desperately looking for something to fight.i'm guessing there's a reason why so few bother going there. could be the things op listed."
"i would like to agree with the op. it makes sense that they would target your drones.. but it just feels so bothersome and often quite unfair as well, even though i know you'll have a lot of fun trolling me on that one. i find that lag is really a big issue now. in the old days it didn't really matter so much that commanding drones would have a few seconds delay. now however by the time the drone health bar has updated correctly and your order to make it retreat goes through, it's entirely possible that your drone will have been blown up. managing drones in general just feels really clunky and ineffective.so basically i can see the reasoning behind the new ai, but i really think it's necessary to make controlling the drones much more responsive and tight, so you can actually react properly to the changing aggro and such.alternatively (or also) there could be added drones specifically for being more tanky and attempt to draw aggro away from your squishy dps drones, but of course dealing less damage in turn. just to try and give people different ways to roll with their drones.. rather than having one single way to do it, which is as andracin described."
"just giving this a hopeless bump"
"way too late for the party my dear. fw lp market bottomed out years ago on a semi-rotational basis (from bomber 4's) and has since the infernal patch been permanently depressed for all militias.lp gains are not the problem per se, or at least not all of it, far bigger part is the underlying system of tier beings manipulated by unaffiliated farmers to maximize their intake and wreaking havoc on the warzones in the process.in the beginning i wanted a mesh of pvp and pve to help set fw apart from the rest of eve, but the utterly useless/hopeless patches of the the past 2-3 years have convinced me that ccp has no clue as to how to go about it .. so no i advocate a complete segregation of the two.example: pop-up on plex timer start, asking if lp or vp is wanted .. and never the twain shall meet. with a 30km activation sphere one can be fairly certain that timer start wont happen with any tangible threat in immediate vicinity so hard to find a downside."
"hi, i'm issuing a fiat currency, the callduron. it's being announced here as a world exclusive.i'd like ccp to accept 30 calldurons (worth $30) per month instead of charging me real money to play eve.let me know, tia."
"simple fix for titans - make them scannable when logged off.think about it - they're almost the size of stations and poses so why should they be able to magically vanish?players would still be able to stash them in poses etc to keep them safe but we wouldn't have a game where some dudes log on once a month and still dominate the game."
"use sentries."
"and from that point on around 17 vps per day will be accounted for! w00t!want to dump the farm fest?setup a roll back timer if you leave or cloak in a plex fix tags so that doing full l4s in a non sb is a bit more worth itreduce the effect of the tier system, you should get something if your winning,... t1 -25%, +50% per each tier over t2, not 75%increase the lp cost in store very slightly, maybe add a bit more isk base cost, but very little.this will reduce the income, right now minnies can get around 750 isk per lp selling faction bs, doing a l4 in a bomber is easy and earns you 55-60k lp plus 6mill isk. when duel boxing bombers and getting 10-12 missions at a time you can earn 250-300m an hour easy, this makes people from null and other areas that just want isk, move alts or even mains to fw just to earn iskthe rewards are to high, cut the income for fw high end by half, make the low end a tad better.....this way fw can be what it needs to be, small gang pvp with a way to pay for losses and maybe a bit of savings, but not be such good isk that people are docking up there faction bs and ratting carrier in null so they can use a bomber in fw and earn better iskt1 should earn around 75mill isk an hour, and work up to t4 at around 125m an hour, 150m at t5you keep it around that range and everyone has fun, loosing side can pay for some ships and have fun, winners can make decent money and pay for ships to have fun, a lot of the alts will go away and back to ratting in a carrier in null making 150-200m an hour"
"i think it would be cool if you could salvage corpses in pod wrecks for possible implants.that is all."
"one of the few ideas that i have felt compelled to give the thumb, instead of the finger. very nice, and comprehensive.+1"
"not a lot of people do the low sec exploration as you can make about the same in hs missions. whs need groups of people and you can find those in high sec and null. people that really do them tend to live in there"
"please! everything is a ponzi scheme by your standard. gold value fell 13% in 2 days just last week. gee, gold must be a ponzi scheme and less \"trustworthy\" than bitcoin now? everything's a commodity. get over it."
"i dont think i call it a ponzi scheme but them gold selling commercials targeting old people on cnn sure are a scam :-pthe more gold we buy at cash4gold pawns and sell overpriced on tv ads the more the commodity goes up, till no one buys it anymore cuz we soaked up all the retirement funds into gold, and it drops back down to a more \"true\" (term used loosely) valuesmart thoughi'd still guess that a few of the gold sellers from tv pushed to far and risked to much and got hurt from the current gold prices dropping.... all part of the gameto the op, yeah no..... your cyber money is worth even less than carbon credits, and thats sad because carbon creds are worth ****"
"65 mil+ per clone is a bit high and doesn't provide any incentive to engage in regular null-sec pvp.discuss!"
"ruins implant market and isk sink, so you can farm pods off jita undock... so no."
"this is a commonly proposed idea... please do a forum search before posting a repeated thread.... go see those threads for the pro's and con's of this idea...."
"looks cooli am just not sure how will that overview react live on 600 + objects in it ... or just 200after all eve has become a game of numbers. i think it will just bring more lag on client side"
"it doesn't really do anything to change the amount of information received, just the way it is filtered and displayed (and even then, it doesn't appear to be much difference at all on the former). as such, i'm not too sure why you think further lag would be a problem.really, if that's such a huge concern for people with older comps, they could always leave in the old overview as an option.all of this is assuming, of course, that they manage to fix the inherent overview problems that already exist."
"this. i do believe however that ccp is making these nerfs to ganking and wardecs in order to help new players. there's a lot of power differential between someone who can barely fit a frigate and someone who has everything maxed after 5 years, not to mention actual pvp experience.if you can't understand that new players being slightly coddled is a good thing for the game, never ever become a parent. you'll never understand why a 2-month-old baby shouldn't be working a fulltime job while going to university!highsec needs to have high security and high consequences for belligerent actions. however anyone who stays in highsec beyond 1-2 years is admitting that they don't have what it takes to move on to low or null.i'm still very new to the game and i understand this.it's good that eve has a learning cliff, however the frustration curve needs to be managed to be slightly less than the reward curve, for player retention.a friend of mine started the game, was told that faction warfare was a great way to learn pvp even if you're just 3 days old, and left the game a few days later because he can't even go through a gate by himself without his ship being blown up. he was extremely frustrated to not be able to do any activity in the game if his corp didn't have a fleet up, and have to leave the fleet without any reward because his ship was always among the first to go. without a hauler alt it was a huge hassle to reship all the time, he'd take forever to put one together and it would be gone in seconds. it wasn't about the isk, it was simply being unable to undock and get a rewarding experience for himself in any way.his corp had to give him isk to replace his ships. he wasn't able to make any. he wasn't able to undock without knowing that at least 4 other corpies were there to roam. if he undocked alone he lost his ship before making any isk or even being able to shoot at the people who killed him, because they had the skills trained to shoot from far away.i was told that it would take 6 months to be equal to others in frigate skills. 6 months. he didn't want to be dependent on others for 6 months before being able to have a chance.although that's not highsec wardecs it does demonstrate the new player experience in this game. either stay in highsec where it's safer and run boring missions for very little isk, or get blown up repeatedly without having any fun because you're simply too new to do anything useful.i blame myself because i hadn't tried fw and had also been told it was a newbie friendly way to go. a nullsec corp tried to recruit him at a week old... but he'd been told fw was better for new players than null, and had enough isk rewards to replace your ships. he didn't want a carebear life in highsec so he just left the game."
"any currency that can be price manipulated solely by the power of a ddos attack is not significantly stable enough to be considered a world currency, but more of a criminals plaything."
"do you actually know what ddos is?"
"hey, that's not a bad idea. besides, \"the callduron\" rolls off the tongue infinitely better than the names of most of the world's current fiat currencies. also, something tells me that you are far more trustworthy than ben bernake...though, that really isn't saying much."
"i have been involved in network engineering since dial up and isdn lines were the only mass connection options available to non businesses. so yes, i am very aware what a ddos is,"
"nice isk sink there. good for eve.highsec is that way ->"
"ccp has said they're not happy with the current system and the topic in general has been discussed to death. i can summarize the discussion for you here:\"it's a flawed system which only punishes loyal subscribers by additional money grinding and acts as a needless limiting factor in certain types of pvp. the only positive side is it acts as an isk sink, but it isn't a good enough reason to keep the bad mechanic. the system can and should be greatly improved.\"\"i'm rich and don't care about such costs.\"\"your characters are old so it's ok.\"\"isk sink is a good enough reason to maintain the ****** system. isk siiink!!!!!\"really you can have a 50 page thead about this and that's about all you're going to come away with. the discussions are pretty much done, the sides are chosen and now we wait what kind of plans ccp has for the system. it's one of those ancient system, that was never designed with all the knowledge in mind that now exists. it's pretty much guaranteed to get revamped at some point, but there isn't any guarantee if we get minor changes or a total redesign to the system."
"maybe they'll do away with clones and just let you lose an increasing amount of sp for every podding. keeps the lid on that high sp."
"yeah, i think that op meant more clear and \"info-graphic\" style map mode, not \"real\" view. more schematic and clear 2d views would be very useful to see all stuff at first glance without using printed maps or dotlan . also you had an mini-map under f11 key, check it out !"
"hello !i would like to suggest adding bright colors option for in-game map. i found (used now), black background map very hard to see (too much contrast ) anything and i'm forced to use dotlan maps to find anything...adding brighter colors (white or grey-ish background) theme as option would very improve readability of map and made scanning less pain to my eyes .also more \"schematic\" version of 2d and 3d map would made navigation more intuitive, i'm not hardcore eve player, but studying map and plotting course on both 3d and 2d mode feels very confusing and unclear .incoming expansion is meant to be about exploration, so it's an good reason to made map easier to read and enjoyable to explore !cheers !"
"flying through faction war space its getting to the point where i see more t3s on dscan that combat ships. ccp claims that they want to do away with ogbs but they don't have the technical know how. yet at every phase they buff them. t2 links, buffs to active tanks, buffs to missile kiting platforms. i'm starting to question ccp's word on this one. make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"imothe problem is not the rewards themselves. its how you get the rewards. the most effective way to win sov is by flying stabbed ships and avoiding all pvp. that is the problem that needs correcting. make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"op-what are you talking about? i have 2 ravens in my office. one on each end of my display shelf."
"watching the balancing laughter and tears, soundwave mentioned he would like to have two larger belts, rather then the 20 small belts in a system. we love this idea ! please continue to post your own thoughts on this as i just built the post to reiterate what soundwave mentionedlarger gridgreater options for game play.greater pvp options"
"+1!!!!"
"1.0"
"yeah, larger belts (maybe in grav sites, instead of static) would be great. there's this planned for tomorrow --> 14:00/07:00 eve is real - asteroid miningperhaps soundwave dropped an early hint?"
"perhaps, we will see"
"in before locki think ccp rise is one of the best appointments ccp have made"
"it actually follows an old ccp pattern of doing things because of \"hey, it'd be interesting if we do this...\" instead of attempting to responsibly balancing. the new geddon is a prime example. geddon is one of the few perfectly balanced boats out there. yet ccp rise choose to remove it, and introduce a new neut boat that has extreme potential to be game breaking. why not just introduce a new model for your new toy, instead of breaking what's working for a whimsical experiment?"
"i value and respect your point of view. yes, he had done excellent work in the previous two expansions. yet, his present behavior and arrogance is and will be detrimental to the game we all enjoy. that is what i personally want to bring to the attention of csm and ccp. if the age of your character is any indication, you have only just started your eve journey. which may be part of the reason for what i think is your incomplete view of the present issue.he seems to have forgotten that when you ask for feedback you read, understand and analyze it. there are many great and valid points and concerns that were raised. yet, in his replies he essentially said \"f*ck you! i will do what i want anyway cause i am ccp and am always right.\" which indicates that he doesn't understand an important concept in business: don't belittle your customers!in a business such as this, it is paramount to maintain a healthy relationship of communication and action between customers and provider. this was done in the past. yet, if a provider asks for feedback and then ignores or belittles the customer; problems arise. potentially those problems could result in the end of a company.ccp is a fairly good company compared to many of its 'competitors'. blizzard and ea would be prime examples of jerk companies. i do not think that as a whole ccp wants to ruin the game that is eve online. i do understand that they want a better retention of newer players. which is fine! i have no issue with that per-se. however, it has to be done in a way that doesn't cheapen the achievements of older players.the same would go with regards to game mechanics. the game is best when there is a delicate but crucial balance between the ships and systems. there shouldn't be one ship that can lord over all the competition. nor should a particular ship make such a drastic departure from the roots and lore of the flying race. for example, the gallente are drone-masters. as such they should and do have the best drone boats in the game. amarr are known for their armor-tanking and lasers. caldari are known for their advanced shield, missile and electronic warfare capabilities. minmatar are known for their ability to tank armor or shield but use versatile projectile turrets. these are the characteristics and the ideologies of the races that must be preserved in their ships.if you want to fly drones. you specialized in gallente. if you wanted to use lasers you specialize amarr. if you want missiles, caldari. if you want the versatility of projectile guns, minmatar. the amarr and gallante are the two largest and imperialistic empires, opposed ideologically. amarr are a religious and totalitarian government. gallente are a 'freedom-loving' democratic crusader. caldari are a capitalistic culture that broke free of the gallente. minmatar are a tribally tight culture and ex-slaves of the amarr.all this lore and backstory of the races is shown in their ships, preferred tactics etc. it is what makes the story we the players tell so powerful! i hope that you understand that dr. minx.the last time ccp employee did something this game-breaking reckless it almost resulted in the end of eve. i fully admit that i haven't played the game very long. yet, i have watched you all and this game for the last few years with extreme attention. in the end i decided to invest some of my time and energy to play this game we enjoy...i cannot stand by and let someone push an agenda that will be so destructive to the new eden universe as a whole."
"ccp, please see following post:"
"you know this is actually a really good idea. it would add a whole new level of realism to the game. while it may pose some interesting issues when it comes to war decs i believe it would introduce a whole new level to social networking.- working in the real world most people work for multiple companies / corporations. for example; you may work for wal-mart, target, and k-mart. all of which directly compete with each other. infact you may even be a supervisor or manager for all 3. i myself have worked for 2 different book stores while working at a movie theatre when i was younger.- by allowing players to join multiple corporations it allows players the possibility of having a more enjoyable playing experience.- in the end it is up to the leaders of the corp on whether they wish to allow a player to be part of their corp. so if you are a corp leader and don't wish to have players that are members of multiple corps in your corp then don't do it.one last little tid-bit most players run multiple characters. they have characters in pvp corps, characters in faction war, characters in pve/mission/incursion, and players in industrial corps. most of the time they even have an npc neutral character. some times they have mutliple pvp characters to get the pvp fix. some times they have multiple industrial characters to feed the pvp character. in the end they end up joining multiple corps. whats that saying \"don't keep all your eggs in one basket\". anyway like i said good idea would love to see more discussion."
"then ppl jump corps, like they do now."
"agreed that roles are broken preventing industrial corporations from becoming truly huge enterprises. also posting that ccp have known this for years and have done nothing and are likely to continue that trend as an increase in player numbers would overload the hamsters......."
"i took a break...fanfest brought me back. i notice nobody is talking about boob bounce at fanfest. what's up with that? anybody brave enough to ask the question at a roundtable or after a presentation? c'mon!"
"i want to give you a +1 like but, its sitting at 69, and i feel that would ruin the overall feel for this request"
"i know...it has been sitting there for a while and i have been kinda wondering myself how long it would stay that way. =p"
"lol...j3ssica alba killed it!"
"sorry, but i had to approve of your request this is my signature. there are many others like it, but this one is mine. without me, my signature is useless. without my signature, i am useless"
"i approve of better boobies. we should also have the option of making characters which are morbidly obese as well!"
"something no one has touched on is how plex sales help all those sites you love. battleclinc, eve-kill, etcthey sell 60 day gtcs which are converted to two plex and sold on the market. so you take the purchase of plex away you hurt those 3rd party sites that make eve a little bit more fun to show off to your friends. also plex is pure profit for them. i buy 6 plex a month to sell, 6 people use those plex to add game time. thats 6 more subs eve has. it helps them because those 6 people werent going to buy a sub from ccp. now i get a little extra cash for my time which makes my eve play style a little better for the month. that 3 billion isk didnt destroy the game, or make me super god or some ****. so. 7 people got to enjoy eve another month and ccp made about $20 bucks in pure profit that they would not of made with out plex. that adds up really fast to all those ships your flying, and all the devs are getting a paycheck instead of this game disappearing or worst become free to play, which we all know would be pay to win. also. what do you think is paying for dust? aur might keep it going but it was plex sales that help create that game."
"isk is not generated from plex. people swipe a credit card to get game time. they then trade that game time to another player for isk (at free-market value). that player spent time in game to accrue that isk, and it is completely up to them whether they wish to trade it or not. i personally think the implementation of plex was brilliant, and certainly don't support removing it from the game!"
"isboxer is not a macro program. and if you die to 40 people in a pvp fleet. why are you soloing a 40 man fleet? *snip* please refrain from personal attacks. isd ezwal if you see a 80 man mining op do what everyone else does. pop the orca pop the orca!!! for real where do you people get your info. isboxer has keystroke broadcasting but mostly is a visual aid to see what the hell is going on with your multiple accounts in mission, some pvp and of course mining. these large one man 40 ship pvp fleets are so rare that you really never see them, or find someone that has proof that they saw one. also.. if you attacked 40 ships solo weather one person was controlling them, or 40 people where controlling them your still gonna die! wake up and stop crying its not hurting the game, or making people leave. you dont have to have multiple accounts to win in eve. its just a play style."
"turns out, it is another eve to rl presentation. nothing to do with the thread. let's keep this idea flowing. i also personally loved his idea that in conjunction with the larger static belts versus 100 small belts in system. adding/removing off grid gang links and possible having them be local to the fleet. where you may need multiple boosters to cover the \"belt\""
"you ever been in a real engagement? dont answer we all know you havent. in real life \"off grid\" assets effect the outcome of a battle. you ever seen a drone? they can scan the battle field and tell the troops on the ground where every single body is in a 5 mile radius. ever seen artillery called into a fight? no? thats way better than some boosts effecting your fight. this is the future in space. off grid assets have been effecting the battlefield since the invention of the long bow. so why in the future where were flying spaceships cant we use off gird assets to effect combat? scan them down. kill them. and quit whining. this is eve people might use tactics to kill you. whining about it doesnt keep you alive, and guess what 90% of those tactics are \"unfair\" \"honourless\" or some other cry baby term. learn to fly. learn to kill."
"they need to nerf the range of rockets and hams then torp range looks good ... and in line with battleship weaponsi suspect the td change is the main thought of ccp on buffing missile tracking but they will have to nerf their range to implement them anywayyou see each size of weapons is doubled so rough figures-rockets 8km-hams 16km-torps 16kmso therefore its unbalanced and out of sequence so in order to address torps range you have to address the sequence.blasters have 6km optimal with void/t1 antimatter infact all guns short range ammo is under 20km... lasers are supposed to be the longest range weapon and its optimal is 15km granted it has 10km falloff but thats guns advantage and you don't really use falloff on most turrets besides projectiles. i would also suggest that missiles should trade places with arties in terms of alpha to rof ratio.'tech3 ships need to be put down, like a rabid dog drooling everywhere in the house, they are out of line' ccp ytterbium nerf missile range into place where is the td missile change? ..projectiles should use capacitor. abc's should be t2 habc and nerf web strength its still too high"
"they need to remove exp radius and exp velocity, then torps look good. while we're at it, bring aoe torps back."
"explosion radius should stay...velocity on the other hand is kind of ******** if you ask me. what irritates me about missiles in general is that the damage from them is too inconsistent for what they are. done purely for balance of course but according to the lore, missiles don't ever actually impact their target. they explode just short of impact. this is why velocity matters for the explosion itself. the faster the target is moving away from the explosion, the less damage it takes. the mechanic itself makes sense. what doesn't make sense is why someone would make a missile that explodes just prior to impact instead of impacting and going as far into the object as possible before exploding. this is the future!"
"i have lived in high sec, low sec,(fw and non fw low) wormholes and even spent some time in nullsec.any way. high sec is not safe. first off. afk mining? you sir need to read this www.minerbumping.comthe days of setting your ice lasers up and going to cook dinner are gone. which is a great thing. also where is this profit from lvl 4s? have you ever done them? most of the time you get ****** missions that pay out maybe 9 million plus 4 to 5 million in loot.now yes you can get some good missions and get 26 to 30 million in loot but compared to anoms, scan able sites, or even belt ratting... thats chump change. also safe? you have to fly high priced ships that everyone in eve wants to kill. and you have to have skill points because they will rip your pricey little ship apart. hell the noctis. a ship that has no real defense and can be ganked by a dessy or two. cost over 100mil once fit and you have to have it if you want to make any money since 75% of your profit relies on it.high sec= high risk, little reward. lots of effortnull sec is pretty much candy land. lots of money making ways. and your buried 10 to 15 jumps in blue zone. so as long as a wormhole doesn't open in your system you can mine all day long, or run anoms in peace. if someone comes with in 15 jumps of you your intel channel goes insane and you can dock up and switch to you highsec ganking alt to gather the much needed carebear tears you need to survive. there would be plenty of pvp if everyone would stop bluing each other, just saying. null sec doesnt need to be made easier, its too easy if you cant make money in null sec. then check your map because your not in null sec you mistook the gate camps in low sec for null. nullsec= low risk, high reward. medium effort. (most of the effort is deciding how you want to make your millions that day)low sec is boring. even faction warfare low sec can be super boring. unless a wormhole opens up in your system. or a nullsec alliance got bored of looking at blues and comes in to screw with you there's no activity its a ghost town. the only use low sec has is standing grinds, and bpo research.no one runs lvl 5s because you need a big fleet and that attracts even bigger groups of pirates or null sec fleetslow sec= high risk. no reward. no effort, why even go there?wormhole.. i mostly agree with your statement on wormholes.just give us the extra large pos and some god damn ice so we can just sack screw k-space and never leave.highest risk, lots of reward if you can get it out of the hole. maximum efforti do like your sov ideas, though your the fifth person to stick up that same idea.spend some time in the areas you want to change before you talk about them."
"i would love to know ccp really see these as natural abc's rather than a strange specialization more akin to a t2 class.as i think people would rather have a more natural line of abc's using the combat bc's like the navy versions seem to have taken up that line.i have mentioned in the abc thread that i think they should become t2 bc's heavy assault battlecruiser- so much like hacs that fanfest has said will be more like t2 attack cruisers with mwd bonus i think these would be a natural progression on hacs.-then 4 of the bc's could become attack bc's although the navy bc's seem to have done this already.i would be interested to know if any of the csm agree or not and would post on this thread please'tech3 ships need to be put down, like a rabid dog drooling everywhere in the house, they are out of line' ccp ytterbium nerf missile range into place where is the td missile change?<U+FFFD> ..projectiles should use capacitor. abc's should be t2 habc and nerf web strength its still too high"
"well from what i've heard everyone say, (and i cant help but laugh) is that ccp would not be able to pay its employees without the selling of plex. so....how did they pay their employees before the selling of plex was implemented? with candy? how did they manage to give us free expansions before selling plex? did they work all those years for free?"
"i buy plex with real money to fund my game playstyle - i could mine/rat/whatever - i choose not to. know why? because i'm sure as heck not going to chew rocks for however much isk an hour when i can just pay to play for the time i want to spent in the game having fun. not going to happen. who loses out from this? no one. people who enjoy making ingame isk to fund plex's get a reason to do so, and i still get to play. they get to trade, mine, rat, scam whatever they like.we all get to play eve in the way we want.someone still has to earn the isk to buy my plex, which i then use to buy more stuff on the market to enable me to do what i want in game. these people gain a plex, which enables them to do what they want. it's not like i'm taking the isk away and locking it in a dungeon - it's straight back there payinfg for things, keeping the economy going.we all get to choose our playstyles, ccp gets to make money (do you work for free?) and we all go home happy bunnies.could you please explain how this is not analogous to real life, and how this is in any way a detriment to the game?it's called a market, a sandbox, a choice. it's called eve."
"you're an idiot. plex allows people like me who can actually make isk to play the game without paying. others foot the bill to ccp for us.if you don't like it, don't use it."
"did a double-take at this, solely because your character has the exact same name as the operations manager at the rl company i work for. o_ooh, i also agree with your point."
"1.0"
"overall i like all the changes suggested in the resource shakeup in odyssey: just don<U+FFFD>t call it a cataclysm + companion blog... however i have a suggestion related to the ice/ore mining.if ccp is reducing the ice in highsec and giving more ore incentive for players to move players to lowsec or nullsec then you need to do something about the compression game mechanics. suggestions1. buff the rorqual stats for compression.a. increase the ice/ore hold by 100%.b. increase the compression factory slots by 100%c. decrease the compression time by 50%. if my numbers are not realistic (i think they are) please do your own calculations and adjust them as necessary.2. create a pos module for ice/ore compression.a. make it big like a rorqual and take up a lot of cpu/power resources on the pos.orb. make it small like a refinery so you can put several of them on a pos.this could be done instead of changing the rorqual stats or it can be done as a added feature/option.thanks,loney"
"bump...can we get this in odyssey?"
"um no. stop nerfing rockets. stop nerfing missiles in general."
"if anything, i would say torp range needs to go up a bit, as opposed to dropping the range of hm and ham. missiles have enough inherent disadvantages already. for example, turrets can't be firewalled, and turrets can't be warped away from after being fired before they deal their damage, just to name a couple. combine those with the fact that torps can't hit **** for full damage without a tp, and you can see where i am going with this.bs missiles need work in general, and the coming cruise changes are a good start. the only reason torps look so good on bombers is because of the ridiculous bonuses they get from the hull itself. on most any bs though, they are barely short of laughable."
"i have to disagree with the range... compare them to the other battleship weapons and you will see the range is rather similar and better and in some cases.missiles have advantages over turrets too.. like you can't miss .. no cap issues to stop you from firing. and more importantly you don't have to brawl at any level atm to use the high damage ammo besides rockets and even then its still got much higher base range than the turrets ammo types... and faction rockets will give you enough range outside of scram range. also look at hams compared to the the other cruiser sized weapons a drake can do 700dps ish at 16km a brutix can't even hit you at that range with null... hail can't hit you... conflag can't hit you ... what does that tell you?javelin can hit further away than scorch and eveyone says scorch range is op........ again what does that tell you?'tech3 ships need to be put down, like a rabid dog drooling everywhere in the house, they are out of line' ccp ytterbium nerf missile range into place where is the td missile change? ..projectiles should use capacitor. abc's should be t2 habc and nerf web strength its still too high"
"it tells me that you ignored all of the disadvantages that i pointed out.yes, missiles always hit...if they aren't destroyed en route by a firewall. they also do total almost no damage to any form of sig/speed tanker with anything more than a paper tank. as for the cap: projectiles don't have to deal with cap usage, and their range is pretty damned impressive with a proper setup. i have seen ac setups that can hit from much farther away than just about any torp ship. one could make the tracking argument, but look at it this way: anything small and fast enough to get under the guns of acs before they are dead is small and fast enough that torps aren't going to do **** to them anyway, even though they always hit.what you are overlooking is that the longer a missile has to travel, the more likely it is to be destroyed on the way, or to be avoided altogether, since the damage isn't immediate.bs missiles look sexy on paper, but that doesn't always translate to sexy in space.keep in mind that most of my arguments are geared toward the larger weapons, because well...\"roflkets\". they just recently became even remotely viable for anything short of the hookbill. light missiles tend to have decent alpha, for a frigate, but their dps output is trash, except when fired from rlmls, which don't exactly fit well on frigs.as for jav vs. scorch point: see what i said above about missile travel time, firewalls, and warp-off."
"christ you don't halve concentrate on the negatives of missiles...doesn't justify their extra range ... just excuses to keep their range more op.travel time and firewalls aren't much of a issue at short range... but yes they do need to buff missile velocity and tracking but thats for the td's/te's/tc's changes to help with but their is no point talking about battleships hitting frigs thats not really the point of battleships guns won't do much against a frig with transversal and small sig.but my main point anyway is more towards rockets and hams high damage ammo having in essence turret long range ammo range... this is unbalanced clearly... irrelevant of missiles disadvantages and missiles have just as many advantages to note.'tech3 ships need to be put down, like a rabid dog drooling everywhere in the house, they are out of line' ccp ytterbium nerf missile range into place where is the td missile change? ..projectiles should use capacitor. abc's should be t2 habc and nerf web strength its still too high"
"for the t2 rockets, i could see your point, if not for the fact that their damage is pretty laughable when compared to acs or blasters. now, of course, you can say that the damage of those turrets doesn't matter when a ship is out of their range, and you would be correct. however, there's a reason that merlins and incursus are currently far more popular than say, the breacher or the kestrel. hell, the only thing that even makes the breacher worth mentioning in the same breath as the merlin is it's drone bay, and what they can do with asbs.you can't just isolate the weapon groups, however. there are many mods that can increase the optimal, falloff, and tracking of any and all turrets. all missiles get is rigs that makes their launchers tear even bigger chunks out of their cpu. it's actually very possible to make an ac cane that can outrange a ham drake. is it ideal? not so much, but most ham drakes aren't exactly running an ideal tank either. give and take, and all of that.try to compare things on a more reasonable basis, by looking at the entire picture. as you said, there's the incoming td changes to missiles at some point. so why not wait for all of that to play out before you open up a whole new can of worms with a nerf cycle that may need to be undone (or even turned into a buff cycle) to compensate?"
"some good points there just exploring explosion velocity potential using 1 rig and javelin is still pretty low -258m/s on rockets-174m/s on hamsnot sure how that translates compared to turrets using 1 tracking rig and their longer range ammo say barrageon the drake i have to disagree you don't need any tracking bonuses just webs and scrams will be more than enough to get the target below even what rage hams need to do full damage and without sacrificing its huge tank.and this i can backup through experience of doing it.also no the cane comparison doesn't work barrage vs javelin range without any range mods - 21km barrage-30km javelin-22.5km scorch and 5km falloffand ofc barrage has 3km optimal range ...'tech3 ships need to be put down, like a rabid dog drooling everywhere in the house, they are out of line' ccp ytterbium nerf missile range into place where is the td missile change? ..projectiles should use capacitor. abc's should be t2 habc and nerf web strength its still too high"
"like the title says, we should be able to spend concord lp's on a specific faction to better our standing with them. excluding pirates obviously."
"this doesn't go far enough.every 10-20 minutes (chosen randomly) you will have your ship locked down until you complete a questionnaire considering of 7 advanced trigonometry equations in order to able to continue playing. failure to complete these questions within 30 seconds will result in your ship being destroyed and your character bio-massed.i'm tired of games that only appeal to the common denominator, let's make eve only for the elite!"
"thank you all for your support guys.let's keep this thread alive ! thank you for +1 and don't forget to post a comment."
"complete support."
"in a word - \"barely.\""
"you're fairly new to the game so it's understandable that you don't know how it was before plexes were introduced, despite your ridiculous candy remarks i'll give a serious answer:before plex were introduced people traded directly in gtc. you bought a gtc and sold it ingame directly for isk. exact same thing as now except now there's an ingame item that represents it."
"i'll do you a favour and give you a little heads up. stop posting until you have a clue about the subject.destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"lmfao at the suggestion that you can pay to win in this gameactual player skill trumps everything else by several orders of magnitude"
"bump"
"+1. the weird semi-circle belts really screw with immersion. having massive, broad belts that actually span a solar system would be pretty amazing -- especially if the belts had interesting things to find/explore."
"i agree,if they are changing the static ice belts... why not do the same with the ore bests.. and make 1-3 large ore belts per system.thanks,loney"
"1.0"
"why yes, actually, all those people trying to sell you gold on tv are scams. unlike bitcoin, however, at least gold doesn't gain and lose 50% of its value every 10 minutes."
"i support this because as a leader of an alliance skilled at separating morons from their money, bitcoin offers a rich vein of untapped morons that will spigot more isk than tech moons ever did"
"max therion, you seem like the sort of enterprising young go-getter we here at goonswarm recruitment are always on the lookout fornaturally someone with your talents would be offered an immediate director spot, we'll just need the standard security deposit, send me an evemail"
"i am sure that would depend on whether you accept calldurons."
"the only currencies that will always retain value even after an economy fails is precious metals such as gold and silver. virtual currencies will fail just as easily as the false currencies we all use today."
"i'd rather invest in tinned food, firearms, medical supplies, books on agriculture, farming tools, seeds and construction equipment.\"precious\" metals are only that way because humans like shiny rocks - if the world goes so bad that money becomes worthless, a years' worth of food is worth more than it's weight in gold. the equpiment and knowledge to grow more reliably, priceless.edit: also, lol bitcoins. eve online isk is a more stable currency than bitcoin, and we can print isk by shooting little red crosses with a spaceship."
"they will always be buttcoins.this post was loving crafted by a member of the official goonwaffe recruitment team. improve the forums, support this idea:"
"bump"
"like isk for standing, but with something less useful?it took you a long time to ruin your standings, it will take you a long time to get it back. the decision and its consequences were yours. other ppl choose to pass the isk of farming tags, so they get more incursions in return. simple tradeoff."
"i have been thinking a lot about this little easter egg soundwave let loose during fanfest.i agree. but not only with what ccp puts into the belts, i believe this would create a massive amount of player driven content as well.loney, i am not sure about this, as new players often default to using the civilian miner to make some isk in the very first few moments of their eve career, and tackling scanning is something of a challenge, even for vets."
"+1i like the idea of making more options for compression instead of just the rorqual as the bottleneck factor, but i think if they just change some of the stats on the rorqual there would not be a need for other things like a pos or station compression me"
"realistic i think it could be like this:rorqual stats for compression.a. increase the ice/ore hold by 0%.b. increase the compression factory slots by 300%c. decrease the compression time by 0%. the size of the bay is fine and so is the compression time (i mean its less ten a minute per cycle). the real problem is the limited compression slots of 4. the rorqual should have 6 slots base with a ship bonus of +1 slot per level of ship skill. this would be a maxed skilled rorqual pilot 11 manufacturing slots (which also happens to be a max slots a maxed skilled builder can use).summary: by only increasing the manufacturing slots from 4 to 11 this would make the compression mechanics of the rorqual and game play more inline with its intentional gameplay.i hope the csm can really get the dev's to take a look at this and make the simple ship changes to come out with the new patch. i hope this helps!"
"i like the idea of a pos module like the refinery... it would be up to the dev's to decide the specs of it.i also would like to add something that maybe you can edit station's so it can compress ore too! this would have several benefits i see: 1. it would give the compress mechanics currently limited only to the rorqual other methods of compression.2. it would also add more value to the compression industry, i mean seriously why do you even have ore and compressed ore's on the market as nobody buy or sell it cause it too much of a issue to do it.3. it would reduce or eliminate the need for people to compress other items like rail guns and sensor booster, etc. i remember the reason you guys mad compression changes for lots of items but still people don't compress ore and ice cause its limited by again the horrible (for compression) rorqual.summary: i like the pos module idea and i think compression should be allowed in stations too!i hope this helps."
"+1 something needs to be done with compression mechanics!"
"yes for a rorqual boost, the ship should be the \"rolls\" of 0.0 mining ops. (nerf orca, only allowed in hi-sec/low-sec?)i like the idea of the pos module but it should not replace the rorqual in his role.so the pos module should work at full speed in 0.0, 50% speed in low-sec...why not 10% speed in hi-sec and limited to one / pos"
"1.0"
"1.0"
"1.0"
"i know its been discussed a little but i wanted to suggest my own versions:#1 - doomday \"scripts\"#2 - supercap \"siege modules\"okay for dd scripts i suggest giving it the option of either scripting the aoe or the single target for the two scripting choices.a. the aoe dd (300,000 damage) script would have a 0-30k range with 100% damage, and falloff of 31-70k range with 60% damage, and finally 71-100km max range of 40% damage. anything outside the 100km aoe range would not be affected at all.b. the single shot dd (3,000,000 damage) script would be exact ally like it is now so you can hit all caps/supers and nothing less.now for the supercap seige modules that if the carriers/dreads have them why not supers too? so when you put your siege module on it would d a few different things.a. increase tanking abilities or the damage abilities just like a dread, but it should have a heavy cap penalty so it can not be used indefinitely.or b. increase the command bonuses of the ship say and extra 20% per titan skill level bonus (or something) while in siege mode (assuming its on grid to get this bonuses). this also takes into account to let the titan be able to use 3 command modules at a time with non-siege bonuses equal too a command ships or better.or.c. give ships some kind of other bonuses that would be useful and make it stay on the field... such as someone suggested tracking bonuses, but still not able to kill hic's.---well that's what i think... yes no?"
"bump"
"when you are talking about the most powerful/expensive ship in the game, it is either going to be the \"i-win\" button or people simply won<U+FFFD>t use it. nobody likes having something land in a fight that can simply destroy everything and leave. likewise, titan pilots will not risk such an expensive ship if it isn't iwin and if they run a fair chance of losing it. that is why they are generally deployed in massive titan and sc blobs these days or not at all.therefore, where do you tip the balance? i-win or risk aversion?i think ccp have got it right at the moment. due to the ability of large coalitions and even some large/medium alliances to build/purchase titans, pvp would become more about 'who has more titans'. the problem i believe, is one of proliferation. if titans were indeed rare and we had a very limited amount of them in the game, then your stance on buffing them may be justified.as it stands, titans do have a role in capital pvp (as well as other useful roles) and they could be used more for their combat abilities - but that is up to the players, not ccp.."
"let's look at battleship weapons, shall we? taking the odyssey numbers, because they're what will matter in six weeks, and a skill v pilot with no mods or ship bonuses, we see that:blasters have terrible range, but with long range t2 ammo can reach a 31km optimal+falloff (and falloff does count - it's the equivalent to missiles being affected by target size). lasers have much better range, especially when you compare short ranged ammo (because ammo affects optimal but not falloff, aside from t2 ac & blaster ammo) - such good range that with scorch they beat beams in the medium-long range zone, reaching to 55km. autocannons, well they have really good reach with high dps ammo, and terrible reach with 'long range ammo', but still get 42km optimal+falloff with barrage.now, let's look at torps. they cap out at 30.4km with t2 long range ammo. it's 20.3km with standard/faction ammo, and high damage t2 torps reach 16.9km. the only gun that doesn't outrange them is the blaster (which has about the same), assuming t2 ammo. if you look at t1 ammo, they all can. yes, guns lose damage at range, but they can actually reach rather further than these ranges if you're willing to accept low hit rates, too.looking at long range weapons, rails reach 66km with antimatter, 102km with lead, 145km with iron, and 48/160km with javelin/spike (t2). beam lasers get 50km, 80km, 116km, and 42/128km with t2 (tachs get 58km, 91km, 131km, and 144km). for artillery these numbers are 74km, 94km, 110km, and 59/152km.now, for cruise missiles we have t1 missiles giving 148km, and the t2 versions 106km and 74km. so, only artillery is out-ranged when t1 ammo is considered, and none are out-ranged if t2 ammo is also counted. on anything smaller than a battleship, you want to be using precision, which is the 74km range (while the turrets can use whichever t1 ammo best suits the range).on top of this, the various 'tracking' mods improve optimal, falloff, and tracking for turrets. there are no similar mods for missiles, only rigs (and they're also available for turrets), and usually if you're using rigs for missiles they'll be to improve explosion radius and/or velocity in a vain attempt to actually land full damage. a pair of tracking enhancers will give about a 25% range buff (varies depending on the type of turret), and a pair of scripted tracking computers 35%+ (arty gets over 50% extra range). a single tracking computer gives a blaster with antimatter the same range as a torpedo. guess which one has the better applied dps.so, if anything torpedos could use a range buff, considering their slow damage application, the lack of range enhancers, and difficultly applying damage to anything short of a sieged dreadnought. you talk about 'following the pattern', well the parttern you see with rockets and hams, if applied to torps would have them moving 50% faster than they do now, with the same duration and thus having 50% more range. i'm all for that."
"you can't even mount them usefully of destroyers - they're for making cruisers into frigate killers, so far as i can tell. which is another thing - do turret cruisers need to fit a special weapon system to be good at killing frigates?"
"that's precisely where i was going with that point. i generally tend to lump destroyers in with frigs when discussing weapon systems, as destroyers are basically nothing more than frigates with more of whatever weapon they may be using. obvious exceptions to that exist in the realm of t2 ships, but that's far outside of the scope of this discussion."
"you've well distorted the figures to support you're argument ...blasters with null is about same range as javelin torps ... but by the end of its falloff is pretty useless damageprojectiles with barrage will struggle to apply much damage at similar range to javelinlasers well scorch is the best at range and rightfully so with all its drawbacks now talking mods well te's are getting a sizeable nerf down to t1 te stats and tc's are largely unused as mid slots are very valuable for other mods, missiles do have some rather useful rigs to buff tracking and range. not to be scoffed at and ofc tp's..... but im sure ccp are getting to adding missiles to te's.so with that in mind and comparing small and medium weapons to rockets and hams my point is valid.as torps range is the same as hams so we are essentially comparing hams to large turrets..... which is very unbalanced.'tech3 ships need to be put down, like a rabid dog drooling everywhere in the house, they are out of line' ccp ytterbium nerf missile range into place where is the td missile change? ..projectiles should use capacitor. abc's should be t2 habc and nerf web strength its still too high"
"so you're saying torps track better than blasters for having the same range... thanks for putting that in perspective. now i see why nobody use torps anymore. i always knew torps, and missiles as a whole were broken, but now i am one with the wisdom which is behind that brokenness - the low range weapon also has worse tracking."
"csm please take a look at this tread:"
"must keep this alive!hrolt ceo live free; die proud"
"well, they're turning ore grav sites into anoms, so you'll see them right away (also, new scanning mechanic is awesome). really simple to change the static belts to work like ice will work."
"would be awesome ... gigantic belts covering multiple hundred kilometers ... massive roids as well as normal ones...would be even cooler if we had real los mechanics (line of sight) , so that smaller ships (ventures, frigs and such) could hide in belts .. when attacked by bigger stuff.... larger ships (barges, battlleships, orcas etc) would have to stay on the edges , while smaller, more maneuverable ships can dive deep and discover stuff like hacking and archeology sites and stuff.....oh and orcas and rorquals and such would need to be on grid to boost... making security and ptarolling of belts mandatory for larger fleet ops."
"my thoughts exactly, just in that little bit , could you imagine the sheer amount of emergent game play that could happen? i have often wondered myself how a line of sight mechanic would make my wormhole space even more exciting. let alone high sec and the lower secs."
"i propose the overall industrial endgame content: industrial supercaps they would be able to either refine, compress, built or research, depending on the new modulesthat are available .they have huge ore and material bays, organized like corp hangars (several divisions),plus ship maintenance bays ... but: only industrial ships (barges, exhumers, industrialists and their t2 variants)can be stored there.skills will be toincrease hold sizeincrease max prod / research / slotsincrease mobility (it barely has any of course) jump-capable. provides boosts like the rorqual.an industrial mothership so to speak. what does that mean ? a real endgame, mobile industrial base allowing to built modules, and subcaps up to bc class (and their t2 variants) wherever you want. of course slot numbers and such would have to be determined,. but imagine the possibilities it would provide for roaming industrial corps. ninja-minining and such is all over sudden a real option.ganking one of those would mean ultimate tear-waterfalls.flame away."
"since ice won't be mined in belt (that w-space lacks) anymore but in anomalies, could you add ice mining to w-space.mining in w-space is currently a silly think to do (we can't efficiently do t1 production and due to mass restriction hauling it to k-space is not really an option). however, if we could harvest ice for our fuel production, everybody would do mining when some ice would appear.please add contents for miners and for people who like to shoot miners."
"i prefer cosbycoins for my internet cryptocurrency needs."
"and gold and silver will only retain their \"value\" as long as it has a demand, when people are more worried about food, shelter, clothing and survival, precious metals will take a nose dive, kind of like the recent gold bubble that just took a nosedive already."
"i used the nerfed numbers. if i hadn't there wouldn't even be a comparison.as for target painters, well they help turret weapons as well, to a point.ham range is junk on an unbonused hull. once you compare actual damage application hams on a cruiser hull are inferior to lasers if you're attacking other cruisers, except in a narrow band from 25km to 30km, unless the missile cruiser has a range bonus on its hull. thus it's not the missile systems that need a range nerf - if there's any nerf required its to hulls like the caracal."
"well there has too be drawbacks on all weapon systems for balance-lasers- drawbacksmassive cap usage/neutable/..poor tracking/excessive fitting ... conflag needs buff aswell as t1 ammoprosscorch gives great projection-projectiles- drawbackspoor damage proseasy fittings.. no cap usage ... good projection.. selectable damage-blasters-drawbackscap usage/neutable...short ranged proshigh damage... best tracking-missiles-drawbackspoor damage application on moving targets / lack of misslie mods to buff attributesprosgreat range somewhat op.... no cap usage/ good damage on tackled ships ... selectable damagethus if you remove missiles drawback you have to give it another to replace it'tech3 ships need to be put down, like a rabid dog drooling everywhere in the house, they are out of line' ccp ytterbium nerf missile range into place where is the td missile change? ..projectiles should use capacitor. abc's should be t2 habc and nerf web strength its still too high"
"how about you undock and try to shoot someone with missiles first, then you'll know its drawbacks. or use blasters and experience its \"best tracking\" which acs apparently don't have."
"oh that would be lovely.+1"
"the search function on the top of the forums, use it to avoid posting redundant threads of things that have already been discussed to death."
