"with the new expansion being about exploration how about some serious increases to the jump range of the rorqual? it is after all supposed to be the ship that makes industrial gameplay possible in the nether reaches of non-empire space. limit it to its current jump range in low sec but double it's range when jumping into or around in null sec. some additional fuel consumption penalty for longer jumps should been implemented and a larger fuel bay should be a module rorqual pilots could add."
"an industrial supercap is an interesting idea, but i can already forsee a few balancing issues with trying to find a role for it that the rorqual or jump freighter don't already fulfill. granted, not being able to dock is a pretty damn good balancing tool, so maybe that could be a big part of it.to be honest, i don't know enough about the modern day use of rorquals and orca's to comment on whether there is a need for a industrial super cap or not."
"the main difference between the suggested ship and the rorqual would be real assembly lines. the ship is not meant to transport or compress, but to serve as a mobile production facility. real nomadic lifestyle for industrialists, resupply right on the frontlines ... that kind of crap."
"if you add ice to w-space, you come very very close to making it entirely self sufficient. you'll have people closing up the wormholes behind them."
"if you can explain to me how bitcoin's work in a reasonable manner (without linking me anything to read, because screw that), then i will bring this up at the summit."
"my 2 cents (and i have yet to fly one and probably never will) :change the whole system and implement something likedamage according to size.the whole rock-paper - scissor thing must alaways apply ( no \"best weapon there is\" .), everything needs a counter.but...the way it is now, it is entirely possbible to bring down the largest ships in the game (titans) if you can only muster enough rifters.this of course is an exaggeration and nobody would do it, but, how come that a rifter can even put a dent into a battleship ?imagine shooting at an m1 abrahams tank with a .22 pistol ... you could have a million .22 pistols and still couldnt to jack to that tank.but can the tanks main weapon ever hit a few soldiers running aroun it wielding this .22 pistol with its main gun ? thats what you need bigger guns for. same with titans. in order to be able to hit titans, you need caps and supercaps. anything else will just not work. but, a cap and supercap should have a very tough time targeting close enough subcaps.the battleships are in a very \"interesting\" position here, because they could potentially have enopugh firepower to be a threat, but are also big enough to be targeted when they are not close enough to get under the guns...i am getting carried away... again:damage according to sizevulnerability according to sizemight fix it. by using this concept you will never be able to destroy the opponents supercaps, unless you commit your own to do it....or: are able to get enough battleships in close enough.. but of course... there comes the own support fleet-... you get the idea"
"the idea has some merits, but to make the like of a frigate unable to effectively harm a super is misguided, even the smallest ships can do serious damage to an inattentive warship, just ask the uss cole. but at the same time, even a swarm of these types of attacks should not be, easy work of a super. as for the idea of \"mustering enought rifters\" never say never, there are groups out there that would do it and have the resources to do it just to show that it can be done. one of the very first titans died to a \"frigswarm\""
"well, the example of the us cole does not actually work in this context as a small boat full of highgrade exlosives is not actually \"small calibre\". imagine the crew of that boat using machine rifles instead of those explosives... then you get the example straight. theres nothing a soldier can do to a warship, except when he uses large enough artillery.and only because it can be done i the game (killing a supercap with frigs) doesnt necesarily mean it is the best way and the greatest mechanic. i made another example in some other thread a long time ago: imagine an army of goblins attacking a gigantig dragon. no way they could even hurt that thing. now htorw in the knight with the magic sword.. and the mage and priest and all that (rock paper, scissor).... but still, impossible without that sword of dragon slaying true..."
"really all they need to do is buff torps range. considering that they just buffed cruise missiles and have mentioned that they are going to buff torps, i'm sure this is what will happen. though to be honest, the new cruise missiles are so good i don't see why anyone would even need to use torps anymore."
"you missed delayed damage for missiles. in fact the 'advantage' of great is only really applicable for pve. missiles are pretty good in close-range small fleet action, outside of this they are rubbish in pvp. you cannot attack the primary, due to delayed damage, there is no guarantee that the target will still be there when your missiles arrive (wasted dps). therefore, the notion that the 'op range' of missiles is clearly incorrect outside of a pve environment.also all turreted weapons have the ability to hit for good/great damage to small targets at range, something that large missiles will never achieve (although i suspect that rade-off for this is you can't really get under launchers the same way you can with turrets)"
"you had some decent words that i liked. then i read this and realized you actually have no clue about weapons systems."
"hi,i think i would be fine if all rats gain omni resistances like sleeper or sanshas in incursions. i feel its a little bit unfair that missiles and projectiles are the best weapons to deal with rats cause they can deal any damage type instead of laser/hybrids. if im flying my paladin its even a pain to deal with angel, guristas or serpentis.just a idea :/discus!!!"
"i don't actually know the exact resistance values of each rat type.... i like the idea of an optimal damage type, as long as it's not overwhelmingly optimal on \"most\" ships... imo, a straight omni-resist npc rat is actually a bad thing. all ships have resistance holes, and learning to expoit that, or take it into consideration is very relevant to pvp."
"just in general, i'm going to say the problem these days with balancing the weapons is that their are already too many weapons, so yea, i don't see this being very viable. but some of those ideas were interesting with having the damage occur at the end of the cycle, though as an fc let me tell you i would hate having to target call for those things :)."
"the problem with paint jobs is not cost, dev time or even the fear of pretty pink penises ( penii ? )the problem is loading thousands of custom textures to every single client when you land on grid with other people.if you have 1,000 rifters on grid then the client loads the one rifter model 1,000 times but it is from the local storage on the client side so no lag other than your hard disk.if you have 1,000 different rifter models then the server has to fetch them from each client and send them back out, this will kill people with laggy connections and the server will suffer as well.i do support custom color schemes via the base / trim / decal model where you have the same basic texture but can alter the colors on the rbg level or decals that can be applied. sending the rbg values is a minor data addition ( think a 4 line .txt file ) and the decals can be stored client side for fast load times.this way we get some level of customization with minor server load and shifting the heavy lifting to the render engine, heck, even make it an option in the graphics menu if you want to see custom details or not."
"what aboout same textures but corp logos displayed on the ships ??"
"horrible sugestion. the plex system is a huge success in the mmo industry."
"no."
"no, plex is one of the things i show to people while explaining the game. it's balanced and well conceived. i don't and won't support this mmike azariah ----<U+FEFF> <U+FFFD>|(<U+30C4>)/<U+FFFD>"
"i think it would be interesting for al belts to be scanned down. but with the new changes coming to the ship scanner, i wonder how that would benefit anything. i feel like it would be the combination of all the things that would make this a great change. the massive grid, the competition of roids between competing corporations. the on grid boosting only. (possibly the aoe soundwave suggested for boosters) and so on. just in high sec alone this would be a great addition to some mondane gameplay that exists. being that most of the decent ore in null and wh are already single massive belts."
"yep absolutely right, also if all belts were scan down belts they would change position every time they are either cleared or despawn. this would prevent bot mining, also it would force mining corps to move around system to system when they have to wait 4 hours for the next belt to spawn. another thought is the rats in belts could be more aggressive. high sec is frigates, low sec is destroyers and cruisers maybe a battle cruiser, null is battleships. combat sites in high sec have up to cruisers, low sec has up to battleships (i could been wrong been a while), null has up to capital ships. why not put up to cruisers in high sec and progressively get harder all the way down to null. could you imagine having to deal with a npc super cap fleet in an scanned down asteroid belt? that would be \"awesome!!\".though it does bring to mine the whole fact that people that usually mine don't want to deal with that sort of thing. they just want to warp in with their mining boat, mine, and warp out. i think there was a presentation about that at fanfest, for the people that do archeology etc. anyway i liked how belts were in wh a while back, warp in clear it of the sleeper and it was clear until the belt or gas pocket despawned. i feel that, that would be a good trade off. have no more then say 5 belts in a system, and 5 quick respawning combat sites for people that want to rat grind.oh one more thing that just kind of popped in my head regarding industrial manufacturing. why not have everything made from components like t2, capital ships and t3. would make everything more interesting also would make the market even more complex which is what eve is all about complexity, depth, and fun!!!!"
"what if rather than having mutiple belts, they had one massive belt in each solar system. the belt would span across many grids, all the way around the solar system like a asteroid belt in real solar system. a single belt that contains both ore and ice. there could be only certain warp in points that the ship scanner would give you, but you could follow the belt arc off grid to kinda make your own hidden mining areas. it would be like still having the hidden belts, but they are just sections of the large system wide belt. maybe even make it so the father you get from the standard warp ins the better quality ores you get."
"that was what ccp soundwave had mentioned in the fanfest stream, i created this thread originally off of that idea. i am hoping that it gains enough attention, from both miners and pvpr's alike, i think it would open a new era into eve."
"ccp has allowed the sale of timecodes for isk for as long as i've been playing the game. plex themselves are a somewhat newer (august 2008, i think) innovation to streamline the process and bring it entirely ingame.frankly, look at it this way: it makes the kills you get all the sweeter if you imagine it cost them real money. i don't really see what your problem is here."
"this. they're an incredibly smart solution to a number of problems and i've never seen any argument against them that didn't revolve around some kind of weird purity-test notion that removing them wouldn't instantly result in a massive rmt boom."
"just fyi, i've already told him this, and even showed him that there was a gtc trade forum on the eve-o website before plex were introduced. despite this, he maintained that gtc trading wasn't permitted by ccp.he's not someone to be persuaded out of his ideas by little things like \"facts\", \"evidence\" or \"reason\"."
"i'll profess my ignorance on the subject, but do you really need that many bookmarks?i've barely got under 50 bookmarks and most of them are in systems i hardly ever visit.summary of eves last four expansions:"
"something needs to be done with the rorqual if they are doing all these changes to ice and expect that 20% of the ice is not going to be mined in highsec.after the patch the hulk will roughly mine 200 blocks of ice an hour with max skills and an implant... the rorqual can only compress roughly 320 blocks of ice and hour... this is the stupidest thing ever!1.5 hulk to one rorqual for compression of ice... i ccp was trying to make this a group activity for mining in 0.0 but do you really expect a corporation of 32 exhumer pilots to mine for 1 hour and then all 32 jump into a rorqual and compress for 1 hour?the rorqual need a few things done... make the compression rate of ice equal to the mining rate of a hulk... then make the rorqual be able to support something more then 1.5 hulks... like each rorqual should be able to support 10+ hulks...if you decrese the compression time by a little (by giving rorqual a compression bonus per level) and increase the number of slots to 10-11 for compression on the rorqual (either by flat number of slots or again a rorqual bonus per level) then it would make that much more sense. honestly the tractor beam, scanner, and drone bonuses are total lame in my opionion and we could lose those to make up for the bounses i suggested above.please do it.... so it can come out with this patch and not like 6 months later!!!!!"
"how is this a bad thing? nobody has ever fully explained why self sufficiency in a wh is a bad thing.summary of eves last four expansions:"
"test had a fight last night with brave newbies. during the fight many brave newbies players undocked in noobships, the final toll was 33 noobships killed.i've also had this several times as an fc although not in such numbers - new players are having fun, either don't have a ship to hand or lost their ship so they grab a noobship and heroically return to the fray, civilian gatlings a-blaze.and die in droves without doing anything.noobships need to come with civilian modules to at least give those guys some relevance. perhaps a dropdown selection of different fits including tackle noobships ewar noobships logi noobships and mining noobships.a tackle noobship might have a civilian scram with 5km range and 1 point of warp disruption. a civilian mwd might push a velator at 600 m/s.the game should reflect how people play it and at the moment the ballsiest most enthusiastic noob pilots are being punished and made irrelevant.it's often been said that the free frigate programmes are what makes goons and test great alliances. it's time every player got that experience, at least to some extent.(cross-posted from the features & ideas discussion forum)."
"i support the idea of bouncing boobs as long as i can buy some lycra cycling shorts and walk around the station showing off my package. (socks stuffed down the front of course) my missus thinks of eve as 'the other woman'. :)"
"they work by scamming gullible idiots out of their money with ron paul fiat currency free market smash big gubment libertarian buzzwords to get them to buy magic beans, which can only be used to buy drugs, kiddie porn, and magic:the gathering cards."
"woah man, woah...you got a problem with my magic cards?other than that, no, holy crap bitcoins are a terrible idea."
"i am in complete support of this. so many ideas full of win in this thread."
"i am not against it but i would really like to know how often people hit the wall for 13k bookmarks.the subfolders idea to sort is nice as i have had a bomber set for hed and it gets messy with perches from all angles on multiple gates and stations.i think the people to ask about the max limit would be null pvp alliance coalitions as they have the largest territories to keep mapped and bookmarkedand it is worth askingm"
"how about a bookmark that destroys itself?"
"come to think of it, being able to set self-expiring bookmarks wouldn't be a half bad idea if you had enough control over it, as it would save us wormies a bit of work having to go in and manually throw out stale bookmarks."
"as a corporation that is looking to wormholes, being able to mine ice inside would make enough difference to try it out.right now there are a lot of factors that make wormhole attractive, less population, more isk/hr and more of a 'home' feeling.problem #1 is that to stay setup you need a source for fuel ( blocks or mats ) while the pi stuff is trivial wit the right planets the ice will forever be a bottleneck. you need to buy it or hope your static goes somewhere with ice.i know after the expansion change that if ever high-sec ice belt was cleaned it would only make ~80% of the fuel needed.apply this to w-space, have only enough ice spawn to run a small tower on each moon in the system. if you want to run a large tower then you need to reduce the total number of stations you have set up. static links to systems with 15+ moons will be come very desirable. it will also drive conflict when someone wants to steal your ice supply ! all you have to do is out mine the hosts ice and after a while you can sell it back to them for a pretty penny. or go into siege mode and do your best to prevent them getting ice products at all for a while.and for some reason, sleepers really like ice, it should be annoying to mine ice with them around."
"for the love of all that's holy, don't bring this up at the summit. you'd be better off asking ccp to let us pay for our accounts with bacon, chickens, and fresh fruit. at least these don't involve embedded pron."
"it's like you don't even try."
"nothing outshines the wroth of a bitter vet more than a bitter fw vet.i like the idea in general and can see no reason why it wouldn't add to getting more people into both low sec and fw while continually promoting pvp.so i say to you bald sir, +1"
"i have it on good authority that this is not exactly true. while the devs are happier with faction warfare in its current form they are not happy in general with it (because it's systemically isolated relative to other parts of of the game <-- that's more or less what they have said).they are done with big changes for right now... but they are making tweaks here or there in the background."
"add this option, please.i have thousands of repackaged items in a station i can't dock anymore, and putting them on market one by one is not what i would consider fun."
"stayin' alive, stayin' alive...hrolt ceo live free; die proud"
"that is not a bad idea... but if they just fix the compression problem and perhaps enlarge the ore hold and factory slots some i think your issues would be resolved indirectly."
"eve is a sandbox, one sand box, one server, one universe. letting people make their own pocket universe and shut everyone else out is everything eve is not. player interaction is everything in eve and creating areas that allow you to shut yourself off from the rest of the universe removes what makes eve unique."
"i most definitely support this. as your suggestion involves simply placing civilian grade mods on the ships, they would still be far less effective than a 'properly' fit frig, so it's unlikely to cause any balance issues, or to make t1 frigs less relevant.this will also do wonders to get rid of the \"i dun haz anything to fly\" excuse when it comes time for roams or ops. ;) well, maybe not, since i personally funded a free rifter program in my old corp, and still rarely got any takers on them. however, for those who actually do want to jump into the fights, this idea could be a boon."
"yes, easy update .. please ccp??hrolt ceo live free; die proud"
"so just how often do you take your clothes off on a cam for 'clients'?"
"i got a lot of leftover token coins from chuck-e-cheese pizza.i demand that ccp take chuck-e-cheese coins!btw i still have old showbiz pizza token coins too. are these valid currency as well?summary of eves last four expansions:"
"see sig.summary of eves last four expansions:"
"i will create mock ups after i get off from work in roughly 5 hours. i'll also perform some testing and collate data concerning dscan adjustment time per, say, minute or 10 minutes vs having this proposal implemented.concept ui design for the directional scanner--------------------------------------- tl;drdirectional scanner could have preset buttons allowing someone to set up a close range 360 degree scan, focused maximum range scan (30 degrees, if desired) or any other dscan configuration they desire, and quickly switch between them clicking the preset buttons. --------------------------------------- roaming in fw space i often switch between two different modes in dscanner, something that a lot of people tend to do. i'm either doing maximum range 360 degree sweeps, short range (100,000 - 1,000,000 km range, depending) 360 degree sweeps, or focused maximum range scans to help locate possible targets. while it only takes a second or two to input the necessary changes to my dscan parameters, those changes happen several several times a minute when i'm actively hunting or being hunted.by having three preset buttons on the dscan window next to our existing controls, or shifting our existing controls to compensate and allow for three preset buttons, we can quick switch between different dscan parameter configurations. this would eliminate the need to manually reconfigure dscan every time we enter a new situational awareness need. we could spend more time tracking, evading, or whatever it is we are doing as opposed to reconfiguring dscan, making us more efficient regardless of our present activity. moreover, we shouldn't be limited by just three presets. we could have the menu botton (3 lines on top of each other, don't know if it has an official name or anything) with more presets that we can assign to those buttons in whatever fashion. granted there are only so many configurations you can have with dscan, it would be viable to store those configurations as necessary.i will create mock ups after i get off from work in roughly 5 hours. i'll also perform some testing and collate data concerning dscan adjustment time per, say, minute or 10 minutes vs having this proposal implemented.concept ui design for the directional scanner"
"it's either this, or you need to help an old man (i'm not even that old!) out with a slider that you can actually click in the heat of the hunt/combat. the angle slider is way too small. the range needs a slider so you don't have to go type in a value. it's unwieldy.but i really like the presets idea in some form or another."
"i'd propse that if you have a second monitor, non critcal windows can be moved to the second monitor. maybe something like corp chat/ people and places, or whatever the indiviudual deems needed.i personally purchased a 27\" monitor simply for the better screen realestate, but really dont get all that much more because of the resolution of the game.i'm on a 2 year old nvidia geforce gpu."
"when creating a corporation it is hard to find an available corp ticker.please give us more options, or make it so if a corp is closed you can re-use the ticker."
"it did lose some defense, but gained a mid slot.... which could be used for tank.i am not sure why they lowered defense, but hardly a reason to get out the nails and erect some crosses. the changes in defense will have virtually no impact on raven usage, as they are too small and offset by other things.raven defense (shields / armor / hull) : 7000(-500) / 5800(-841) / 6400(-241)slot layout: 7m(+1)"
"cruise missiles are getting a huge buff... and this is just to start. please keep in mind this change is not comprehensive. following odyssey, we hope to do more work to improve the missile systems in eve by potentially adding new modules and/or interactions.ccp rise"
"who gave you that authority for the community?"
"cry me a river. what a disgusting post, i hope you get banned.ccp is doing a great job with the ship rebalance, the fact that you don't like balance is your problem, not yours."
"i'm personally very happy with the work ccp's balance team has put in, and would first like to thank them for their hard work, for their candid and open communication with the playerbase, and for representing ccp in a generally excellent manner. now, as for your complaints about \"grossly and irresponsibly forcing their opinions into the game\", about their \"smartass remarks\", and about your implicatations they are being disrespectful: omg wtf is wrong with you!!!! the remarks you quoted are completely and totally acceptable. grow some thicker skin already, as none of the examples you linked above are rude, inappropriate, or disrespectful. you either need to come up with some better examples, or apologize for your negligent and unqualified slander! in short, stop being a piece of **** throwing around bullshit accusations to gather attention."
"1.) bullshit... as explained very thoroughly, the 5% resists are simply obnoxiously potent. go take a course in basic algebra, and then maybe you'll understand why the change is a good thing. as for the, because of \"alpha fleet doctrines\": alpha fleets exist because of the limitless scaleability of remote reps, which are even more effective on ships with resistance bonuses. again, if you go take a basic algebra course, you might understand how these are linked, and the balancing difficulties the dev's deal with. 2.) most snipers use \"range\" to tank. bitching about your inability to fit a tank and snipe is dumb. how about you focus on something a little more relevant rather than complaining cause you don't get the best of all worlds! 3.) i think the new armaggedon is bad-ass... and fully support the changes. it will certainly add a new flavor to fleet doctrines, which will improve the overall game! tell me, would you whine and ***** this much when your wife loses 100 kg's, changes careers, and starts a new hobby, or do you adapt to the changes and enjoy the new experiences... 4&5.) and they are reducing the base pg and cap consumption of many lasers. if this isn't enough, then go explain why... but realize many ships aren't designed to permarun guns and tank and . . . that's part of the pro's and con's of each weapon system."
"1.) missiles are a different beast than turrets. and it's probably much more appropriate to balance turrets to make large turrets generally less potent against immobile small targets. 2.) the raven is gaining a mid, gaining a healthy amount of speed, and torps/cruise missiles are being improved. is it no longer your passive regen missioning wet dream? attack bs's in general have lower base hp, in exchange for more attack potency, speed, and agility. pleae keep crying though! 3.) the scorpion changes are awesome... and ecmis a very potent form of ewar. they need to add more disruption bs's, not less. p.s. show me where the falcon touched you! gee, i wonder if that's a racial trait of their ship lines. how horrible for them to have racial traits like \"more speed\" or lower sigs! 1.) if the hyperion becomes op, it will receive a nerf. in truth, ccp purposely wants some new ships to become fotm with each patch. gallente bs's have long played a subpar role in fleet engagements, and this might change that until the next \"rebalance\". so what... 2.) omg, did you somehow forget to ***** some more? you were throwing such a tantrum, what's the trick to placating you? to be honest, i am purposely quite terse in my replies because i feel you made a long bitching post that was completely unfounded, put in an inappropriate place, while tossing around unjust accusations and slander at ccp devs. this thread should be locked, because: a.) there are already appropriate threads to discuss ship changes. b.) your accusations at ccp devs are bullshit (at least given the lame things you posted). c.) your ship change complaints are either poorly explained at best, generally unfounded, and typically wreak of \"omg their changing the balance of things, the sky must be falling\". /thread already!"
"guy who has been playing for 10 months cries about awesome ship changes because he can't adapt. nothing to see here.i hope you get banned."
"updated the op with a link to a mock up of what i'm talking about. it has an expanded bar for angles as well as the preset buttons."
"i would like to have up to 3 different d-scan windows. they all can have different settings and all update when you hit the scan button. the scanner just runs 3 times in rapid succession or with a 5 second lockout. you could scan 14au @30<U+FFFD>2 au @ 360<U+FFFD>and150,000 @ 90<U+FFFD>all at the same time with results in 3 different windows."
"rather that paint job i think buying decals would be better"
"you can already just double-click the top of any ui window and it'll collapse."
"is asking for a function that already exists some sort of new fad?"
"hello, i am cross trained eve pilot and have flown gallente, minmatar and amarr ships. also during my past i have witnessed fights in low sec, wh and null. i do not have any experience from caldari ships but i have spoken to several pilots that have not trolled about it. there are several issues that cause the races be seriously in balance. where i feel that amarr and caldari are in the weak end.pvpfirst of all pvp. as many of online games eve is also an rock/paper/scissor game. you defeat others mostly by right choice of fitting, ship selection and dealt damage type. as flexibility goes minmatars gain possibility to cross fit shield or amor tank, ability to deal wide variety of damage types with good tracking, they also have best alpha that mixed with the flexing damage type is quite deadly, they also have most speed that helps you gain on your enemy or run or evade damage. gallente do they have bit of everything, drones for versatile damage, quite ok speeds, nice active tank, ability to cross fit tank types as well. their gun system causes thermal/kinetic that makes quite nice damage in most situations. caldaries and bit of mixed bunch that have lot of potential drake was quite long jack of all trades, but there has been and still are problems with different ship sizes. but in general they are stuck to shields (predictable damage resistance), in most hull to kinetic/thermal damage even missile are able to deal all kinetic is mostly used. last we have amarr who are slowest, predictable damage type, predictable tank, cap hog ships, that barely have mids to fit properly anymore nice. lasers are so unpopular tat people actively fit projectile guns to amarr boats.there are several other aspect too to this. one of the is ewar immunities. as most of you know shield tank can regenerate over time without any cap input. this combined to cap free weapon system such as projectiles or missiles can make ship completely neut / vampire immune. included to this missile system is immune to td. gallentes can become cap immune too with particular hulls like vexor or myrmiddon by fitting a shield tank with drones. amarr are the only raise that is vulnerable for all existing ewars. and the fitting is so tightly computed that mostly ever there is no chance to fit anything extra.because cap is so high vulnerability that you have to stick your ship with cap mods / rigs that help with cap consumption.pvepve has same issues with the ships as we have in pvp. minny ships can do most npc types with ease where gallente, caldari and amarr have difficulties. amarr and caldari ships have difficulties flying cross tank fleets. where minmatar and gallente are probably always able to fit a role.so in short every race:- minmatars jack of all trades. you can make the ships work almost to anything.- gallente wanna be jack of all trades. quite happy being how they are.- caldari a mess, simply fact that caldari is the only race that uses turrets + missiles + drones make their weapon system training time long. missiles are nice but travel time makes damage sluggish. slow ships. predictable damage vulnerabilities.- amarr are like cheese, holes every where everyone wants to bite them. slow ships that native damage type is em/thermal which is very often most resisted damage type in pvp since armor is favored over shield. predictable damage vulnerbilities. ewar sponge (give me i suck all of them!). cap intensive fitting that does not leave much space for flexible fitting.issues and homogenizationmost eve players think homogenization is something where every ship and weapon type becomes same. this could be one way but i hope we can figure out more flexible ways to bring the weapon systems and tank types into balances. i have pondered these issues quite much due since every ship that i have flown been dear to me.weapon systemsbiggest issues with weapon systems are versatile damage types travel / damage apply delay cap use projectiles are instant damage, applied in versatile damage without cap use. none other weapon system shares these 2 powerful traits. hybrid and lasers being able to deal instant damage that is roughly split to 2 resistance types and consume cap. where drones and missiles can deal all damage types both in t1 and t2 variety but travel time of both systems are yet rather horrid both being completely cap free.in my personal experience lasers ability to be ammo free is more of a burden than favor. t1 ammos do not damage, they are worth nothing. the high price of this cap intensivity is not worth this fact.tanksthere are some issues between shield and armor tanks. both of them have their advantages. there is not huge problem in between these tanks but i raise points hopefully other people can agree with me. passive tanking signature radius and scanning speed of shield fit ship shield tank ships are more easy to ehp / damage fit due to damage mods do not share slot with tank modules. passive regen of shield tank makes lot of confusion since when people compare shield and armor tank together they do not consider reinforced shield buffer regen. which has and will continue cause flame. also passive regen helps you to survive in systems where you are flying in limited fleet with buffer tank. you will eventually die as armor fit ship if you do not pay to repair or get someone to repair you up. where shield simply regenerates over time.i believe signature radius difference is unfair for shield fit ships. i hope that there would not have to be difference in this between tank types.shield fit ship can easily fit several damage mods and shield modules. where armor has bit more flexibility for mids / ewar first giving shield fit ship unfair advantage in pve 2nd giving armor fit ship unfair advantage in pvp.-- continued --"
"suggestions for possible solutionsweapon versatile damagewe could balance lasers and hybrids by giving them slight resistance penetration. introducing new module that would give resistance penetration. this resistance penetration should not make lasers or hybrids the superior weapon system but help them out against high resistance tanks. i think this would be great idea since everyone know amarrs from lasers and this would make lasers viable weapon system in comparison of other weapon systems. of course this would have to be adjusted so that damage of these systems were closer to the projectile and missile and drone damage systems meaning that base damage of the system should be down-scaled slightly.damage apply delaywhen we look at damage application it is divided into several attributes at the time being. to fire on a ship one first needs to lock on a target then fire / travel. as we want to keep systems separate and unique i would consider several approaches to this issue. give missile and drone ships increased scan resolution / ability to lock faster. it will help these damage systems to start firing faster. also give them slight advantage of initiating ewar. let missile ship start firing in the space and on acquiring a lock let the missiles travel to target. drones already have several different ways to improve. light and medium drone can travel very fast but heavies are very sluggish. to increase use of heavies. we could consider if there could be a mod that micro jumped heavies to target. remember that heavies are really sluggish so even if they would get to target in instant they would still have to stay on the target as well. this module could be op but just consider it. heavies are nice system but rarely used. cap consumption / ewar immunitythis is an serious issue it causes several crippling problems what comes to amarr fitting and also gives some weapon systems awful advantage of being cap / ewar immune. to balance the weapon systems these steps need to be taken every weapon system has to take cap or if not take cap they have to yet disable if your cap runs out. perhaps it could be done that if your cap was completely out of power your weapon systems were forced to reboot and they could not come online until 10% of cap was regened. this would take care of completele ewar immunity but still give projectile and launcher edge but without being completely immune. amarr lasers and gallente hybrids, i know that the gun energy consumption hinders both races. both races have had or will have rof bonus introduced to their hulls that also increases cap consumption of guns by 5%. first where we should start is that all rof modified modules and effect should be balanced in either module itself or hull that has the rof bonus. for example heat sinks and magnetic field stabilizers have been to long without cap reduction. we need them there!! making cap battary modules less expensive to fit. cap batteries take very much ship resources in comparison to other modules. amarr and gallente ships need these things the most due to their vulnerability to cap neut ewar. yet often you can fit just one. due to fit requirements. i do not feel these modules are overpowered and ships should be able to fit more than 1 of them. making cap injector more viable form of cap replenish. same as battery, pwg / cpu reqs should be adjusted. ships should be able to carry more charges than for several minutes of brawl. weapon tracking distruption immunitywhat i can say. missiles.. please implement the td there already. this has been under debate for very long make it happen. it does not help amarr at all when about 30% of ship fits can easily become immune -- i could understand resistant but not immune!! -- to both of their ewar.passive regento balance out shields and armor in roams. armor tank needs passive ability to regen armor. its unfair that armor fit ships have to pay for repairs when shield fit ships can gain instant shield buffer with quick dock/undock. my suggestion is either modules to mid slot that can make armor to regenerate passively or simply ability for armor to regen if you are not in fight / taking damage. if the regen was out of combat it could be simply explain with maintenance of the ships or repair bots.. also then armor could be also renewed just by dock/undock.shield signaturei simply think this unfair. way you fit your ship should not increase the speed you can be scanned. i hope we could balance this out somehow.module imbalances between tanksthis is probably as ccp has intended but i wish there was smaller gap between the tanks in fitting damage/buffer/ewar. i do not have simple solution but hopefully someone could find a way.amarr ships are suffering very badly. many people including me think that the new armageddon is not real amarr ship. it does address some issues but funnily its amarr ewar hull that is amongst the most resisted / immunity and that cap neuting being as it most efficient form against other amarr hulls. i do not say its a bad hull its just that many players disagree for amarr becoming 2ndary drone race now. old typhoon was very much like the new geddon is it got changed due to long training time. now we have the same disaster on amarr. its like devs decided to give both missiles and drones to it that it could avoid all existing problems we have with lasers. please consider the ship balances that amarr ships are more usable in the future."
"other solutions suggested by other playerskethry avenger -- engergy weapon crystal changes"
"i also support this. the noobship should not overshadow the other frigates, but it shouldn't be as overshadowed itself as it is right now. the updates given to them definitely helped but they can be improved upon. one noobship shouldn't be able to steamroll, say, a t1 fit rifter, but two should definitely take one on with mild success. several noobships should be able to cause havok, unlike they do right now.this would make the game very accessible for newer players. stats shouldn't necessarily change with skill (similar to how it's done now), but will make a noob valuable in a fight as opposed to not having anyone."
"while they are at it: can ships having missile velocity bonus have the same bonus applied to target painters? got a huge gap between my tp range and the >250km achievable with cruise missiles"
"jesus christ, it's like i'm actually on /pol/.+1 from me - if a company as widely known as ccp starts accepting buttcoins, my returns will get even bigger."
"imagine when fleets are clushed in battle.explosions effects lags time dialation etc.but from a strategy view it's not so practical because you just want to see ship type it's guns and capabilities. so what i propose ,we need a battle mod where the is no 3d rendered models where we can see just scematicobjects bc bs hacs recons t3 etc just simple stylish simplified black models with no effects and more tactical information grid points groups fc signs etc. good thing if your pc can't handle large fight you can switch to this mod and voila good perfomance + simple view of things.good example is defcon or supreme commander when you up your map at top of the screen.this is now:it's a messsyou cannot se no cruisers hacks recons bs inters etcsomething like this but it's 2 dimensional game supremecannot find normal 3d tactical huds for space battle gamesyeah and why eve can't be smth like this ?"
"@jonas, i do not fly caldari but i do have flown ham legion. and the range they have do not seems too long to be honest. in comparison to heavy missiles hams are crappy. but missile legion then again is crappy :p torps already suffer from explosive radius"
"i dunno. i can kind of dig it because as someone who uses minmatar and angel ships for pve it's frustrating being at a disadvatnage when shooting serp and gurista rats .at the same time, the differences between the npc pirate types means something and i'd kinda hate seeing them be all homogenized."
"lasers get infinite ammo and instant damage. it's not all one way.however i agree that rats shouldn't be so predictable - even if they're not omnitank, they should have more variation, and the same goes for their damage types as well."
"that's the same old homogenizing, implemented a different way - the variations even out into omni. unless there is no reload timer and you change ammo on every rat, the end result is the same.and ammo or instant dmg is lol. all guns have instant dmg. ammo is only an issue for cheapskates. laser = high effective dps + high projection, at expense of cap."
"you realize that if the tank type varies then projectiles and missiles make superior weapons because flexible damage type? this would make amarr in worse standing than they already are.rats should be more interesting and every rat type should be doable without mega frustration on every ship type imho.also damage type that rats deal should not be as predictable. hopefully so that pvers could use omni tank in low sec making it more difficult for gankers to gain upper hand."
"how do lasers work in pvp?"
"(1:50:38 pm) tei lin: you know what i need(1:50:42 pm) tei lin: a way to import fittings from the igb(1:50:54 pm) tei lin: like, right click eft fitting, import(1:50:55 pm) tei lin: done(1:50:56 pm) nikomo: i think you can do that(1:50:57 pm) nikomo: sort of(1:51:02 pm) nikomo: no wait, can't(1:51:13 pm) nikomo: i think the best you can do is push some stupid xml files into a random directory or something(1:51:32 pm) tei lin: yeah, right now i need to import to pyfa/eft/evehq and then export to xml(1:51:36 pm) tei lin: then import from that xml in to eve(1:52:01 pm) tei lin: i guess we can skip a step and post the xml's next to the eft text on the wiki(1:52:14 pm) tei lin: but that's still not as neat as right click importmaybe in this right click menu here.in general an easier way to move fits from discussion areas in to the game would be amazing. i'm super lazy."
"that could all happen in the same window, too, color coded or something. orange is for the first setting, blue for the second, green for the third, or however you configured it. it almost got me thinking about the new system-wide scanner they're launching and how it could all be tied to that. kind of like a real an/apg-68 -- we could have track while scan mode where it sweeps in a given area and updates direction as it sees the object in question, range while scan where it is pointed in a small area with varying range settings to try to determine an objects range, etc. all this could happen automatically, too, as long as you're running the scanner.it could appear that this would give an unfair advantage to pilots, but keep in mind that the scanner has a handicap -- it has a timer on it that prevents it from rescanning for a short amount of time. while that time is very small, it's enough to render it useless for actual 'real time' usage. this would just serve the purpose of automating the scanner.either idea would be wonderful, to be completely honest. i think this one would be more realistic, but either way works."
"thank you ruze & nantwig mutbrecht"
"@op, really nice stuff great job! overview needs more loveee!"
"i like the idea, maybe rounding it abit too. you will have the proposed ships who can fill at max skills 3 macherials + some small stuff. get a somewhat useable tank (would like normal freighters with better tank too) and no jump capabilities. and then there is another line of those ships which can only fit 1 and a half mach but use jump drives."
"@op, hauling ship hulls is indeed a task that could have dedicated hull. would love also if the existing industry ships could gain some kind of bonus to pack ships to smaller space perhaps?anyway bump! nice idea."
"@ andracin, its really good thing that i do agree with you however. i also see concern of the original poster of \"ships\" growing in trees.i am torn apart. i do see that plexer pilots upkeep the prices of the hulls and waste them. yet i hope there was less"
"+1i use multiple accounts but manual and i like this idea because of one example i have seen also i cant remember the name.he used isboxer or something similar to run an incursion vg fleet alone with 7 nightmares and 2 or 3 basis. he may not be astime eff"
"rather nicely putotherwise one must assume that the op also would like to ban multiple monitors, multiple pc's, kvm's (if they still make them) and even rdp perhaps."
"@op, good post its nice that other consider this issue as well.if these accounts are single person owned i am sure this guy does not pay for play but pays for plexes. this would be really good change and would help with several op issues and false statist"
"such would give single player too much influence over market price of ice. one player could easily **** the market with their effort making it poor experience for those that actually mine the ice in fair manner."
"+1 makes sensealso would like to see the compression module for pos but that would obsolete rorqual somewhat. perhaps rorqual could anchored so that it could beused without piloting it? also cost of it lowered that it was not as big pirate / pos bash evok"
"i like what you are thinking, but by making the rorqual itself a pos item will still not solve the problem.the pos module will only be able to do 1 job at a time and probably at a slower/normal rate of compression, with a limited number of them anchored at pos because of cpu/power that a pos has.to not make the rorqual obsolete you would give the rorqual more slots to manufacture and give it a compression reduction time big enough to make it better then pos module by far... also rorqual will not be obsolete anyways cause pilots will always use it to give mining bonuses!"
"hii just read your thread and i mostly can not agree with it. ok amarr cap issues and fixed damage types (nice recomandations engergy weapon crystal changes atleast it works with physics) are correct but i still have to test the changes coming this summer. otherwise i too dont like that t1 ammo is indestructible. else lasers are great weapon systems because i can easily increase my range with just swapping crystals and still hit the target (gallente use knives when amarr can use knives and guns). plus using short range ammo deal a great deal of damage.the next point is you want tracking disruptors to affect missiles. ffs no, we have defender missiles to counter missiles also ccp needs to get them up to date and working properly (posted my idea in ideas for new modules 13th post from the top).ok now to armageddon not being a real amarr bs, just think of whom they are mostly fighting (sansha/blood both cap hungry ship designs ok minmatar not). so why not design some ships to make it easier to fight those fiends.so why not the minmatar issue now. you say they can be completly cap independent. thats bull and u know it, yeah they still can use their weapons when they run out of cap. but they cant use ewar, hardeners, neuts, active reps and prop mods and have by nature a weak tank because they prefer to be the fastest.my next point would be the sig issue with shields you mentioned. ccp designed it that way to give a penalty to counter the passive shield recharge (is what i believe). that means without the sig increase u get harder to hit and less damage applied to you. means ccp needs to find another way to balance that should they reduce the hp boosted then on extenders or how should the rigs get penalized then? by the way of passive regen for armor pls dont, if its such an issue ccp should just increase the plate hp boni.now we go to caldari, the idea how they want to fight is completly acceptable to me, also i would greatly reduce their drone bay and drone bandwith (max 1 set of light drones + max 1 set in reserve) i would give the missile bonus to all types of missiles not only kinetic. also pure shield tanked race is fine with me.finally overall i wouldnt say that armor is better in pvp. because you cant fit ewar more easily in armor ships just as example coercer only has 2 mids, many armor ships have only 3 or 4 mids which u need mostly already for prop mod, point and cap."
"hi jeanne i read through your post and it seems you did not read my post correctly.kethry avenger suggestion for energy crystal seems one possible solution. simply by changing the division of the damage types could already help a lot. its good solution something that should be considered by the devs. i will attach it to the original post.defender missiles is quite obsolete suggestion since ccp is about to remove launcher slots from the the bs hulls also many smaller ship hulls never had launcher slots. also as they are currently implemented they do not function enough viably. and what comes to td and all ewar. no ship or fit should gain complete immunity to any ewar. this leaves the ewars out of balance and tds need to affect missiles.i do not mean tds should be able to screw whole missile system how they do turrets but td should affect missile guiding.amarr won't ever be balance in other ship hulls as long as they are the only ships that are more or less forced to be ewar vulnerable not immune to any. this is not helped that amarr ships rely so heavily on cap it simply makes the vulnerabilities worse due you are forced to fit mods to even keep your guns and rep running. you may use passive hardeners to gain ehp, and simple buffer for tank damage. this would leave ewar and mwd/ab your only cap requiring skills. so your ship can still fly and fire even your cap is out. yes you get increased damage due to loss of speed if your propulsion boost is not running. but the fact is that minnies evade damage due to the speed. if your ship base speed is high enough and you get into close range you won't probably need the increased speed. only thing that has to stick is tackle and even with cap neut on you you should be able to keep it running if you have not screwed ship natural cap regen.i spoke not about increased damage on the shield but the fact that if you fit your ship with shield modules you increase your ships signature radius. that makes you easier to scan with probes. you are easier to be ganked.what comes to passive regen if you read it through well you see that i do not suggest similar regen for armor as shields have. yes it could be done by mid slot modules since they would then take out cap regen ability but honestly i do not like this idea either. as i suggested secondly armor could repair over time out of combat. this would not fiddle with current tanks should be easy to implement and balance armor tanking also so that buffer tanking would also come possible for armor. you simply would need time after fight to recover.giving missile damage bonus to all damage types would make caldari god race but it could be adjusted so that kinetic damage bonus could be brought down and adding launcher?this would make caldari less bound to kinetic but still make superior kinetic damage.here we come to the exact problem. coercer is an amarr hull and destroyer included to that. amarr hulls cannot fit crap thats the problem. this the same on minmatar or gallente ships and you will be amazed. even minmatars are \"active\" tank ships they do better in pvp armor fit that amarr even amarr is the armor tank race."
"that with td you should have read my post in the thread for ideas for new modules. its how i would fight missiles and i listed racial weapon systems there which would fit those bills including the current defender missile, but ok maybe i should make that its own thread so that it could be discussed fully. another idea i have still to give deep thought would be decoy drones, which should be a midslot item and screw targeting (decoy will be attacked (percentage chance) and if hit destroyed so need to be relaunched). if u implement td to screw missiles up i think you will op that system alot. in that i just meant that the geddon will become a drone neut boat and could be fitted into the storyline so that id had been developed to fight sansha and blood raider. and i also think that amarr are especially weak against neuts and td is equal between all gun systems. i just dont think that amarr are flawed in that aspect.ok thats valid also i see very rarely a minmatar shield without invul, but you are right i forgot armor in that aspect. i may point something out so cap independent weaponsystems normaly have the lowest dps also high alpha, which is making it in some cases worse in other better. but i think it balances it somewhat.so im running out of characters, no quotations anymore. my idea is to give lower boni (not 10% back to 5%) but let themchoose their missile types efficiently (why should one missile be better than another if i fire them with the same specs?). and penalize the hulls another way. to your thinking on sig radius penalties ok but drake already has a smaller sig radius unfitted compared to the brutix, also i dont have the number how bad it effects the sig radius u still have to penalize them another way. which way do u want?and lastly you are correct that some amarr ships are fatally flawed in slot layout in my opinion. i'm also more of a buffer tanker in pvp tbh and thats where amarr is pretty good. if u want to active tank ships thats gallente. and last the passive armor regen i still dont like it, its just a flavour but shield regens because your power plant regenerate the energy, armor is physically damaged and needs to be effected actively to work."
"so you do not think then that ecm is not overpowered? it affects every race ships there is no absolute immunity for it i believe please prove me wrong if i am. it also affects remote reps and damage application.so you do not think then that dampening is not overpowered? its affects every race ships and there is no absolute immunity for it i believe please prove me wrong if i am. it also affects remote reps and damage application. very much compared to ecm.so you do not think then that web, scramble, tp are not overpowered? they affect every ship jada jada jada.. after this all consider again what i said. also defender missiles nor decoy drones are not ewar types they are countermeasure ideas that should not mixed into ewar balances!i red some post over the forums and by judging your comments you fly caldari. each of comment you have replied has hint that caldari ships need buffs. did you ever fly anything bigger than frigate or cruiser for amarr? i am curious.what comes about cap free weapon systems having bad alpha is also narrow sighted. arties are cap free weapon system and due to slow rof of arties they have superior alpha included to versatile damage type that is just op. yes your case applies to missiles and drones but not projectiles. if you red my original post i actually support the idea to buff targeting speed for missile ship that would make the damage application faster. i am bit uneasy about considering dropping rof of missiles and buffing the damage more than odyssey already does. it could easily turn missiles into op weapon system since they are also versatile damage. the suggestion of prefire missiles to space to lock on the locked target could already make it so that when the first wave would hit it could depending on weapon system and travel speed of ships make it so that it could be possible for 2-3 waves of missiles hit. that could already make it severely op as alpha weaponi simply rose my own sincere concern of module fitting affecting the speed of how fast ship may be scanned out of space. i would hope that armor and shield ships could be in balance in this no matter what you would fit into your ship. perhaps replace signature radius with mass or similar when it came to scanning ship.amarr are seriously flawed, caldari also have some type of design mistakes hindering them but amarr are far behind. both of them need to be brought same level with minmatar and gallente so eve can be more enjoyable game for everyone."
"just to make sure i fly amarr, gallente, caldari and soon minmatar bs also more in the carebearing compartment with some pirate excursions. i personally think the pve wise caldari wins hands down pvp only through ecm also it got nerfed. and i hate tracking disruption if i would have a say remove it completly and replace it with decoy drones or whatever, because tracking disruption isnt a mod which makes sense in my opinion. and yes decoy drones are counter measures which copy your ship signatures so that it reduces damage (basically whats td doing right now just a weaker and working on multiple aggressors). by the way i hate the way ecm works to it should be another way to make your ship alot harder to hit. sensor damps maybe ok, cant say how much. but i dont think amarr are basically flawed, they have some issues like the slot layout of some ships (my fav ships are amarr harbinger and baddon) maybe cap consuption is an issue on hulls after summer have to test that. but the biggest issue is the ammunition. and to the alpha like i said in some cases its great in others it sucks, if u get under the tracking of artis they will never ever hit u and every ac fit i tried on cruisers, battlecruiser loses to pulse and blasters."
"i do not like ecm, td, neut and dampening. in the order i list them. ecm is easy to counter yes but its one of the most awful form of ewar because it really gets everyone. td is awful too.. i think both could be turned down just a little. in terms of strength. even i do not like the ewars i am not against any of the ewars. they are suppose to be strong and disabling. what is the problem is that the racial ewars are not in balance. that has to change.so first you claim they are not flawed but in the same breath you do admit that several aspects of amarr asre simply.. flawed. what comes to alpha or laser damage application itself. resistance piercing should help with the damage application but not make the weapon system op depending on how it would be implemented of course and on what strengths.artillery is sniping weapon system same as beams or rail guns. simply their alpha is unmatched because the slow rof and versatile damage type. sniping weapon systems are planned to under track when you get to certain range."
"i think we are talking at cross purposes there. i say that with removing all cap boni from the hulls it could get flawed, i also dont think that the hulls are right now not basically flawed with exception of the 2 midslot hulls. i think and thats what i said in my first post is that the crystals the ammunition is flawed, the ranges work as intented but you should have 2 to 3 damage distributions available at each range thats why i linked the recomandation. my idea of ecm is just that it doesnt jamm the targeted ship but works in a way that makes u lose the lock of enemy ships. sensor damps i would like them to be more like chaff which disturbs the enemy sensors like ecm does just on a fleet wide basis. and instead of tracking disruptors something like decoy drones they will only autolaunch when your ship or fleet members on watchlist lost their drones. but thats just my thinking, i think ewar needs a bad overhaul but i dont think that amarr is especially strong or weak in that regard and i also dont want to get everything the same way."
"after playing in sisi and flying t1 cruisers. osprey and scythe, i popped both of the hulls in level v mission. scythe could speed tank about 75% of the level v fleet with rather sucky fit. i could have pushed more into speed when i had desired that. actually the npcs were only barely able to kill it. but when i brought similar fit osprey it took about 10s to pop even only 2 bses and 1 gun was left. scythe took 25390 damage before popping up, osprey took 6036.i have notified ccp fozzie in the t1 polish pass thread.after comparing values between the hulls i noticed that all t1 logistics have differences in speed and signature. quite severe differences. i consider this very bad because small ship hulls barely have any ehp and speed tanking gives scythe and other minmatar small ships too big advantage. problem is that scythe has the smallest signature and best speed. in fact scythe has almost 20% more speed than the other t1 logistic boats and smallest signature.this is very flawed when minmatar cruiser can tank a fleet and in comparison caldari ship almost insta pops. i am afraid that whole cruiser balance has been in vain if this is the case with other hulls as well."
"retracted because i am an idiot"
"@op, in current eve we have too many titans that dd weapons could work as this way. it would ruin null sec play and make lot of players quit the game because they were killed in unfair aoe hits.however it was not very long time ago when nikk narrel sugges"
"i too think torpedos need a buff in range, or if not there in applied damage. but i think u guys missing a real problem with all missiles. their range is fixed so to reach the maximum range both ships have to be stationary, if the targeted ship movesaway the range will melt down, so basically u should take max range -10 to 25% as safety margin to get the actual range. which would translate for torps if they have a theoretical range of 16km to a practical 14km maybe even lower. now compare blasters u apply some damage at optimal + 2 times the falloff.im totally against td affecting missile hitting probabilities, but i want a working variant of defender missiles (posted something to that here (13th post on that site). and maybe add something like decoys to the system which reduce the hit probability on the main hull but thats just a thought i had right now."
"hi jeanne,as you probably know ccp is removing launchers from most of bs hulls and smaller hulls mostly don't ahve any missile slots except some minny hulls. defenders is there for not viable way nor it should not be compared to ewar. because this is about ewar balances. i explained this to you in my thread for homogenization of the ships and systems.for the ewars truly be in balance no one should be completely immune to them. yes, they should affect some ships / systems less but no one should be immune!ewar balancing requires that td affects the missles.simple as that."
"i flown missions alot and tested the new ai too. i was a drone user, i nearly never use them now. i kill frigs first because they scramb and web which is annoying when u fly low tank high dps and u rly have to get out. but the problem is not the ai its thedrones overall (worst mission i was watching my hob ii like a hawk and still lost 13 of them)."
"their base damage is high than other weapon systems but it does not really even out well in my honest opinion.i just wrote a thread that takes in account lasers single damage type. also goes through different issues with laser weapon system hoping for the better.racial systems balancing and homogenization"
"laser is fine, and any buff to laser will make weapon system as a whole more unbalanced as hybrid/missile lags behind. whatever armor tank and amar speed issues should be fixed separately."
"i read you thread and while i find it well written, i disagree with the goal of \"homogenization\". i don't want every choice to be viable, because if every choice is viable... then there isn't a choice.players should have the right/ability to choice the wrong weapon system or ship for the goal. it laser don't work well against 'rat type a'... don't make that choice. choose something else."
"did you read the thread? i do not think you did. homogenization doesnt mean every thing has to be the same. there are attributes that can bring different things to balance without breaking the existing concepts.you should give it a look."
"all i can ask is you to read the thread."
"bump to the original post. lowsec is in dire need of balancing risk/effort to reward.low sec would need major facelift now its too much risk and effort for the money you can make.personally i would like to see less gate camps. perhaps in return of this we could get bubbles to low sec. since bubbles can be avoided. yes they can be frigging horrid but still can be avoided. i see gate camps big down fall of low sec because some gates are camped 24/7 and it can take forever to find right hole to pass through. also low sec host quie big alliances and corps that control their part of low sec like it was their own. low sec is not designed to be owned. this should be prohibited and made more difficult. if alliances and corporations want to own space they need to go to null period."
"i actually hope that ccp would come over the issues with missile systems and make caldari more into missiles. right now its not possible because it would gimp the whole race.ideas about balancing and homogenization of the races without making us all the same you can find in my thread racial systems balancing and homogenization"
"it would be nice to be able t skip the naff tracks again (sorry ccp but not every track you paid jon hallur for was golden).suppose i will just have to start listening to ambiant stations on shoutcast."
"just like the gms and devs have one, i would love to have a tag that would link to csm posts in a given thread. you guys are fun to argue with. make it happen. thanks in advance, draqone"
"no sir, i've never even been up in a plane before.make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"it would really help :)"
"help whom?"
"since this thread is technically about realism...i don't see why not. if that's how you float...so be it.please keep in mind that the spirit of this idea is not for perversion, nudity or pornographic content of any kind. simply looking for realism here."
"there is no reason at all that isboxer or any program like it should be allowed if macro's are not allowed. you may say that macro's are different from isboxer but you would be wrong. the only difference is that one allows you to be afk entirely while the other allows you to be afk from all but one account. the only reason ccp won't do anything about isboxer is because a guy running 100 accounts, even though all 100 accounts are paid for by isk buying plex, it will be lost revenue."
"isboxer isn't a macroing program.hope this helps."
"i don't think you understand how large the ice market is. we'll both worry together when he starts hitting 1000+ mackinaws.feel free to explain how isboxer is a botting tool. we'll wait."
"if you seriously need it explained to you then it isn't worth the time."
"translation: \"i don't have an argument because i don't really understand what isboxer actually does. so here's a dismissive comment in which i pretend my point is self-evident, and that you would have to be a fool not to see it yourself.\""
"nothing says sensible and well thought out idea like capitalizing half the post and demanding everyone c/p it over and over again"
"forward this post to 30 people and ccp fozzie will send you shirtless pics!!!!"
"to actually be constructive, all the numbers for compression rate you've all been throwing out are still pretty terrible. it's not a joke like the current rate, but that's still alot of risk, time, and effort going into compressing ice down into something that's slightly less m^3 than the worthwhile components of the refined product.an ice belt in 0.0 is currently 5,450,000m^3 and is worth roughly 1,947,880,000 isk.compressed, we get 545,000m^3 (i think, cba to check)refined, it's 1,689,000m^3 consisting of the following183,750m3 isotopes @ 869,750,000 isk (nitrogen, prices aren't exact)351,750m3 stront @ 44,555,000 isk646,000m3 ozone @ 855,950,000 isk507,500m3 heavy water @ 177,625,000 iskyou're most likely not going to manage to sell this in 0.0 (cue some dumb pub chiming in about how he can mine all day in his mackinaw in syndicate and manage to sell it all). you're going to lose money moving that stront, so just throw it in a hangar and forget about it. heavy water -can- be exported for a small profit, but i'd rather not spend hours screwing with jf for ~tens of millions of isk~so what 0.0 ice mongoloids are left with is 829750m3 worth about 1.72b per belt.now compare that to spending countless hours compressing **** in a rorqual to end up with 545000m3 worth 1.94b per belt.even if a rorqual can keep up with 10 hulks, why would you want to bother leaving exposed capital ships all over the place? you're better off mining out an anom, refining it, dumping the stront and water into a warehouse container, and then finding a nice grav site to mine somewhere."
"+1 stats should be holds the same - ability to grab ore/ ice from any bay - finish any bay300% increase in slots - someone suggested 6 + 1 per level, perfect :)time - i think there should be a -5% reduction per level for manufacturing time related to prod"
"we need to go to k-space to sell our blue loots, to sell t3 and to buy t2 / faction / deadspace ship or modules.we also can do t1 production in w-space; we can build our moros or archon out of our gravimetric sites. yet very few do it. we still buy them in ls.ice mining wouldn't make w-space self-sufficient, it would just be one more activity to do (with le logistics drawback).even if it was using the same mechanics than in k-space where it will re-spawn in the same limited set of systems, it would make some system more valuable. it would be something new to fight for."
"it's just funny when people think wh dwellers would like to be isolated.adding ice belts would just remove redicilous hauling to make our towers stay online.as mentioned in previous posts, we need to visit hs all the time.ice mining would give more action in whs. with removal of grav sites, people will mine less in whs.so no more juicy targets. give us ice. and this will change. less hassle with fuel blocks, more time for pvp"
"to csm the post was my reply to the new nerf ccp fozzie is attemping to invoke... i believe the chage would affect smaller/solo groups of players more so then affect any super-cap battle as fozzie has proclaimedwhy nerf the ships borne resists if the problem is in xxxl fleets... i mean you could have just removed the 1% from the amor warfare link - passive defence and the siege warfare link - shield harmonizing modules... you know the ones you ommited from your extended calculations... these mods are generally used in larger fleets the buff the \"overpowered\" resist bonus... these mods also get 100% per level buff when seige/armored warfare specialist is trained... when skilled up a pilot can give and extra 12.5% to resist to his own fleet members.that wasn't in your calculations nor the fact that a slight in the nerf in the defense of a ship is in fact only really affecting the smaller groups of players and the pve community where that 1% drop is infact a 20% pontetial loss from to a newer player but can be cut to roughly in half for fleeting players....the best solution to this issue would be to leave the stats as is a nerf the seige/armored warfare specialist to 50% or the 1% base from the warfare links this way mega fleets can try a different tactic and the smaller gangs or solo pilots can still do there thing.... you don't have to buff anything, and the masses don't have to be envolved in you mgl doctrinesps i'm forwarding this to the csm's"
"because large fleets certainly don't ever use ships with resist bonuses."
"the idea is actually to buff ships with the active rep bonus in solo/small gang pvp, by nerfing the resist bonus..."
"that would only make sense if they nerfed every other bonus beside active rep bonus. or of course they could just buff the active rep bonus if that is what they wanted to accomplish. but instead they picked one single bonus and nerfed it. so which of the ships with the bonus are so overpowered?here are the ships that one would use in small gangs that have it - merlin, punisher, moa, maller, drake, prophecy, rokh, abbadon. are all these ships so overpowered they need a nerf? i really haven't done any battleship pvp lately but imo the others are either fine or could use a buff. make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"i fly many of the smaller hulls with resistance bonuses. i have lot of love for abaddon. but yet i would hope that ccp would remove such resistance bonuses. since they give pretty much op for larger ships that are not capable avoiding damage with speed.i also would like that smaller ship would have more even out speed and sig and ehp since right now minnies have really good evasion tank. so that makes their smaller hulls really good standing against other race hulls.so please no more res bonus and make the evasion tank similar for all the races. so bigger and smaller ships can be in better balance."
"nerfing the little guy - ccp wants you in blobs, where the fleet bonuses drowns out the ship nerf and makes it a non-nerf. don't want to be nerfed? join the blob."
"orcas can't help you by calling out roids when you are fleeted but mining in another belt. so i vote yes to this one"
"+1 anyway its done, i want my range out to 30k would help with fleet placement in anomsyes i know i can tab from scanner to overview but overview will not indicate rocks being mined, ok well i could just lookbut you know,"
"they get it exactly but want fatty kill mails thats all..."
"the idea is a simple one,it has many issues that would need ot be adressed and loopholes covered, however i belive that the general playerbase of null is screaming out for some changes to be made with sov mechanics, you will find few in favor of sov mechanics of today. many people agree that the pos spamming it replaced at least provided more actual fights.my idea;have sov be effected by activity. x number of active pilots in space increases sov y per hour. you could have other factors play into sov also, possitive sov gains for enermy kills and negative gains for allied deaths. one of the biggest plusses to this is an extention of the exisiting sov mechanics for upgrades at the corperate level. sov will need to be used to hold it.alliances beaten back to their home system would never be forced off the map entirely by larger alliance blocks due to concentraion of players, while larger alliances will have to work harder to maintain their space.what do you think?clearly not a full drafted idea, i wanted eve's input :pchun tzu"
"wow...there's some flawed logic for you.i can't say that i can think of a single \"asset\" in the real world that makes a soldier on the ground kill more efficiently or resist attack more efficiently.you are comparing fleet boosters to longbow archers...you know what. this just isn't worth my time.do away with off grid fleet boosters. anybody with a brain will understand why."
"why is there so much hostility towards bitcoins? i've mined a couple hundred $ as it is now, and i'd love to spend them on eve.you don't even have to touch them. you can just partner with an exchange, and the bitcoins are instantly exchanged into $$$, and the payer has to take whatever the current exchange rate is. there's literally no reason not to do this. there's zero risk to eve/ccp and zero impact on the economy.seriously, go look up services like vpn's that accept bitcoins. they never even touch them."
"@op, very good post ! however i would not put fingers on few ccp employees. ccp has also people responsible to look over the community. in anyway i think ccp is to blame as a whole. the critisism again ccp is justified they neglected player input also. th"
"i see it still simply that they wanted to move the old typhoon problem to amarr. it got removed from one race now it has to be bestowed to other. its very sad. amarr needs flexibility but this is ridiculous. you put missile slots and drones on that boat. both being 2ndary weapon system for amarr and now if you want to fly geddon you need both. changes made to geddon was very short sighted. yes its good ship. its simply not amarr. what needs changing is how lasers work in overall not that we get complete weapon system screw over. lasers are most ****** weapon system in game and people fit projectiles guns to amarr ships that have laser bonuses. that is screwed. balance out laser now please!"
"smaller minmatar ships are op due to this. some minny ships have about 20% more speed in comparison to other ships. that already means that 1) they can catch up anyone 2) they can run if they are not tackled 3) that 20% speed adds lot to speed tank on its own.you add smaller signature to that +20% speed and you get evasion gods, that are hard to scan, more difficult to hit. minmatars should have more signature radius in comparison to compensate all that what they get from the +20% speed.@gizznitt, i do not agree with everything with kenshin said but she has a point. ccp employees have over looked the threads and the comments. there are some changes that do bother the community. at least those flying those racial ships. her concern is valid and i am glad someone speak out. you have proved that you are unable to take her feedback and instead of giving building critisism you troll. that makes you less in my eyes.when you are happy with the changes and the continous winmatar online you do not have to bring it on everyone else."
"while i heartily approve of adding more (and more intuitive) information to the existing tactical overlay, what you're talking about is a completely new game...and while i loved playing it in its day, this is not sfb.st"
"if you don't understand the significance of this proposal, you can use google and research it, chances are, it doesn't concern you directly, otherwise you'd already know whom it is supposed to help."
"yeah people could use google or you could actually make a decent proposal with reasoning, you know the normal way of trying to get attention and support for your idea..."
"if you can't provide a valid reason why it should happen, and expect us to do the leg work of figuring out why, you've failed the first hurdle of crafting \"a good proposal.\""
"as i have absolutely no idea why you or anyone else would find this appealing, i am going to give my standard \"kids just asked me a random question that requires a yes or no answer\" response.no. go clean your room."
"nah, it's obvious you jita tycoons fear any competition from new areas (gallente). either you know exactly why this proposal is here, without explanation, or you have no credibility on the subject to begin with, and thus unqualified."
"it's obvious you misunderstand the point of a proposal. you don't take an idea to a corporate chair meeting and say \"do this! if you don't know why then you aren't worthy.\" sorry. that just doesn't fly. without a valid reasoning behind your proposal it loses all credibility and thus will be ignored by anybody that would be able to effect such a change.congrats on your failure of a proposal."
"at best i can figure out from the lack of content in this thread, you're whinging on about having to make 4 high sec jumps through .8 and .9 systems instead of just one.all i can say to that is please biomass your character."
"i must admit, i would like to see some change. but what that change is i cannot say. i currently live in a class 5 wormhole, and the biggest issue with living there. the 3 hour timer is exhausting. and imo over zealous. i feel like the reduced minerals for a quick refine would be fair. but both seems to hinder the aspect of the game now that wormholes are occupied space. wormholes where never intended to be occupied according to ccp. so i would like to see some changes. possibly for wormholes only? like the cap hanger array change that is coming."
"this doesn't make any sense. you're saying the person is at the keyboard & that they're somehow afk aswell."
"you claimed isboxer is a botting tool when it isn't. you were asked to explain your theory & refused because isboxer isn't a botting tool."
"you have to be at the keyboard to do anything with isboxer. thus its not a bot program. botting is when you go to sleep and your accounts still mine ice. try that with isboxer. i will enjoy seeing your kill mails in the new orders front page."
"this would be a great idea if you could balance it out. being able to fly a super indy ship is an awesome idea. keep it like the other supers where it cant dock and people would be able to live out in those non station low secs. or live in null sec areas where your not allowed to dock and mine up the ore. as long as we have enough build slots and some research slots i think this would be one hell of a ship to fly.. also.. omg the tears when this thing dies."
"just give us ice. living in a wormhole hauling ice in with mass restrictions is painful. hell we would settle for crappy high sec ice if we had to. just give us the stuff we need for fuel. also no wormhole is ever locked down. dont believe me go watch a clarion call. you can find any hole you want."
"this would be really nice feature and gives us more clear view that csm and ccp were actually going through the feedback."
"this is to improve the risk vs reward mechanic that defines the soul of this game. at present in faction warfare, loyalty point farmers have it all too easy by stacking their lowslots with warp core stabilizers and get to make their money too easily. i propose that bubbles formed by interdictor ships are allowed in lowsec for the purpose of capturing these farmers. mobile warp disruption bubbles need not be implemented in lowsec."
"this is not the way.warp core stabilized lp farmers frustrate us all. well, probably not each other. be creative to catch them, or just ignore them. they're not really any worse than the cloaky lp farmers or the lp farmers who watch their directional scanner and then just move really fast to stay out of engagement range.a better way would be to roll back the timer when they're not in range at twice the rate it runs down or something."
"**** no. bubbles are the reason i stay out of nullsec."
"leave it to a fellow player to take it to the lowest level, how often do you pay to see that?i mine."
"okay, so you lead with some-- uh--yknow, i'm sry, i realized it wasn't worth my time...good luck... yer gonna need it..."
"just weighing in to say that i am glad newer players are capable of challenging me. i don't want to play a game where i get to walk all over a gang of players who have only been playing for 3 months simply because i can fly bigger, badder ships. if they manage to catch and engage me with the right ships, they should win. expensive toys should not make you invincible.and, if that's the best example you have of a smart-ass comment showing a lack of respect, you don't really have a case. he was using a little bit of sarcastic humor to defuse the argument. i think he's been very good for eve and will continue to make improvements until such time as he nerfs something i really love and then i'll want him fired (you see? humor, i'll never want him fired -- that's ridiculous).i don't have a problem with any of the other issues you raised. i'm part of the community. please stop complaining in my name, because i'm happy."
"+1 give us our damn jukebox you mean spirited goons"
"[quote=caesar ixx]all good theater, film and gaming experiences rely on an audiences/participants ability to \"suspend disbelief\", by removing the jukebox feature and making me go into the real world to manipulate my ambient sound while playing; you have substantially diminished my ability to suspend disbelief, as a result; i enjoy the game less and you as a company provide less value. this."
"bring back the music of our own control. please! i know that old phrase \"eve has sound?\""
"botting is not only when you are afk, botting is when you use any automated process."
"and isboxer isn't automated, move along."
"yes it is. you move along."
"it doesn't automate a thing. let me guess, you haven't actually used it?otherwise you would understand how this differs from bottling.you either don't understand what multiboxing is, don't understand what botting is, or fail to understand what both are and how tremendously different they are from each other."
"this is very true... however that still does not mean the rorqual will not be even more broken after oddessy. you are forgetting one major fact in your plan however... how are you suspose to get the 5.4 million m3 from your ice belt to a refinery 3 jumps away to refine it... your plan work fine if there is a refinery in an icebelt system, but lets face it not very many system in nullsec have station in an ice belt system!so you can now see that the fixing of the rorqual's compression is very needed... and or make a pos module for compression if they do not want to fix the rorqual.thanks for your input."
"build a refinery.oranchor a pos with a shitload of chas to dump ice into/have freighters haul from. (i've considered this, you can fit 40 chas on a large minmatar tower for a combined 60m m^3 cargospace.)and/oranchor a pos with a jb that points to a refining system.i don't disagree that ice compression is broken. my point is that it's so broken that (assuming ccp even wants it as a mechanic) it's going to need either a complete overhaul (pos/station compression) or an absolutely massive boost to the amount of ice products that can be compressed in a rorq at any time.in the meantime, we can just hide the stront and heavy water in a container somewhere and consider it a write-off.e: for comparison, the 7.8m m^3 large grav site compresses into roughly 50k m^3 after the patch. it's worth roughly the same as the proposed low-truesec ice anom at current ore and ice prices."
"you still need to sell the sleeper loot, get resupplied, and to find people to explode.so no, we would not.however, it would increase mining operations in w-space, and increase targets to...explode.i, personally, enjoy making explosions. don't you?"
"if you think that w-space is isolated and that you don't interact with people, then you have absolutely no clue what you're talking about.even if you close your static, you still have k162s coming in. you still have errant outbounds, some that go to null, ls, even hs. like you said, eve is a sandbox. just because i don't like to play in your corner doesn't mean you should dictate what we put in ours."
"hmm i think the idea is so and so. but after thinking it a bit i like the idea. i lived in wh for quite sometime and regular mining and sites nor pvp doesn't really keep you busy. since for pvp you kinda need a gang. sites you need also hole scouts kind of. if ice belts would be added to wh it would mean that people that did not have gangs could so something smaller risk. also when ice was in whs it would mean that wh corps wouldn't need to transport goods so often causing that stuff would stockpile in poses so when you eventually get blow one up.. well just imagine.i believe that in overall this would be a good change gameplay wise. sure it can have effect that i cannot figure out just now anyway+1 until someone proves me wrong."
"have the ice randomly spawn in class 4's. make them worth something. an no i don't live in one.. anymore anyway"
"i fully endorse this product."
"two small additions to the rules, possibly enforced within game limits:1. if a tower is onlining, it should not be possible to light a cynosural field within (forcefield size + 3km) range of the tower2. if a cynosural field is lit inside (forcefield size + 3km) range of a tower, it should not be possible to online the forcefieldlighting cynosural fields five seconds or so before the forcefield of a tower goes online is spreading like wildfire. i don't see how this is not already enforced within the limits of the game, since it provides options to move capital ships with near absolute safety."
"no.ratting =/= activity =/= the only way to 'use' sov.anything to do with kills is horrifically exploitable.sov upgrades are already handled at a corp level, just that corp is usually the executor corp of the alliance.this is completely against the design philosophy of the game.forcing people to pve, the second most horrendously boring thing to do in the game (after mining), is the worst thing you could do to 0.0 and the game as a whole."
"activity based sov has been proposed many times... please to a forum search! there are many ways people use their space: science & industryrattingmininglogisticsmarketstagingand more... i agree that using space should be a solid part of the sov game, and we all know sov in it's current form is flawed. i'm still of the opinion sov should be taken with a bang, and lost with a bang... but the ease at which sov is lost should probably be tied into how much a system is used. this is very difficult to measure though..."
"fix the cloaking!, cloaking devises are high slots , i say battleships and up should be able to run them and maintain being cap stable but cruiser and down should not be able to continue to run them without running out of cap , should not be cap stable.and or , make cloaking ships able to be scanned down with a system scanner or certain scanning skills.also my thoughts on system jammers is that if you are running a system jammer in your system , that should make all cynos, covert cynos included jammable. with this said , unless your in a large alliance which is still no guarantee . you as a independent corporation will not survive.i've been playing eve since 2003 (beta) and used to be with the large alliances but grew tired of the ongoing bs politics. i've gone the independent route and since have seen nothing but everything in each patch (laughs) upgrades go for the pirates of the game and screw the industrial side. no benefits for the miners out there....oh wait they gave us and useless mining frig lmao!. there is no \"safe\" space , not even in 1. sec status where it is supposed to be.eves pathetic sandbox approach is only good for the pirate/ganker i will not be wasting my money on this game anymore nor will i be having anything to do with ccp or their obvious money grab for their 10 year collectors package.yes i'm sure to be flamed by the wannabe pirates and gankers and yes some are really good at what they do and don't rely on cheap tactics to do it. the 1 vs 1 is long gone along with any honor that went with it.but this game was to be for all types of game play and not all people want to pvp. unfortunately ccp sees it differently , promises one thing but does not provide in the end. surprise surprise ! good luck to the remaining industrialists out in eve"
"use d-scan, minimize local.it's not that scary, trust me. stop being a wuss.and bo cynos were designed to go behind enemy lines and jammed systems.you've been playing since 2003, i would like to have your stuff."
"thanks for proving my point"
"^^ this. has been said over, over and over again. so far i haven't heard any decent reasoning not to do it."
"-1.0"
"no."
"look at all the low sec implant buyers lol. not sure this is the way to get new pilots to try out null.....errr i mean low sec.but hey +1 from me lol"
"f*** null.hell to the no."
"yeah this won't be abused..."
"negative ghost rider, the pattern is full."
"when its recognized as a legitimate instead of seized by the law for criminal activities, then i may consider it somewhere below paypal, which i don't use either, because its not secure. there is every risk to ccp/the player as there is no recourse of fraud outside of the bitcoin universe. at least when i invest in precious medals and gems, i have a tangible asset to represent my investment, instead of a possible encrypted hash in a log somewhere."
"ccp has broken all the rules and barriers in the mmo realm, bitcoin does the same to currencies and the concept of monetary independence. trust in the hash, because it only gets better."
"while the racial traits haven't been balanced in the past, ccp has done quite a bit to improve the balance while still maintaining flavor. for example: blaster tracking was improved to match their up-close-and-personal use. null was brought more inline with barrage. tracking enhancers are being nerfed. ship speeds have been significantly rebalanced, so while the stabber might travel 30% fasters than a caracal or thorax, it's damage is pretty poor. while your three points make holding down vaga's and cynnabals very hard, i don't think the proposed changes to minmatar battleships is going to make them suddenly overpowered. your points are mostly moot at the bs combat tier. i personally have felt like ccp reads and responds to the threads very well. they may not respond to every single reply (and couldn't/shouldn't, but they've definitely listened to feedback and responded. those threads have tons of dev reply posts explaining why they made some of the changes they have, noting revisions they made due to feedback, noting areas that still need reworking, etc. how can you possibly justify your statement that \"ccp employees have overlooked the threads and the comments\". click on any of those threads, and just keep clicking the blue icon under the dev's name to skip from dev response to dev response. there are many dev replies in those threads, and i just don't understand how you can possibly justify your statement. please, how about you reply with exactly what ccp has overlooked rather than some broad ambiguous statement. and while i definitely did not respond to kenshi in a pleasant tone, i did not troll her either. i gave legit feedback (perhaps in a demeaning manner) on almost everything she brought up. now, the reason i was so terse was because of this: this statement frankly pissed me off. it was not backed up with any relevant or incriminating posts, was brutal towards ccp employees that i personally think are doing an excellent job, and frankly, was deceitful. when replying to such over-the-top slander, i replied with lots of contempt, mockery, and scorn while still addressing the points brought up. sorry if you think it was a troll.... perhaps my shock at the op's audacity simply got the better of me!"
"actually i referred to t1 logistics. my personal opinion is that scythe makes superior roam hull for one because of speed and sig. and believe that this is in general problem with smaller minmatar hulls since speed and sig means too much for small hulls.what comes to bs i actually hope that they would not make significant differences between races to bs because bses are about ehp and damage, also bad tracking. so hopefully every race would be bs hull that was high in ehp, also goodish in damage and also bad at tracking and bad at speed and sig. but well thats already many subjects that do not really belong to this thread. thank you for taking the time and making proper reply. i admit that kenshi did make quite and aggressive over statement. ccp rise is valued player that knows the game. and to be honest those things that people blame on him are not really his making like change of geddon. well he chose the bs hull it was going to happen to but if he had chosen apocalypse the rage had been the same for that i am sure. i am cross trained pilot and i am not very happy of current amarr ship development nor balance. odyssey will make some things better but also make things worse for amarr and that is sad.however what comes to ccp responding. you can see tons of post in the dev threads. where ccp employees did reply like 1-2 weeks ago. the threads are there. people discuss. there are trolling and unconstructive critisism yes that will be always the case when you deal with such games sadly. but there are also sincere worries and questions ccp do not care to answer. that really makes me to **** off. thats why i believe kenshin post is justified. even though it could have been done in less severe manner.in overall i am calm but sad that with those good and nice chances in odyssey there seem to come lot of changes that i cannot easily digest. what makes it worse is that ccp is not ready to speak about them and replying questions nor responding worries that sincere players have from upcoming changes. so i am disappointed to ccp how they act. i did already consider even deleting my accounts since i really lost hope that they could make amarr enjoyable race to play. instead i am revoking my minny alts and start to play with rust buckets which is not perfect because thats not how i want to play to game. however i am not as upset.anyway thank you for taking time to calm and making a good post."
"im gonna indulge your silly whine post but i want to be very clear beforehand that neither you, or i, speak for anyone other than ourselves.amarr:1) abbadon needs the 5% resistance/level bonus due to the \"alpha fleet doctrines\". not that it matter much there anyway with hundreds of ships shooting you in the face. but at least it may just cause enough of a difference for logistics to save you.by that logic every battleship \"needs\" a bonus to buffer tanking, yet only 2 have it. the abbadon has long been the premier armor buffer tank bs, outperforming nearly any other in that role even at amarr bs iv. 2) apocalypse is the iconic amarr laser sniping bs. yet it is unable to fit nor use tachyon lasers (1400mm arty & 425mm equivalents). if you do manage to fit them you have to choose between firing guns or tanking or not having a tank. this is unacceptable.ccp has stated that adjustments to beams are coming in the near future. complaint dismissed.3) according to the original dev blogs (source in amarr bs thread link) the armaggedon was not to be changed. yet now it losses the cap bonus to lasers. becomes a \"drone boat\" and a mini bhaalgorn. there community's disgust has been beat to death and necromancy applied with regards to this.point a is nonsense, ccp has every right to change their mind. that said, i agree that the poor mans bhaalgorn is a terrible idea and a massive, unneeded nerf to already gimped triage carriers.4) laser's cap use is prohibitive and causes many of the existing issues with amarr ships. cap use is 3-3.5x the cap use of the equivalent hybrid weapon. the issue is especially noticeable with regards to beam lasers.you already made this complaint in regards to the apoc, redundant complaining is not needed.5) laser powergrid requirements are also too draconian to allow their fitting to amarr ships that are supposed to use them.again, i assume that you are either referring to beams (already addressed twice) or have never actually fit an amarr ship with pulse lasers, as they fit just fine, albeit tightly, in the majority of cases.caldari:1) missile mechanics need work to make them viable against turrets. there are numerous ideas suggested by players.be more specific, light missiles are incredibly popular in the meta and mediums were long op and overused yet have still seen widespread use post nerf. cruises will be getting a pass in the near future...so what exactly is your complaint here?2) the raven had no tank to begin with. the proposed raven has less tank than any other bs other than the scorpion!correct me if i am wrong but the raven is getting another midslot. dismissed.3) the scorpion is crap! as the ecm mechanic is broken! fix that before making blanket changes to that ship. better yet give the caldari pilots a useful combat battleship. as the only useful pvp caldari battleship is the rokh.ill admit that the ecm mechanic is dookie, but the scorpion is hardly crap and is regularly used in the current meta of both small gang and blob warfare.minmatar:1) their sig radius is much to small compared to their 'equivalents' of the other three races.much too small? really? ill add that they make sacrifices in other areas like tank and dps.gallente:1) hyperion proposed is and will be completely op compared to the competition.this remains to be seen and can be dismissed on the basis of being purely speculation.2) the dominix change was nice and that is the only one i liked.im glad you found something you dont feel the need to complain about."
"i just hope you get rid of the f11 map and change it for something more appealing. the star map is a mess... it could be cool if we have a kind of zoom system where you can see all the regions as land masses and you can click on one ! and boom you have the region and description. you have only the region (actually you can also add an option to see the other region attach to it) you clicked and now you can see all the constellations region... you click on one constellation and boom, it zoom on it and now you can see all the solar systems. you click on one system and boom you see the system... and you can manage all the filter for each zoom. so it's less messy!! (we can keep the option in 2d or 3d)3d it's cool, so you can easily rotate only the region or the constellation and not being confuse by all the others. and please for god sake, the solar system map with only line and dot?? can be amazing to click on each planet and see the planet system with all their moons and station, landmark, asteroid field etc. and be able to apply the filters for each planet system.can be awesome with the next expansion of odyssey with all the exploration revamp.prosyou need just 5 min when you login to check what is going on in the universe with the filteryou don't need to know what going on 3 region away when you try to see if you have actions or camping 3 system away.more clear view better use of the universe mapgood focus of what going on in the region, constellation and system.gives room around the region to put some stats without occluding and messing with the other region that you don't look.esthetic consget rid of f11can slow down the performance (but we can adjust with some graphic option and filter)wishrevamp solar system map... change icon for sun, planets, moon etc. able to get a central zoom on each planet system"
"then explain to us all how isboxer supposedly requires zero human input to function."
"i don't disagree with you either... there are many ways to move the ice/ore product as you pointed above... but again that are some flaws in your plan... you are assuming that you are a large alliance that owns the station and systems... if you are a renter you might not be able to anchor jump bridges to station systems just for ice mining (alliance use them for more tactical uses sadly). and i find it easier to use a large ship assembly array or two instead of the bazillion corporate hanger arrays. but that still leaves rorqual 1 rorqual like 16 hours to compress all the ice just from one anomaly it mine... at that rate it will never be compressed. and yes refining it now is the way to go... unlike before when people could mine 50k dark glitter blocks... refining that was not much of an improvement honestly... but by forcing miners to mine all the ice the refine m3 is a lot better, as you suggested.tanks for your input,loney"
"wait, you can dump ice into assembly arrays? i'm not sure you can, but i might throw up a csaa or two in a couple systems if ice prices stay high enough."
"so you're angry because you missed out on a kill i guess."
"perfectly legitimate use of game mechanics.sorry about your missed carrier kill (not really, no one cares)."
"what does that have to do with anything?you can't light a cynosural field inside a forcefield, why should this be possible?"
"i'd like ccp to look at the sec status system. currently only players with -5 or lower can be freely engaged depending on the nature of the highsec system. my proposal is to make highsec more dangerous for players with low security status ergo raise the sec status required to safely travel through hisec with respect to being not a free-for-all target by others.sec status: system level.-1: 1-1.5: 0.9-2: 0.8-3: 0.7-4: 0.6-5: 0.5in the method described above a player with only a slightly low sec status will gain criminal status in the 'more secure' portions of hisec. a player with only -1 sec status can be freely engaged by all players in a 1.0 system. similarly a player with -3 may be freely engaged by all players in a 0.7 level system. pirates want pvp but also want immunity from the game when doing so. nothing stops you from ganking someone, functionally nothing will change for players with -5 or lower already. concord does not protect; it punishes the guilty. by making pirates targets of opportunity to others relative to the system level they're in i think this will give the pirates more fights as they claim they want. the only problem they would conceivably have is that the fight is no longer always on their terms. sec status is a small price to pay compared to the victim and his ship."
"most of us agree we don't like off grid boosters!! it now its time to offer solutions to make the change and not just say a change needs to be made.the current hold on this fix seems to be that they are having programming issues making it on grid only.a simple-ish solution to require boosters to be on grid. - make warfare link mods act similar to warp disruption field generators. giving the warfare link a bubble range of around 250km - 300km affecting friendly targets, thus forcing them to be on grid.-please add any ideas that you think might work that are manageable for the programmers to implement."
":i like to get some more realism to the eve universe and i was thinking about this, please post your thoughts.in real life, things get broken due to the use. if you drive a car for sure you know how expensive is the maintenance of the different engines to get everything working properly and because is really important that nothing from your car breaks when you drive through the highway.so i think that could be a beautiful idea and bring some more connection between the capsuler and the ships they pilot if we take care of them. you know, cleaning the engines, changing oil or add more pressure to the air injector and that stuff.how it will work.modules will have a new attribute called malfunction that starts with 0 % with every new module.the level of malfunction will increase in different ways depends on the module. turrets and active modules will increase malfunction a value for each cycle, others when the ship get some damage, some electronics could be if the capacitor gets empty.(insert here a thousand examples) this value accumulates and represents a chance of something getting wrong with that module.for example.if you activate an afterburner, maybe, every 100 times the malfunction rises 1 %. if the malfunction is high enough that module could get suddenly some random damage, or get off-lined.you could reset the malfunction % to 0 in a maintenance service in every station. should be cheaper than the repair quotes but must be done periodically to get sure that your ship is fine.some ships should be cheaper to maintain than others, obviously, as bigger and complex is the ship more expensive is the maintenance.the point is to represent the randomness of the real life. sometimes things get broken spontaneusly, specially if we don<U+FFFD>t take care of them.cleaning the dust of the space from the engines of your ship.for low security, 0.0 and wormholes i think that could be some facility for the poses, similar to a repair one. yes, living in the wild side should be hard. if you are living in the deep space is normal that your ship doesn't recive the maintenance enough, unless you build a facility for that.some skills could make rise the malfunction slower, representing your knowledge of mechanics.tell me what you think and excuse my english.examples boost speed modules, microwarp drives etcget malfunction by:+0,001% per cycle+0,0000001% per second at top speedrandom failure when activated:-cap speed boost a random value- put offlineresistance modulesget malfunction by:+0,001% when absorbs damagerandom failure when activated: -fail the damage absortion- put offlineturrets and missile baysget malfunction by:+0,001% per cycle+0,0000001% per second when overloadrandom failure when activated:-no shooting (fail the cycle)-get real damage to the module (overheat)- put offlinerepairing: lower values of malfunction are cheaper than highest (lol, obviously). the cost of the maintenance should increase exponentially respect the value of the malfunction. maybe, a value above 20% is more expensive than a new module, so you can sell the old one with the malfunction.market:this will open more market to used items, cheaper ones that maybe stop working suddenly, millenium falcon style.i think that could bring so many posibilities and bring more depth to the universe of eve."
"only question: how do you propose to handle cases where people don't have ready station access (station-starved 0.0, deep wh space, supercapitals?) perhaps a \"maintenance\" function on smas?"
"doesnt sound very good idea to me however i would like to see wearing of modules in use and repair of them with similar counterparts (you could use t1 modules to repair but would gain bonus from meta level). this would ensure module and mineral prices would stay up also bump flow to economy. wearing out in my case simply means damaging of modules (like they would under overheating). there could be skill to reduce the damage from use too but it should not take it completely out. also there should be tax in this to drive money out of the economy."
"useless timesink, or direct nerf to wormholes, pos living, long term covert shenanigans and hell, even long roams?you decide!"
"i edited the post."
"cloaking isn't broken. cyno's aren't broken. you have all the same tools available as everyone else to mitigate risks, avoid ganks & so on. choosing not to use them is your own fault, not ccp's."
"coming from a guy in one of the larger alliances"
"bs or bigger? no. makes no sense. some counter to it, skill or module? maybe, that idea has traction no, blackops are made to get past jammers, it is what they do.twice wrong. miners have been given more tank and more options. there are folks making billions with your useless mining frigs. and nowhere is new eden is supposed to be 'safe'. that is working as intended.mmike azariah ----<U+FEFF> <U+FFFD>|(<U+30C4>)/<U+FFFD>"
"the amount of butthurt in the ops post is off the scale. jint hikaru - miner / salvager / explorer / spacebum in the beginning the universe was created. this has made a lot of people very angry and been widely regarded as a bad move."
"the cloaking stuff has already been talked about to death (and shouldn't be changed), but as an industrialist i cannot refuse the bait you have left here, so here goesto begin i am not a pirate, i have never ganked, i do not scam and rarely pvp. i am a miner. i build ships, weapons and ammo. more recently i've started getting into exploration. i am not here to flame you, i am here to try and show you just how flawed everything you've said is."
"if ad hominem is the best way for you to argue, maybe you should stop posting."
"i live in a place where local doesn't exist, and as such, afk cloaking doesn't exist.it doesn't stop me at all, in fact i like it. i find myself more immersed in the game, paying more attention.stop being scared."
"here's the solution!"
"as there are many threads in assembly hall regarding the same topic, some of them actually quite large and elaborate, this thread gets a lock.16. redundant and re-posted threads will be locked. as a courtesy to other forum users, please search to see if there is a thread already open on the topic you wish to discuss. if so, please place your comments there instead. multiple threads on the same subject clutter up the forums needlessly, causing good feedback and ideas to be lost. please keep discussions regarding a topic to a single thread. isd ezwal community communication liaisons (ccls)"
"or simply add a mechanic to wcss that fitting more than one reduces by a certain percentage the amount of energy that a ship's cap can hold by? you might be able to fit 2+ wcss, but then actually initiating a warp would take some caution all it's own... because now the counter to a stabbed ship in fw would be a simple neut or nos.this way a global change to fw is not necessary, and now there's a risk to stabbing out a ship for farming fw that balances (maybe) the rewards./me zips up her flame-resistant suit..."
"then people will be back here next week complaining about cloaky ships in faction warfare complexes. the problem is the almost no-risk aspect of this activity. at least if the timer burned back the other direction when they were away from the beacon there would be risk that you wouldn't earn any lp, and sooner or later they'd either quit or start fighting and maybe team up like others do."
"bitcoin, as a currency, is essentially worthless. anyone that accepts it as a valid form of currency is an idiot."
"if you aren't okay with investing in bitcoins, that's fine. they're not for everyone. the idea obviously appeals to some people, and i don't see why we shouldn't include more payment options. there's also absolutely no risk to ccp. they are paired with an exchange, and they have nothing to do with the bitcoins directly. ccp does not accept bitcoins. they accept cash, which is given to them by the exchange that accepts bitcoins."
"me? never, i have a wife who does it for free."
"bitcoin"
"thanks for the feedbackapologies for the late reply, my forum notifications don't seem to be informing me if responses to my topics are made...i'm aware of the current similarities between the mi and pi cc range detailed in the document. with the revised 3.0 version, this has been combined into a singular entry for civilian, military and social network types. the differences being the industrial networks on moons which now replace the whole moongoo processing functions served by towers.with regards to your comments about planet habitability:its an option to revise it, but we don't want to make valuable planets (like storm, lavas and plasmas) more habitable for civilian pi since they'll become dominantly op planet types given all the dimensions of this proposal.dust deployment buildings:and i don't see why starports as they are proposed can't serve as the building type to drop off dust mercs and equipment for planetary battles with eve ships in addition to the already available orbital battle barge mechanics for dust deployment...also why you'd need an office building on networks to tie in dust contracts with district / city owners when this could b e a simple pi-ui upgrade...."
"i said nothing about automation. i said that i believe that (based from ccp's own eula), isboxer and programs similar to it does if fact facilitate the process of multi-boxing to a degree far beyond the capabilities of other normal multi-boxing techniques. it allows one person to make isk at an impossible rate. yes one person is giving manual commands, that not what i believe is the issue, i believe it's when that one command automatically goes to multiple (many) clients, that's a problem. ccp soundwave said it best eve is about the interactions of the players. in eve people are meant to play/work together not by them-selves acting as a one man navy.but.......thanks hexer and sir marksalotcheating or not it should still be evaluated imoif a csm, gm, or dev can validate that old statement and/or formally ammendends their eula... then this issue imo is resolved.. this eve after all... and we all want more isk"
"from what i understand, isboxer can be used on multiple machines to run multiple accounts per machine.what happens if someone uses another program to 'goof' the data being sent over the network? is there protection against that?could that be automated via some packet record and playback function?is it something that all the eve clients can detect?besides that a quick look at the isboxer site has this..."
"that gm post was made a couple of weeks before fanfest, so it's not an old statement."
"hey look guys, i can save you all the internet lawyering and point out (again) that ccp have explicitly ruled any software that repeats user input as ok.*snip* please refrain from personal attacks. isd ezwal"
"\" it allows one person to make isk at an impossible rate.\" this is not true in the slightest. take however many accounts are in question and that is exactly how much isk that many accounts with that many people logged in can make. in-fact multi-boxing may decrease the amount of isk earned if you calculate in setup times, relogging, having to fix desyncs, etc. so, that is a total fallacy and i have to assume you are talking out of your @ss here because if you have actually used the software you wouldn't be claiming the things you are. ccp has in the past, both distant and recent, stated this is okay which you even quoted me from. so, please don't try to tell me what ccp thinks without a solid quote that definitely answers a question. ccp said eve is about x. that answers nothing. leleouch has literally stated multiboxing software is acceptable. that should be enough... i doubt it will be, so please drone on and let's see where the big bad users of technology touched you."
"it has always been a mystery and different sources talk about different things....i personally want to vote for a massive jovian invasion to high sec.at least for a short period of time:- no safe space- market interruption- mining slaughters- sov spaces attacked by unbeatable aliens- foe alliances working together???finally after some time jovians leave....loot left behind:- jovian tech bpo<U+FFFD>s- ships- modules- superclone facilities (ability to develop augmentations without buying the stuff, although that the clone dies after a period of time).come on guys, give me some extra fun with the background that has already been built."
"they aren't doing anything with the jove. there is no need for anything to happen with them."
"i'd like this idea if it labelled which csm the person belonged to. if the person was a member of multiple csm.. perhaps just listing the most recent one or having a history of this somewhere on the forum profile.. this way players like myself who sometimes post on the forums, but do not deal much with csm members can identify if we are talking to a current member or an old csm member."
"given that i smell a pro-sub cap lobbyist with ambitions of risk free capital warfare..... i\"m going to point out the following:cloaky stabbed t3s with interdiction nullifers.... please explain to me how this is \"risky travel' for sub caps and why it shouldnt be fixed...."
"your proposal smells of \"wahhh someone make clever use of game mechanics me no get kill!\"."
"and you have no other argument at all? just the assumption that i was negatively affected by it? don't really expect much more from a goonie, but i expected at least something.subcaps should be able to operate on their own easily, but this is not the way capital ships are designed. they are supposed to be supported, but having them travel around like this poses them no risk at all, no matter how big and helpless the ship. it is not an intentional feature."
"given that we're not comparing spaceships with real-life naval examples, i'd have to point out that generations of sci-fi writers and tv shows disagree with your opinion on what capital ships should be...."
"i am defining capital ships as they were designed for eve."
"i have not yet seen ccp say anything to that effect. how do you know it's not intended? do you work for ccp?"
"on the very point :) big bump +1let see as the pirates either ignore or come trolling :d"
"one other thing i should have mentioned earlier is that this change is also a buff to lowsec as now any player in 0.4 systems or lower may freely engage any other player so long as both players have at least -1 sec status, without suffering further sec status losses.i proposed this change as a response to the ability to buy sec status with tags, while tags don't drop terribly frequently they do drop often enough as it is and are mostly collected by mission runners anyway. making the now more easily repaired sec status more penalising for high-sec pirates seems fair and will encourage people to use those tags more often instead of stockpiling them or otherwise artificially inflating their prices."
"hell no"
"1.0"
"i want you to tell a pvp pilot to reship into a prober. and don't say \" a probing alt would work !\" because i have yet to meet the man who can simultaniously fight and play the scanning game. additionally, it is almost impossible to scan down a ship in a time line acceptable to make any kind of impact on a fight.off grid boosting should be the realm of capital ships (rorquals, titans, super carriers, etc) and not for day to day pvp ships.additionally, i think it would be cool to make 'off grid boosters' anchorable objects in solar systems, with reasonable hitpoints, making these structures natural small gang targets."
"i would really like to be able to put my corp coat of arms in my pvp ships.is this so difficult?"
"been proposed so many times before.however, ccp do need to sort their shiz out and do this.jint hikaru - miner / salvager / explorer / spacebum in the beginning the universe was created. this has made a lot of people very angry and been widely regarded as a bad move."
"it's been proposed many times. ccp has said they will eventually implement this.no further discussion required.<U+FFFD>"
"learn to use this for the love of god."
"currently, ecm is the only mechanic that is randomized... and it is loathed because of this (the only reason the playerbase has not called for its outright removal is because it is so damn useful).creating randomized events that no one has any control over won't make things more interesting... rather, it will just make people mad.this is especially so in pvp where you often have to push your ship, modules, and weapons to the limit (i mean this literally, overheating your modules and weapons is routine). the last thing you want is something beyond your ability to manage/mitigate tell you, \"nope, **** happens.\"realism is nice and all... but this is a case where it adding such a mechanic would just add needless problems for the sake of having problems."
"that would happen if you don't do a maintenanceperiodically (maybe every week, or somethinmg like that)the idea is that if you do the maintenance, nothing strange would happen, but if you don't take care for long time, maybe, (just maybe) something bad could happen.also i really like the used items market. dontt think about the numbers, i just want to expose teh concept."
"^ i like these guys :) it would be virtually impossible for any person, to try an operate multiple accounts in a way this software allows..."
"in years past, alts were banned as they were seen as an unfair advantage. of course, what happened was people got good at hiding it and so only the people who broke the rules got the reward.in years past, any form of rmt was banned, as it was seen as an unfair advantage. of course, what happened was people got good at hiding it and so only the people who broke the rules got the reward.the solutions to both of these was to legitimise the practice (legal alts and plex respectably) which made it fair for everyone.the same applies here - outlaw using isboxer to do legit multiboxing and instead only the people who know how to avoid detection (and i can think of 5 ways just off the top of my head) will get the advantage of it.or, just use logic and see why it's silly to ban what is essentially just clicking the same button in more than one window.edit: isboxer was outlawed until someone proved they could walk right around the ruling as written by just taping the keys together on his keyboard. at that point ccp got the point."
"\"\"e: i didn't see it at first either, but there you go~"
"isboxer can and is often used with the ability to duplicate commands to different accounts turned off. i use isboxer to simply organize and see different windows for my alt accounts. i still have to move the mouse to different windows or make that window primary to issue any commands. if i am running three accounts i have to activate f1 three times to get my accounts to do whatever f1 is while in control of that accounts screen. it is because the program can be used like this that i say *snip* please refrain from personal attacks. isd ezwal i have no problems with the people who use the program in other ways as long as that use falls within the limits ccp has set."
"safrrr, beast branded, ellen thrace, khanh'rhh, ace uoweme, vertisce soritenshi and any others i may have missed!*snip* please refrain from personal attacks. isd ezwali would like you to define \"normal multi-boxing techniques\" as i already know you can't cause it a subjective term. meaning how you \"think\" it should be does not make it right. so please stop wasting everyone's time about stuff ccp has already put many man hours into and determined it is authorized and does not break the rules.thanksedit* added some pics for those that can't comprehend what isboxer (and other similar software) really does. it just makes things look more pretty. (this is and example of a triple screen setup i found with roughly 26-29 accounts it seems).before isboxer: [img]"
"ha you very right.. ok i'm done thank you again sir mix-a-lot.. either way i have to go get me some"
"+1 is boxer is utter bull ****.it's a 3rd party program that grats a rather significant advantage compared to players who do not utilize it. if that's not against the eula, then i don't know what is."
"have you used it? if not then you don't know what advantages or disadvantages it provides beyond your bias. and also, if you read the thread you will see a post from a senior gm that clearly states it's not against the eula."
"seeing those screenshots and seeing lot of alts online. i wonder how many actual players eve actually has. i usually have 2 characters open at one time myself. if there are many people that keep more 10 open at the time. the honest and real active player count for eve is very little. what is told to us anyway.anyway eve even its harsh and cold place should be even for everyone. now when multibox miners **** the mineral prices it takes it out from everyone else or when multibox gankers hotdrop / gate camp. if ccp lets this continue it will make it even more harder for new people take steps in game and when they realize they have to pay and fly 2-3 characters to even have slightest chance in eve they simply quit.i could perhaps still understand if you used isboxer for 3~ accounts but when it comes 5+ or 10 i could simply cry."
"although i don't like the idea of isboxer it doesn't actually allow a player to make more isk per account than anyone else. each account can still make the same isk per hour as an individual account.tl:dr it's ok"
"1) no ice, logistics are supposed to be tedious and an issue, its what makes wormholes hard to live in, and keeps alot of the jokes out.2) hard to haul ore to k-space? what? back when i lived in a c6-c6 with syj, i had a corpmate who always mined the gravs, and always hauled it out no problem, now that i live in a c5-c3, he still does the same thing, because he knows how to scan when he overdoes the mass."
"you went into a wh to live in a harsh enviroment so get on with it."
"we have these funny little tags on our faces or do you mean on the outer header of the thread?i don't think that is needed for monitoring. if i start a thread i am fairly ocd about checking to se eif anybody else had anything to say about it and i tick the little box on the interesting ones that notifies me that there have been responses.i cannot speak for the others but i am doing laps once a day through assembly, speakers, and the top sekrit channel to keep up to date. if i didn't say anything after reading the thread it is because a) it has already been said and i don't feel like being part of the echob) it is a mediocre idea with no tractionc) one of my fellow csm have already responded and in a fashion i agree withd) the idea is bad and i hope it dies swiftly, no bump for you.besides. i am the same player i was a few weeks ago, except for the letters on my image. my opinion is not the word from on high. i just have a slightly more direct line to those 'up there' in that regard i don't think that you need to know that we have blessed a thread with our presence.mmike azariah ----<U+FEFF> <U+FFFD>|(<U+30C4>)/<U+FFFD>"
"i think lowsec should continue the trend: people with a sec status of -6 are free targets in 0.4, -7 are free targets in 0.3, etc.lowsec already gives a very small penalty for aggressing. i think that people with a lower sec status should be given places to go, rather than being encouraged only to raise their sec status again. i feel players should only be given the tools to raise it again, but i think they should be encouraged to live with their choices rather than change them.i like the first idea though.+1"
"my input:"
"as a brilliant person who has potential as a future fc, i believe i would set up a fleet which includes a particular combat battlecruiser doctrine, and i would try to get at least 1 battlecruiser per squad to fit a gang link and fill the squad command role. enemies won't be able to tell which battlecruisers have the gang links.then we might also get a few fleet command ships with super high tank just to draw fire. the fcs pilots may put gang links on if their fit leaves room, but i won't require it. they can take wing command positions if they have gang links. but they're mostly there to be shot at to buy time.so at which point here do the fleet bonuses stop benefiting us?"
"i disagree. the logic is not flawed. the op brings up plenty of examples and rationale on how off-grid assets have directly or indirectly affected how battles play out. some of these examples, such as the long bow, changed warfare forever. it may not be the best parallel to fleet links on internet space ships, but it's an early example of assets affecting fights that are no where close to the actual foot solider battles.i also don't understand perceptions like this: \" to me it doesn't make sense that a ship that is not participating in a fight can influence the fight.\"satellites don't participate directly in fights and they are an asset that we use constantly to influence fights all over the globe -- they 'link' with computers and feed invaluable information and data to anywhere from smaller units to entire armies. it's an asset that provides incredible amounts of intelligence that can help soldiers kill more efficiently or resist attacks better (and all but the most advanced countries have no chance of destroying them). i'm sure there are plenty of rogue nations or warlords that don't like them either but they exist and they are a decisive tactical advantage that don't actually fire bullets or blow up enemies directly. anyways... to actually talk about on-grid boosting...all these arguments for or against on-grid boosting directly affect a lot of accounts that have spent - like 7-8+ months to max leadership (not to mention a new need to train certain ships/support modules if fleet boosters were forced into a battle situation every engagement) . it's not to be taken lightly and needs to be changed with great care since it's a big aspect of the game and takes a long time to max. and it's not even an active or engaging skill set from a player perspective so you're forced to train something for months that doesn't bring much entertainment value just to be competitive. links also affects mining - so ccp cannot just make a blanket change of all ships must boost on grid without scrutinizing hard data on how that would affect the economy as well as gaming experience for industrialists. so while i agree something should be done about off-grid boosting and some of the abuse that comes with it, a blanket change from one extreme to the other is probably not the answer and a more dynamic approach across all forms of pve/pvp should be addressed in an elegant solution that is backed by hard data analysis and sound reasoning. changes to off-grid boosting should not be done because of these reasons: 'off-grid boosting is unfair, nerf\" or \"i want to blow up a rorq\" or \"i just don't plain like it because it rubs me the wrong way!\". which are pretty much the thesis of 80% of all the posts i've read so far in this thread.i think that the problem with fleet boosting is that it is not interactive or engaging - and being on-grid with such a staple role makes you a big target. at least with eccm or ewar, you are actively playing/thinking and initiating modules against another player that impacts their ability to perform. sure you are a target too because no one likes to be jammed, but there is a game dynamic there that makes it fun and exciting while taking a little bit of luck and skill to pull off. fleet boosting is none of that. and that's the real problem here. it will be the only ship/role that serves no engaging purpose other than existing and fitted to not die in .5 seconds (with no guarantee). not fun. at least with off-grid boosting you can park an alt somewhere and use a ship that is actually fun to use. so a whole holistic look at how fleet boosting works needs to be done. demanding on-grid boosting is a lazy remedy that does not promote or develop what could be an interesting part of the game. it just makes fc's shift their primary rotation slightly."
"transmissions to/from satellites can be jammed, satellites are easily identified/tracked and destroyed (de-militarization of space treaties prevents this, but doubt any space nation doesn't have the ability) .. so yes they do have a significant impact but between equal sides (nato/russia/china bombing 3rd world countries hardly counts as equal) they will be easily and immediately neutralized.speaking of: why don't we just add an easily fitted module that jams all signals coming from off-grid .. be it gang links, non-assigned fighters/bombers or the grossly op titan effects. one can already buy gps jamming gear as a private person, imagine what military umpteen thousand years in future will have.would not immediately affect carebear grinding or mining, although it should be used as a way to throw grinders a curve-ball from time to time by having a random rat switch such a module on cry me a river, people deliberately creating alts to take advantage of ccps shortsightedness/ignorance do not deserve any more consideration than others whose world is turned upside down (changes to ecm, probes, dramiel , moongoo (soon<U+FFFD>) etc.)only applicable in the current environment and with no changes made other than move them on-grid. ccp has already stated that commands will be given teeth (during initial tiericide announcement) and with teeth comes interactivity/fun/mails and you can be damn sure that we will all help to make sure that they are viable when on-grid (provided people are not being stupid about it)keep in mind that there is no hard-set rule saying that a fleet should only have one ship with 5 links and the resulting zero tank. sure, ccp will have to cook up some sort of fleet automation to allow redundancy linkships to come online, preferably based on a fc set priority list (think watchlist) but that too is part of the overall concept of on-grid links."
"someone give this person a job at ccp headquarters!i like what i'm seeing in the suggestions for the overview! i've always avoided trying to deal with it because it's too much of a headache even to come up with solutions for it, but your ideas are making my head feel better already!also, your avatar is amazing! i came here ready to find an excuse to leave, until i saw your avatar and decided i might as well start clicking links.and i have one idea: instead of making a popup box to show ship summary (that would take time and bandwidth), you could just make a more detailed set of small icons to more accurately display all the types of ships. they could all just be boxes, but different colors for different categories. also, i'd like to see the distinction between the 5 size classes (frigate/destroyer/cruiser/battlecruiser/battleship) worked on. destroyers and battlecruisers just look like cruisers, and battleships and capital ships look the same.here's my proposal, maybe someone can draw up a sketch for me:industrial ships are already a horizontal rectangle. capital ships could be a vertical rectangle. i'm not sure what to do for capital industrial ships.i'm listing color options here sort of off the top of my head, but with red for direct combat, blue for operations/ewar, and yellow for industry/exploration:bright red: tech 1 dps ships like the kestrel, catalyst, omen, hurricane, typhoon, and attack battlecruisersdark red: tech 2 assault: assault ships, heavy assault ships, field command shipsmagenta: tech 1 tanky combat ships like the incursus, moa, prophecy, maelstrommaroon: tech 2 tanky: fleet command shipsbright violet: scorpion, bhaalgorn, and tech 1 logistics like the navitas, bantam, augoror, scythedark violet: tech 2 logistics, combat recon, and black opsbright blue: tech 1 ewar ships like the vigil, crucifier, blackbird, celestisdark blue: electronic attack shipsbright teal: probe ships: magnate, heron, imicus, probedark teal: covert ops (not stealth bombers)dark green: blockade runnersyellow: tech 1 industrials, noctisyellow-orange: tech 1 mining bargesdark yellow-orange: exhumersdark red-orange: stealth bombers and maraudersbrown: force reconstrategic cruisers: greyshuttles and apotheosis: whitetitans: bright magentasupercarriers: bright purpledreadnoughts: bright redcarriers: bright violetorca, rorqual, tech1 freighters: yellowjump freighters: dark yellowgnosis: brownzephyr: manila"
"every time i log into eve, not having the jukebox annoys me to no end. i have not gotten over it yet and i don't think i will any time soon. it was one of the things that stood out about eve, that made eve better than all the other games."
"if ccp were to ban isboxer, i wonder how many hours would pass before the same people posting in this thread would be posting in a new thread asking ccp to ban multi-boxing, or to make it impossible to have more than one client open at a time.not many, i'd wager."
"i enjoy the new bounty hunter system and all that it now enables us as players to do.it allows also for new parts of the game to open up to players in the form of 'intel' channels and a market for players to jump into such as the 'locates are us' channel which allows players to join who are either hunting other people or making isk by lending out their services to players for a fee.the proposal i have is entirely selfish of course but i also think it's convenient in general.why is it when i call up an agent i get the automated response from my agent saying: 'sounds good. please drop by, so we can formalize the mission contract.'if my agent can say that much to me surely with eve's technology i can talk to my agent over the phone and make my request?could i not be able to request my agent's location services via a phone call as opposed to flying all over the galaxy for a 1-4 min convo?i believe this would add more fluidity to the game play and reflect the 'advanced technology' that eve online possess's in making a simply phone call.  3rd party & location services ~ tjorven einherjar valkyrja ~ to do business please enter this channel: inf 3rd party"
"disclaimer <U+FFFD> 1) this idea and accompanying images was put together quickly and there is plenty of room for refinement and additions. 2) the models are quick sketch-up drafts and have no textures 3) the base close-up image of the planetary rings is not mine and was found by a google search, i only added the ship, drones and overlay. 4) i'm posting this idea in both the 'features & ideas' section as well as the 'assembly hall' for more coverage and traffic, please post additions and refinements in the 'features' post and support (if any) in the assembly hall. thank you. by now i'm sure ccp have their own plans for this feature and several players have probably posted their own proposals, but this is my take on it and an idea i feel has merit. the idea and inspiration for this post comes from fishing trawlers and the feel of setting a course and following it along the rings as others also trawl alongside you, casting out your net and hoping for the big score, sometimes you get it sometimes you don't. ring mining should be like this and different from other mining in eve, this post hopefully reflects that. as to resources, ideally the materials recovered from ring mining would go towards stargate construction, as plans shown at fanfest (2013) pointed out this goal for the next few years. however the resources could be used for any production or research ccp wishes to introduce (i.e. implants, dust equipment, tech 3 modules and so on). to me though, stargate<U+FFFD>s make the most sense, as these would not be new resources to new eden (since high sec empire planets have rings) but would be more along the lines of concord granting permission to capsuleers to finally mine them. the empires have been able to build gates for a long time and that implies the resources do or did exist in their home systems. that said, lets talk ring mining...stage one <U+FFFD> surveying the ringsplanetary ring surveysecond concept so once you've found a suitable planetary body with rings, you'll need to survey it to find the best mining spot. right clicking the planet and selecting 'survey' will bring up the 'mining operation' screen (see above image) where you can plan and locate where the most efficient spot for you is. you begin with an initial scan that displays if there are any other miners currently harvesting the rings and what ores are present. other miners - if these miners are ahead of your chosen course through the rings then this could impact your mining yield as they may have already harvested the richest deposits of your chosen ore (however, there is no way to tell what they are mining short of asking them, and they could still lie). these players are shown by the red dots on the planetary rings and also includes the wake of their ships as they move along their orbit around the planet. a toggle is also available to show player names so you know who to contact, negotiate with or threaten if you chose.present ores <U+FFFD> icons of all the available/discovered ores are also shown and highlighting one will display it's abundance within the rings and where those pockets are located. similar to 'planetary interaction' these scan results can be refined and narrowed down with skills and adjustable filters. mineral deposit positions vary from planet to planet as dictated by the planet's mass, radius, gravitational pull, the mass of the ores and their velocity in orbit.once you've select an ore to mine you then chose a distance from the planet that will be your orbital route or path that your ship will move along until you choose to stop mining. confirming this selection leads to the beginning of your operation.stage two <U+FFFD> bargemining barge now this is where ring mining differs from other mining. your ship, a new type of barge (possibly called a trawler or harvester), travels along it's orbital path just above the surface of the rings. a powerful and dedicated sensor system, located at the front of the ship, scans all material that passes below it and tags any that contain the desired ore. users can adjust and customise the threshold at which rocks are tagged. this is because unlike asteroids, ring rocks are taken whole and processed at a refinery, so it is possible to collect a large rock that contains only small amounts of the desired ore. conversely it is possible to find small rocks containing an abundance of material. managing and being selective about what you chose to recover is important as your ore hold is limited. stage three <U+FFFD> tag it and bring it home.tagged rocks successfully scanned and tagged rocks are highlighted in space. to avoid confusion and frustration only highlighted and tagged rocks can be recovered, so it doesn't matter if several other rocks are between you and the target as, while they are still visible, the non-highlighted cannot be clicked or selected. the overlay is also visible through non-tagged rocks so that they won't be impossible to see if other rocks move in front of the target (a sort of x-ray vision, holographic overlay). tagged rocks can however move beyond your drone control range so skills and modules to extend this are strongly recommended. if you chose to recover a rock then select it and order a drone (or drones) to recover it."
"stage four - dronesring mining drones the planetary ring miner (harvester) has no direct means by which to recover resources, as the nature of rings is a constantly in motion sea of tumbling and overlapping rocks, moving a ship of any significant size into the rings would lead to dozens of impacts to the hull and delicate sensor array, so the barge is dependent upon drones for mining and resource recovery. ' drones' travel to selected targets and, using four powerful spikes, spear the desired rock. they then manoeuvre the rock back to the barge. however, the size of a rock and it's mass affect the drone's speed and manoeuvrability (with some larger rock requiring more than one drone). a skilled pilot can improve the effectiveness of their drones with increased speed, thrust and certain drone skills. the ring mining barge also features an ability rarely seen in ships of it's size, that is to field more than the maximum five drones seen on other vessels. making it a task orientated small scale carrier. the upper limit of this would be ten ring mining drones in total, one for each level of the ship's skill.notes - to defense and offence i imagine the barge to have a good defense in the form of a solid tank (either shield or hull) but a very limited offence, something like five light drones. this would be because rings don't/shouldn't spawn regular rats but something more like rogue mining drones and stray rocks that threaten the barge. miners can also be attacked by rival capsuleers. bringing combat ships with you for mining ops in low/null/w space will be a must and you'll need enough to protect all your barges/trawlers at differing locations along the rings or patrol between them. a well managed corp/fleet could be seen using ten or more trawlers moving slowly around a planet with a small cruiser escort each and patrols of fast moving tackler and ecm frigates flying between them. groups of trawlers could also share and exchange survey data so that a corp/fleet member can alert you to an approaching hotspot or warn you of a limited yeild path. once the barge's ore hold is full or comes under attack the operation is cancelled or ended and the ship must unload it's cargo to a station or pos to be refined or for partially filled holds, begin a new run at the rings..so, that's the bare bones of my idea... be kind.link to f&i postideas that link into or complement ring mining (which should really be called ring harvesting i'm told)prospecting by gilligan zaftiglay claim to asteroid belts with mining charters by andrea griffinnew mining mechanics: multi ore, multi methods by abrazzar"
"just wondered...."
"last i heard about it was comment by fozz that it waits for ccp veritas to concoct some sot of coding voodoo necessary to make it work."
"why on earth did you open this thread in ah and not general, warfare or f&i? aye, last word was that there was a problem with applying stuff to grid only as opposed to system, suppose they could get around it by making grids instances in their own right but that probably creates a whole new set of issues. curious as to how the aoe ddd worked back in the day, that was grid based i believe even if effectively merely a giant smartbomb .. can a smartbomb set off next to a grid boundary effect stuff within range but off-grid?"
"i think self-sufficiency should be possible in wormhole space."
"few years back when i did tutorial there was no mention of <U+FFFD>double click in space<U+FFFD> manual piloting. i found about it after some 2-3 weeks of play. and from what i hear manual piloting still has no mention in current tutorial.needles to say it is outrageous that tutorial fails to teach noobs such fundamental game mechanic. csm should bring this problem to ccp's attention and exert pressure on them to rectify it as soon as possible."
"this is high on my list of things to mention when we start talking about things missing from the tutorials (if we do)m"
"thx mike!"
"i'm for it, it would raise the visibility of csm communications with the players."
"+1 it's a good idea"
"csm 7 got a lot of **** for <U+FFFD>not communicating enough<U+FFFD>. hawing threads with csm repossess or comments highlighted with tags could be helpful in avoiding such impressions in the future.+1"
"+1i agree"
"my proposal is to bring back the capability of doomsday weapons to attack the entire system, only the attack would be so diminished that it would only deal a few points of damage to each object and ship. this would decloak everyone in the system, too.it gives titan doomsday weapons another use, and it provides a way to decloak ships, without it being too easy to do."
"black ops squad starting to annoy you are they?"
"no."
"i disagree with your math as much as i disagree with your logic. the argument for the resist nerf is simple:5% resist per level is equal to 7.5% hp, 7.5% more on-board reps, and 7.5% more incoming reps all put together. since that's overpowered, ccp is nerfing the resist bonus to 4% per level.if their production team was alright at math, the resists would never have been put at 5% to begin with."
"i originally posted in features and ideas where the post was quickly lost to the general noise of afk-cloaking tears and new i-win button mechanics, and forgetting i should be leveraging the power of our new csm overlords instead.i am proposing a small change to how in-game menu navigation works, that would have (in my opinion) huge user experience benefits.so, i have a problem when i try and quickly navigate menus, sometimes i'll try and move my mouse directly towards a sub-menu item and in the process manage to close the menu i was aiming for.lots of companies (especially those with a large web presence) are recognising this as a huge user experience problem, and are solving it with basic mouse path prediction.imagine an invisible triangle between where your mouse cursor currently is, and the upper and lower bounds of the sub-menu you have just opened. if you move your mouse within the triangle the menu the odds are you're aiming for the sub-menu and so it stays open, and if your cursor leaves the triangle you're probably aiming somewhere else, so the sub-menu can safely be closedamazon uses this to improve navigation on their site. there's a breakdown here with some lovely graphics to demonstrate:"
"+1great idea! having navigating so many sub-menus this would help immensely."
"suggesting that the scanner being on the orca is enough is like suggesting that: orca is why mini-freighters aren't needed the ship resist bonus nerf is a bad idea warp-disrupt bubbles should be allowed in lowsec shirts with a red star on them are not commonly worn people will use extra mid slots on an ecm ship to fit shield tank goonswarm cares about highsec politics poop doesn't stink did i forget anything? oh yeah:+1"
"i do mine.i have an orca booster with the survey scanner.i have 2 hulks that i mine with.i only have 1 monitor.i successfully use the survey scanner from the orca to tell which hulk to disengage the correct asteroid at the proper time.a range increase is not needed."
"they are actually trying to help you as links will be on-grid soon<U+FFFD>, thus getting used to having the booster nearby is manadatory for the min/maxing rock sucker.the 'issue' of having a list to lock from is easily solved by introducing the ability to transmit said list to fleet commanders .. he (orca) scans and all applicable ships (or those with proper box ticked) automatically receive the result.double whammy: feature can be duplicated to apply to watch lists used by logistics, where squad/wing/fleet commander compiles list and transmits/shares to relevant parties who can then micro-manage positions themselves.triple whammy: feature can be made to work together with tagging and/or ship scanners (perhaps a buff/use for tp's in there?) with a list populated with primaries .. freed voice comms up for that much more entertaining (and thus important!) random banter! we recently got a drag'n'drop watchlist, but the whole fleet interface could be so much more."
"anyone have any ideas on how to improve this?i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"the problem: you enter the game and aren't sure what to train. you decide mining sounds ridiculously awesome, and 2.5 million skill points later decide mining is boring and a waste of time. so you start training pvp and really like it - never touching a mining barge or laser again. but those skill points just sit there, worthless and taking up space. over the years as your game play experience changes and you entertain the idea of venturing into other professions, more and more wasted skillpoints stack up. justification for implementing this change: 1) players really should be given the opportunity to correct mistakes and clean up their characters2) like the philosophy behind plex or tags-for-sec, the time has already been invested and skill points already earned. 3) limiting to 1 reset per year (or even 2 or 3 years) like attribute resets prevents this from being abused4) i'd pay a plex (now, if that's not motivation!....) sidebar: this also goes hand-in-hand with skill deletion. most players have at least a few skills that they plugged into their head, only to regret it later and have no way to delete them. those of us with ocd that hate seeing a lot of level 0,1, or 2 skills mixed in with level 4's and 5's really go nuts over not being able to delete them. i'd like this feature too."
"how annoying.... you know, you should attempt to do a forum search before posting. that way, you could perhaps modify your idea to have some new content. maybe even address the reasons why people shoot down this idea. let me spell out a couple reasons why this won't fly... and for the love of god, do a ******* forum search before replying! a.) it allows you to game the sp system: i train a year of perception/willpower skills... once a year redistribute those skillpoints to off-attribute skills, essentially allowing me to train at optimal pace, always. new players won't have this luxury, but older players certainly will! b.) in order to prevent abuse, you need a skillpoint redistribution cap. otherwise i can redistribute 5-10m sp, and instantly become a professional miner, or industrialist, or carrier pilot, or ... it doesn't take a lot of skillpoints before people can insta-train into a fotm ship... and allowing people to instatrain into fotm is generally a bad thing. c.) you already got the benefits from those skills, why should you get to redistribute them? you started off as a miner, and enjoyed it long enough to accrue 2.5m sp relevant to the profession. so you already used them, and benefited from them, regardless if you use them now. that's like spending money on a macbook pro, and then deciding you want an android tablet after using it for 2-3 months. why should you get to swap the macbook for an entirely different thing? d.) what do you mean, mistakes..... you didn't make any mistakes when training your skills. you certainly didn't make 2.5m sp worth of mistakes when training skills. just because you changed your mind/profession doesn't mean you \"made a mistake\". accept some responsibility for your choices! if you go to school for mesage therapy, then become a banker a couple years later, you don't \"unlearn\" your mesage therapy work. having skills irrelevant to your current profession is part of your characters growing pains... accept it. you don't get to re-write your history because you've discovered a new direction. e.) eve has real consequences... if you lose your ship, it's gone. the sp system is the same thing: if you train some sp, they're applied. htfu and deal with it. tl; dr: no... you never made any mistakes, you simply changed your mind. you don't get to change your mind about a purchase you made, about a ship you lost, about a corp you join... likewise, you don't get to change your mind about skillpoints."
"i've seen that post in features and ideas before. usually coming from the same idiots who have zero understanding of both in-game and real life economics. most certainly the types of people who directly correlate government taxes to a personal attack from a government official."
"+1nice idea and a good start on it as well."
"i'm curious too .. surely if they set a range to it say 30km that would remove the grid issue ..'tech3 ships need to be put down, like a rabid dog drooling everywhere in the house, they are out of line' ccp ytterbium nerf missile range into place where is the td missile change? ..projectiles should use capacitor. abc's should be t2 habc and nerf web strength its still too high"
"or one could just say \"if you can lock it, you can boost it\", increase base lock range enough to make it viable (think combat recon ranges) .. doubles as a massive boost to damps as well which should make even the permanently grumpy gallente aficionados happy .. hell, might even make info links desirable for the first time since failcon nerf.could spawn a recon/command vs. recon/command sub-fight while vanilla fatties punch each other in the face around them."
"yeah this basically.plus it would be a nice buff for people who enjoy accusing us of ego-tripping."
"pretty much what i had in mind when i suggested it. i was just being sneaky and didn't include that in my op."
"make the regular doomsday scriptable for this, require the same amount of fuel and can not be within 100k of any pos shields, and can only be used once every 12 hrs per system. then perhaps it could be deemed a viable option."
"also during that 12 hour cooldown you cannot jump out, and are agressed. also you cannot enter a pos, and your cyno jammer is disabled."
"i have the solution!!!!!a high slot module that enables your drones to reciprocate the resistances that you apply to your shipeg when your thermic armour hardner is active granting 55% res bonus to your ships armour your dronesmay get a similar \"boost\"what say youdrone boats are for lazy gits anyhoo"
"use sentry drones."
"because they can be different each time. and we might want to have the previous ones too.it's simple, just add the date and time to the filename. or a number 1, 2, 3 if there is a file already..."
"keep it bumped. i do like this idea as i have been an incursion gypsy in the past.fitted or not it is hard to move hq level tools 30 jumps with any efficiencymmike azariah ----<U+FEFF> <U+FFFD>|(<U+30C4>)/<U+FFFD>"
"i don't care that others have raised this issue before, i will bring up issues i feel need addressing. don't like what i bring up, don't read it or spend time to reply to it. sometimes the only way to bring about change is to keep pressing. and this is different than resetting your attributes once a year how? hint: it's not. you have the ability to completely remap your attributes (perception/willpower/etc) once a year already. it would be a total reset. so yes, you could 'instantly' become a miner. but you'd be that miner for at least 1 year until your next reset is available. so you become a miner and mineral prices crash? tough luck. wait a year to reset. train for the pvp fotm and it gets nerfed? deal with it while you wait a year to reset. the viewpoint is that i earned the skillpoints, i should be able to - on the rare occasion - redistribute them in the same way i redistribute attributes. i buy a macbook and hate it? i have 30 days to return it. or i can resell it on craigslist. or trade it. or trash it. or donate it. i'm not stuck with it.the 2.5m into mining is an example. ok, you benefited from the invested skills, but that was 5 years ago. things change, people change, gameplay gets boring, ....there should be a method for players to redistribute their character based on their changing tastes and/or experiences. and if that only happens once a year? once every 2 years? 3 years? hardly unbalanced."
"supported. +1ages toons of vets are worth isk. self interest at work there, thus the walls of whine."
"inb4 tippa and mag.your actions have consequences... this extends to your skill choices.and you should care about the points that others have brought up in the past. even if you address your ideas to ccp directly, they still have to be discussed and vetted by the player base (the end recipients of such changes). if players don't agree with your idea(s) or their premise then you have to convince them. i agree with all of the points grizz has made as i have made them as well.edit: there is also no such thing as \"wasted skill points.\" ships, skills, and specialties are still useful if you choose to use them. the fact that you don't doesn't make them \"useless.\""
"uhg... based on your response: --- why don't care about other peoples point of view? do you only want to change the game for your own benefit, regardless of balance? --- a total reset of skillpoints would be insane.. wow... can i keep some unassigned, in reserve, to use when i want them? i mean, 100m sp, and there are sooo many elusive ones i hardly utilize! in all seriousness, this is very, very imbalanced. the primary reason, is that new players that specialize typically become extremely competitive (if not better) to the \"older player\" that retains a general skillset. your redistribution encourages people to specialize always... and this is not like attribute redistribution. attribute redistribution was enabled because pilots that initially chose their attributes poorly were stuck with that decision for the entire career. furthermore, these attributes are chosen at the most immature moment of game play (at character creation). there is still consequences to training a skill, as it cannot be \"untrained\". [/quote]but you are stuck with that macbook purchase. it happened, and you can resell it, or return it (often both at financial loss), you generally can't undo it. there are consequences for your decision (generally financial), even if you change your mind. truthfully though, this analogy is much more akin to buy a ship in eve online. training sp's is a long term decision, much more akin to taking a college class or trade-certificate course. you can't undo a class after you take it, and you certainly can't turn physics 101 into psychology 101 after the fact just because your changing your major. seriously, why should there be a method for players to redistributed their character points? you admitted you already benefited from them... they weren't trained in error, they were trained to open up a type of game play you participated in and benefited from, even if you don't partake in that aspect now. they don't prevent you from doing something new. you can always train into a new area of game play... if your tastes change, nothing prevents you from developing into the new area of game play. they still provide you with a benefit. you can still do those \"boring old tasks\" should the urge arise. let's be frank. you want this enabled because your impatient. you've found a new area of game play, and since you have a bunch of old sp that you don't utilize very much, you're proposing a method to expedite your training. this is not, nor has it ever been, a game of insta-training characters. characters go through a development cycle where it takes real time to skill into different careers. just because your an older character with \"extra sp\" doesn't mean you get to skip the growing pains (that all new player experience) when exploring a new are of game play. p.s. you might have better luck if you suggested some reasonable consequence. like, you lose 25% of your skillpoints when you redistribute them. this would be appropriate, as it hurts new players the least, and has steep enough consequences that people won't abuse the system."
"no it doesn't. you speak like there's finite number of sp you can put into a char...it'll give less reason for ppl to buy vet toons, causing deflation. that's what it's all about. i can join you hypocrites, but trolling you is more interesting."
"your splitting hairs... if i train caldari frig v instead of minmatar frig v, then in 2 weeks i'll be able to fly a harpy instead of a jaguar... what i can fly today is a result of my decisions yesterday, and we can't undo those choices (hence there are consequences for skill choices). at the same time, i can train minnie frig v so in 2 weeks i can also train the jag, making the consequences primarily relevant to the here and now. this is also why sp redistribution is completely unnecessary. if you spent the last year making a perfect industry toon, you can still turn it into a pro-pvp toon by taking the next year and focusing on pvp skills. it takes someone really impatient to expect ccp to return those sp so they can instantly become a pro-pvp toon. and pro tip, you don't need super all-v skillsets to be viable and competent in this game, especially in regards to ship combat!"
"ever wonder how much power/irl money is used in running those servers at ccp?makes me wonder how much of that is actually being used for active players...not just hundreds *if not thousands* of players who are afk either in station or in space.so...here is my proposed solution. after 15 mins of inactivity a window pops up in a random place on the screen. *random every time to prevent botters*a notification that says \"are you afk? yes, no?\" or something creative to that effect where the player has to click \"no\".if the player doesn't click \"no\" a 15 min timer pops up and after that 15 minute timer expires they get logged off.i bet if ccp was having any server issues due to thousands of players being afk. this would not only help *not totally fix* with afk cloaky campers but ccp will save money because the server load would be reduced due to less power needed to run the server for \"x amount of afk players\"my 2 isk.myth"
"i wholeheartedly agree. i'm sick of afk cloakers.sadly, said cloakers belong to an already well established part of the gameplay, so most likely ccp won't give a dong. :("
"here is a link to the eve economy fanfest vid (or seach ccp on youtube)"
"soloing is far higher than just 50%. ppl who mostly solo but joins fleet once in a while are not counted. even nullbears (rank and file, not officers) spend most of their playtime soloing. full time fleeting is mostly in higher whs and incursions.player created missions were successful in many other games, but only because their rats are balanced. eve's rat balance is too badly neglected, with all balancing efforts going towards pvp. the popular player created missions will be these with only high bounty bses waves after wave. frigs and elite cruisers don't give enough bounty for the time it takes to kill them."
"im not suggesting that player run mission should be more or less profitable than current missionsthe reason i like the idea is that the number of missions will increase and will stop the whole missions juggling that goes on i just like the idea of ccp doing something that would help change something that hasnt had any significant attention in the past 2 years or to put it another way more than 5 expansionswith regards rat balance this is something ccp could look at along with loot tables and bountiesplayers could et these but ccp could adjust them before putting a player mission on liveim not looking for more isk per hour i dont even mind less isk per houri just like the idea of after x amount of months of player created mission .... i might get to the point where i can run mission for a full month solid and not see a single reapeted mission offered thats the goalbalance, loot and bounties are always gonna be subjective to each player cause in eve 100 million is alot to someone with no time to grind at all where as 1 billion to another player may seem like nothing due to his earningsso a good mix like it is at the moment is perfectly fine just lots lots more.... or maybe even something more inventive but would be nice if in the future missions were given some attentioni like them the way they are but i would like them even more if they were better/more varied/safer/more risky/more random and so on and so forthedited for this .....an example is recently they just made changes to exploration where they removed rats in data and relic sites for the next expansion... this would have been awesome for soloists #but they then say in the same breath that they are changing it so that all loot spills out into space then disappears shortly after meaning its better if you go with 2 people #imho its like ccp want to discourage soloing another example is that in one of the pre-fanfest vids on twitch tv one of the ccp guys said if people are just soloing lvl 4's all day then ccp are doing something wrong (cant be bothered going through all the vids but it is there)i disagree i think that even though the soloist is treated like a 2nd class citizen ingame the fact that we are still playing means you must be doing something right .... but you could do it even better just acknowledge that we are there would be a start"
"we need more input."
"+1 this is epic and can totally replace current mining mechanics.steel and iron guard me well, or else i'm dead and doomed to hell"
"just lost 3 days of training because i forgot to upgrade my clone. it was a busy night, fighting all the time and i did not remember how many times i died. then i did it again - after some running around through null sec i realized i was using an alpha clone.proposal - when podded, there is this service that gives automated upgrade to the next clone that holds your skill points. it could be based on new skills, an isk price, or standings."
"sp sink working as intended. call it a tax on the stupid."
"here's an outline for a possible way to help improve communication and interaction with the player base. - hold a bi-weekly \"round-table\" on a consistent schedule (ex: 1st and 3rd tue of the month)- csm members hold a skype (or some other program) conversation and broadcast it live on twitch.tv - create a graphic overlay that show each csm name, and avatar picture next each speaker.- release past meetings as a podcast as well to increase audience.*allows for a consistent csm update to the players, and a real time q&a where the community can really get to know the csm*past meetings are stored for those who miss the live event."
"while it currently involves neither twitch-tv nor quite so ambitious a schedule, we are working on plans to hold several town hall type meetings over the next year. recording them certainly isn't a bad idea, too."
"after sitting on the sidelines for years watching all the empire factions get all the fun we are still waiting to get tagged in.i imagine changing the system capturing mechanics to support 3 way capturing might be somewhat complicated so a good half way measure would be to add pirate faction to the wars without letting them capture space, this should be fairly trivial to implement would make fw low sec a lot more interesting.this would allow pirate faction supporters to hunt down and disrupt the efforts of whichever empire militia their pirate fw team is at war with and actually get some loyalty points for doing so.faction divisions are obviously easy as the pirate factions are divided into two blocks already. the new fw teams:angel cartel & serpentisguristas, blood raiders & sanshas.angel cartel & serpentis faction would be at war with the gallente & minmatar block as well as the guristas, blood raider and sansha factions. guristas, blood raider and sansha would be at war with the amarr & caldari block and of course the other pirate faction block.obviously we would prefer being able to capture systems as well but at this point wed be happy with just no longer being ignored and left out :p"
"join a pirate corp.../thread"
"except pirate corps cant capture systems, get loyalty points and get standing gains. hence theres a fairly major difference."
"tying the pirate factions into existing faction war would both be poorly implemented in terms of mechanics, as well as story and game design. their agenda is entirely different from the empires, and of the five - the serpentis, have an invested interest in remaining in the back line. the angels might as well, considering they tend to primarily exist as an underworld power. the remaining three groups are different end game goals for their conflicts. blooders and guristas are the most understandable in their aggressive destruction of the amarr/caldari respectively. sansha would require a philosophy change, as official promotion of something like the militia war powers system is entirely counter-productive to their mission.this is just the conceptual issues, let alone the game design evaluation that would have to occur to accommodate them appropriately. at that point, it is better to spend all the resources developing a unique pirate faction lowsec game system than stitching them into the existing militia framework.edit ; additionally, it is entirely reasonable to sign up to an existing militia, gain access to what you are proposing, and still avow loyalty to your faction. at that point all you truly need is to simply not capture systems, as that would be the only meaningful way to forward an empire's interests."
"i'm not sure i get the full gist of this idea yet. when i first saw the orca i actually thought it could be used as a \"space caravan\" then realized it was meant to be a mining vessel.if the concept here is to have a ship that can be used to move our stuff around a lot easier or to \"move house\" when your sov bases get taken over , would it not be simpler to retask ships we already have to new roles?we have carriers already. the hull could be re-tasked so the skill list is no longer \"combat based\", jump capability removed, combat roles removed, drone bay removed, etc etc, and we have a ship mover. such a ship would never be allowed in hisec though without major changes to ehp because if it takes the role of a freighter with a higher degree of safety, it could never be ganked, and everyone would be up in arms over that."
"i'm posting here because i want people's opinions. what i said is just because some people have raised problems to this issue in the past, doesn't mean i shouldn't be talking about it the issue as a whole. and i have 105m skillpoints. i'm not waiting on any training, i'm not changing professions, i'm maxed out where i want to be. but it's stupid not being able to redistribute how i want to, given that my toon is 7 years old and needs some cleaning up - i have alots of skills that are completely untrained that i don't want to look at anymore, i fail to see how deleting those from my head is at all imbalanced. back to the point.i train a pure miner. and i want to switch to a capital pilot. do i spend the next 2 years training for it? hell no, i buy a cap pilot off the character bazaar. and ccp's ok with that. so rather than buying another toon from someone else, simply give me the ability to reset my own skills on my own toon with my own name and reputation, once every couple of years. and attributes didn't nerf your character. you could still train skills and be anything you wanted, it just took a day or two extra (which sounds really familiar to your 'it doesn't stop you from training a new profession' argument. . and yet they introduced the remap anyways. it's the same thing. exactly."
"there is already a solution to this. self-destruct an alpha clone over & over until you've lost the desired skills."
"~consequences~welcome to eve."
"no, for one very good reason: eve is a game that allows you train skills afk. that is the benefit of the skill training system we have. all you need to do is invest time. there is a very good character market within eve that can get you a character with the skill set you are looking for. i have skill points on this character that are invested into cynos something that i am currently not using. by your logic i should be able to trade those skills for something that i do need currently. but the thing is, i invested time to train them. they were useful. now that i don't need them, i'm training for something else entirely. however i made that choice.eve is all about choice and the consequences they bring. if you cannot handle the consequences of an action, then eve probably isn't the right sort of game for you."
"no.i say this as someone with a fair amount of industrial and science skills that i will probably never use again. we make choices and we have to live with them. that is a large part of the appeal of eve.i suggest that you direct your energies and efforts towards helping to improve the new player experience particularly in relation to new toons making educated skill choices rather than trying to wreck one of the main features of the game."
"the first reply you got on the subject - albeit it being a tad too aggressive - had a lot of good points. it would be really nice if ccp introduced a novel way to be more flexible with sp's (and for the record, i can't think of one off the top of my head) but a full sp remap is way too much.if there was something i might even remotely consider, it would maybe allow a remap of some skills of equal cost and level - say swap 2 skills that are both rank 4 and both are in the same category - ie, they have already the same stat requirements - for example you had sentry drone interfacing v and heavy drone operation iii, to end up with sdi iii and hdo v. and even for that i'd have a penalty like stopping training for a small period while clone gets \"reprogrammed\" at a station.... i'm not saying that one is a \"good\" idea, just saying that it ought to be something not done or allowed easily, the main reason for that is the entire population would immediately try and ind a way to exploit it."
"when you have a player doing this sort of thing with 80 accounts, does it not mess with the market mechanics of plex sales? after all, that player isn't playing by paying with real cash, he must be plex'ing those accounts, so he's taking out 80 plex'es of of the market each month that normally would be paid for by normal players.does'nt this system raise plex prices on the market? or does ccp just keep it balanced with other tricks?"
"supply and demand is not a trick. it is economics 101."
"i'll just add my 2 scents in this conversation. i've been playing games for a very long time and this is a conversation which seems to come back every few years.i define a macro as any button or keybind which allows you do do multiples actions at once. this definition is somewhat broad and it should be. in the right hands, macros are extremely powerful tools.propagating a command most certainly fall within the scope of this definition. for me, denying this is playing on words. right now, in qu<U+FFFD>bec, we have a commission inquiring on collusion. for me, it's the same exact thing, peoples denying the obvious truth and trying to rephrase it so that they can keep going with their everyday business. you can say it however you want, is boxer is a form of macroing.and before you go asking, i do have 2 accounts. it does require quite a bit more micromanagement to run even 2 accounts without using is boxer. i don't think that a single player could reasonably manage more then 2 or 3 accounts without a program like is boxer. beyond that, macros are almost without question required."
"having 80 accounts under one thumb is a form of digital slavery. normally those 80 people will want their cut instead of funneling it all to one player.i understand that ccp has allowed the use of isboxer because it does cater to the few players that run that many accounts.i understand that money is good.i understand that this topic will never see a gm or dev post due to the volatile nature of the content.what i don't understand is how and / or why isboxer is not advertised by ccp.heck, ccp should buy isboxer and integrate it into the game client is if it so handy !my gaming keyboard supports advanced macros that are very close to breaking the eula, so i do not use them for fear of my account. why do i have to watch my step with my hardware when i could be running 20-30 accounts raking it back for only me?"
"the one player (there might be 2 or 3 now!) in this game with almost a hundred ice mining accounts doesn't really have an appreciable effect on the price of anything. i don't think you realize the scale of the plex market.and even if he was, the odyssey update is going to ruin that setup. the only choice he'll have is to move to 0.0 and mine ore along with ice."
"fixed that for you."
"fixed that for you!i agree with op...it isn't just null sec cloaky campers that this will effect. ever try to get into jita on a crowded day? 90% of jita is afk...just sayin bro....oh...btw...scooter...do you even lift bro?"
"show me on the doll where the bad afk person touched you."
"can someone please explain to me how an afk cloaker *actually* affects you? i realise that you may not want to take the risk and perform activities in system when they are there, but surely you could move to a system nearby?"
"don't you just love nerf afk cloaking threads. this one has a better hook than most though in that it attempts to appeal directly to ccp's accounts department."
"this is not a \"fix to afk cloakers\" because \"afk cloakers\" are not a problem.cloaked ships are literally incapable of doing anything to anyone while cloaked, afk players are literally incapable of doing anything to anyone toothey are a double none-threatso what is the issue here, mate? are your bots not working because they're programmed to run if local changes?"
"i setup a program to take screenshots every 30 seconds and use it to monitor activity of players i have tagged in people and places and coordinate that with players going in and out of local.i don't really swing either way at the moment, but i do find it strange that in just about every scifi system we know of, cloaks usually have massive limitations on how they can be used, yet eve has none. activate and just run it forever. i can imagine how boring movies would be if infinite use cloaks were available to everyone.that said, i would probably prefer if some minimal player interaction was needed to keep the cloak up for extended periods, as long as it could not be automated."
"obviously you aren't familiar with just how vicious the sensor and speed penalties on cloaks are. (or how hard recal delay hits you, for that matter.) besides, running around breaking cloaking willy-nilly would have some rather undesired effects on the wh metagame."
"for those users that do not have multiple account could you please either:a) return the \"log off\" button when players hit esc.b) create a button so players can return to the \"select a character\" screen without having to shut down and relaunch the game from scratch.c) create a drop down menu in the launcher so players can choose the character to log into when the exe of the game file loads.we are aware that players can manually select a log off button, but the amount of time that we would need to spend searching all the various buttons to see which one isn't currently being used to select one is just a waste of time. there are many players in this game who have multiple toons on the same account, so why a button has never been created to allow players to switch toons more easily, is something that is baffling and well overdue."
"three days and so few responses? is this a tl;dr problem or do poeple really hate the idea?"
"your idea is well thought out and those are nice pictures explaining it.it gives more depth to mining, but i'm not very convinced it actually makes it any fun. it's still going to be alot of obvious clicking and waiting, just like the current system.making mining fun is the biggest challenge for ccp, imo a good mining concept has some sort of minigame, promotes teamplay and has some depth with different mining strategies and toolsets."
"tagged rocks would be their own mining mini game. depending on your skills, filters and chosen ore you could be seeing dozens or hundreds of results and highlighted rocks onscreen at once, particularly in rings found in null/w space where resources are higher in concentration. balancing which rocks to collect and which to let float away would keep a miner's attention on the screen and focused on their mining. i've heard people throw around the idea of using the new jettison can mechanic for hacking sites as a new mining feature but that doesn't fit the trawler feel i was looking at. it would fit more of a large asteriod or comet mining feature, where you blast off chunks and collect them.but if you have other ideas of how to make mining 'fun' i'd love to hear them ."
"before undocking:check clone.problem solved."
"while not particularly old, i vividly remember the first time i logged into eve. the searing red and gold sunset in space combat ned with the beautiful and haunting apocrypha soundtrack. most players remember the expansion they joined with purely because of things like these. they gave each expansion its own character and flavour...and now we have lost them.i have nothing against ccp working on and improving the launcher - i just don't want to lose the music and splash art in the process."
"that's no doomsday its another cry baby who wants to do away with afk cloaking."
"i thought \"nerf afk cloaking\" season finished last month. isn't it \"wreak the training system\" season now or have i got my dates mixed up?"
"i guess the op spent so much time and thought into his idea, that he missed the 'afk cloak nerf' season.jint hikaru - miner / salvager / explorer / spacebum in the beginning the universe was created. this has made a lot of people very angry and been widely regarded as a bad move."
"i hear world of warcraft has a banal cycle of buffs and nerfs based on who complains the most. you probably belong there."
"fixed that for you."
"i bring good news. pirates are already in faction warfare. we fight all the factions. i haven't met one faction warfare pilot yet that i couldn't shoot at.lore-wise, there's no reason for concord to sanction a war waged by criminals against any faction -- they're criminals.i think i see your motivation. i'd love to get some kind of reward for shooting pilots, but i think we have to settle for enjoyment and loot drops. it's the price we pay to not have target selection issues."
"hehe i think you and gizznitt are doing a fine job tbh. i'll simply post the reasons why this is a bad idea, from tippia.in other words, no.destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"i agree with mag and tipno, eve is a game of facing the consequences of decisions you make.mmike azariah ----<U+FEFF> <U+FFFD>|(<U+30C4>)/<U+FFFD>"
"what is this \"consequence\" that you speak of?on that subject, we should have a max sp cap, so that skill choices can have consequences."
"the consequence of poorly chosen skill queues is having sp you don't really want.the nice thing is that, unlike other mmos, you are not bound to a character type. you want different skills? train them now!mmike azariah ----<U+FEFF> <U+FFFD>|(<U+30C4>)/<U+FFFD>"
"fifteen to sixty minute user selectable timeout with a 60s pop-up (location is irrelevant, bots are more than capable of window ident), but only in stations .. people in space must be assumed active no matter what.if you want to get rid of cloakers, then come up with ways for us players to hunt the bastards down, not for them to be arbitrarily removed from game.example afk-c solution:space equivalent to sonar (ladar?) buoys, launched from core probe launchers with the effect of increasing probability of scanning down a cloaked vessel (without actually decloaking it).should be possible to add signature to ships under cloak, just make them unprobable by default (think old t3's) and then increasing sig using buoys to a point where it is possible but very hard to pin-point them .. if it truly is afk then the hunting party eventually decloaks him by proximity, if he is not then he is not covered by the issue and thus in need of a solution."
"just about everything in that op was a myth.for a solution, there needs to be a problem. afk player server load isn't one and neither is afk cloaking.destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"all the willy nilly here.afk cloakers are not a problem because they're afk.the problem is that it's a schroedingers cloaker, the cloaky may or may not be afk you never know, but if you don't act like he is behind his keyboard (even if het might well be afk going to the pub, having a good time with his girlfriend or just sleeping) you are going to lose your ship sooner rather then later.and there's the imbalance, when i play eve, i'm behind my keyboard. the cloaker might as well not be behind the keyboard 90% of the time, i still have to act as if he is active, because i never know when he is going to be active.so, even when not behind the keyboard the cloaker is effecting my gameplay directly. i don't mind cloakers effecting my gameplay but please let them be behind the keyboard when they effect my gameplay, just like me when i'm playing.then we have balance."
"time to bump an old thread again: i'm pushing 9000 bookmarks. safe travel in nullsec is a fair bit more complicated than warping from one gate to the next. the only ship it's really safe to do that in is a covert nullified t3."
"this is a fair request. i also switch between toons on the same acct and know what you are asking for.i will see what they of the infinite power have to saymmike azariah ----<U+FEFF> <U+FFFD>|(<U+30C4>)/<U+FFFD>"
"+1with a the shiny tech in the game...agents can't send a simple text message?"
"get rid of it ktthx"
"compelling argument, i can really see how much effort you put into this and you are doing wonders to sway me over to your side of the issue. in fact i think i will petition ccp right now to join you in your quest for the old log in screen.oh wait, no i won't. i'm not stupid."
"i agree with dark in that this is not the way to get changes done. what specifically bothers you about the new launcher? how would you like to see it changed?try to keep the answer civil and specific.mmike azariah ----<U+FEFF> <U+FFFD>|(<U+30C4>)/<U+FFFD>"
"+1get rid of it."
"i don't think we should get rid of it per se. mainly because i like the idea of a master log in and all it could offer. but i do think the way they have introduced it, leaves a lot to be desired.things i would like to see changed, until we reach this master solution.being able to right click paste into the password box. reducing the time it takes to check the client files, every time i start the launcher up. as it stands i can bypass the launcher and jump straight into the game. with the launcher i go and make myself a cuppa. odd, considering how they are trying to rid us of timer bars. it's seems to forget my account name, please fix this. edit: seems this is related to the 'close the eve launcher' check box and is being fixed. i was also going to add that when i press 'log in' that's what i want to do, not to be faced with having to press another button. but they apparently have fixed this. as much as i dislike aspects of the launcher, i can see the need for change and hope for better account management in the future because of it. but if ccp could go about the change in a better way, including leaving the option in to bypass the launcher, until they are within an arms reach of their goal. that would be great.destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"ah, that need to break what's working."
"you are right, that blob is what we refer to as carebears. of all the alliances in null sec their numbers are for nothing when it comes to the disorganized, unwashed, fecal tossing masses of the hi sec entitlement crowd. that's your blob."
"+1. ccp, do this naow."
"just to add to mike, the consequence of wanting to try something else is that not all the sp you have trained to this point will be useful."
"nicely put. unlike other mmos that do have max sp cap, eve sp choices have no lasting consequence."
"i lol'd at the character trading. really? it's a requirement to keep that market alive and well? i don't think game decisions need to be made based on someone wanting to ensure they get 20 billion isk when selling their toon. but noobs will always be willing to buy vet toons, so no, the market will not die. redistribution doesn't ensure 'cookie cutter' anything. everyone will make their own choices in what skills to train for based on their experiences and how they want to play the game. doctrines in 00 change so fast now that you're practically expected to fly all 4 races competently, with support skills to match. and the math says that even a 150m sp toon who redistributes won't even come close to having his/her fighting skills maxed at 5. so attributes and implants will still matter. 5 year vets will always have the advantage over 2 year vets. but smart 2 year vets beat dumb 5 year noobs every time. skill points mater in eve, but they are not the end all be all you make them out to be. most of the rest of what you said are purely grasping at straws. i don't think a redistribution every few years changes any consequences. hell, choosing to redistribute is a consequence...you'll be stuck with the result for quite a long time."
"i can use the same argument for the attributes pre-remap. \"having high charisma doesn't stop you from training ship skills, and you still get the benefit of high charisma for leadership and social skills!\"attribute remaps are widely accepted and appreciated. they were a good addition that goes against the \"eve has consequences mantra\" skill resets would be a good addition too."
"the fact that you lol'd, show how ignorant you are at the impact of such a change.how the character was trained, becomes irrelevant. it's now all about the sp only. in other words, it kills character trading. are you suggesting that certain impacts with a change, should simply be ignored? that if you don't care, they don't matter? sorry but no.people will always head to fotm and this idea promotes just that. also with this i wouldn't even need to remap or worry about those +5s. i simply set for perc and will and train titans for the rest of my life. then simply move the sp wherever i want. thus, attributes no longer matter in any way whatsoever, and with attributes gone, the implants become meaningless too. you might as well just give everyone a flat 2700 sp/h regardless of what they train.i agree that skill points do not matter as much, but that's the beauty of current system. you're asking to change that to make them more important and therefore wrecking the whole system. this means us old vets have it way too easy, being able to change our high sp at a whim. against a new guy and his far lower sp. it's irrelevant regarding them fixing supposed errors they made, they don't have the amount of sp i do. i'm now able to render all their choices meaningless. there is no field they can now specialise in, in order to compete.you suggested once per year, but now seem to be back tracking to only every few. catching up doesn't exist at the moment, but this change introduces it. simply because this change makes it about how much sp you have, not where you have that sp. this change would cripple new players and be a massive boon to us old ones.you have yet to show any legitimate reason for this change. it doesn't solve anything, it simply screws the current system. as tippia also said the following, which highlights why this idea isn't required.as far as skill deletion is concerned, i'm all for it. but at the cost of the sp in that skill as well as a plex. again, this should be about consequences.destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"mag's & tippia pretty much nailed it! lets look at your reasons more closesly: having skillpoints you don't currently utilize is not a problem. this whole notion is flawed. and frankly, the cost of exploring different areas of game play is taking the time to skill into it. want to build... train production efficiency, industry, etc..want to mine... train mining & exhumers, etc.... want to explore... train astronometrics & scanning skills... want to pvp... train skills for the ship/race you want to try. tired of any of these professions, train into a new one! please, elaborate on the \"problem\" that having access to these old professions delivers. i'll cut off the two most obvious replies: clone costs -- guess what... this isn't a problem with having the sp, this is an issue with the clone upgrade system. try again! character sheet -- afraid you'll be rejected from a corp because they want a 15m sp industrialist rather than a 15m sp pvper. allowing corps to identify your character history (based on sp chart, based on kill history, based on corp history) is extremely important for this game in which bringing people into your corp. they need to judge whether you can fly the ships they want (and this involves more than simply having the sp to do so), they need to judge what contributions you have previously had, and they do this to see if you fit before entrusting you with corp membership (which opens up some vulnerabilities to them). so, with those two out of the way, again: please, elaborate on the \"problem\" that having tons and tons of skillpoints which you dont currently utilize!!!! none of these are justifications.... 1.) you have the opportunity to \"correct your skillset\" simply by training the skills you currently want. old skills do not harm you, nor do they need \"cleaning up\". if you are that ocd, i have no problems with allowing you to simply delete skills (as long as they aren't prereq skills in a tree you've trained). 2.) this is nothing like plex, nor like tags-for-sec. and neither of those programs lend \"justification\" to sp redistribution. 3.) limiting this would help prevent abuse, but if you really need to limit it to once every 1-3 years, perhaps its not something that should be implemented. also, this isn't a \"justification\". 4.) it would increase plex demand... how nice for ccp. while this is motivation, it is not justification! if you want to delete a skill from your head, i completely don't give a ****... i wouldn't even require you to pay a plex for that service, but i would recommend that you can only delete one skill every 48 hours as a anti-hack safety precaution (even then, imagine the havoc if someone's account gets hacked an suddenly titan v is deleted!)"
"not to derail the thread, but until we have two factor authentication for eve, i will always vote no for skill deletion. even after we have it, i fail to see the necessity of spending limited developer resources on it when there are much more pressing issues in the game to be fixed.on the topic of the op:no. you haven't yet come up with a pressing reason why this is needed under the current system, nor a way to do it that doesn't invoke malcanis' law. and if you really have to limit it to once every three years or so, there's no point in it. if i train mining for a year, and then decide i hate it, and have to wait two more years to respec those points - well hell, i can be flying a titan in that amount of time, so what's the ******* point of the respec system?"
"^^ if someone hacked your account they could just biomass your toon anyways so a timer wouldn't do much. use a complex password with a variety of caps, numbers, and special characters and your account will be safe. i wouldn't mind deleting skills from my head and losing those skillpoints all together. that would be progress"
"moot discussion, it'll never happen....though that probably applies to 99% of this forum section.dohohohohohohoho"
"what relevance does them being at the keyboard have? people should be allowed to play as and when they like. plus as they are afk and not actually playing, the one that's actually affecting your game play is you. it's your actions alone that keeps you docked or pos'ed up. no one cloaked and maybe afk can stop you docking, undocking, moving systems, activating modules etc.etc.but that's not really the issue you have here. the real issue you have is with another game mechanic.answer me this. while they are cloaked and maybe afk, which mechanic are they using to interact with you?destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"wait wait, i know this one!!!i'll take the problem is local chat for 500."
"there are two problems related to \"afk cloakers\", but none of them are a problem with an afk cloaker. problem 1, bridges: in the current incarnation, anyone with a bo bs or titan can bridge in a (pragmatically) unscoutable force directly on top of you. the ability of a cloaker to almost instantly cyno in these overwhelming forces makes assessing the threat level impossible, which really screws up a lot of standard options for combating hostile cloakers. (note: bridges aren't all bad, but they are mostly op in their current incarnation). problem 2, local chat being an omniscient intel tool: since you can identify everyone in local, you can instantly identify when there is a hostile in system. the whole risk vs reward system is out of whack because people can, and do, get safe the instant local gains even an iota of risk. in eve, you should always operate under the premise that \"something wicked this way comes\", and afk cloaking is currently the only means to re-introduce risk back into the system. (this is why people afk cloak). both of these are legitimate issues... afk cloaking is not!"
"i think this is a real good idea for the players that has more than one character on one account :)one of the options sounds nice and good after my opinion. :)hope one of the options will get into the game.my personal option is of them all must be b, because it makes the change of character without turning off the game itself much easier instead of going back to the launcher and press the start/launch game button again.- grizzly mcloren -"
"the personal opinion to my friend grizzly mcloren i'd like aswell, the option b is a really good idea. this should be an option in the game for sure. its just awesome for the players with more characters on one account, and it will be more effective game time use of players who enjoy the game and so on."
"the kill right system would need some improvement.actually the toon who has a kill right on him receive a notification that someone ia hunting him. but the corporation or the toon who receveived the right to activate it doesn t.it would be nice to add a notification mail wich includes name of the target time of expiration of the kr amount of the kr an other mail would be nice to tell that the kr ha been executed by who, or the kr has expired.optionnal : to help to avoid bad situations, may be adding a self set amount limit to accept kill right. that and more space between numbers like : 100, 000, 000"
"have you ever bothered to read the evemails the killright systems sends out....i mean rly..."
"+1can<U+FFFD>t descripe it better :p"
"like i said, the way they introduced it leaves a lot to be desired. but ccp do have a history of such things. destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"it would be nice if ccp released a statement as to the purpose of the new launcher. i highly doubt they just changed it because they were bored!"
"they did: it introduces single sign-on to eve, which ccp has been dangling as an eventual feature for at least as long as i've been here (the tail end of incarna). theoretically, it will allow them to do any number of cool things, including eventually introducing master accounts so that all your current accounts are associated.in practice, right now, it's a wobbly first step. they took it knowing that they'd risk the ire of multiboxers. sure enough..."
"indeed.they could have saved themselves a fair few headaches, if they had tested some more and listened more to feedback.ooh, it's like d<U+FFFD>j<U+FFFD> vu. destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"yes that is the idea. basicly it goes like this:sec status: system level.-1: 1-1.5: 0.9-2: 0.8-3: 0.7-4: 0.6-5: 0.5lowsec systems0.4 or lower: -1 or lower.in *any* lowsec system if you have -1 security status you can freely engage anyone else who has at least -1 sec status without taking a hit to your sec status.-5 ss people are already free targets in highsec and lowsec, making them need worse sec status to be free targets in lowsec is functionally redundant."
"*this is not about drone damage/balance thread*with the upcoming expansion and with all the ship rebalance drones have become a common main weapon. it is now a good time in my opinion to review the drone skills.to start with lets take a look at the drone skills themselves (going to divide them to support, specialization and core skills)core drone skills:drones scout drone operation combat drone operation heavy drone operation sentry drone interfacing fighters fighter bomberssupport drone skills:drone durability drone navigation drone sharpshooting drone interfacingspecialization drone skills:advanced drone interfacing amarr drone specialization caldari drone specialization gallente drone specialization minmatar drone specialization electronic warfare drone interfacing mining drone operation repair drone operation salvage drone operation the concept of drones as main weapon used to be reserved for a few selected subcapital ships and of course carriers, which left a lot of players with just a few drone skills in order to be able to use selected drones (tech 2 light - medium drones + ew drones mostly).that's not the problem though and old players wont have any problem leveling the correct/needed drone skills. however a new pilot that just started playing eve and assuming he has little guidance by friends/corp/guides will find himself lost and overwhelm.comparing drones to other weapon system will make my point clear lets take as an example the hybrid weapons: small blasters/rails --> frigates/destroyers medium blasters/rails --> cruisers/battlecruisers large blasters/rails --> battlecruisers/battleships there is a clear line of progression and all the players will soon realize (if they haven't already) that fitting medium neutron blasters to their megathron is a mistake.but when it comes to drones there is no line of progression, well at least not a clear one that is. let me demonstrate this: light drones ---> frigates/destroyers/cruisers/battlecruisers/battleships/carriers medium drones ---> frigates/destroyers/cruisers/battlecruisers/battleships/carriers heavy drones ---> exactly the same as above sentry drones ---> exactly the same but wheres the problem? everything is working as intended!!! well yes and no at the same time. *i am not suggesting that we should allow drones to be fitted only to certain classes* after all drones are most of the time the only defense of large ships against smaller. no, drone mechanics should remain as they are now.what i am saying is that a new player does not know which he should train first. unlike conventional weapon systems the drones don't have a clear line of progression and this should be change. you may argue that simplifying things in game is bad and will make it easy mode. this is wrong!!!! we're not changing the depth of the game or the benefits of a maxed out drone pilot! but the skill tree needs to be simple and easy to understand.complexity is good in many things, the skill tree isn't one of them though.alright alright you made your point but what are you suggesting already?well first of all we need a few skill name changes because most of them are very confusing: sentry drone interfacing ---> sentry drone operation scout drone operation ---> drone range operation (explained below) repair drone operation ---> logistic drone operation electronic warfare drone interfacing ---> ew drone operation combat drone operation ---> split into 2 skills advanced drone interfacing ---> description change reasons has a similar name to drone interfacing but its identical to heavy drone operation. the skill is named scout drone operation yet it gives 5000m increased range per level, makes no sense. the only reason i'm suggesting this is because in the skill description it says logistic drones not repair drones. keep it simple. same thing with the sentry skill, wrong name! also the bonus on the skill (3000m per level) makes no sense to be here. (more about it below) split into 2 skills: light drone operation/medium drone operation will explain below description change: say that it can only be used by carriers. to a new player having more than 5 drones seems awesome but he'll be dissapointed when he finds out he wasted a month of training. alright time for the skill changes themselves: first of all the faction drone specialization skills must be removed. yes you read that right, they make no sense at all and some of them are rarely if ever useful (looking at amarr drone spec). don't worry i don't want to remove them completely, they'll just change. the combat drone operation will be split into light drone operation and medium drone operation, both will get a specialization skill (light drone specialization and medium drone specialization). each starter skill will have a 5% damage per level bonus on the corresponding drones and each specialization skill will give a 2% damage per level bonus. same goes for heavy and sentry drones, both will get a specialization skill that will give them a 2% bonus per level. note: the training times should be altered, however the specialization skill must not pre-require the lighter version spec (example: medium drone specialization should not require light drone spec to iv, unlike guns). it should be like the missile specialization skills if anything."
"why on earth should we do that? because instead of removing depth from the game it actually gives it more. a drone focused pilot will have the option to specialize on the drones he wants to use. specialization is very important on this game and i think this change will benefit it a lot.note: fighters and fighter bombers should remain unchanged.i didn't forget though that i changed the combat drone skill, where did the 5000m bonus range go?new skill: drone range operation: 8000m per level bonus range on drones. wait what? 8000m? where did those extra 3000m come from? well they surely don't belong with the ew drones operation and i don't think it'll be worth putting a specialization skill for this.last change i suggest is about the drone interfacing, currently it gives 20% bonus on drone damage and mining yield. 2 completely unrelated things. simple change move the 20% mining yield to the mining drone skill making it a 25% mining yield per level and leaving the drone interface with just the 20% drone damage. this may sound as an easy buff for mining drones, cause they just got a lot better with a lot less training, but i'm quite sure its not going to affect the market with a gazillion more minerals. to summit up the drone skills should be looking like this:core drone skills: drones drone range operation light drone operation medium drone operation heavy drone operation sentry drone operation fighters fighter bombers support drone skills: drone durability drone navigation drone sharpshooting drone interfacing specialization drone skills: advanced drone interfacing light drone specialization medium drone specialization heavy drone specialization sentry drone specialization electronic warfare drone operation mining drone operation logistics drone operation salvage drone operation"
"the idea would be to have a civilian version of your said carrier, so that it can enter highsec help moving fitted hulls and so. those ships will be a niche filler as, if i read correct, your ships cant be launched from them into space they r just there for transport"
"i've always wanted a more realistic belt system. like most solar systems we should have one or two belts that encircle the star (like between mars and jupiter), miners would use a scanning system (maybe replace the current survey scanner) to find hotspots and rich deposits. warping to these spots would generate a field (like mission and deadspace pockets) so that servers don't need to track the position of billions of rocks, but use graphical tricks like skyboxes and matt painting to give the impression that the belt stretches far beyond your ability to see. they should probably remain until exhausted so that there is a competative element and so systems aren't flooded with these mining spots.main belts would contain the common ores for the region, with rarer ore being spawned in anomilies. possible due to collisions within these larger belts or extra-solar entities that have travelled between stars.i also like the idea of player/corp owned structures and refinaries being built into hollowed out gaint asteriods (the postions of which could be scanned down then sold or claimed) with the use of mining contracts or charters. owners could allow private or public use of their facilities, with adjustable tax rates. providing refining, repair services, storage, even limited protection within a certain range would begin the process of moving mining and refining out of npc hands. of course a range limit would exist between mining outposts in the same system (say 4 au) and publicly avaliable facilities would need to offer competative prices for their services.prospecting by gilligan zaftiglay claim to asteroid belts with mining charters by andrea griffin"
"revision of belts? sure, let me spend five minutes brain-farting and twenty minutes typing it down.general 'look':each system has one to three belts consisting of an entire orbital path as physics and aesthetics dictate.belts are divided into x number of grids.majority of the belts is 'empty' rocks out of necessity as the sheer scope would otherwise make it a mining bonanza.interaction/exploration:some grids in belts contain probeable/scannable concentrations of mineral/mineable ore (think current belts). other grids can contain exploration content as per normal mechanics.still other grids contain asteroids the size of moonlets which must be found the old fashioned way (ie. cannot be probed/scanned) and are large enough to establish asteroid bases on.- moonlet bases consist of half buried pos with structures on surface, otherwise same function as pos.- moonlet bases can mine the asteroid they are embedded in, providing lower tier moon minerals. mining the moonlet is temporary as it will eventually break apart from integrity-/mass-loss with room for structures gradually decreasing.- upon breakdown the remaining base structures are destroyed and a similarly sized moonlet appears elsewhere.- moonlet bases can be established by pirate factions and will function as drug labs (booster/gas!), ship yards (bpc's), mining operations (ore/minerals, duh!) etc. pirate bases do not degrade the moonlets and can be taken over once it is destroyed, but they are heavily defended (think incursion level defenders).- 'settled' moonlets (except pirate ones) can be probed down, difficulty depends on extent of established base with signature as pertains to probing determined by power consumption vs. max power (secret bases ahoy!)."
"not sure if i just didn't find the answer yet or a post hasn't been made by ccp yet... but today sometime after downtime i notice that the rorqual now allow members to compress ice from any of the 3 bays (my cargo, fleet hanger, ore hold) as before it only gave you the option of (my hanger) to do compression from.. this now allows you t compress 250 block at one time instead of the previous limit of 137. though this is great and seemed to be a serverside hot-fix cause i didn't recall al patch for it. they still need to do something about the compression time of ice or number of manufacturing slots.ccp you are doing great by fixing that simple drop-down menu... can you just change the number of manufacturing slots now... that just a simple number fix too! make it 8 or 10 instead of the 4.... or just adjust the ice compression times bye 10-15 seconds.. that it... thanks.p.s. can anyone else confirm this or am i just crazy after using the rorqual for years?"
"i think a pop-up, like missing cargo, would work instead. you get podded and the first time you undock it asks if you've checked your clone, no automation you sort out the clone yourself, but, like every pop-up, you can disable it.i think after a while everyone would turn it off, but new players to pvp might need the reminder as it's not something seen in many other games. eventually in would become ingrained to new players and they'd turn it off as well. it's not always a case of being stupid, if you don't live alone or something in real life happens (phone, knock at door) it's easy to get distracted at the wrong moment."
"1.0"
"1.0"
"there is no way in current game mechanic to save someone from afk cloaker that gets active and opens cyno.to minimize the effect of cloakers:*you would need to have active fleet all the time 24/7.*you would need to fly pvp setups all the time.*if cyno opens evryone would need to warp immidiately to attacked ship.nothink from these three points above will happen. running fleets 24/7 and mainly work in pvp setups is exhausting and can be done for a day but not for week. the afk cloaker that becomes active risks only 30 mil. while the target dies almost immidiately before even first response arrives. when the response fleet arrives the attackers are on their marry way out of the system. this leads to extreme exhaustion on the side of defenders while the cyno p<U+FFFD>lot didnt need to put any efffort at all.therefore i agree with the proposition or alternatively using fuel for the cloaking module or mechanism that would allow to uncloak ship if effort is put into it."
"afk cloaking is not an issue. wormhole space does not have local and no-one is complaining about afk cloakers. if you are worried about cloakers, move systems or be ready to pvp at all times. in other words if there would be no local you would not be worried about afk cloakers at all. burn the land and boil the sea you can't take the sky from me"
"so, in short:remove freightersremove haulingremove repairing structuresremove shooting structuresremove station tradingremove market focussed charactersremove miningremove campingremove scoutingremove hidingremove waiting"
"i am so for less but larger belts. love the idea. burn the land and boil the sea you can't take the sky from me"
"[proposal] gas thread, ban op."
"love this post. if overview discussion ever comes up with ccp i will make sure to use this thread. burn the land and boil the sea you can't take the sky from me"
"oh, thank you very much, chitsa jason. it's very kind of you.i don't know if all \"ui development teams' know about these ideas but it seems that at least, one of them, \"ccp arrow\" does."
"it seems this column has become unnecessary since ccp coded the new left click radial menu."
"i will be back to full working condition on csm issues on june 6th. if you could contact me in game then we could talk on comms about your ideas. i really like them. burn the land and boil the sea you can't take the sky from me"
"i think eve should not do everything. there are plenty oog media players you can use.burn the land and boil the sea you can't take the sky from me"
"this would just give advantage to veteran players over new players. nayburn the land and boil the sea you can't take the sky from me"
"bad idea. the only people i could potentially accept getting something close to that are genuine newbies who made an honest misstake in what they trained because they didn't know better and the amount of time invested would be so low it would not matter anyway.in short : no."
"it would not take long at all but i am also pretty sure it would make some people stop some of their account. i can't really see people using 20+ account at the same time without any software/tool to help out. 40 clicks to have all 20 ships fire thier gun if the target was already locked. madness!"
"invalid argument. you cannot jump into a worm and popping cynos is one of the principal functions as well as threat posed by cloakers .. ie. the lack of local has nothing to do with it."
"*bops veshta with a local window* the problem isn't jumpdrives or cynos, it's local! no amount of pontificating about \"afk cloakers\" is going to do anything about local being a source of easy intel about k-space systems."
"having to actualy visit the agent is more to stop farming than anything els it has nothing to do with rp reasons.its in place to stop joe mission runner from sitting in space and warping from mission to mission without having to dock up (assuming its not an item retrival mission)however i will +1 the premise of being able to use locator agent services within their area of influence (determent by agent level)maby add new locator agents:-level 5 navy agents (cover all home empire regions high sec)-fw locator agents (cover fw primary contested pockets)-pirate locator agents 2 types: 1 for regional lowsec and one for npc 0.0-concord locator agent (locate someone for lp (say up to 500k lp for kspace location) (and 600k flat fee for wh)"
"i don't like this. the ice changes stimulate nullsec alliances to be more self-sufficient for ice products and work together with ice miners. if you improve compression you're just going to get 1 large group of ice miners for each of the isotopes exporting 95% of their ice to jita while most alliances continue to get most of their ice products from jita."
"i have asked ccp for update on thatburn the land and boil the sea you can't take the sky from me"
"the jove are not a war mongering people they keep to thair space and contact with them is limited to a select few (spys and the like).if the jove invaded empire space then there would be no one left in thair wake. they are far in advance of any of the empire factions. thair frigates alone can halt fleets of caps. the vindicator (best dps platform in wider circulation at current) has the comparative fire power of a water pistol compared to the jovian eidelon.to interrupt eves market the jovians would most likly just dd jita 4-4 and any other large or minor hub station. there would be no coming back from that just think how much rl money would be lost to the ether if the jove destroyed jita 4-4 (i bet its in the 100s of 1000s)the capsuleer and dust bunnies are super clones. game wist custom implants would be cool but that is a compleatly different matter all together."
"wormhole space should not be self sufficient. any space in that matter should be tied to others in some manner. we do not want to have closed gate communities in eve.burn the land and boil the sea you can't take the sky from me"
"even if ice was put in to wh space it still wouldnt be self sufficent, you'd still have to buy your mods (unless you fancy using t1 mods, still have to buy t2 ships. you'd also have to buy your pos mods as these cant be made in wh space.(you also have to come out to sell your tags although that techincally wouldnt be affecting you being self sufficient)you'd also have to hope the ice was the right sort for your own tower.so please chista before you make sweeping comments atleast make sure they are correct. yes they potentially would be more self sufficent but they wouldnt by any means be closed gate.i dont even know if it would be good or bad. if they showed up on d scan it would be pretty risky mining them. very easy to find and catch people in them. i could also see people using bomber alts to just camp them.putting them in c4 space might attually help make them useful (although i'd still rather they just had 2 statics)"
"optional pop up would be great in my mind. ive been playing this game for quite a while and i still forget to upgrade my clone from time to time. burn the land and boil the sea you can't take the sky from me"
"it's one of the two sp drains in eve, and the other one only apply to sub skills. it should not be made ineffective. think of it as ccp extending the game for you beittervets..."
"are you trolling? i can't tell.ccp don't need to extend the game, no one has learnt and maxed every skill and i doubt if someone ever did they'd clap their hands and say 'right, i've beaten eve!' it especially doesn't work on vets because the longer you play the more invested you are.but a new player losing their first month of sp (beyond the default 900k clone) to their first attempt at pvp, a gank or gate-camp might decide to leave the game, so as a business strategy it doesn't work. especially since the older the player the more likely they play using plex.the only other game i can think of that had a similar mechanic is lineage ii and even there it was used as an exploit to drop down to lower levels rather than a punishment for dying. it's a hold over from a time where mmos needed to keep people playing through grind and to continue paying a subscription, as an industry i'd like to think we've moved on."
"you're trying to change eve into something that's not eve. medical clones are meant to do what they do. if you're whinning, it's an indication they're working as intended. they don't need to be sugarcoated so that they fail their intended purpose.tl;drhtfu"
"that's a yes on the trolling then.an optional dialogue warning would change eve into something it's not? your eve is easily broken then.i'm not whinning, since i've never had this happen to me, i'm pointing out something minor that could help people, particularly new players, enjoy eve more."
"+1 agreed"
"+1. many reasons for it. burn the land and boil the sea you can't take the sky from me"
"my ego needs constant massage. +1"
"if you die to this particular breed of t3 the you are doing it wrong.i agree with the op this is why:let me first state that i do not actively hunt capital ships. any cap kills i have been on are down to the pilots stupidity not me or my friends laying elaborate tarps.using this mechnic to shield the transport of caps/supers/jfs not (in my personal belief) a use the ccp envisioned. but the eve player base being what it is found and started abusing iti personally think that ccp need to tweek the cyno and jump mechanics to include spatial drift of the lighting beacon. namely this:for every 10 km off the initial lighting possistion of the becon the host hull is the jumping hull has a possible jump deviation of 10,000km (could possible be reduced with adding a bonus to one of the current jump skills)failing that it should not be possible to light a cyno within the projected range of a poss force field if the pos is online without its force field up. if its offline or onlining (still in the countdown) the cyno can be lit withing the force fields projected rangehowever once the tower is online, any ships jumping to said cyno will load grid at the force fields projected range limit wether it is active or not."
"and again... cloaking works as intended"
"why?destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"some meeting would be really boring. some periods are really active others can be dull. especially if you consider that during the summer a lot of ccp will go on holidays. we will have quite a few townhall meetings though. burn the land and boil the sea you can't take the sky from me"
"+1 i really like these ideas, and good visuals as well, that's what sold it for me. it's hard to imagine some of the ideas on here.-0.2 for the configurable buttons on the overview though, i'm just not a fan.great job and good mockups. oh and a friendly t"
"ccp isn't going to ban isboxer, not then, not now, not ever. with that being said.\"i<U+FFFD>ve built an army of industry alts i currently have 21 industry alts with 190 manufacturing slots and 197 science slots at my disposal, i<U+FFFD>ve now grown to the point where i<U+FFFD>m capable of provided 300+ t2 ships per week to the market sold primarily in jita.\"he doesn't even use isboxer."
"why is it a bad thing that you, someone who chose to live in nullsec, has to be on guard whenever someone is in local?you're acting as if it's unfair that you can't pve in perfect safety in bloody nullsec.all the stuff you said applies just as well to wormholer players - and know what we do? we do act like as if there is the possibility of hostiles appearing in system at any second. we don't cry about it being \"unfair\" because we're not silly. we chose to live in this area, we deal with the constant threat inherent with the type of play we sought out.if you don't want to deal with that constant threat, there's highsec."
"you can't light a cyno and jump in forces, but a k162 can open with zero notice and a fleet can slip in without any notice or warning. i say these are comparable situations. except theres less tears from wormholes.as for cynos in particular, the entire reason cynos are used for hot drops is - want to take a guess? - local. local gives immediate, infallible information about fleet size and location, which makes it hard to hunt prey. hot dropping is specifically used to get around that.it all comes back to local."
"here are my problems with your suggestion.the first is the false pretense that this has anything to do with server performance. the actual server cycles chewed up by people afk in space is likely negligible. the people afk in stations, even more so. your argument comes across as a cheap attempt to appeal to authority, and it does not give you the appearance of impartiality. for your own sake, don't use it.the second issue is that your suggestion is inelegant and ineffectual. for one, it doesn't cover the intrusion it serves to very passive miners or haulers. if it bases itself on ship action, a player can just park in a safe spot and start flying. if it bases itself on mouse action, a macro can be written to move the mouse. if it bases itself on player actions, a macro can be made to click the screen every so often. and if you want to counter that, you start getting into macro detection software which is prone to false positives and ends up consuming a load of client resources.notice how i haven't even brought into brought into question the legitimacy (or otherwise) of afk cloaking yet. this is just a criticism of your idea even if we assume every supposition you pose is correct.afk cloaking has nothing to do with afk and everything to do with the cloaking. it's not an issue with people afking, it's a fundamental issue with the way stealth is implemented in eve:badly.cloaking is phenomenally stupid; everybody in the system knows you're there, but they can't touch you. i'm a huge stealth fan in most every genre it appears. this is not good stealth. this is an invulnerability shield combined with a first strike bonus. it is an approximation of the effects of stealth, rather than an attempt to emulate its process. i've been over this many times before.it'd take a long rant for me to properly communicate the issues with eve's stealth, but the approximate fix is as such: it should be possible for you to watch people without them knowing that you're there. but if they do know you're there, they should be able to flush you out.contemplate this, then write up a new proposal."
"two points: wh-bearning and nullbearing are entirely different animals. in a wh, the rats deal omni damage, and are potent enough that anyone \"dropping in\" needs to cope with their firepower too! in a c4-c6 wh, you generally run sites as a \"group\" activity, often with logistics. this makes attacking you much more difficult! in a wh, while a k162 \"may\" pop up at any time, most of the wh's that access your space are fairly controllable. (holes are often closed prior to pve activities, which means your \"aggressors\" either already need to be in system prior to the start of your pve operations, or be very lucky to find a new wh to you). nullbears on the other hand: -- thanks to in game tools, it's very easy to identify and travel to any system that is regularly used for pve. -- thanks to local, it's very easy to identify when hostiles are about. no hostiles = 100% safe, which shouldn't be the modis operandi! -- hotdrop mechanics allow an enemy to essentially drop any size force directly on top of a target (< 10 seconds for a fleet to enter the battle). this is much, much different than having a force enter system and warp to a fleet to gank them (> 30s for a fleet to enter battle!). -- pve generally doesn't pay as well, although it pays far more consistently, for as long as anyone wants to pve. now, i'm certainly not advocating for a tool to \"hunt afk cloakers\". i'm just pointing out your comparison between nullbearing and wormbearing doesn't really hold water. i already elaborated earlier, the two major problems in nullsec surrounding \"afk cloakers\" are the hotdrop mechanics and the omniscient local intel \"tool\", neither of which are issues in wh's because neither exists in whs!"
"a cloaker is afk:you move one system over and you can feel safe again.a cloaker is not afk:there is no problem whatsoever.are you really bringing the servers into this argument? you know that a player that is pretty much afk drains almost no resources?"
"would definitely make for some badass fights, and more frequent fights at that."
"the answer is the same as it has been for a while unfortunately. it's a performance issue that will be solved when a very large (and currently ongoing) behind the scenes code re-factoring project is completed sometime in the future.a bunch of you are going to to respond to this with some variation of \"why not do _________, wouldn't that work?\" and i'll go ahead and preemptively let you know that the answer to is \"our code can't do that with acceptable performance right now, but will be able to in the future\".so it will happen, but as always i cannot give an eta."
"all old code must be updated first! then we can play around with improvemtns...there are no stupid questions... just stupid people... ccp goliath wrote:"
"hey fozzie, out of curiousity, might this refactor make it possible to display bookmarks on overview and/or brackets?little things to improve =<U+22C1>= | my little things posts"
"times, fozzie! times! nah, just kidding man. you guys bust your butt every day to make this game better. props to you, man."
"let's just biomass everyone. that'll make things interesting.oh wait, ccp isn't interested in financial suicide to create lol for you."
"you didn't notice that the jovians aren't even mentioned in the new odyssey trailer, did you?seems like the hint that they have finally succumbed, together with them being unimportant enough to bother mentioning in the trailer says that ccp plans to deemphasize them.besides, sleeper tech and ye olde earth tech is more advanced than jovian tech."
"t3 technology is inferior to all known jovian hull configurations.sleeper tech has been known about and studied for years (even before apocripha)the empires know enough about sleeper to have implemented their components in to some ship modules (found in the minmatar cosmos constellation i think) this would imply that sleepers or the race that created them once had a foot hold in a part of the eve cluster. its was down to the discovery of larger quantity of sleeper components that the empires was able to integrate sleeper tech in to new hull designs. and that is still in the experimental stage of development. they still have not found a way to ensure the safety and integrity of any pod pilots cognitive functionality after being forcefully removed from the parent hull. it is suspected that the empires was only able to get as far as they did with this new tech because of jove intervention.the jove have been around long enough to have a acute understanding of the 4 empires and their splinter factions. they are assumed to be as old if not older that the ancient empires of the: takmahlyan jungtalocan (a talocan bs makes an appearance in a c5 radar/mag site i think) make of that what you willthe only tech currently in eve that is superior to any known jove tech is terran and the jove aggressively seek out and aquire these relics."
"the jovians as a race are dying, literally, and even when they weren't an invasion wasn't their style, why invade now?what you've suggested is a universe wide incursion which already began with sansha getting their hands on a suspected abandoned jovian station. that's as close as you'll get to your idea (which seems game breaking, unbalanced and unfeasable).you'd have more success pitching it as an existing faction (other than jove) or entirely new faction. the awakened infomorph may well be hinting toward that now."
"at the moment c4's are basically a no mansland no one uses them. can we give them 2 static to make them more useful"
"a man's life in the hole is not meant to be easy."
"op has some good points:lowsec missions need a good hike in lp payouts at least say about 20-30k per mission (l5s currently pay arounf 30-50k lp per mission)exploration ls specifically radar sites need need to drop small quantity's of bottle neck comps (serpentis is internal bulkheads) currently only found in null sec (null sec drop rates would also increase to compensate)"
"personally, i think that the game should dynamically balance the rewards from all types of pve content. if lots of people are missioning in highsec, the game should increase the reward from missioning in low and null. if lots of people are ratting one type of rat, the game should decrease their bounties and boost those of other types.it's always seemed strange to me that pve exists in a sort of vacuum, where the actions of other players have reduced effects compared to more market driven methods of making isk. if nothing else, the rewards from missioning for one corp should be reduced if there are lots of people missioning for that specific corp, even if the relative profitability is kept constant between high and low sec space."
"you seem to be talking out of your ass with these figures, but i'll concede that level 5s currently are pretty ****. you get ****** missions, you'll be making less than highsec level 4s at times. i'm looking at you, rogue drones and angel cartel. right now, there's no real reason to do level 5s over just sitting in fw plexes, since they'll make you more money and you can do them with a stabbed / cloaky t1 frigate compared to the minimum triple box requirements of most level 5s if you want to clear them in any reasonable timeframe.never mind the ******* fact that there's an actual limit to the amount of lp i can score per mission. seriously, 97k for what could be up to 45 minutes of hard work? have you seen this ******* lp store? maybe i should just join the minmatar fw and sit in a triple stabbed cloaky breacher in the plentiful med plexes here."
"admitadly the last time i wan a l5 was over 2 expansions ago. and my lp payout for the mission was 42k lp took me ages to compleat. i was more getting at the fact that there is a big gap between current l4 pl payouts and l5s sticking low sec l4s somewhere inbetween thoe 2 figures mite be more inticing to mission runners. after all if 10-20 missions in low sec can get you the lp for that faction bs bpc you want then i would say that the risk to reward ratio is becoming more ballanced"
"2 statics for c4s would be more useful indeed. having ice in wspace does not make 100% self sufficient i do agree but it makes it more self sufficient than it is. i would rather have more unique resources in wspace than the ones which are already in kspace. also you are in no holes. nice did not see that coming :)burn the land and boil the sea you can't take the sky from me"
"if it means that the system fails to drain sp from you, then yes."
"there is already a civilian point. its funny to pont some one with it then suceed in killing them. when asking them y the did not try to warp they reply with \"you had me pointed\" now the big reveal inform them of the mod you used and its one flaw. it has a warp disruption strength of 0. enter the face palm :p"
"manual piloting is a skill not a mechanic.saying that a tool tip in one of the combat missions would be a simple fix to your niggle instead of adding a tutorial just for it"
"+1 i like this idea too."
"100k bounty on anyone issuei feel that there is an issue with the current game mechanics regarding the current game mechanics state:\"the minimum isk amount for placing a bounty is increased from 5k to 100k. also, bounties can now be placed on anyone, we<U+FFFD>re removing the -1 security standing requirement currently in the .\"this:\"bounties have no effect on who can be attacked legally where.\" does not matter with the above as it is.this allows players to camp out in npc corp and help channels and place bounties on anyone for any or no reason at all. one of my favorite parts about this game has been how it strives to be 'real'. eve is real! and in the real world, you can't just place a bounty on any law abiding citizen whenever you feel like it.bounties for me used to be one of the simplest way (other than an active scam in progress) to spot a player who may be less than honest or a tad bit shady. the current mechanics make bounties a pathetic joke where half the universe is flying around with a 100k bounty on them, their usefullness has been nearly negated for highsec players, while adding a way for station dwellers to grief, and it is targeted at players who are new, npc corp, or just those who dare to speak in an open channel. not primarily a person who has wronged you, or another.additionally. this is detracting from the meanining of the wanted status that used to be a badge of accomplishment for player pirates.simple fix?player must have criminal and/or suspect flag to be bountied if they have a positive security status.advanced fix?in addition to the simple fix suggested. the minimum bounty amount could be based on the characters security status. higher security status = higher min bounty (and the player must be activley flagged as comitting an illegal act).my primary concern is for individual pilots (especially the new players). final thought regarding corporation / alliance level bounties. in addition to the bounty, a kill right from a member might be good idea to include in the cost.addition: after getting some feedback ingame, players primary concern with this is not being able to bounty scammers. as much as we all love to hate them, technically, a scam is not an aggressive act, and no one made you click accept. most non-pirate scammer use toons anways and are easily spotted.reddit:"
"the differences you mention do exist, but personally i think at a higher, more general level they're relatively analogous. they both boil down to an enemy force appearing in your system without prior warning (due to no local / k162s and cynos, respectively) and without much time to react. as for the pve being 'different' (ie it being a group activity with much hardier ships/logistics in wormholes, vs solo in null) - that only really applies to the higher levels. people often do solo the lower classes, in weak pve specific fits, but even they aren't moaning about stuff.really, it strikes me as more of a difference in attitude: far too many people think they should be able to dedicate their ships, fittings and playstyle entirely to pve in null and not have to make any trade offs to deal with the nasty men who hunt them. wormholers either are willing to make that tradeoff without making threads begging for 'fixes', or are just crazy enough to not care in the first place"
"do you girls honestly believe that removal of local is the end-all of solutions?comparisons with worm space fail because 'normal' conditions are so different from k-space; probes are permanently in space, access can be controlled 99% and any potential threat can be neutralized using what amounts to generic fits. security in worm space is a non-issue if you are sufficiently organized, the only threat comes from running into someone who has even better organization and/or will as the guys who went in and logged off until enough force was in system to do the job .. there is no comparison to ordinary null space.don't get me wrong, i too want local control to be in the hands of whomever controls a given space or in the very least to be a delayed sort of thing .. where we differ is that i do not buy into the idea that it is all-important, i see it as smaller, albeit integral, part of it.no one wants to have to spam scan and the potential benefits of k-space will never be enough (it would break the game) to justify the kind of vigilance needed for survival in worms.so ... remove/delay local .. but do a number on local/access as a whole at the same time:- redo the scanner to function more like a passive radar than an active, split ship detection from all other forms if necessary.- add colour coding (iff) to scanner and probe results.- make jump bridges into harnessed wormholes (think stargates) with aperture control and 'free' access to anyone, even hostile.- allow for a modicum of control over established, full-sized stargates such as temporary closure or aperture control for instance.- etc.sidenote: as perfect an intel tool local is, it is easily equalled or surpassed by that of a covert cloak user. why is it that a cloaked ship can use active scanners with impunity? why can transmissions to/from probes not be traced back to the controlling ship?one might not be able to do much of anything while cloaked, but the power of intel and ready availability of 'da blob' they should be huntable (new probe set that amplifies emissions, scanning/probing leaves a 10-30s trail)."
"local doesn't need to be removed completely. it does need to be disentangled from the primary k-space intel system, though. i'd go with a recent speakers local in k-space + some other mechanic introduced to provide the intel functions that the local list performs now, but with more control/granularity based on system sec, sov upgrades, etal, reverting to the full \"no local\" experience in w-space of course."
"fact is fact... no matter the changes to whatever... jita will always support 95% of all the products used by all in game... nothing is going to change that.but fixing the broken ice compression will help all eve pilots not just the 0.0 ones."
"some day in the future a dev sifting though the coding will find that one line and then booya, he/she will yell! and the world will change!"
"ok thats all understandable.. but that really does not mean you cannot do anything about links right now... how about going ahead with other parts of the inevitable nerf? here is a list of things you could do (and imo should do right away) to make links less ridiculous for now.reduce the effectiveness of links by a decent portion (at least 33% imo, preferably more like 50-60%) make activating links turn on your weapons timer (and preferably some sort of aggression, maybe the npc kind?) make links not work in pos's. make intrediction nullifiers incompatable with links make links give you a sig bloom (you can remove this again once they come on grid) there is a ton of things you can do that won't break the server that would do a lot make general gameplay around links better."
"that isn't the correct answer. the correct answer is"
"reducing effectiveness is something you could do in about 5 minutes and deploy tomorrow."
"have you ever been to null? that is a huge closed gated community. in fact some times they really close the gate by locking it down with smart bombs,bubbles and fast locking dessy's. theres no reason to ever leave null except to sell your wares, or gank carebears. why should wormholes be any different. they are 0.0 space, why not treat them with the same privileges that null gets. they get ice, all the ore, stations, jump clones, sov. all we are asking for is just something that would allow wormholes to do what they are there to do. live on the edge of the world in unknown space, not this constant running back to high sec for fuel."
"it's both, really. double-clicking in space to get your ship to go in x direction is the mechanic. figuring out how to make effective use of that is the skill ;) some folks never get as far as part 1 of that, sadly, though, which is what the tutorial's intended to fix.p.s. would that be a good time to introduce a turret tracking/range demo into the tutorial as well?"
"you are making assumption that bounties are only used to catch pirates who actively go out and kill non-war targets in high/low sec space.bounties are also used on war targets with high sec status, political/market enemies, corp thieves, people who insulted you in chat, or even just to **** with somebody because you don't like them. there are countless ways to do \"bad things\", you can't simply tie bounties to sec status.in addition, bounties aren't designed to punish \"bad\" players, it's a system to put a price on someone's head for whatever reason a player sees fit. imagine playing eve as a career pirate. you have some annoying anti-pirates waltz into your territory, and in response you put a gigantic bounty on their corp and laugh as even neutral gangs passing through start to take a crack at them. this is an absolutely legitimate use of the system. features must cater to all players, not just \"good\" players.aside from that poor suggestion, your other point stands true and has been pointed out many times.i think the best fix is slow bounty reduction over time. 100k per week maybe. this would eventually dry up meaningless \"troll\" bounties while leaving any actually meaningful bounties virtually unchanged.the \"wanted\" sign should also have a higher isk threshold, 1m or 10m, or perhaps color graded from white to blood red."
"you're 6 months late to the party. this subject has been beaten to death.but i'll be nice.actually... the is more real in its current incarnation than it was before.law abiding =/= good person. - awoxers are, mechanically speaking, not breaking any rules.- corporate/alliance traitors aren't doing anything \"bad\" from a technical standpoint.- high-sec \"griefer\" corps follow the rules and declare war(s).- ninja looters use the aggro system to legally engage people who are running their missions in high-sec.one the flip side...low security status =/= troll/griefer/terrible person.such a person could be...- an anti-pirate.- went out to low-sec for a bit of pvp and nothing more.- someone who was tricked into (or was accidentally) doing something stupid.who is good and who is bad are purely relative concepts. what you consider bad others don't, and vice versa. who knows... maybe those people who are getting 100k bounties in those channels really are making someone mad. a good rl example:some time ago a pakistani official placed a $100,000 bounty on a \"filmmaker\" (please... he was an amateur at best) over a tasteless/inflamatory/controversial film.the filmmaker had done anything wrong from a legal standpoint... all he did was create something perceived as an incredible insult to many, many people the world over.the \"badge\" has changed. now it's bounty amounts. how would this allow players who have committed \"legal\" crimes to have bounties placed on them? teach them and they shall no longer be afraid."
"bounties put on anyone is fine, they usually lose the 100k bounty when they lose a frig. its how the top bounties are never collected... how about we add an expiration on the bounties so they reverse back 90% to the person who set the bounty after a certain timeframe? so if they want to be the most wanted they have to cause the most trouble within the last 60 days or so.(i mentioned this to market hub trolls that are proud of their bounty and they absolutely hated the idea.)"
"1) option to hide \"wanted\" sign for bounty below x amount.2) disable bounty completely on trial noobs. there's no reason for anyone to place bounty on them, aside from trying to scare and grief someone who can't even read overview properly."
"incorrect. i argue that a 'bounty hunter' is \"one who pursues a criminal or fugitive for whom a reward is offered.\" thus inferring that a 'bounty' should be limited to 'criminal or fugitives'did no one consider the mercenary corps? this must be killing their business.again, hire a merc corp with that gigantic pile of isk. they need to stay in business as well.i think a small depletion rate is a very reasonable suggestion.i really like the color grade suggestion."
"100% agreed, but not without it's issues. agreed. use the money to hire mercenaries.agreed.\"anti-pirate\": risk of the job.\"went to low sec for pvp and nothing more\"... (i'd expect a bounty just for winning, or scratching someones paint.)\"someone who was tricked into (or was accidentally) doing something stupid\": i don't support catering to stupidity."
"get in a ship and attack them or hire a mercenary. what about the mercs?good counterpoint. to simulate this real world example in game. such a bounty should require being placed at ceo/alliance leader level using the funds of the entity, not the wallet of the character.there are no 'legal crimes' (oxymoron) +90% of the time, any \"legal crime\" as you say, preformed against you is 100% of the time \"your fault\" for allowing it to happen. (do i have to say merc corp again?)it's hard to teach when they can't ask a question in a help channel without being bountied by a troll."
"well that's simply not the case according to ccp. ccp specifically removed the sec status limit with retribution. it wasn't an oversight, it was mentioned in the dev blog announcing the feature. the is a feature for all of eve to use as they see fit. if a criminal wants to place a bounty on their enemy's head, they have every right to do so.bounties are so much more than criminal hunting. they're actually a large part of the new mercenary system. instead of paying mercs per kill through a 3rd party kb system, it's easier now to just put a corp wide/alliance wide bounty on who you want targeted, and then pay them on a per contract basis if you want them to go above and beyond ganking work.if you actually took a look at the merc ecosystem, you would find that the new has been a godsend to mercenary work, in large part because of the freeform nature of the .sec status is far too limiting an indicator to attach to a feature as useful as the overhauled . it's very useful for 0.0, where actions aren't tied to arbitrary numbers, but to reputation and cold hard losses.the is a tool for players to do with as they see fit. this is simply how ccp designs eve.look, if you want to only apply bounties to high sec status players, that's great, use the feature your way. i, on the other hand, may want to use the feature in an entirely different way. that's the beauty of eve.here is the opening line from the retribution page: \"the immortal elite of the eve universe live by a unique set of laws. it is not uncommon for some to find the decisions of the law lacking in appropriate justice. \""
"i agree with the op, in that the current can and is being abused. though i can see its utility when one wishes to somewhat settle the score.the only way to make it fair and limit the abuse is to give players the ability to work off to cancel the bounty placed on them.perhaps with missions or working up faction favors. maybe having a higher security level could allow a player to work off bounties easier. maybe bounties could be paid off to npc's or a percentage of it reduced based on security level. maybe there can be a court system introduced where you can appeal the bounties place on you, or turn yourself in to concord. i don't know.but to make the fair and limit abuse, the player should be able to \"work\" it off, lawful or criminal alike."
"mentioning the security status was only a secondary suggestion, additionally, with the new statuses, concord & security status, that is coming; there must be a middle ground.it is impossible for a single player to account for all possibilities. hence this thread.would this be better? (nothing to do with sec status)simple fix:player must have active criminal and/or suspect flag to be bountied"
"or there could be a formula based on the player's security level and the amount of bounties placed, how often the player gets a bounty placed on them and ranking that will calculate a \"decay rate\" or expiration. for example someone who gets a bounty for 100,000 and manages to avoid bounties for a while could see their bounty disappear. but, for those that make the top ten most wanted it would take perhaps months of \"good behavior\" for their bounty to disappear.there could be any number of ways. but as it is now, that wanted banner seem an indelible mark that will not go away, especially if the person has a low bounty on them, because who is going to collect on a low bounty?"
"a formula is an excellent idea. but rather than suggesting one, i'll leave that for whomever our awesome ccp math guru is to formulate."
"i too like my bounty and do not want it to disperse."
"so if i join your corp and loot your corp assets, and maybe awox your deadspace mission ship on the way out, you shouldn't be able to bounty me?"
"you seem to be mistaking eve with hello kitty island adventure."
"why is the 100k bounty on anyone, an issue? just because you see no merit or reason for the bounty, doesn't mean it shouldn't have been placed. it's not your place or mine, to dictate the validity or not of a placed bounty.but you can and it is done. but bringing real life comparisons into the argument, are always set to fail. best not.the wanted sign is and always has been an indicator that another player wanted someone. the only change, is the removal of the unrelated npc standing restriction. also pilots of high standing in the old system, could have wanted signs and many of my friends did just that.npc standing have no place in a player led standings system. it's also irrelevant whether the game marks they are criminal or not, the point about the system is that a player has deemed them wanted. end of.when the was first released, there was the inevitable rush to hand them out. this rush inevitably also died.the will evolve over time. ccp have said they wish to improve upon this change. but the change is welcome and i should be able to bounty anyone i want, for whatever reason i want.destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"how is it being abused exactly?also there is already a way to remove or work off the bounty, but it will cost you.again, this is not about npcs, it's a player led mechanic.no decay rate. you want it removed, then do so. but it will cost.destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"as far as i can see the is working pretty well the way that it was intended. yes there was the initial flurry of counties and some still give them as a joke (malcanis, flow nelg grrr) earn them off? nodecay? noget blown up and they slowly go away? working as intended. never get blown up? then it is just a label of no significance to you, ignore and move onmmike azariah ----<U+FEFF> <U+FFFD>|(<U+30C4>)/<U+FFFD>"
"i liked my snowball launcher."
"this has been answered in posts #6, #7, and #8 ...if you allow that to happen you have only yourself to blame, and once again; why not use that massive pile of isk on undocking a ship and doing something about it instead of cowering in a station? it makes it easier for people to not play the game, and we all know that could and should have serious potential consequences, (i.e. autopilot)"
"if you can not be bothered to read and comprehend the discussion, i won't waste my time responding to your concerns.the system is currently being abused. reasons are stated in the thread above."
"i agree that the new is by far superior to the former one. and i also agree with all that you posted here, except the last line.what is the point of label that doesn't mean anything? you might as well not have it at all if it's being setup to be meaningless.that said, to prevent the thread from trailing off topic, i must restate. the concern is about bounty placement. not bounty removale."
"i'm asking directly how it's being abused. reasons for placing a bounty that you don't agree with, do not constitute abuse. it merely means you don't agree with the reasons.if you felt your argument was a solid one, you wouldn't have avoided the majority of my post with such a weak response.destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"how many times do i have to say the same thing....let me restate the core of the issue and rephrase it.how is it cool for a person to troll a help channel for n00bs who don't even know how to play yet and get bountied when they post a question?"
"like i said, you may not agree with the reason someone placed that bounty. but that doesn't constitute abuse, it's merely your take on what is and isn't a good reason for said placement. destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"i have received a suggestion ingame regarding this issue (user wishes to remain anonymous) that may be a reasonable solution for everyone.contract killsi won't go into trying to specify details since i'd be sure to be reamed for it rather than starting a discussion about how it could done.thoughts?"
"point taken, however. correct me if i'm wrong. are there not a few additional rules for the newbie systems, such as being one of the only places where using legitimate game mechanics to grief players is not tolerated per ccp regulations?how is it any different posting up a help channel to target them.?"
"the difference is that a bounty placed, doesn't actually do much apart from add a wanted sign and figure. it doesn't mean they will diaf any time soon. where as can baiting and other such things, do result in loss and therefore are frowned upon in starter systems.there was a warning from ccp when the was first introduced, that stated not to target new players. but that much like the rest of the early rush, has since calmed to a state where they deem it not to be a problem. which tbh, it really isn't.destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"for just a moment lets assume that i would agree that the current is just fine.i would still argue that the wanted label needs adjustment.such as the white to blood red color tag suggested. and minimum bounty before the 'player has a bounty' tag shows up on the overview.(also, even if unrelated to this, i think contract killers for hire would be awesome)"
"the problem with the concept of 'only criminals can be bountied is the case malc presented. you can do dozens of nasty things in game that the game does not label you for.you could be a scammer, an awoxer, a troll, or a csm carebear.all deserving of bounties but under your proposal not able to receive them until they did something blatant.bounties are for the sideline cases where concord has not slapped a 'naughty' tag on your toe and it is left to the player population.in my opinion, anyways.mmike azariah ----<U+FEFF> <U+FFFD>|(<U+30C4>)/<U+FFFD>"
"and on the flip side, you can do nothing at all and be an be labeled , the label doesn't mean anything anymore. hence the idea of contracting killers for hire, color coding for wanted tags, and min bounty before it shows on the overview."
"i'm still waiting..."
"support said they also have concerns about this issue, but they dont do anything :)gm's advice was post on forum to get enough sample from playerbase.a possible solution: cloak needs a charge, what is behave like laser crystals.with a 0.1% damagy/cycle 5 sec cycle time cloaker have 5000 secs, almost one and a half hour in cloak.thats enough time for a hunt or an op, and active player can reload the module.but when goes afk, after limited time other players has a chance to get revenge :d"
"well well, if cloaked up people in systems are affecting your game play, then i have a solution for you!go into highsec. then there can be hundreds or thousands of people cloaked up next to you and it won't affect you one bit.there you have your balance. congratulations. it didn't cost the devs one line of work. :)if you cannot take the heat of nullsec - move out!it is called nullsec for a reason, that means null security - there is no safety! do you think the name is a coincidence? or did the devs maybe assign this name for a reason? i wonder what it might be..."
"not a direct answer but a counter question. if we deal in risk and reward can you tell me the cloakers risk in return for the reward of intelligence on the opponents systems and threat pressure on any ops in the system?mmike azariah ----<U+FEFF> <U+FFFD>|(<U+30C4>)/<U+FFFD>"
"what's the risk of running a locator agent? what's the risk of looking at your star map? what's the risk of having an awoxing alt or spy to score kills? should there be any risk for basic intel?even better: what if the cloaky wants to engage / hotdrop? if someone is ratting in a system looked at by an afk cloaker, why wouldn't the cloaker think it's a trap? maybe it's bait? or neut fit? that's no risk?"
"this would be interesting for lower secs, perhaps this is how the rare mineral types are found and push people into low/null/wh from the generic larger belts in highsec.."
"background: currently the nullsec industry situation suffers from sub-par outpost services and the results of a complex t2 material supply chain. this results in a large amount of materials and items being built in high-security space then shipped to nullsec. this situation creates dependency on high-sec materials and markets for a region of space that ccp intends to be self-sufficient.proposal intent: t2 production involves four general bottlenecks to complete; bpc copying, invention using datacores and data interfaces (not consumed), pi materials; and moon materials. this proposal only seeks to correct the availability of invention in nullsec thus reducing the complexity of t2 production in nullsec to only obtaining advanced moon materials. this change would move towards ccps stated goal of nullsec self-sufficiency in a unique way and leave high-sec largely unaffected.facts: ccp's stated intent is to create conditions for nullsec to be 99% self-sufficient. invention requires a racial data interface and typically two types of datacores to complete. datacores are primarily provided by r&d agents and the faction warfare lp store. datacores can be obtained through hacking randomly. assumptions: ccp wants to find ways to remove \"passive\" income from datacore \"farming\". null security space will continue to have a high demand for t2 items. inventors do not typically sell t2 bpcs for profit but will more likely use them for their own production. datacores obtained via hacking sites will not sufficiently supply t2 invention demands. high-sec invention will not be adversely affected by improving other ways to invent t2 items. possible courses of action:allow datacore free invention only in caldari research stations. pros: caldari outposts are typically the least built outposts as they offer bonuses that are largely redundant to mobile laboratories. this change would provide an incentive to construct this outpost. additionally, this change would likely be easier to complete. finally, limited access to these outposts would not adversely affect t2 invention in high-sec.cons: outposts are not built quickly and incentives may not translate into more caldari outposts constructed. additionally, pilots without access to these outposts would not obtain this bonus.adjust all outposts to allow invention and allow datacore free invention in all nullsec outpostspros: access to datacore free invention more easily available to most nullsec residents - implementation would be equal.cons: removes incentive to this new feature.allow existing mobile laboratoriespros: all existing pilots would have access to new feature through existing pos modules - implementation would be equal. additionally, poss are subject to attack and destruction. finally, outposts would be unchanged and not require new construction for feature access.cons: blanket type implementation that would apply to everyone without much of a tradeoff. high-sec and low-sec poss would need special coding to prohibit this feature. add an industry upgrade to allow datacore free inventionpros: industry upgrades fit into the current sov system and would require risk to ship upgrades to the system. additionally, it would add more variety to the sovereignty upgrade system.cons: would limit access to feature by only those who have sovereignty. this may be also difficult to implement.add a new pos mobile laboratory such as \"efficient mobile invention laboratory\"this new module would have no more than 5 production lines for invention only, require only a data interface and blueprint copies to complete invention jobs. the power grid and cpu requirements would be on par with current laboratories. this module could only be anchored in null security space.pros: the additional module would require trade-offs in module placement in the pos due to cpu and power grid requirements. additionally, the new module is in-line with existing modules and coding structures that restrict anchoring by security status. cons: wormholes would have this feature as well and may negatively impact high-sec invention due to their access to empire systems.recommended course of action: recommend adding a new mobile laboratory as it fits within the existing anchoring limited pos modules and supports the most access to this option within current risk mechanics. however, possibly combing the lab with a sovereignty upgrade to anchor the new laboratory would be required to limit the effect of wh space datacore free invention.the overall end-state would further remove the influence of datacore income (stated ccp goal) and improve the ability for null security industry to become more self-sufficient (stated ccp goal)."
"well since hi-sec can only be 80% self sufficient after the ice belt changes coming in this ridiculous expansion i'd say you are already ahead of most of the rest of the universe or omg forbid you have to leave null to pick up something you need for invention. got a deal for you, i will farm datacores and trade you for ice product. i'll even deliver."
"as the previous poster said, come the patch you will already have more than enough advantages over any other sec level. you really don't need any more."
"the 80% is galaxy wide, high sec ice amount is five times the needs of hig sec poss."
"facepalm, why do i waste good sarcasm here. nevermind rex you wouldn't get it. the point i was trying to make is a big part of the changes in the upcoming expansion are targeted toward improving null sec mining while heavily d**k stomping hi-sec miners. now as usual ccp's supremely flawed execution of intent will most likely end up screwing both null and hi-sec miners the fact remains that null sec is getting the best of this expansion and asking for more favoritism is unlikely to garner any sympathy from the other sectors where some feel they are getting shafted during this expansion. also asking that an item needed for invention be exempted in one particular area of space only is just ridiculous and comparable to saying i think i should be able to make pos fuel in my wh without ice products because i don't want to go out and procure them. so once again my opinion on this subject would be hell no."
"lol... i'm sorry, but if you're complaining that highsec miners are getting it \"hard\" from ccp, we could simply point to the mining barge buffs. crimewatch 2.0 also helps out too! we could point out the mission loot & drone poo changes. just because ice mining is moving to anomalies doesn't undermine the strong boons ccp has given miners these last few expansions, and frankly, the ice mining changes are probably a boon to ice miners that actually play (rather than park an alt in a belt and come back an hour later to empty the cargo!). why? because ice prices will go up, and ice mining is no longer the pathetically easy-mode form of mining that enables any schlep at work to run an eve client in the background accruing ice! /derail... my next post will attack the op's suggestions!"
"ccp doesn't want nullsec to be 100% efficient. they want highsec dependent on nullsec, and nullsec dependent on highsec. now, there vision has not reached full fruition because it's generally easier to import everything from nullsec to highsec! there are many reasons for this, but one of the larger reasons were the lack of low end minerals in nullsec. importing minerals to build stuff was inefficient compared to simply building stuff in highsec and importing the pre-built ships/modules. the point of this paragraph is that ccp doesn't want nullsec to be \"completely\" self-sufficient. in general, the 99% self-sufficient remark was when viewing materials in terms of volume. the last visage i read up on suggested \"bulky\" materials should be avaiable locally , but small materials should be imported. trit: size (0.01). average used in a week, 25m. average needed for a month 100m. amount brought in by a jf: 30m. <-- bottleneck!datacore: size (1 m3). average used in a week, 10k. average needed for a month 40k. amount brought in by a jf: 300k+. <-- not a bottleneck!. next: passive datacore farming is no longer a major source of income. datacores are now primarily supplied by faction warfare lp (hence why they are cheaper too!) if we make parts of invention completely independent of datacores, you harm faction warfare lowsec (not highsec), and frankly, i see no reason to nerf this fw income! finally, while i fully support a boon to nullsec production, i certainly don't support it at an indestructible, safe outposts... if anyone wants a boon to production, it should happen at a pos!!!!! pos modules already have a sec-status limitation feature built into it, which makes this easier to implement! simply create \"invention labs\", \"copy labs\", and/or \"advanced assembly arrays\" that can only be anchored in 0.3 sec status or lower. have the invention labs give a 5-10% improved invention probability or maybe a straight +2 me to all invented bpcs (check for balance). give similar potent boons to manufacturing and copying labs, but for the love of god make sure people have to put crap in the labs so it's at risk!!!! there is very little at risk in an outpost!"
"dear god this has to be a troll.no you can no have more things given to you. deal with it. buy your datacores like everyone else. null sec has way to many free things you dont need free datacores as well."
"if i want to sit in the corner of the sanbox digging up old cat turds by myself i should very well be able too. you seem to to favor a more forced socialism type of sandbox mechanic, one where the teacher slaps the cat turd out of my hand and drags me by the hair to the jungle gym and then smashes my face into the slide until i decide to play with the other kids. the only use i have for \"player interaction\" in eve is blowing ppl the f**k up when they get in my way. my subscription money, my play style. that is what a sandbox is truly about. oh and news flash \"player interaction\" makes eve unique, rofl, there's a million other mmo's out there that require far more player interaction than eve and many of us here actually like the fact that there is a chance to be semi-successful soloing eve. now go back to being a douche with your friends and leave me alone with my cat turds."
"and this jives with ccp's stated goal of making null 99% self efficient how? wh ice might, and we are talking extreme maybe's here make 50% of all occupied wh's somewhere around 60% self sufficient. maybe one or two wh mega alliances could support the infrastructure required to be totally self sufficient but those guys enjoy blowing each other up way too much to seal themselves off from the rest of eve. and seriously who is \"we\"? you and your wig? your corp?or your leash holders back at ccp? or is this we the imaginary consensus of the masses you csm's always quote when you get 2 corp members and three forum posters to agree with the drivel you post. just curious."
"and once you got everything you need, you don't need to come out again.no, bad idea like friggz already explained.@strom: it is easier to be self-sufficient in a wormhole than you think."
"turret tracking is a good idea although some might argue that it is mechanics and not a skill that needs to be learned. noted for discussion, thoughm"
"there should be a method of manual piloting more accurate and less fail than double click in space while trying to face the camera in the neighborhood of right direction. implement that first, before giving rookies the impression of eve as a beta game."
"that doesn't seem like a valid reason for the jukebox that everyone liked to have been removed and not restored."
"removal of existing content is not the same as asking the game to \"do everything\" - it's restoration of previous abilities. many were happy to see some old effects come back - do you think this change would anger a lot or simply please a portion of the community?running this game full screen is enjoyable to many, outside of those who multi-box/mutli-session their alts - and this makes it much more playable and enjoyable to those players - especially being able to quickly pause a song from full-screen if something happens pvp wise."
"i don't see the problem here at all. want to listen to a specific song? lower the in game music sound and open up youtube or sound cloud and listen to what you want. you do not really need the jukebox."
"my two cents:i only liked 2 tracks on the jukebox when i first started playing.i have had it turned off for so long i forgot it was there.i don't miss it."
"now what you are talking about is not limits on the current but an additional form of it. contract killing is different than bounty. less public, more focused. or do i misunderstand you?mmike azariah ----<U+FEFF> <U+FFFD>|(<U+30C4>)/<U+FFFD>"
"you misunderstand the point of the post.the thread was started regarding the and the issue pertaining to removing the -1 requirement allowing it to be used as a trolling tool.i think we are now at the point of propsing ideas, cross examining them, and attempting to come to a solution. are we not?if at all possible, it would be nice to see this thread start discussing ideas regarding the issue at hand, rather than trying to defend the advantages of their side, or poke holes in my suggestions. poking holes is fine, but come on everyone, at least counter with a solution, please. i am doing my best to be objective and reasonable about this.(just got a new clone, new ship, new fit, and i will remain out of highsec(unless for purchase or travel when convient) for at least the next week or two, and do whatever i want, whenever i want, to whomever happens to be unlucky enough to cross my path. why? might as well try pirating it up and see if i can get a bounty that doesn't look so sad. and because i do care about the pirate side as well, so it's time to be one to better understand them. been out of highsec since my last post. ...where is everyone...)everything below is merly an idea (not refined enough to be a suggestion at the moment)yes, contract kills would be an addition, such an addition could allow a player to hire a merc through the contract system. if it is accepted, then the player is bountied and stamped with a wanted label. said contract could then be held by the purchaser, opened up to corp, alliance, or made public in a similar manner to kill rights for any player, allowing the previous -1 requirement to be reinstated or the suggested bounties allowed while player is flagged. while i do realize that this could be abused the same way. it is much less likely being as there will be contract fees and extra steps before the bounty is actually placed on the player."
"so... basically you want to know right away if the player that you are dealing with is a \"bad person\" and with the being changed such that crimes are relative to a person you can't do that anymore... and you don't like that.awoxing... scamming... margin trading... corp theft... ninja looting/ganking... etc.mechanically they are legal. morally they aren't. hence, \"legal crime.\"and even though those things i listed above may be [wholly or partly] facilitated by the victim's stupidity... that doesn't mean they should be denied the ability to put a price on someone's head just because the \"victor\" has a good security/faction standing.the real world example i described came out of the politician's personal wallet. not the country's. and it was directed at an individual... not a company or state. it was simply, \"i will pay this amount of money for this man's head!\"anyways... your restriction can just be worked around. just have a throwaway alt create a corp and toss out bounties like before.lastly.... your cry of \"what about the mercs?\"mercs still have their place. but to hire one is a more serious affair and, as others have explained, is more focused than simply \"there is a general reward for anyone who destroys this guy's ship.\""
"incorrect. we already have the red/yellow for sec status on the overview. i want to not see half the universe flying around with a bounty icon and wanted tag that used to be something to be earned.hence the idea of retribution via contract.contract bounty requiring frozen corpse for full payment?most things can be worked around if put enough effort into it. and that is the idea, to make it more tedious, more expensive, and thus more meaningful when it does happen.should a bounty not be serious? i think it should."
"i agree to an extent.we are far from that situation. even though those numbers are old, the trend is obvious.you can already set up a contract kill, there are players and corps that do just that. you also have the kill rights system to use, if it applies to your situation. the problem with a system you envisage, is that you again rely upon an npc standing in what would be a player driven mechanic. it's also a poor indicator of who is and isn't bad.again, this comes back to what you deem is a good reason and what isn't.destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"incorrect. you can not currently use the contract system for doing this. this is done by direct contact to a specific player, corp, or alliance.please read the entire thread. specifically, post #11, #30, #34, and #36 again.again, incorrect. it should come down the definition of a bounty and what a bounty should be used for. (not defedending it's use as a trolling tool.)"
"where did i say you needed to use the contract system for this? i merely said you can already set up a contract kill, which you can.i've read the thread, the point still stands. npc standings have no part in a player led mechanic, even a contract one as you suggest. hence why they were removed from bounties.but let me ask you this, would concord intervene in this contract system of yours? like you said, sounds like far worse issues could arise, than you think we have now.but i am correct. your definition of what is and what isn't a troll bounty, plays no part in the placement of that bounty. it's simply not your place or mine, to decide if it's serious enough.the only one with the rights to decide any of that, is the person placing the bounty.destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"is it really too much to ask that you follow the flow of discussion?where did i say that you said that...and you obviously know that i know that... (and know that is not what i'm talking about) or you're selectively reading my thread for trolling ammo:please refer to posts #6, #7, #8, #27, #30, #32, and #34 to understand the flow of discussion.did you really read it? please refer to post #30 and #34edit: did it confuse you that i didn't specify that the contract system would be an addition to the regular and the -1 would not apply to the contracts? i'm not a ccp dev, and i am only one person. why not help us out with point/counterpoint, additions to / edits of /alternative ideas as oppose to trolling it up?maybe you could answer this for us and actually participate in the flow of discussion.since when is 100k anywhere near 'serious', even for a n00b?"
"you know what this whole dilemma in which we spend a lot of time studying and training in a certain area, like mining, only to do a career change and learn a whole bunch of new things and never apply our acquired skills in mining ever again reminds me of? reality.it makes no sense that we can just magically redistribute our study (we are buying books, remember?) and effort to learn how to say, efficiently mine ice into how to operate a freighter."
"but, from what you are saying, you used those mining skills during the time it took you to skill up those 2.5million sps.you flew mining shipsyou reaped the rewards of rock chewingmaybe you even reprocessed ore with less wastage (i forget if this is a skill or not)so now you want to turn these skills, (which you have benefited from), into a new profession.... instantly.seriously, no!jint hikaru - miner / salvager / explorer / spacebum in the beginning the universe was created. this has made a lot of people very angry and been widely regarded as a bad move."
"because nullbears are dumb. ;)i would like to see more cloakdroppers get nailed by such bait. :d"
"well removing local will not happen as ccp just boosted the fuction of local as radar on test server with faster scrolling bind to keys instead of mouse sooo any discussion about that is pretty much over.however every mechanics needs a balance and cloaking has no counter balance. so either it should be nerfed or changed in different direction. it has nothink to do with living in 0.0. i remember same attitude back in the day from people who used nano battleships. if it works but doesnt have counter balance it doesnt mean its right."
"afk master here.if i want to run my game 23.5/7 so i can sit down and play when i walk past my comp without having to load it up everytime, why should that not be allowed? i browse the internet and check my email in game, i also leave for hours at a time while looking at my spaceship from the other room. if i chose to waste my money by doing nothing at all, i doubt that is hurting the servers, it's probably helping them actually. they still get my money and i'm sure the 'load' on the server is nill compared to me flying around.anyways, if you don't like them, just camp out and wait for their return to the keyboard. or scan down those 'cloaky afk' people, bumb their ship, and open fire.btw: i never heard of an undamaged kleong battlecruiser or romulan warbird having a problem keeping their cloak online. (no scifi issue here)i don't see a problem. (jita is a special case, and i'm sure ccp does their best there.)"
"+1 | let locator agents answer you without flying to their home.-1 | remove personal contact for mission assignments."
"i demand an ore titan that can fly around in high sec and blow up planets with its doomsday, and mine the resulting debris."
"just 1 question: is it or will it be possible to include such boosters on lossmails?having direct modifications to combat capabilities that are not listed as part of the cause of a ship's loss.. while fixing the rest of the stuff, can you see about making this possible?"
"no, for all the reasons given previously."
"zlake wrote:the game is expanding, there is more players than ever before. low seec missions they are almost useless in terms of risk vs reward compared to their hs counter parts. fw are nice since they can be blitz in a stealth bomber and yield about 14k lp per mission with high lp to isk. missions are other words ulseless in terms of risk vs reward. i don't see a way to fix this issue without removing lvl 4 missios from hs. no one really wants that so ill leave it at that. adding more isk for the low sec counterpart would be more of an issue than a fix. low sec exploration its mmeh. terms of isk per hour its maybe maybe on par with lvl 3s. you make get lucky and get a pirate cruiser hull, a faction medium mod or medium faction tower. you can't really fix this without buffing null sec exploration so another stand stilllow sec mining isk is ok. there is a lot of high yield ore in the belts. only issue is you can't control the space as well as 0.0 some fixes. add more low sec space. this will allow more miners to have belts. allow temp anchored warp bubbles. these can't be in line with a star gate or station. they should be unstable. so lasting about 1-3 hours before they need to be replaced. boosters they need to be looked at again. yeah they are good and all for what they do atm but there should be rare sites that offer the null sec gas. maybe look into having them effect more systems than what they do now. remove the high sec net between all regions this making it you must go through 1 to a few jumps of low sec to get between regions. the effects of this change there will be larger trade margins with region trading as not all traders would want to take the risk of traveling through low sec. people can use blockcade runners to preform trades to move larger loads it would require more team work (in a lot of cases more alts lol) would make eve a more rough environment as it once was. maybe even add some lvl 1,2 and maybe lvl 3 pirate faction agents. not in stations. the ones sitting in space. this would make risk doing the agents as you can get ganked as you are talking to the agent. lp pay outs should only take in 0.0 i'm not a fan of gate camping. there should be more than 1 route between empires. some direct ones but there should be a good number of indirect ways between empires. i hate gate camping and it is not real pvp. 30vs1 is not really a fight. that's absolutely insane. why would the various empires ever, ever allow their trade routes to become unprotected criminal regions? it makes no sense at all. even during wartime, trade has to continue to flow. there is no rational justification for this other than the fact that you don't like that some of us prefer high-sec."
"it's tricky but your suggestions are weak in some areas.the single biggest problem with pve in the game is that it mostly rewards solo play better than group play and rewards doing things in safer space high enough that more dangerous places are unattractive on a cost-to-earnings sheet.with a \"penalties\" model of loss, that distills down to \"don't fly what you can't afford to lose\" which naturally extends to having/earning more is better so you can afford more.you need to convert risks to costs then apply the costs to earnings - this is \"risk assessment\" and a more comprehensive model shows that increasing traffic through lowsec will cost more than even doing level 2 missions out of highsec -- forcing losses or removal of content/rewards won't do anything but remove accounts from the game.pvp is mostly groups bashing on smaller groups down to soloists. to balance it out, you need your earnings side to be more rewarding in groups operating in dangerous space so people travel in teams.as for your other suggestions - blockade runners? think on this a bit. no it won't work - pvp players are not morons and if you push them to change, they will change how they operate.i knew someone who did this. they were on voice chat for their last successful run - they ran the same camp 3 times a day for 3 days and then that camp had a hic out there. after the hic was added, they didn't bother going back to their old stock methods - it worked *much* better and that ended the hauling.in a discussion on the topic, i asked a guy \"can you build me a gate camp that *nobody* can get through?\" - he replied; \"well yes, but it's not worth the effort...\" -- that answer is both correct and incorrect but it did beg one question.q: when is it worth the effort?a: when too many are getting through.increase traffic and you'll increase camps. increase success of the camps and the traffic stops. whereas it looks a bit like a catch-22, it's not but that took me a bit of thinking on \"other ways of enabling...\"the only way traffic can flow is in groups large enough to actually stomp the hell out of camps by fitting and flying stuff capable of doing so and that means to reward teamwork more than you reward soloing -- *in dangerous space* (and that sure as hell is *not* sov lands nor \"incursions\" in highsec -- reality check; putting people outside their safety zones is putting them at risk and few find operating in npc low and null to be their \"comfort zones\" -- buff earnings there.).btw - the reason his answer was correct and incorrect... yes, you can build an impassable gate camp to stop a soloist from getting through. you sure as hell can't build one to stop an equal or larger force from fighting through. so based upon how our conversation went - he was right. based upon looking at it further - not quite.design it so that groups are needed and travel together and you eliminate a lot of valid concerns -- this means group earnings in dangerous space need a buff. f*** the soloists there."
"don't tell anyone, but i have been doing low sec missions in a quiet area. they are not useless, and shockingly, you have to pay attention a little bit, yet they pay off just like high sec. get outta that comfort zone a little bit."
"for the amount of players or the quality of the ships they require, and the danger often involved, i'd like them to pay a little bit more than fuckin highsec level 4s."
"zlake wrote:the game is expanding, there is more players than ever before. low seec missions they are almost useless in terms of risk vs reward compared to their hs counter parts. fw are nice since they can be blitz in a stealth bomber and yield about 14k lp per mission with high lp to isk. missions are other words ulseless in terms of risk vs reward. i don't see a way to fix this issue without removing lvl 4 missios from hs. no one really wants that so ill leave it at that. adding more isk for the low sec counterpart would be more of an issue than a fix. low sec exploration its mmeh. terms of isk per hour its maybe maybe on par with lvl 3s. you make get lucky and get a pirate cruiser hull, a faction medium mod or medium faction tower. you can't really fix this without buffing null sec exploration so another stand stillpirates and griefers are going to love you!low sec mining isk is ok. there is a lot of high yield ore in the belts. only issue is you can't control the space as well as 0.0 some fixes. add more low sec space. this will allow more miners to have belts. allow temp anchored warp bubbles. these can't be in line with a star gate or station. they should be unstable. so lasting about 1-3 hours before they need to be replaced. boosters they need to be looked at again. yeah they are good and all for what they do atm but there should be rare sites that offer the null sec gas. maybe look into having them effect more systems than what they do now. remove the high sec net between all regions this making it you must go through 1 to a few jumps of low sec to get between regions. the effects of this change there will be larger trade margins with region trading as not all traders would want to take the risk of traveling through low sec. people can use blockcade runners to preform trades to move larger loads it would require more team work (in a lot of cases more alts lol) would make eve a more rough environment as it once was. maybe even add some lvl 1,2 and maybe lvl 3 pirate faction agents. not in stations. the ones sitting in space. this would make risk doing the agents as you can get ganked as you are talking to the agent. lp pay outs should only take in 0.0 i'm not a fan of gate camping. there should be more than 1 route between empires. some direct ones but there should be a good number of indirect ways between empires. i hate gate camping and it is not real pvp. 30vs1 is not really a fight. =============low seec missionsmove level 5 missions to level 6insert level 5 missions to low sec versions of level 4's. higher payout.low sec explorationpirates and griefers are going to love you!low sec miningpirates and griefers are going to love you! even more!!!"
"oh please please enlighten me your greatness. i am just a tarded wh dweller ,in a wh corp ,in a wh alliance for the last year and for the life of all of us we just can't seem to find the wh market hub to sell our stuffs and buy skillz books and such."
"why can't we mine materials from the sun?solar panels on the pos to collect fuel from the sun/star??pos's module for different star types?there could be at least one ice planet in every wh system, then pi could produce ice products."
"a sandbox gives you the freedom to do exactly that. thus players should be allowed to build secluded enclaves where your only hope of infiltrating them is finding a wormhole before they do..."
"all for this.hauling ice materials are a pain in the ass. c6 c5 have it easy cause they (we) just freighter the crap in when they have a k-space random to use, takes little effort, low riskthe grunts in c4 and below are stuck with having to haul that junk with orca's or itty 5's which takes a long ass time.also adding to this is that shooting haulers is way less fun than blowing up entire mining fleets. i also don't see why ppl think it will further isolate w-space, the corps that generate content by rolling their statics for fights will keep doing so, it will just give them more potential targets.also, fix mobile refineries while you are at it 75% max refine is rediculous. having to build/ship in a rorqual to get around it is even worse."
"you think 75% in w-space is bad?wait until empire is nerfed and it's max refine is 60%."
"i was podded once at just over 20m sp without an updated clone. you know what i learned, \"pay attention\".an automatic clone saftey is tantamount to people wanting autopilot to warp to zero. your character is already immortal. you should appreciate the fact that you don't get biomassed."
"i am also in favour of projectiles and missiles having to use cap although to a lower extent than blasters ofc... i can't see how drones could be affected and considering their killable i think its fine they don't use cap.lasers need a lot more help with cap issues i have suggested recently a way to make heat sinks reduce cap usage and utilise oh mechanic to compensate for losing the rof that heat-sinks add and too make use of oh more in general.on laser em/therm damage issue.. well a lot of the problems come in the form of ship hull resistances mostly t2 minmatar hulls aswell as ship resist bonuses which thankfully are getting nerfed.also on kin/therm on t2 cal/gal ships.these t2 resistances need to be rebalanced for instance 10% armour explosive resist on t2 minmatar ship is surely too low..so more omi resists on t2 hulls being the theme ..doesn't need to be level but 90% on em 10% on exp is odd just switch a little resist around.drones need a massive overhaul i have posted on mulitple drone threads about what i think... but main thing is usability and more sensible sig radius/ velocity and tracking along with more drone skills like falloff.and definite yes on missiles on td's.hams and rocket range is twice the range they should be if you look at torps and relative sized gun ranges.and an increase on their explosion radius is needed 25 and 125 is the same as guns which could do with being lowered also but then gmp reduces the explosion radius even further.considering frigs start at about 35 and cruisers around 100.'tech3 ships need to be put down, like a rabid dog drooling everywhere in the house, they are out of line' ccp ytterbium nerf missile range into place where is the td missile change? ..projectiles should use capacitor. abc's should be t2 habc and nerf web strength its still too high"
"i think the creation of threads in the assembly hall in which the op isn't written at at least the 12th grade level should be banned."
"i'm not against the new launcher, though i value the log-in screen's loss. to see an expansion summaried in a cinematic establishing shot of the expansions' \"theme\" and with an musical theme to acompany it is making some of the player base sad...no one likes to be sad.- paladinhunt"
"can't we just add a checkbox (checked by default of course) that says \"bypass login screen\"?and those who uncheck it will get the classic login."
"getting sso in place is also a requirement for getting two factor authentication implemented"
"if most other containers have a loot all function, why not the poco's as well? it would make pi a little less clunky."
"almost any change would make pi less clunky."
"there certainly is something to be said for there being a high barrier to getting into pvp for new players."
"whenever i want a nostalgia trip i just go lookup the revelations log-in screen theme on youtube. seriously the most epic theme ever.revelations theme"
