"forcing ships on grid = problem solved. the grid fu concern is highly overrated and a last ditch attempt by some to justify this broken mechanic. make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"i have posted this same idea since 2006 but in another vein attempt ill do so again hoping someone @ ccp reads it this time. i have been posting the same fix to nullsec for years. i cba to go dig up the post from the old forums but they are there. so here is how you fix this game. a sandbox mmo thrives off of interaction and interdependancy. it is the cornerstone of making a sandbox work. the basic premise of my idea is you make all zones dependent on eachother but without excluding any zone. for clarification when i say zones i mean highsec lowsec nullsec and wormhole. its my assertion that different zones should be bonused to different activities whereby all activities are possible in all zones with a few slight exceptions. if you think about society in real life and how its laid out generally speaking rural areas are where you see farms logging mining and things of this nature i like to think of rural as nullsec. also secondly you generally see production happening in industrial zones i equate this parallel to lowsec. whereby most commerce science technology and business happens in urban centers i think of this as highsec. so how can this translate into eve and how do you balance it ? how do you make incentive for interaction? the aim is to not alienate players from partaking in any endeavour anywherehigh secactivities with bonusresearchcopyinventionmarket orderscontractsunbonused activitiesexplorationmissionsproductionminingrefining lowsecactivities with bonusproductionrefiningunbonused activitiesexplorationminingmissionsresearchcopyinventionmarket orderscontractsnull secbonused activitiesminingcompressionexplorationunbonused activitiesproductionmissionsresearchcopyinventionmarket orderscontracts so as you can see different areas offer carrots to different activities. if your a trader or research/invention player high sec will offer you the greatest yield profit. whereas if you are into production lowsec will suit your needs best. lastly if you are a miner or want to get into non wormhole exploration nullsec is best suited for you. this gives each area a unique purpose creating interaction between all areas. all the while not limiting what you can do anywhere only providing you with a carrot to do it in x place. i know i didn't really speak to wormholes but i think its quite clear that wormholes already have a unique purpose that all other zones depend on."
"it probably has been brought up, but i would like to see get nerfed a bit. i think that from downtime to downtime is over powering and really is displeasing to those of us who prefer not to be pvp oriented. for example, there is this player currently cloaky camping our system cause he bit off more then he can chew, and he cloaks from downtime to downtime. if the device either took a certain amount of capacitor or maybe even some form of cap charges, this would help eliminate the over powerness of this device. he has tried extorting isk from us to leave the system which is part of the game play, but just sitting there non-stop without a break in his cloak from downtime to downtime is very over powering and a game deterent for most to wanna renew subscriptions, or just not go out and do anything in a low or null sec systems. is it possible to find a way to reduce this items superiority over everything in this game????"
"1.) if you look at the forums page, on the top right, next to the \"forums\" button... there is a search tool.... i suggest you use it before reposting commonly posted ideas....2.) if you really are too inept to deal with a single cloaker camping a single system, you should pay him to leave. sure, it's extortion, but there are many ways to alter your playstyle and cope with a cloaker. adapt, or pay up.... 3.) if you can't cope with hostiles in your system, go back to highsec. part of living in nullsec is dealing with dangers, and the only way to circumvent the safety provided by an omniscient local chat is to utilize cloaky camping. as pathetic as the tactic is, until local chat gets replaced by an \"imperfect\" intel tool, cloaky camping should not be nerfed."
"obviously you didnt get the point i was making. i dont care about the cloaky camper, its a natural game mechanic. the point i am making is that the device is honestly more powerful then a carrier in all reality since there is not a limiter on it, and you honestly just harass a player/corp/alliance from downtime to downtime. i dont care that they are doing it, but there needs to be a limit put into place on it."
"the device is very powerful.... but it already comes with serious drawbacks: --- you can't move (much) while cloaked, unless you are in a ship specifically designed for it. --- it takes up a valuable highslot... it sometimes nerfs your sensor strength, and typically has a decloak delay. --- your actions are significantly inhibited while cloaked... (like you can't target, activate any modules, etc)--- most covert-cloak ships also have their combat capability hindered... the primary complaint you brought up, was the psychological impact a cloaky camper has on you, which is what my rebuttal addressed. somehow, you missed my point: nullsec is supposed to be inherently dangerous.... think about that for a moment...now what makes nullsec dangerous? it is not the npcs in belts, anomalies, or plexes... it is other players. when are you safe in your system? when there are no hostiles in the system...what do you do when there is a hostile in your system:-- option 1: you get safe until they leave... because you don't want to deal with hostiles in system. -- option 2: you modify your play style to operate in a dangerous environment. this might include basic safety practices you should already use (aligned out so you can get away quicker, don't warp to zero, etc), it might include ratting in sub-otpimal ships (use a pvp-fit drake instead of a chimera), it might include making yourself a hard target (rat in a group that's capable of destroying the threat). rather than using any of the options in option 2, your whining its unfair a person stays online and represents a continual danger within your system. but the truth is, all nullsec/lowsec systems are supposed to be dangerous.... there are two reasons most nullsec/lowsec systems are not, in fact, dangerous: a.) \"local chat\" lets you perfectly identify if there are hostiles in system or not... as such, you know at a glance how \"safe\" your system is. b.) \"local chat\" instantly identifies a change in the system population. the speed at which it updates and informs you is so fast, that most ratting capitals don't bother to get safe until after a local enters system. it is impossilbe to catch a ratter paying attention to local, unless they get scrammed by a rat at just the right/wrong time. you probably don't see a problem with the above, but together the result in nullsec being obnoxiously safe. cloaky camping a system, as pathetic and loathesome as i personally find the tactic, is the only tool available to put danger back into a nullsec system. until ccp nerfs the intel system, removing afk is very bad for the game!"
"i live in wormholes, we have cloakers in system all the time, and you know what else? we cant even tell they are there because we lack the omnipotent intel tool known as local.here are a few strategies you should be using whether theres hostiles in system or not:1) dont afk unless docked or inside a pos2) dont pve alone in system3) dont use a pve fit unless you have a pvp fit you are ready and willing to reship to insystem4) again dont hang ouut alone, even 2 or 3 pve ships are a serious deterrent to even the most combat-ready cloak pilot5) if hes afk, qit whining and ignore himand if your scared of cynos, then this isnt an afk issue, this is a power projection issue.but seriously, as an experience cloak-ser, have a friend or 2 hanging with you, you wont get attacked, a cloaked ship is gimped by default, due to devoting fitting space to a cloak, which could instead be used for offense, most pve/pvp ships can easily kill a cloak-ship.and as more or less stated above me, if you cant be arsed to get some players together to defend \"your space\", then maybe youd be better off moving back to low/high-sec."
"i tell you what i would support is an \"offline\" version of eve. i can't tell you how many times i have had my computer but not been able to play with my pixel spaceships due to lack of interwebs to be had.eve has a huge active duty roster of paying clients. i am sure all of us would appreciate being able to do a few missions every now and then or some anomalies when we are in the suck and have no connectivity. my two isk added."
"+1herping your derp since 19potato - [url="
"1.0"
"+1 bring the jukebox back, ive logged back in and the jukebox music still plays but no way to control what actually plays... silly idea to remove it"
"supported, but only on the condition that my semi-related proposal is also reviewed; the lack of availability for some mindlinks has made some them very, very expensive, especially the mining one. this is caused by an utter lack of availability, making some of them as uncommon as an officer module! there needs to be more ways (ie. more missions where they are given as rewards, or to have them drop from deadspace sites) to get these links if those who use them are going to be exposed as this new proposal suggests.if this were approved, and mindlink availability isn't revised, i fear that mindlinks could become effectively worthless due to excessive cost, used only by the very richest of players."
"i agree with the general principle that all securities of space should interact with each other.i'm also not even going against the general idea you're throwing out: which looks as though it's wishing to create a stream of production that goes from the outside-in and then back inside-out again.the only thing that irks me a little is that the low- and high secs don't seem to have any \"bonused\" actions that involve ships in space while much of the logic that would enable a system like this interactively (as you said, from 2006) have disappeared from the game making it feel a tad outdated.i mean, i loved the notion back in the day: of lowsec being a production area that saw alot of material shipped around that paved the way for piracy; escorted bob and proto-nc hauling ops of freigthers filled with goodies for tech ii production and the like. it definately makes sense, but alot has also changed in that regard with the profileration of carriers, introduction of jf and so forth.so while i agree that high-low-null should be interactive and interdependent, i'm not sure if the production flow of old eve is the way forward (even though i remember it, and remember it quite fondly as a budding pirate roaming for freight-runs).the name of the game these days seem to be making each region more self-sustained and not as co-dependent, so the challenge would be to make the securities interdependent on that backdrop (if that makes any sense, i'm trying to draw a distinction between co-dependent and interdependent here, which i am uncertain if it's literally sound): what i am after is that i would like to see each area of space interactive with the other, and inviting players to transgress the borders - but i am not so certain that the different securities need to be so wildly different and unique. that's not sandbox to me.some flavour would be nice of course, but i rather belive in having them reminisce of each other than offering completely different resources and gameplay. that is mostly in fear of a dependent system not making them very interactive though, since interactivity is key for me. if you manage to do both, all the more power to you - but priority should be interaction.some exhaustion induced raving here, does it make sense?we already have a system where each area more or less have some unique production-traits: nullsec with it's capital assemblies, wh with it's tech iii components, lowsec with it's stream of navy-faction commodities through l5 and fw, npc-null with it's stream of pirate-faction bpc or implants and empire with it's bottom-line mining, invention and subcap production. it could definately be tightened up a bit, but there is already a cornerstone there for some flavour while allowing the general economy to seep through all securities better (ie., bottom-line mining isn't, and doesn't have to be, exclusive for empire - so it isn't necessarily so that nullsec require unique mining opportunities as much as it requires mining opportunities that meet the risk-reward balance)."
"+1 in principlei think the bonus section of what you propose for highsec is too much, i would move research/copy to lowsec so that there's a real incentive to go there. this would also make sense from a rp point of view as lowsec wouldn't have the same bu"
"that is probably the worst comparison i've seen in regards to afk whine-threads in the 8 years i've been reading them.ps: no cloaked ship has ever killed another ship."
"obviously you didn't get the point he was making. this topic is brought up all the time by forum trolls, almost on a daily basis. the argument against it has always been, and still is, flimsy and self serving.if you could provide a rational and legitimate reason for changing mechanics, you'd be the first in the history of eve online.summary of eves last four expansions:"
"posting in a nullbear thread, full of crying that he can't have 100% safety and 100% perfect intel 23/7 in the most dangerous part of space in evea bloo bloo bloogo back to highsec, baddy"
"i really like the idea of the black market, it would make low sec more interestingorgan harvesting/selling: harvest organs required for medical technologycorpse selling: self explanatorycounterfeit high sec charters: allowing you to jump a stargate without a concord scan (it would consume one for every jump) or bribe concord/factions on other mattersviral/radiotactive/bacterial materials; required for manufacture on certain types of modulesbacterial warfare: modules that allow you to affect the pod of a capsuleer while still inside the ship, decreasing his effectivenessdangerous pi command centers: better yield and faster extraction but disallowed in high sec because of environmental destructionplanetary bombardment modulesnow these materials cannot be manufactered/sold in high sec but they are required for manufacturing they could also be used in black market missions that can be given by any normal agent making back room smuggling into a more viable career also bring back smuggler starlanes these are hidden one way long distance starlanesmost of it has probably been suggested before but i really like the smuggler career"
"been reading make lowsec matter, haven't you?suggestions are solid but for those of us (well, me at least ) in the ls lobby it reads like a cherry picking has taken place and you didn't even include that most excellent idea from (dammit, forgot his name!) to move all sec gain to low-secbut good starting point, let the discussions begin (again)"
"hi hello,there have been a number of trollish replies in this thread - however i will endeavor to give a serious response so that ccp see the excellence and quality of this idea and implement it by summer.refuel in space, like american fighter jets, they could call this feature \"space docking\", where deep sapce transports refuel hungry hungry freighters.i realise that wh residents are mostly carebears hauling t3 loot out to sell in highsec, but those same supply chains could be used to bring oxygen into your wormhole!i commend you wanting to role play a german u-boat. perhaps this should be a new class of ship, designed for long term undercover missions!"
"i like, but not this way. oxygen would drive up the price of actual oxygen and give market exploiters something to funnel to themselves and their corps. noobs would never be able to undock. anarchy would insue"
"just wanna clarify, its the third most dangerous. what with local as a defense, intel channels, and the several hundred man alliance they should be using for defense.lowsec is slightly more dangerous with its multiple small-gang no-blues kill-everything warfare.and wormholes are more dangerous than any cause we dont have local, consistently have stealth bombers, logged off fleets, and roaming pirates entering space we have to defend against.just figured id clarify."
"how does someone afk and cloaked, harass people?i honestly don't see it and your claim regarding a carrier.destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"so here is an idea i have been thinking of. how about making every pos a claim unit? i hate grinds, and having something to actually shoot at would make the game more interesting. step 1. delete and remove every sov unit in game, and put the points into pos towers, which wold be distributed somewhat like this:faction tower =5 points of sovlarge tower = 3 points medium tower = 2 pointssmall tower = 1 pointso if i wanted to \"rent\" a system, i could set up a pos there (with approval of course), letting the owner that had 6 posses set up for moon mining know who also had a claim on that system. it would also let potential attackers know who owned the system and who it was rented to.stations would default to the alliance with the most sov points.this works two fold:a lof of alliances set up posses to have more then one role, thus making attacking a pos a double whammy because now it causes the alliance to lose points.an alliance could effectively \"ninja\" a system by putting up a bunch of posses (even small pos could work in systems with a lot of moons) and lock the opposite alliance out of their station. until they undocked and fought/blew up the pos."
"wow, you're really new to eve, aren't ya?already been done. severely broken. changed to the current mechanic we have now.summary of eves last four expansions:"
"it has everything to do with local. for without local, afking is pointless in regards to psychological warfare.whilst they are cloaked and afk, the only reason you know they are there, is because of local. you want to nerf the only tool available as a counter to local, afking.you mention wormhole space, but then fail to see that they don't ever complain about afking. there is a specific reason for this. can you guess what it is?the funny thing is, the balance is still in your favour. because local's intel is guaranteed, 23.5/7. whereas the psychological effects from afking, are not.this is not a chicken and egg situation. local came first, followed later by cloaks and then the idea that people could attempt to subvert the intel it gives. do you honestly think that because local helps you, that others wouldn't try to use it against you?no pilot cloaked, ever killed a pilot, stopped them using gates, docking, undocking, activating modules, mining, ratting etc. the only stopping you, is you.it boils down to this. cloaks already have counters, but not counters that would render the cloak pointless to fit. so no, cloaks should not be nerfed, until local's all seeing eye gets changed also. this would mean a package of changes, so you have to work for your intel. then at the same time, changes to enable the finding of cloaked vessels could be included.until then you shouldn't gain even more intel on top of what is already, a very powerful intel tool.destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"here are some ideas to how i think would fixing null 1) lowering the jump portal for titans bridge.this will make it harder for alliance to keep a lot of system and more moving of fleet. black ops ships should be the only one to get a large focus fleet to go from one side to the other. it should be hard to get a battalion moved out to the field. a small special force group can be moved from one side of the earth to half way to the other.2) take away passive income for null sec allainceand yes that need to be in caps. there needs to be more people in null sec. there needs to be industry toonin there that can work in null. all major power in the world need a good industry to be its back bone. money shouldn't be the only thing to keep you in power. so industry should be there back bone doing thing l like moon mining and production for the alliance. coequals should be at the lead of the null sec industry with module that can give the ventures laser's enough power to reach the moon surface. this will make it hard for large alliance to make billions and and only use up 1/10 of there space we want all of null sec to be use not just part of it. but still with in reach for big alliance to keep there space and small alliance the chance to get space.i don<U+FFFD>t want it to look like i am picking the large alliance but we want sovereignty to be some thing everyone can get there hand on. not just mega super alliance you know who you are.3) destructible stationsstations should be destroyed a lot go into making a station. if you blow one up it should be destroyed and deteriorate the longer it goes with out being repaired the more materials will be needing to repair it. i not talking about time i like to see repair bots that we can put in a station and minerals that are need to repair and fix what we have destroyed. it will take time for it to get it back to its old useable state but we are in eve and i want repair drone or something to fix it. i don<U+FFFD>t want to space my 15 dollar repairing something i just want to put in the materials and repair drone and leave let them do the hard work. 4) sovereignty grindingkinda the same thing as the stations mechanics.first attack give you 24 hours warning a) you win and put your repair drones to get the shield up b)you lose the fight and it goes into armorsecond attack armora) you win and you put your repair drones in and fix the armor and shield. ones its in shield it can be targeted again. b) you lose and it go into structure thirdattack structurea) you win you put in materials and repair drone and the structure is getting fix can be targeted at armor b) you lose and new owner put in there drone and materials can they have there sovereignty something like this would be nice. you fight win or lose go back to doing what you need to be let the drone do all the grinding but you have to be there when its out of reinforcement. 5) titan back to there old glorydo something with titans make them use full again no just hot dropping alt ship. bring them back to there old glory let them dd cap ships let them have a bigger buffer but take there ewar immunity way. they don<U+FFFD>t have a siege module they should have immunity to any ewar. dread and carrier do because of the siege module. this way titan are not the i win button. if you bring a dread fleet and your enemy<U+FFFD>s bring titans usually you will die. but say you have a back up fleet of covert ops with a lot of ewar the bring them in to ewar those titan. those titans will do nothing if they are jam dampen and tracking disrupted to hell. your enemy will need to bring a support fleet to take out your ewar. then it will start big fight everyone in null will have to help. bring this kinda of fighting will bring in new players in ewar ship and old player in super together and everything in between to fight as one 6) afk cloakyshay i don<U+FFFD>t mine people camping null sec system if they are active. but it gets really bad when they close down a system. this needs to be changed there need to be something. a module on a tower that can work like a em blast that is system wide to decloak some one. with a recharge that take 1 hour or something. this way if they are active they can cloak back up. you and everyone can kill him or be killed but the ship if they hot drop you. if your afk you shouldn't be able to just stay there forever you need to be active or do somethingthese are some ideas that i would like to see"
"so before you see the name and think \"oh not this again,\" i think i have a good proposal heremass restrictions inside npc/nullsec stations:this will effectively jita proof the game, thus allowing the server to focus more on places where stuff is actually happening. let's be real, 50000 jump freighters would not fit in any station, so this is essentially a proposal for more realism. the secondary option is having outer docking points at stations, and making players orbit the station until one is open. the end game goal is to even out the market, taking from jita where nobody can ever seem to jump in, and allow the server to shift for battles more swiftly. i'm sure someone with programming skills could make a system shifter so that if a spike happened the server would support it and prevent tidi form happening when an alliance is not trusting ccp to tell them when their attacks will happen.this would also apply to nullsec stations, but members with access could \"ping\" the station before cynoing or docking to make sure there is space. let's be real, if this was a real space, that would be the way it happened, you could send the tower a mail saying you'll be there in x time and they would say either there is a bay or not, and the pilot would either wait or find somewhere else to sell their wares/dock up.there are scams, hacks, bots, and whatever the new craze going on in jita and team security just can't keep track of them and stop them all. this proposal would not only help aid that, but make the market more stable. less like the nyse and more like the worldwide market. it would also force players to go to different markets to sell their loot (more balance) also, helping to bring up emerging markets. another offshoot, or secondary effect, would be missioners would be able to go to any system or region, not just one close to jita to do their business. haulers would be more in business, hauling goods from a low sell to a high buy system (also allowing scammers to have more systems to play their games in)"
"poorly thought out and non functional. new players should not be posting major game changing features until they know how the game works.to everyone who's considering replying to this thread, i implore you not to. just let this thread die.summary of eves last four expansions:"
"i have made lots of ideas to features and ideas forum area and there are two ideas above all others i want to bring to attention of csm. i wish there could be more discussion of these ideas. i'm not sure if any csm members have spotted my ideas in other forum and that's why i offer them here too.first idea is role-playing structures that could offer people chance to tell a story of a place in eve cosmos. this would allow to add sketches through internet links in description part. you could create your own (evil) fantasy place that would be visible to others."
"there's third idea i want to bring to attention of csm. this idea would limit use of laboratory slots in high sec and increase laboratory slots in low sec. this way everyone can have free laboratory slots. pos mobile laboratories research time bonus could be increased so they would remain efficient alternative for station research. this idea would bring traffic from high sec to low sec and from null sec to low sec."
"i like most of those ideas, it definitely adds flavour to low but as veshta yoshida said, you missed out a very good idea regarding sec status gaindestination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless"
"+1 stupid idea to remove it."
"the hilarious part about this idea is that it won't impact the actual whbears at all as they can simply make an excess of oxygen in their home system via pi. it'll make \"burying\" scan alts, deep solo roaming (hunting pi haulers, miners, gassers), and such a chore at best, though. never mind people who roam hostile 0.0 space, where they can't exactly dock up for resupply.have you ever stopped to ask yourself why wh people don't complain about afk cloakers in their systems?"
"wants to make bearing in null easiermakes digs at wormhole players being bearsnice try, bearboy"
"go to hisec..... damn nullbears.seriously, if i was a zero sec corp/alliance, i would be ashamed to have you as a member.jint hikaru - miner / salvager / explorer / spacebum in the beginning the universe was created. this has made a lot of people very angry and been widely regarded as a bad move."
"i'm playing the sto now, and there is an achievent for many different things, so me and many other players are trying the content that normally wouldn't got our attention. i'm aware of those things and logically i don't need that. but it's still sucks me in...or they just stick to the end-game content and don't give a damn. when they'll be tired of it, they'll quit the game.for now, in eve:i didn't tried incursions - why? i have pulsar-6, my \"money\" content. and anyway, i prefer to just buy and sell some plexes... bhahaha, to do nothing.have been in fw for 2 days - there was a more proffitable things to do.i don't like pvp - why would i?i've planned to do industry and mining, this char is a perfected toon for any of such activity... but never had enough motivation to actually use it...for all of those things there can be an achievement, which can be seen in a profile with overall achievement points.this will make players do different things instead of sticking to the one or two, which is boring and make them quit more often....just in case that you're mor alive than dead yet, eve developers..."
"we don't need achievements, but there are some people, like you, who would benefit from having them. as long as you don't get any in-game advantages from getting them i certainly don't have any objections to including them."
"in comparison, let's look at how well sto did as subscription-based, single-shard mmo with a fairly stable player ba........wait."
"they're called certificates. you get them for achieving certain levels in certain skills (or combinations of skills and/or other certificates).you can even display them on your character sheet for everyone to see. no one else will care because no one in the game bothers to look at your character sheet before they gank your ass, but hey, if it works for you..."
"so in short, you want to fix nullsec by heavily nerfing it again.no."
"how is that nerfing it"
"its not nerfing it making you work for your space null sec needs to change in a big way"
"or i could shove my entire battalion onto an aircraft carrier and fly them in on chinooks. that's a terrible analogy. besides that, it does nothing to solve the \"titan bridge\" problem, it just means i need to move my titan a little bit closer and set up chains (which is easy enough to do in itself).okay, and explain how you'd set up nullsec infrastructure to balance individual income with the necessities of running a full administration, srp, industrial program, fuel program, etc etc within the current system. or suggest an alternative system.and just how is this going to work? how are people that may be unsubscribed and, by circumstance, lose all their stuff effected by this? what's to stop me from dropping 50 triage carriers onto a \"destroyed\" station and have it back up and working before my cuppa is ready?have you actually been involved in a recent sov war? or a sov war post-dominion? you're basically describing the dominion system...do you even understand what the points of a titan are? you can dd cap ships with them; they have insane buffers still. no, you will not outright lose against a titan group if you bring dreads/carriers and are smart about it. no, you should always have some sort of support fleet now when deploying titans en-masse simply because they can't easily track or dd subcaps. bringing titans back to their sub-cap dd/tracking titan days will only hurt subcap warfare, not make it more \"interesting.\" just look at every recent cap fight for why titans are \"passably fine\" right now.and for the comments on cloaking....no. just. no."
"watch certain groups effectively \"blockade\" every single trade hub. simply dock up a whole bunch of freighters/orcas/battleships and never undock.and you can't force them to undock without creating more \"rules\" on who can dock and for how long (because the game's code won't be able to discern \"intent\")."
"it's hard to talk about roleplaying in the game where you are a starship, not a captain of it."
"what if... directional scanner was able to pick up cloaked ships on the scanner? it would simply say something like \"faint signature\" or something, and the range wouldn't be given.to further limit it, you would only pick up this faint signature if you had the range at about 5-15 degree, and if the ship is on the same grid as you.this would allow you with some time and skillful play to track down cloaked ships that are keeping an eye on you, that you might have spotted cloaking near by, or it could make you aware that you are aboutt to get bombed by 10+ bombers if you do a lucky scan in the direction they are about to decloak from.with the limited angle of scan, it wouldn't be a total nerf to cloaking, and you would still be able to hide in safespots with cloaks.if you are in a covert ops cloaking ship, you can warp out any time when you notice someone is trying to decloak you. same goes for if you warp in 100-200km off a camped gate and cloak with a normal cloak, you would simply have to get away when you notice they are heading towards you.you could compare it to looking for a submarine.supercap nerf - change ewar immunity"
"and then wormhole space is utterly destroyedi have a better idea, we implement a tearbucket for nullbears who want 100% safety and 100% perfect intel in 0.0"
"i want it for pvp reasons, not for safty, but for catching cloakies and creating tears, and how would it destroy wormhole space?... would you think people would spin around rapidly constantly doing 5 or 15 degree scans just to look if there is already a cloaked ship in their anomaly? that's the idea behind the limitations, it's not 100% free intel as it requires much more effort, you can only see that they are there if you scan in their direction with a limited angle.now about the 100% perfect intel... that is exactly what a cloaky on grid ship is. sitting on a gate and keeping eyes on hostiles who have no chance of knowing it's looking at them or even trying to catch it.with the limitation of them only showing up on scan with undefined range while they are on grid makes cloaking still powerful in the rest of the system.if you analyze the mentality of nullbears, the ability to notice cloaked ships on grid with the dcan if they have the right angle and direction.... it might make them more likly to take risks, doing anomalies or such while there is a neutral in local... this will result in more nullbears being caught and killed :d, thats my point of view.edit: heck i would be okay with it only working at a 5 degree angle, it would make it very very hard to spot the cloakies around a gate or in your anomaly, but it would be useful if you noticed exactly where someone cloaked at as you fly towards their location.supercap nerf - change ewar immunity"
"i would have to say no. no more free intel, until local changes and those changes mean you have to work for it.destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"i don't see how this would be free intel, unless you misread what i wrote, this is for hunting \"on grid\" cloaked ships, it doesn't tell you what the ship is, and it only works if you look straight at where it is when you scan, at very tight anglesupercap nerf - change ewar immunity"
"ok i accept you may need to work a little for it, but it is more intel. maybe free was the wrong term to use, but the point still stands.destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"an interesting take, it'd at least make those who are willing to hunt a cloaked ship on grid able to do so while allowing the cloaked pilot (who is properly at his keyboard) ample time to move/warp. i suspect, though, that it'd be hard to implement in a way that wouldn't be immediately exploitable."
"read the goons grid-fu manual, then imagine a group of 4 people being able to hunt down a covert ops cloaker in under a minute."
"lol butt hurt ftw...im off to camp there space in with my super op cloak :d"
"we did not need them either. in fact i have never used them.as for not looking at someone before you gank em... you must be a pretty poor pilot :)"
"i absolutely loathe achievements and trophies in games.just no."
"what? this eve of yours will be dead in 5 years because of the games like sto, which are developing much faster than it. eve is not so bad, but it's not developing, it's was seen since the incarna fail."
"ah yes. the achievement for not playing the game, just paying for it and sitting on the station.well, i'm doing exactly that. it's nothing for me to pay for it, i've just gave avay 2 characters for free recently because i'm too lazy to sell them..."
"you're streaching the truth a little bit here and i'm not sure what for. there is no signs of eve failing. in fact the exact opposite is true. sto on the other hand was a absolute failure as a subscription game and hasn't been a hit as f2p game either. the f2p is still a success, since it managed to guaranteee continued development of the game, but compared to the succesful f2p games it's small fry. it's also nothing like eve, so there is no reason to believe the players from either game will migrate to the other for any reason en masse."
"lol @ comparing sto to eve."
"the signs?well how about the addons for the game? remember the plans that they had for eve: the sci-fi simulator, in space, ground and god knows where else... 5 years ago i've thought there will be a stunning progress in the later 5, after they're done premium graphics and wrote wis concept and screenshots... the world that we can literrally live. and what do we get? just a couple of small nice things. and now they increasing the playerbase by lowering the gap for noobs and promote the alts an many ways. remove them and we'll get 7.000 pilots online :) what's not developing - dies."
"alice, wtf is that thing on your face?"
"true, true. i am very poor pilot. help a fellow out with a couple billion isk mister?"
"me and many other chose the ways of piracy. as stands in new eden \"every decision should have its consequences\". but what we actually get? we get no highsec, we get guns on the gates and we get a big black .... and nothing else.while if you chose militia warfare u get a really good way to earn isk and pvp in same time. and what are the consequences for militia. actually none in proportion what pirates ones are.so, what to do? i ask ccp for that - standing to actually meter to pirates. from -5 and below each level (-5, -6 ,-7 ,-8, -9) should open the doors for every pirate faction lv missions respectively (1, 2 ,3 ,4 ,5) pirate faction standings wouldnt meter if u got negative security standing.in addition to that near every militia space there should be a pirate hub (small outpost, npcs in space, etc...) which would give pvp mission against respective militia factions (gurista against caldari militia etc). missions would be kill 10 different caldari pilots (shuttles and noobships dont count) or kill 10 caldari militia frigates et. many combinations are possible.in addition to that the lower the standing u get the minor are the taxes in those hubs which would have its own market. for completing the missions u get isk and lp which u can spend to purchase those faction ship blueprints, ammo, implants etc.some interesting mechanics could be added for easier drug production and trading in those hubpvp near those should be allowed without npc interference if u are a - standing and all others especially militia would be attacked on sight. hubs should be guarded by sentry guns and a npc fleet (incursion like with sleeper ai) where if bested by the militia side the hub would enter in reinforce for 1 day. the next time if the hub isnt defended by both the npcs and pirates it should enter a longer reinforce mode (3 days) where the market wouldnt work and a % of items in ti would be lost.just few cents of mine. gl and hf!edit1: just to add few things. as militia would interfere with the pirate hubs, there would be missions for pirates to attack the militias plexes, which would weaken their soveregnity.edit 2: u dont enlist in any of the pirate factions. u stay where u are (corp/ alliance wise). u just get to use that - standing somewhere. it is a tool basically for us lowsec outlaws/mercenaries/pirates to earn isk, trough pvp. it can be a roleplay tool also. it is needed to give more meaning to the other part of lowsec (not militia). imo the right way is to build around militia warfare which is a great success also for lowsec. u get to lay foundation for more meaningful pirate faction warfare. later u can add concord hubs too just like u did with . where players would take in their hand policing lowsec and earn isk/lp for their effort.edit 3: sansha hubs. missions against everyone. where u could turn in lp and spawn incursions once per month in constellations by your choosing. let say 1mil is needed per month to spawn an incursion. ccp put some 10 constellation of strategic importance for eve players to chose from. players put lp in designated pots for each of those constellation. when 1 mil lp is given, the constellation pot with highest lp gets the incursion. higher the standing with sansha u have lesser the penalties in the incursions u ll have."
"1) a carrier can only hold a bout a platoon in it the rest a maning the carrier that that not possible 2)good put titans close the the front lines where they can be at some risk rather then never been seen or used 3) i sure you can find some industry corp that can mine hual and sell all that moon goo for you i not trying to take your goo away from you i just want you to mine it rather then just sit on your ass's and get fat off of it \4)good then go back to that maybe we get some fight 5)i dont think they are fine how many titan do you see fighting and that fine but give them something to be use full and in fight now is safe where no one see then and or used for what they where for killing **** dont let them get there track or attacking sub caps but somthing need to be done so they are fielded 6 cloaky can close down a indy system for allaince with no way to defend from it other then waiting for them to get bored and hope they go away"
"simple solution. make station models bigger by 100% (its never gonna happen but still would look cool)"
"to derail the topic even further - please make the stations at least look larger than the ships coming out of them.undock a naglfar from an amarr factory station. you'll immediately see what i mean. i'm guess the amarr have mastered the whole \"bigger on the inside\" thing."
"yes that would make way more sense. seriously how can a nomad undock from a minmatar industrial station!"
"sorry don't have time to read all of it, but if you're talking about some content for solo playing - i'm in.why do they hate solo players so much? i tell you, it's simple: it's easier for a solo player to quit than for an active corp member because of the mates who always calling him back."
"there is a kinda offline version of eve. google it.don't know if the story work on the other hand."
"ccp needs to do this"
"no, my original thread about this (with most of the above ideas in some form) several years ago, predating the making lowsec matter page by quite a biti was on the original council that mynxee headed up that was (supposedly) backed by ccp to make lowsec better, that whole project went **** up very fast as it appeared ccp really didnt want to look at lowsec at all apart from fw which isnt what the old inhabitants of ls wanted at allso no, none of this is inspired, cherry picked or stolen from that page at all im afraid"
"nice ideas silvara, ill get them linked into teh original post when i have time i have always liked the idea of implant production being a lowsec activity using illegaly salvaged body parts"
"well, i like how music works now far better than the same playlist over and over, or even kust a shuffle.although it's may be nice to still have the jukebox to listen to the ost sometimes."
"hellomy suggestion is - maps for every star system. full screen, showing all the planets with all the moons and all the gates and stations. and asteroid belts. this adds a little more personality to the game, more than the right click list.something like \"view in planet mode\" but for star systems."
"they already have that.edit:oh, i see you're new.open map, click button."
"what we need is dotlan style functional map (think street map, not satellite map) in game."
"achievements?!?!?!the themepark is strong with this one."
"+1i don't think it's needed, but will still support things like achievements that take practically zero dev manhours to put in.if ccp decides to use this as excuse to not add real content, like some mmo companies, it would be bad. but then, they have no t"
"problem with piracy is the game mechanics. irl a pirate is basically a mugger with a ship. in eve almost all piracy begins and end with someone randomly opening fire on someone else and hoping some expensive modules survive to be looted. that's not a pirate, that's a brigand.few and far between are pirates that ask for ransom. fewer still are those that honor it. never have i seen a pirate in eve who actually says \"drop your cargo!\"see, irl pirates traditionally wanted the cargo. food, ammo, water, rum - these were not only things pirates could sell but also the basic things that they needed. actually firing on a merchant was rare, as most gave up as soon as they saw the black flag raised. it just wasn't worth fighting over on the pittance they paid regular seamen. in modern times pirates are usually after the ship itself.the real problem is that eve lacks proper tools for any of this. there is no special button that says \"auto-stop firing at 50% hull\" or anything to emulate concord's \"drop your contraband or die in 10 seconds\" routine. and the only eve \"pirates\" that actually bother with cargo scanners are the jita suicide gankers.i was hoping that dust would open the eve universe up to actual boarding actions and ship capture, but that's just not going to happen. so here is my 2 cents of a crazy idea for a new pirate toy: boarding shuttleshave them work just like heavy drones, fit in drone bay etc, 25m3 each. when they reach the target the board. once they do they start either (depends on setting) damaging modules directly (like heat) or start stealing cargo. the longer they remain on board the more damage they do/cargo they steal.ok not the best idea but you get the idea. something that works like real piracy. you know, theft, not murder."
"yeah but pirates used to attack ship a ship take the cargo, destroy it and run away. but i do agree is hard atm to draw a line between an outlaw and a pirate."
"someone said domonix. now tracing ip and heating up rusty tools on open flame."
"back on topic:#1) drone implants. +5% bonus to damage and hitpoints.#2) auto-target your own drones for free, instant lock, without taking up actual target slots. i should not have to waste five of my all too finite number targeting slots and wait fifteen seconds to be able to monitor & repair my own dang drones.#3) drone durability skill buffed to at least 20%, up from current (and useless) 10% per level.#4) drone accuracy skill. sharpshooting only effects optimal range. what about tracking? omnilink is a drag. +10% drone tacking speed per level. hit more often.#5) drone shield skill. increases rate of drone shield regeneration 20% per level.#6) drone evasion skill. reduces drone signature radius by 10% per level. harder to hit.#7) drone repair module. heals damaged drones while docked.#8) replace drone mwd with afterburner. maybe not as fast but not a big bullseye marker either."
"drone implants and the auto-repair module are a good idea. all the others are unnecessary and seem really to be intended just to make mission-runners' lives even easier."
"like the hireable npc vendors in swg? i like it!"
"the op hasn't really stated how these would work, but a few problems i can see are....if they are not destroyable, then they would be perfect decloaking tools for gate camps.can you imagine the can spam at every hisec gate.... ugh!!!!mining bots could pop one next to their ice roid and continually mine and sell to the can without having to warp back to the station.also ruins a lot of the need for transporting goods to and from trade hubs (and all the things that come with that - hauler ganking, zero/low sec logistics, transportation careers etc)jint hikaru - miner / salvager / explorer / spacebum in the beginning the universe was created. this has made a lot of people very angry and been widely regarded as a bad move."
"problem with current story arcs is that go straight from sisters of eve snooze fest to the faction omfg level ten with nothing in between.more story arcs with intermediate levels of difficulty would be nice."
"+1i've heard the same song in null for literally over a month"
"that is something i don't understand. ccp keeps saying its super-difficult to write code to figure out if the booster ship is on grid with you, but it seems to me there are two separate (but possibly the same thing behind the curtains) things that eve does right now that determine if somone is on grid with you. they are visibility on overview (yes, i know what cloaking devices are) and the appearance of health bars on your fleet watch list. seems to me if someone could have a visible healthbar on your watchlist, then they could give you a command link boost. i would assume the code to determine if someone is on-grid with you is already there, based on these two things."
"titan class paper weightsfirst of all i know i am going to get a lot of hate posts and mails from this. this is a sore subject for a lot of people. mostly the goons but hey what can you do.when people think of titans they think of one of the most powerful, most expansive, most giant ships in the game. they have their doomsday, they have their titan bridge, they have powerful guns, and they are one of the most attention drawing ships in the game. but now when eve vets think about titans all they can say is <U+FFFD>there is no point in buying one as they are now trash<U+FFFD>. for those who don<U+FFFD>t know why they are trash it is because they have been nerfed time after time after time. they can no longer have an aoe doomsday, which is understandable given that fleet fights were very hard to have when you had the <U+FFFD>i win button<U+FFFD> to end entire fleets. so to fix that ccp introduced focused doomsdays. these are doomsday beams that only target a single ship. but then they became to widely used and they were nerfed. no longer could a doomsday be used on sub-capital ships. to compensate for that the sandbox spit out the tracking titans. everyone saw the power of that when raiden was in querious (aka the thunder dome) and again with the war in the north against cfc. after thousands upon thousands of ships died to the might tracking titans ccp nerfed the racking on the titans. so now the only thing titans can do is doomsday capital and super capital ships and use guns on pos towers, other high hit point structures, and give fleet<U+FFFD>s the ability to bridge into a combat system in a moment<U+FFFD>s notice. everyone is crying for super capital ships to die in grand flames of fire and massive fights doing it. but other than the asakai fight no real big fights have taken place where titans have died. there is the occasional titan gank but that<U+FFFD>s about it. the reason being there is no reason to drop titans anymore. they are very expansive jump bridges. other than the occasional gank of a carrier or a dread they are rarely used in combat these days.so i am proposing that we give a little back to the people who have spent years training, ratting, and butt loads of isk keeping their accounts running. i say we give back the doomsday ability to hit sub-capital class ships. the reason being titans will now have reasons to drop again. i will guarantee that if titans were allowed to doomsday subcaps again you would see more fights taken place with not only titans, but super carriers as well. super caps deaths will be more and more often than as it stands today. so if ccp and you the eve players really want to see more supercapital kills and fights taking place more often then please i beg you please show your support on this proposal. if you agree with me please like the post. if you don't agree with me please post why and give us your idea. thank you for your time<U+FFFD>"
"perhaps they need to re-evaluate the concept of the aoe doomsdays, not restored to their former iwin glory, but script the doomsday, you can bust your nut in a single blaze of glory against a single capital target or script it to be a limited 100k aoe damage over time take the total damage of the doomsday, cut it to 1/10th the damage, then spread the damage over the full 10 min cycle time. this will give logi and triage the ability to stay outside the 100k range, but still work on keeping those inside the area alive. this will help keep blobs down as some ships will still die to the aoe, but they have time to get out. this will bring a more strategic use to the weaponduring the time of damage, no remote effects (repping and the like) can affect the titanalso, the aoe damage will affect the titan as well, consider this a hack of the doomsday and with all modifications, has repercussions."
"well that would be counter productive.. the reason its called a doomsday is casue its a \"head shot\" weapon. no weapons in eve have an over time damage dealt damage style. the best way this could work is to allow them to focus doomsday subcaps again.. and its not something that will take months to make happen... if they wanted to they could release that in a patch on 24 hrs notice."
"the problem with targeting subcaps is, they were to easily escaping by blaping the hictors. the damage over time can be dealt with in multiple ways, consider it like a smartbomb that cant be deactivated, and surges every second, like they have in some missions with damage waves (to keep db calls to a minimum) but as for \"doomsday\" being a headshot weapon, no that would be a sniper rifle, a doomsday weapon has always been historically a weapon of last resort, its so utterly horrendous an idea to use that it is likely to call down the wrath of your own as well as your enemy. this can also be achieved by making the damage it deals sig radius shifted, the bigger you are, the more damage you take, so it will shift back towards capitals and battleships."
"well lets look at it this way... yea i agree titans were able to escape in the old days but lets take a look at fleet sizes... this is the era of the coalitions. everyone is in one, or everyone has one a speed dial. so the ammount of hics and dics that can be brought to fight that argument goes out the window. we can even look at it like this a cloaky saber can hold a titan down. granted the titan may be able to lock him in time if the dictor is not paying attention. even so dictors are cheap. a titan is a 100+ billion isk investment just for the hull. a dictor is like 60 mil fitted. a ttian with a decent fit runs 130+ billion isk... that titan should noty be able to be killed by a cloaky dictor and 5 battleships. so let the titan dd again... the dictor will still be pretty much safe if he knows what he is doing. the battleships will die every 10 min... and by the time those battleships die they should have bat phoned someone to kill the titan... so the whole omg the titan is going to escape because he can dd the hic/dic is a terrible argument in this case. and lets think about it.. when catching a titan cloaky dics are the primary ship type.. when its caught and you fleet shows up to kill it then u use hics.. if u just bring one hic then u deserve to miss the km... and the only thing to catch a titan in low sec is a hic but dont worry titans cant dd in low sec... soooooooo"
"dude, i got alts that have been in the game longer then you. and by the way, trolling the forums doesnt count as experience. maybe i liked the other way better?"
"you have literally \"reinvented the wheel.\"before the current system was implemented, sov was more or less dependent on how many pos towers you had up in a system. it created nightmareish scenarios for attackers and defenders alike... attackers had to destroy each and every single defending pos in a system before they could take it... only to be greeted with more \"empty\" poss that were set up on other moons while the attacking fleets were busy.defenders had to fuel each and every single pos in a system... making living and logistical costs tedious at best."
"you had alts in the game longer than me yet you didn't know about this old broken system? how old are your alts? newbies need to learn how to play this game before suggesting major game changes. you're obviously a newbie and its obvious you don't know what you're talking about.learn your eve history. if you had, you would've already known that this was in the game a long time ago and it was a horribly broken way to take and maintain sov. i was there to witness it personally. if you had characters older than mine you would have too, which clearly you haven't since this thread exists.and that's how you put a tard in their place.summary of eves last four expansions:"
"uuuggghhh.... you must be new. the \"pos spam\" sov claiming method was even worse than the painful (enough to stop wars from happening system) we have today.no. just no."
"they're useless because they're didn't do it properly.ant it's a shame... both of them were able to become an amazing part of gameplay... but looks like such content too much for them... because while being a small company they're wasting their resources for truly huge, useless things: dust stuff, and wod(?)..."
"btw.achievements it's a good things for finishing the certificates idea:1. it's already here and just need some improvements. like points for each sertificate and sertificates for more then sp achievements.2. it's continues the idea of already implemented certificates: as the certificate can show the recruter that the player have the corresponding skills, the \"achievement\" certificate can show that player have done something already, not just trained pvp stuff while carebearing; or have been in wh-6 already..."
"from the last thread about this..."
"well something should be done to increase the realism of the game, because i agree with the big ships and null stations. i <3 forum trolls. poor little things think likes actually increase their rate of sp gain. id take a but of both, larger stations, and still having mass restrictions. oooooooooorrrr..... how about docking fees? because i know if i dock my boat it costs money to keep it tied to the pier.... how about that? that would discourage the goons (let's be real it would only be them trolling stuff) from station spinning if they were getting charged 1isk/m3/hr for their ship being in a station in game, and maybe having a 1isk/1000m3 for outer (less secure) docking outside the station. or even an orbital unloading feature for freighters so they dont even have to dock up if it is just to unload and dump goods.... let's see what trollville has to say about that"
"there is a point at which realism makes a game tedious. this idea is one of the points.destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"sigh... this post...ccp, can we please have \"dislike\" buttons? this is not facebook."
"i going to toss around a few ideas that will probably need to be refined for a legitimate proposal about salvaging. salvaging:when you have a specialized skill you become a valuable player... if you can pilot a capital ship your inherit worth is a lot higher than a rookie. this idea of specialization is what i'm going to focus around.skillsthere are a lot of skills that go into mining to get a higher yield per cycle in an abundant amount of asteroids. (it's a little bit different for salvaging because there's a per determined amount of salvage you get out of each wreck. the higher the salvage skill the more chance you will get that per determined amount of salvage in one or two cycles). i propose a set of skills that increase the chance of you getting a higher salvage yield per cycle out of what normally would yield little but also keeping the pre existing salvage skills intact (that require less cycles).basically, there is no way for me to get a higher amount of salvage than the next guy. the next guy can have level one salvage skill and still get the same amount of salvage. when compared to miners you can get a higher yield per cycle of rock which means more isk.wortha salvager isn't worth much because the skills are generalized and the yield is the same. a noctis well suited with tech 2 rigs are around 200 mil (the noctis being 80 mil by itself). there are many ways to salvage (including drones now) that give you the same yield regardless of what you do. it isn't worth for a person to get a noctis (a waste of a ship practically). it also isn't worth it for missioners and people who make wrecks to stop and get their noctis.businessthere are plenty of corps based around the idea of a specialized skill (merc, pvp experts, standing, manufacturing, pirates ect..) but that's because there is a market for that kind of specialized skill and experience. there are some corps such as pro synergy that work off a model of contracting(which is the market of salvagers). but you could expand that market and not cause an inflation of the materials by having a specialization.thank you,"
"you are kind of missing out the point of the 'chance to get the salvage per cycle'. with a higher skill you get the salvage quicker, meaning you will be able to salvage more wrecks and thus make more isk over the same time period than the level one guy.the reason miners have skills for higher yield, is because they have the same cycle time whatever skill level they have.jint hikaru - miner / salvager / explorer / spacebum in the beginning the universe was created. this has made a lot of people very angry and been widely regarded as a bad move."
"there is a lot of debate currently on the viability of different security regimes (hisec, losec, null, wh) and how to make some of the less populated ones more viable. i would like to share some thoughts on this and maybe a few solutions.regimes:* hisec: o risk: minimal. pvp is mostly optional. you can be suicide ganked. you can be wardecced. you can still be tricked into pvp, but crimwatch has pretty much put the kibosh on that. o reward: high. most pve play is not the greatest isk/hr, but there are many ways you can mine afk or autopilot haul things to make isk with little-to-no player interaction. access to the largest and most functional markets.* low sec: o risk: medium to high. most areas of lowsec are a deserted wasteland, populated by a few stubborn locals or roaming gangs of pirates. some fw areas are a little more active. there are frequent gatecamps as well as smartbombing bs traps. o reward: low. the rocks aren't great. l5 missions or mid-level complex exploration might yield decent income if you could find a safe place to do them. the markets are for the most part terrible. * null sec: o risk: medium. bubbles, hotdrops, etc exist, and you can lose access to stations where you might have your possessions kept. however, most of sovereign null sec is connected by jump bridges and covered by multi-region intel networks. o reward: medium to high. the anomaly nerf is still in effect. null sec rocks are significantly more valuable than hisec, but the rocks don't supply needed materials to build ships, modules, etc. scanable sites can provide higher income. the markets are sporadic and only the largest null-sec trade hubs approach full functionality. it is often necessary to import the majority of your gear from hi-sec.* wh: o risk: high. no local. prevalence of cloaky ships. everything you own can be destroyed. a large pos tower is your biggest defense. o reward: high. but high effort. can make very good money, but you need the right hole category, the right group, and possibly capitals (which might not be able to leave the hole).all of the points above are up for debate and i realize there are many exceptions. however, they provide us a good point to start from.problem statements: there is little reason for the average hi-sec mission runner to come to low-sec or null-sec. there is no incentive for a small-time miner to mine in low-sec or null-sec. small groups cannot hope to establish a real foothold in sov null-sec. there is little industrial infrastructure in null-sec. the rocks, planets, and rats in low-sec aren't enough to get people to come out and harvest them in any significant amount. some solutions:make it worthwhile to live in null or lowsec for the average risk-averse carebear. directly nerfing hi-sec into the ground will not accomplish this. it will just make people quit. make them want to join up with others and make money. incursions were a good start, but they were nerfed pretty hard, and the small difference between hisec, losec, and null-sec rewards did not make up for the added risk and forced downtime while avoiding gankers. yes, level 5 missions exist in low-sec, but not many groups run them. more often someone grind through them slowly in a passive tengu. perhaps some more variety and tuning could help there.make the difference between different security levels more dramatic and or more linear. right now when you go from a 0.5 to a 0.4 there is a huge difference. the game even warns you (until you turn it off). if the rewards in a 1.0 system for pve activity were much worse were not nearly as good as working in a 0.5 (ie. mining veldspar in a 0.9 system with no belt rats and using 5 mining drones is not dramatically different from mining say, omber in a 0.5). make hanging out in that sketchy 0.5 system next to low-sec, where you might get a suicide destroyer coming at you with the cops on his heels worthwhile. but make the 0.5 system sketchier. maybe concord takes a break every once in a while and doesnt respond and the criminal gets away (not often but possible). maybe a local serpentis gang with bss, ewar and tackling show up in an icebelt and make a miner spill his coffee (and maybe lose his ship if he didnt fit a proper tank and bring some drones). make it more random. make it worth it.now that the 0.5 system has pretty good rewards, but isn't really very safe, make someone looks wistfully at the 0.4 next door and say to himself \"it's not that much more dangerous and i could be making a lot more money.\"also, bump the taxes in the really high security stations. make it so maybe a trade hub in a 1.0 system isn't as attractive as one in a 0.5. maybe make the lower security areas be nice \"tax shelters\".i would also suggest make building things in nullsec easier. its no fun when you have to refine at one outpost and go to the next system to build stuff. there is a reason raw materials sell for jita - hauling fees in null-sec and finished products sell for jita + hauling fee. those abcs have ok isk/hr, but sometimes its a lot easier to drop a mackinaw in a hisec belt, deploy drones and go make a sandwich or fire up tanks. the isk/hr for the ship is lower, but the isk/effort is much, much higher.something else that might help spice things up a bit. random wormhole effects that pop up in a system for short periods (from a few hours to a day). these would have stronger effects as you go lower in security. maybe solar storms could temporarily disable the ability to light a cyno. maybe your mining lasers are suddenly more effective. if both of these happen at the same time, set up some scout and do a corp mining op. suddenly everyone is filling their holds with yummy hemorphite. that would give someone a reason to come looking for you."
"also, exploration could use an iteration. do we really need analyzers, codebreakers, and salvagers to loot sites? maybe if these were more interesting and rewarding, people would come out into the unknown to find their fortune.what i'm asking for make it worth my while to take more risks.to be clear, i don't think we should mass-nerf all of hisec. a few targeted areas to encourage people to move from 1.0s to lower security systems (such as the taxes i described above) would be pretty much it. if someone wants to stay in their system and run missions for the same agent while flying the same ship. i'm ok with that. i'm even ok with them keeping their rate of income. however, i would like to increase the rewards to those will take more risk, nerfing those who stay in their walled garden only by inflation (everyone else who was willing to spend more risk/effort now has more money).my hope in writing this post is not to start a csm run or anything. i want to throw some ideas out there for the csm to run with. i hope we can find a middle ground between, say, james 315 (nerf hisec to the ground) and ripard teg (make hi-sec safer for the noobs). my apologies to both of those guys, i respect them and i realize i can' sum up their beliefs in one short phrase. if eve is to grow we need to break the stagnation up. we need to get the pioneers into their wagons and get them moving to the wild west. then the pvps would have someone to shoot at."
"a new hope***so how does this \"fix\" null-sec. we aren't there yet. let's talk about sovereignty. the current system relies on blowing up infrastructure that supports the top-down design. this requires large capital and supercapital fleets to succeed. this also results in the necessity to go out and own a bunch of moons, just so you can pay your sov bills and infrastructure. this moon income goes directly to the alliance. the average grunt won't see the isk, other than a ship replacement program (srp). instead, we should want to have a bottom up system. here is a good proposal:bottoms up part one: income and industrybottoms up part two: sovereigntyunder this system, i would propose that sov be earned by using the system (similar to how the military and industrial indexes are generated now). this would also include shooting other people's ships. since space would be much more crowded, there would be a lot more targets for roaming gangs. repeated failure to defend your systems from attack could jeopardize your sovereignty in that system. this would make outposts more valuable (because they are supporting higher population density) and also require that they be much more functional, in order to support increased usage and actual industry.basically, the idea is to put most of the income into the players hands. they would get income from pve (missions, exploration, mining, etc), industry, and pvp (bounties and looted mods). this income would be taxed by the corp and the corp would in turn be taxed by the alliance. this system would also require nerfing moon income to match the new, lower cost of sov (basically nothing, since sov is earned by activity and not infrastructure) and srps. since actual usage is required, not using the system would mean losing it. this would have the effect of \"capping\" the size of an alliance's space in proportion to their size. if tuned properly this would mean even the largest alliances only would own one or two regions' worth of space. this system would also reduce the need for coalitions. if you don't have a lot of infrastructure that you rely on to generate your income, you don't need a lot of friends to protect it. this system would mean every player in null-sec generates value. if you rat or run anomalies and complexes, you are making the alliance richer and reinforcing sov. if you mine, you can build more ships to blow up gloriosly and you are reinforcing sov. if you build you are contribution money and available products. if you shoot other players you are reinforcing your sov or weakening somebody else's. not to mention players in the first two groups provide targets for the pvp-ers. i think this would allow smaller groups to establish themselves in space. they could find a lesser used pocket of space and just move in. unless there was an overwhelming response to drive them out, they would own it. one difference i would propose to similar systems is make the systems more valuable the more you use them. also make some systems more valuable than other (eg. lower true security rating means better resources). the drivers for conflict would be better resources and strategic location. if i take away structures what am i going to do with my supercaps? good question. there are still poss and outposts to blow up. fights can escalate from subcap brawls to capital ship engagments. supercaps would be helpful, but not required to hold sov.this post wasn't as organized as i had envisioned it, but here it is. let me know what you think."
"something to note: there really aught to be two paradigms upheld: risk vs rewardandeffort vs reward.... i have no problem with highsec incursions paying well when it requires organizing a fleet of 10-30 people prior to engaging in the activity... in contrast, solo-oriented level 4 missions have low effort and a low risk, and should reward correspondingly..."
"this.i would say the emphasis needs to be on effort more than 'risk' if for no other reason that 'risk' is something that ccp does not really supply in the majority of possible actions (inb4.. but incursion rat blew up mah ship!). effort, on the other hand, is something that ccp can control.that said, 'reward' is just as much of a weasel word as 'risk' since a not-insignificant portion of measurable rewards are determined by player action and not ccp. i am thinking specifically of all those things that are not isk generating activities (mining, trading, exploration/loot generators, industry, etc)"
"quite true.i guess when i'm generically saying risk, its more like (risk * effort). if i fly an empty t1 frig 10 jumps across lowsec for 10 misk reward that makes a lot more sense than doing the same thing in a billion isk ship with 3 billion in bpos in the cargo hold for the same reward. same effort, but radically different risk * effort."
"the increase in ship and cargo value is neither a necessary nor sufficient condition for 'radically different' risk."
"bump"
"not seen this thread before. some nice changes there.+1 from me.destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"bump"
"i've looked high and low and for some reason i can not find a new eden space craft in modal form.i'm sure many of you out there are aware of games workshop and its work for modeling war-hammer and games alike, why oh whyhave we not seen a modeling franchise of the ships we love and fly.i'm aware that there has been a deal struck with lego and its frigate which is great to enthuse the new gamer coming of age but what about us oldies who would pay to have a ship on they're mantel.please please if anyone can shed some light on this subject i would gladly receive it."
"enjoy"
"also the lego rifter isn't happening."
"i don't know if this is in the backlog already because tl;dr but i have what i think is a short and easy proposal.i suggest shortening the cooldown timer on jump clones from 24 hours to something more in the 18-22 hour time frame. most people due to rl constraints play eve at about the same time each night if i'm not mistaken. as it stands right now if you need to use a jump clone for whatever reason near tail end of your normal playtime the first hour or couple hours of you normal playtime will be \"lost\" the next day.for example: joe blow plays eve for three hours on average after work during the week, starting at 00:00 gmt and ending at 03:00 gmt. on tuesday one of his corpmates gets on comms at 02:30 at says \"i've got a carrier tackled in system xxxxx\" joe and his corp normally base out of system yyyyy, but no need to fear they all have jcs and a small corp hanger near system xxxxx. everyone jumps down and joe winds up playing until about 05:00 that night and gets a couple kills, drinks are had etc. now the problem is that joe will be stuck in a region 30+ jumps from his home system where he has no real assets. in any case he needs to be able to leave that jc down there for another possible gank later in the week so he can't just slowboat it back home. to add insult to injury he cant jump back until 02:30 and he's still got some mild wife aggro from last night meaning his 03:00 logoff time is pretty strict. (this is not a personal anecdote) so now joe only has effectively 30 minutes of playtime that night. not the worst thing in the world, i know, but it is still a bummer. if his timer were 18-22 hours until next jump clone availability he would still have the consequence of being stuck in the different region for the rest of his time online that day if he were to continue playing. but by the start of his next play session he could jump back to home and get some real play time in. so tl;dr: shorten the jump clone cooldown timer from 24 hrs to 18-22 hrs so that even if they didn't jc as soon as they logged on that night, the following night they can have option to jc back home at the beginning of their playtime.please thumbs up if you likey"
"good idea, but if i could suggest the 12 jc timer rule rather than the current.everyone in low sec has to battle with timers, 1 roam to null in a blank clone, wife calls, you dock up and log, next day you log on and find yourself stuck in null with no blues for 30 - 60 jumps.if the timer was lower i could leave my ship and clone in null and jump to it and pick it up the next time a roam goes that way.thumbs up from me"
"when players start complaining about it, that means its a viable solution."
"signed. i can't believe people are defending ogb links. they are so obviously over powered they are absurd and pure pay to win. no skill involved, just park and forget."
"i have friends across multiple corporations and since corporations can only have one alliance, i would suggest a new feature to allow players to join multiple player corporations but only be able to \"represent\" one at a time. to minimize spying, adding a \"representer\" sepcific chat to corporations along with the general corp chat would prevent players of enemy corps from making new characters for spying as they wouldn't get any information that way. i would love to see this feature or an adaptation of it be implemented in eve."
"not happening, if nothing else because of the extreme trouble this would cause for corps where roles are required for operational purposes!"
"how about something in between the two. move the tcu, ihubs and sbu's to be pos modules. this will add variety to the sov churn, not the static cookie cutter \"we know exactly how many hp the tcu will take to pop\" routine. bring the reinforcement of the tower into the sov game as well as guns and resists and ewar. if you wish to take a system, you have to have an sbu tower for every gate in the system. bring a bit of the pos slug fest into the sov challenges, without the pos spamming that was the days of old. it just gets kind of boring slugging on sbu after sbu with little or no variety, or the lone tcu sitting off station, or sitting at a planet."
"while pos warfare was horribly flawed and unfun in many ways, i can't help but feel that in some ways it was superior to what we have now.perhaps the pos revamp, when it arrives, will pave the way for something that combines the better features of both."
"ok how about this? 1. get rid of sov. completely. make null like wormholes (cept you can still build stations there). the - sec status is the level of the system. no more grinding or fighting for systems, simply roll in, put up a pos or station, and make a home. the sbu/tcu could then be replaces with build-able security for an alliances \"headquarter\" system. throw guns on a gate to kill the cyno ship that dares enter your system, or station guns to keep asshates from camping your undock. the issue is: nobody likes sov grinding!! 2. even out the moons... this has been the elephant in the room for a while now. either \"spawn\" more of the rarest moons, or get rid of the more common moons to balance the moon goo market out. i am not the most knowledgable about moons, let's see your ideas if you don't like mine."
"due to extreme incursions into empire space, (by n.p.c. pirate fleets)the three empires ( -caldari ) have agreed, to open further open discussions (this thread).discussions concerning capsulers, flying level 1* capital ships into secure empire space.the 3 empires have debated this limited permission,to the loud counter arguments, set forth by the caldari empire.caldari seam to have the most to gain from disabled,neighboring empires.minmater republic, voices it's future concern of being layed barren and open to a complete take over by caldari warmongers.this proposition was backed sternly by galentees, who value freedom over, zeolous tyrrany....end......there have been discussions on how to let concord handle offending capital ship pilots : force them into an artifical - jump - hole, that leads them into non empire space, or, worse, an isolated no exit wh space (known and designated by concord as underworld).before you speak,go try doing some incursion runs.seriously.. because u can't even try.*lvl 1 capital ships, refers to ships that require level one training (out of 5) in the respective capital ship's main skill.pantera home videos:"
"probably going to get a whole lot less responses here than in your other identical thread in the other forum.but the repsponses will still be the same, a resonding no, voiced universally and unanimosly by everyone not you."
"what your suggesting is basically an arbitrary asset limit.no matter how little isk/m3 it is, there is a point where it would become impossible to have your assets and not lose money every month, for people who deal in station trading or long-term asset investing, this would become a guaranteed loss of income.all in all, this is a bad idea on every point.however im all for them increasing the physical size of stations/carriers/dreads/titans to be where they should."
"i'm sure there's a way to make it work. this is simply a proposal i had based off a problem i see in game. the definition of troll is berating someone's ideas without giving a better ides of your own....so let's see what you have that's better, at least i'm trying. if my ideas are bad then yours must be worse if you're not sharing.and the solution to your station trader issue, if you would read and analyze instead of reademoragenoitwontworkeverevereverevertrollnonononoooomgholycrap is that there would be a function that would allow you to unload your cargo, and then simply put on the market or sell from space. this way a jf wouldnt have to pay holy crap fees for docking up every twenty minutes, and also allow the mass of a station to stay well under the max limit. like i also said, fot those of you in the cheap seats next to the windows with the helmets on, the outer docking stations would be a lower fee, but would keep a player in space, but close enough to the station that you wouldnt be noticed (i would even be a fan of a station safety cloak for those docked on the outside). players not logged in would not count until a half hour after they logged in, and if the station was overloaded, the ships that have been in the station for over a day would be moved to the outer docks, and then after two days would be undocked and put into an orbit around the station until they paid the daily docking fee. i know goons would try to manipulate the system, but after a while the markets would just level out to the point where it would not matter. i also like ripard teg's idea of allowing us to search the entire market from anywhere in game."
"i like the idea of having a set limit to the amount of stuff you can have in stations.currently they are massive unlimited floating cans that can hold many times more than their volume.unless of course eve has \"bigger on the inside\" technology.[proposal]each station has 3 types of docking slots.visitor - no charge100 per station- 10,000m^3 cargo hold- 2 ships of any sizestandard - 10,000,000 isk / month50 per station- 1,000,000m^3 cargo hold- 10 ships of any sizeindustrialist - 20,000,000 isk / month20 per station- 1,000,000m^3 cargo hold- 100,000,000m^3 ore hold- 10 ships of any sizetrader - 50,000,000,000 isk / month25 per station- 1,000,000,000m^3 cargo hold- 100,000,000m^3 ore hold- 25 ships of any sizeobviously this is all very loose and subject to change. all numbers, amounts and limitations are subject to modification.now for the real kicker;stations can be full. you can warp to the station but can only dock if there is room or you are renting a slot.each race and type of station can a different set of attributes as well.this would quickly spread out the trade hubs and make traders pay for what they use.will people game this system? for sure, will it matter, nope!the traders will move to a location that they can sell stuff at after a short while"
"1.0"
"oh, and heres another downside to your idea.i now have to jump between 50 diferent systems to try and buy and find all the amterials necessary to operate, taking a couple hours out of my time, making my life a living heck. without the ability to have a centralized market with hundreds of supplies going in and out, all youll do is force people to travel longer to get their stuff."
"come on guys no one else has anything to see about this?"
"if i have 4 billion on the line, i would say that is a lot more risk. sorry if that was a bad example though. i was blanking a bit and couldnt think of a better example.post #3 in this topic has been updated to talk about null-sec.edit: i just saw this post on high-sec by malcanis. a lot of good things there."
"i like this idea."
"i was thinking at something similar: allow 1 more character that can train skills at the same time with the main character on the same account after 1 year of play. i understand why that is not possible now, because it's too useful, and eve would become something like heroes or baldur's gate where you have to control 3 characters to get anything done, every new player would have to start playing with 3 characters at once. so, make it as a reward after 1 year of play? or make the alt account cheaper?"
"i don't see why this should be implemented.... it honestly begs for abuse, and most safety measures can be easily circumvented... yuck....more importantly.... the notion about \"catching up\" with veterans is simply flawed... let's play a game: who should win: the links were already available to me from an internal contest we had as a corp.... the unlinked kills exist if i could be asked to hunt them down... rifter vs wolfrifter vs stabberrifter vs drakerifter vs raventaranis vs wolftaranis vs sabretaranis vs rupturetaranis vs hurricanetaranis vs rapiertaranis vs vagabondhelios vs taranishelios vs slicerhelios vs auto wolfhelios vs arty wolfhelios vs jaguarhelios vs harpyhelios vs thrasherhelios vs sabrevexor vs cynabalvexor vs maelstromvexor vs sfiyou don't need max skillpoints, or three years of skills to fly a ship... that's a straight up lie... you can be competitive in industry easily, within a month...you can be competitive in trading within a day...you can be competitive at mining within a week or two...you can be competitive at hauling within a month or less....you can be competitive at pvp within a week... and you can be a competitive soloer within a month... you don't need massive amounts of skillpoints in this game, and that's the fallacy of your argument.. skillpoints open doors, true... but you don't need perfect skills to be a good in this game."
"people gate camp. null sec is full of gate camps. null sec entry is bottlenecked. i propose to open the bottlenecks. first, by making more systems have gates into null sec. second, by having more gates in null sec entrance systems so that people aren't forced into 1 obvious path to get into that region of null sec.this does not eliminate gate camping, which will still be quite viable. this merely makes it easier to enter null sec."
"i'm pretty sure not all null sec systems are bottlenecked, in fact most are not. the most camped gates are hs > null while most ls > null gates are quiet unless its a chain system. simply avoid these systems and use a scout and its no problem."
"i always thought 18 hrs would be good. no more \"lost evenings\" or death-cloning."
"again, with the emo i dont know how to read rage... if you log out for a while and come back in, you have that initial hour or so to figure out what you want to do with your items that were put into storage. standing with the corp could have an effect on it too, say since i have +10 with soe i can have a slot for no charge, stuff like that."
"keep changing your argument, and ill keep quoting you.... waah. make your own stuff and that wont happen. who is to say a market wouldnt stabilize and have everything you need? the only way you would have to make 50 jumps is if you are an extreme penny pincher and absolutely have to have the lowest price. jita is like walmart, it is ruining the economy and allowing bots to make out stuff"
"not going to lie, i was sad to see it go."
"count me as one more player returning after an extended hiatus who would love to see this returned.why a switch on/off? because the new animation doesn't add anything to gameplay and it's graphically annoying. in other words, it's worse than bad: it's useless. simple as that. _ - kina ayami_"
"i'm at a bit of a crossroad when it comes to titans and dd's. having never flown one or used such a weapon what i say may not have that much value either. even though i have been around long enough to hear about the changes and how it has shifted things in null wars.so for what it is worth..a weapon that is the strongest, most expensive, and longest to train into should have some kind of worth that makes it appealing to go after. being a one click no questions about and unconditional iwin button is a bit too much though. the concept of aoe style weapons on any ship type registers to me as something all ships should have built in as a form of overloading your capacitor and inevitably power core of the ship. with damage amounts relevant to the power of the non skill/fitting modified capacitor. a last resort that you can burn out when all else is failing and something that then renders the ship useless for either long periods of time, or indefinitely. possibly depending on thermodynamics levels and/or how many slots you commit to capacitor buffing being the influence on the ships survivability after such an overload. the buffer for an internal damage type.this might seem to go off topic, but bear with me for a sec. the idea and various levels of smartbombs (including doomsdays) can then be reworked to act as the very unpopular anti-cloaking tool. wh dwellers then don't have to throw as much of a hissy fit since who really has a titan in a wh to make an electronics disrupting/multi spectral ripple large enough to cover a possible full grid? smaller smartbombs anti-cloak range would only be useful to lift the veil off of an incoming bombing runs and what not a few seconds before they hit, so any class of cloakys goals are still achievable, they can still lurk and gather intel, but the virtually no-risk and all gains cloaky has some kind of counter. now, if you put the resources into getting the sov, skills, and ships to hold powerful tools to help the groups maintain the space it was born from and for, would this be worthwhile as a weapon to help keep your space?i know folks want to feel that training into capitals should make you the biggest baddest thing in the eve verse, but imo really their presence as main attack forces and/or necessities in fleet compositions a factor in what keeps a large chunk of players from making use of and occupying null. that and bubbles are large contributors to what keeps null empty and dull. beefing up any direct combat related aspect of caps will only contribute to this. if you really want more folks to fight and live out in null, it might be worth considering leveling the battlefield where the smaller combat classes have the larger roles then massive instant win ships. i've always felt capitals should be deep space excursion vessels, mobile platforms comparable to pos' or stations which you can seed your empires expansion to and what can act as a dry dock for when you are too far out in uncivilized space to have the convenience of an outpost/station. things they already have some capability of, but its pretty much agreed they are never used as used as. rorquals just park it in a pos and boost/compress from a distance instead of leaving to the vast unknown for expedition type mining. titans are just mobile jump bridges, carriers and dreads are just common weapons that only call for more of their own types to come in as a counter.(slightly straying from doomsday topic, but still relevant to a capitals place and roles as a weapon or resource)an unrealistic vision of mine was have capitals replace pos' and capitals themselves become a form of modular tower with maybe three subsystems that only add a small piece or part to the already present capital hulls, as weapon batteries do, but not to the extent of full subsystem design changing. with an indy core, they can anchor near a moon for harvesting with the moon mining array being a sort of an orbital strip miner for real end-game mining types, also expanding to mobile research platform with small scale assembly lines for keeping ammo stocks up and sub-cap ship supplies going when you are in deep space without them. a siege core subsystem could give it the offensive abilitys of whatever kind. logistics core focuess on remote repping, probing, fleet boosting, etc. the capital type itself having small skill based modifiers for such cores/subsystems and acting as the difference between small/med/large towers.continuing on with that theme and the idea of titan fights/dooms days, having a one size kills all weapon of destruction may also be what hinders the element of this being a mmo. opening your ranks to classes that can take out vessels smaller then what you are currently flying instigates team playing and effort more then single shotting anything and everything. the general idea of larger ships from various sources is they do have the capacity to take on ships of their own class, but need support to go against the smaller crowds which their weapons cannot track. currently capitals do support this, outside of fighters. if you really want something stronger, it will have to come with consequences beyond time and money so they are tools that require strategy, not simple grinding or waiting for a queue to finish."
"i read this and i want to say 2 things in response... 1) i am talking about giving the titan back the ability to do focused doomsdays on sub-capital class ships. not the aoe doomsday. and the fact that you want to modify a titan's doomsday device into some kind of anti clocking weapon is completely and utterly ******** and i feel this needs to be quoted \" what you've just said is one of the most insanely idiotic things i have ever heard. at no point in your rambling, incoherent response were you even close to anything that could be considered a rational thought. everyone in this room is now dumber for having listened to it. i award you no points, and may god have mercy on your soul.\"now that may sound extremely rude but take a minute t reread your post. i suppose i should be more understanding since you statedbut still if you have never been dded or lit a dd or been on grid with one then posting on this thread should not be for you. but you should take your smartbomb idea about anti cloaking weapons to the right page. the exit to this page is that way-------->.. please do not drink any of the koolaid on the way out..sorry to be so mean."
"they should make it so that after it shoots, the doomsday device increases the damage dealt by the titan, so that the titan deals more damage with its turrets/missiles while immobile than a dread."
"since i am bored i will bump this.you would say that but you might be speaking falsely (not to be confused with lying). probability of loss is the only thing that actually matters since you have held static the isk value. however, probability is a conjunction (loosely speaking) of many other probabilistic factors and the amount of effort employed in mitigating those factors. it is entirely possible to reduce the probability of loss to 0 given sufficient effort and the game mechanics.as such, effort v reward is a much more sensible route.you should remove the stuff about small alliances gaining footholds and reductions in the need for coalitions as it is not really true. swapping structures for players is just changing what is considered infrastructure. swapping static, high hp, predictable timer based infrastructure for dynamic, low hp, non-predictable timer based infrastructure actually benefits those who have large player bases and are part of a coalition. 500 people spread over many timezones is going to be less effective at defending the dynamic infrastructure in comparison to defending static point infrastructure. so a large alliance/coalition can squash a start up much more efficiently. since it can be done so efficiently, it will also be done more frequently. sometimes the only reason why a small alliance can exist in an 'unused' system is merely because someone hasn't worked up enough motivation to overcome the :effort: of structure bashing."
"attempts to balance and make all areas interact are +1 in my book. while i'm not 100% for all the ideas, this thread is so much better than the typical \"ns should be better than hs\" garbage we see."
"dear ccp,might i suggest renaming cloud-ring region to - alterac valley. i'm sure you know why.pandas are optional.thanks."
"to be frank about it, you're wrong.not every high-null & low-null is camped at all times making it \"hard\" to get into null. i know for a fact that many arent even camped at prime time on weekends!the low-syndicate gates for example, low-great wildlands, low-providence, low-vale, low-geminate (via eoa-), low-querious, low-fountain. and as for the high-low transitions on the way to these, they are usually quiet too.if anything the ones that are camped mostly are tribute, pureblind & geminate (via bwf-) and even then not all the time."
"also add npc null system in middle of all sov null areas, with a dozen gates going around like an octopus."
"yeah, there are maybe half a dozen 'permacamped' gates in 0.0.when proposing a solution to a problem one should first ensure that the problem actually exists."
"i do have a jc, but i rarely use it. however i have seen this idea posted before and i do support it.i am sure most people would support adding a skill such as....at level 3 through to 5, took 2h of the timer.this would allow someone who does not use a jc very often to continue to jump on the 24 hour timer, but for the people that want to jump every 18 hours, they would have to put in some effort (skillpoints)jint hikaru - miner / salvager / explorer / spacebum in the beginning the universe was created. this has made a lot of people very angry and been widely regarded as a bad move."
"same here. 18 seems balanced to me.destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"2 per 48 hours."
"yeah, the 18-22h timeframe also cooperates better with the 24h (give or take) timer on k-space exit whs"
"i think the goal is to keep people from using clone jumping as a means of travelling any time they like. i think it's a worthy goal. but i, too, hate to wait for my timer.why not give clone jumping an isk cost if you want to jump before the standard 24-hour timer winds down? something like 100,000 isk per minute before the timer is up? if you set a minimum timer of 18 hours, that caps out at 36 million isk to clone jump after 18 hours or 0 isk to wait until the timer is up."
"i'd still like to see this happen. :) it would dramatically change material logistics in this game."
"indeed, /signed or whatever, +1"
"while this may work in gw2, it will not work in eve....how would you propose it would handle a corp wardec?jint hikaru - miner / salvager / explorer / spacebum in the beginning the universe was created. this has made a lot of people very angry and been widely regarded as a bad move."
"custom chat channels are not exactly rocket science."
"i like the general idea because i'd like to see more traffic and cooperation everywhere -- but i almost see some of the specifics as being in-game already.high-sec is \"bonused\" for market orders. because people go there to buy things you're more likely to sell things there. it's also \"bonused\" for just about any other industrial effort because you're unlikely to lose that effort to traditional pirates -- but you have to live with the \"penalty\" that resource contention is high.in low-sec there are never wait times for production, so you could say that production is \"bonused\" in low-sec. for entities without their own pos, low-sec is \"bonused\" for research, copying and invention because the queues aren't clogged up. there is less competition for the resources. this is also true of null-sec, but it's \"penalized\" in null-sec because it's much easier to get caught and you don't want to lose your original blueprints. null-sec is definitely \"bonused\" for exploration because the game mechanics cause the best sites to spawn there and nowhere else. it's also \"bonused\" for mining because there are some ores that are difficult to get anywhere else.i see where you're trying to go, but i don't think this path takes you there."
"i'd still like to see this happen. any miner-type and leadership people want to vouch for this? :)"
"i personally think mindlinks are broken... giving way too much potency to boosters.... i would much rather that the receiving end need the mindlink implant to receive extra warfare boost... in other words... the claymore boosting interdiction manuevers ii link provides a 32ish% boost to warp disruptor range...then the arazu pilot could pug in the mindlink to boost the bonus from 32ish to 48ish%. encourage some synergy between booster and boostee to get max benefit.... after such a change, i'd support more \"seeding\" of mindlinks into the game... either via lp stores, plexes, or whatever... until then, or until ogb is nerfed.... leave them scarce and rare...."
"i disagree that ml's are broken given their current purpose and use. however, i agree that having the pilot using them would be an interesting turn-about, but the drop rate / availability would have to increase substantially to be used on a regular basis. mindlinks are hardly 'scarce and rare' -- unless you consider only the mining mindlink.if all mindlinks (the slot-10 variety) were upwards of 1.1 - 1.5b (e.g. same as the mining foreman ml), then yes, they'd be scarce and rare. until then that last statement is patently false.hrolt ceo live free; die proud"
"ccp has stated that the whole boosting thing is being looked at as well as the leadership implants. that's as far as they have committed to at this point. the price in comparison to the other leadership implants is off kilter seeing as they all drop from the same mission. yes, this is an issue of supply and demand, unfortunately, the problem is with the supply side and ccp nerfing the supply accidentally. if ccp are not going to remove the implants (and that will cause a whole heap of bitching and gnashing of teeth) then they all should be seeded out through the lp stores (each main faction gives out their appropriate implant, and ore for the mining implant, after moving some ore stations to highsec.) i understand why ccp hasn't done anything yet, why spend the time to fix one thing that may be addressed during another fix.the biggest problem with the current price of this implant is, it is over the price of a return on investment."
"also plenty of wormhole routes that lead into 0.0there is no problem to fix here"
"during each csm campaign, there's talk about the people that actively participate and those who drift along for the ride.i would appreciate if current csm members would specify who's not participating, or if a given member's participation is less than productive. i don't want to cause drama...i plan on voting largely for encumbents this time around, but i don't want to back people who don't pull their weight.i would appreciate it if only csm members or the ccp individuals who work with the csm would respond to this thread."
"nooooooooooo!learn to incursion better!jint hikaru - miner / salvager / explorer / spacebum in the beginning the universe was created. this has made a lot of people very angry and been widely regarded as a bad move."
"can someone translate this into something that is in a readable form?"
"no need to, op is obviously a troll."
"he wants caps in high sec.we said no in the other thread, but he still thinks it's a good idea.destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"+1been there, stuck there, because of the 24 hr clock.supported . . . if they don't want to give us something for nothing i would even support a new skill that subtracted 2 hrs per level trained from the clone clock. mmike azariah ----<U+FEFF> <U+FFFD>|(<"
"titans are being used more than they ever were before the dominion change. before that they were just a mobile jump bridge."
"i mean - hold down middle mouse button, the ship gets centered and you can point it wherever you want the ship to move.the video \"i was there\" is awesome, but is misleading. i know this ability would not be useful - to dodge lasers and missiles, but it would be nice for the feeling of the game.first time i tried eve, a trial account 3 years ago i think, i noticed the lack of this, and this made a big difference at that time for me. complex game - i can deal with it, complex game - and not having the feeling of freedom from moving your ship - not attractive for a first time player :) now i can play without it, but it would be nice."
"as of today i would like to start the 2nd council of eve online! i think we should be setting up more council management for each areas of eve which would open reports and few ideas to ccp.i think a csm, would be needed to be official support of a eve council, any mount of people can join the council and give much feedback as they like but only few players would run and reply to all ideas and feedback. instead of allowing a small group run eve, why not have support from csm ccp and allow much feedback thorough smaller groups of councils."
"i dont think we need more councils, we do need more/better organised player/csm chats/discussions than just on the forums."
"thats the point of this you need a pointed group to have better discussions of how things work and better input from players which other can read and not just shooting out ideas tho emails to hope things change for the best."
"indeed it would, and as anyone with any semblance of a military background would know, material logistics is one of the single most important things in warfare. no supply/logistics, and you're pretty much ****ed. it would even help out the big names, like the frogs, who would be able to open a new division dedicated to ship transport.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"1+ thats not cool cpp give us back our jukebox"
"no i will make one infront of me with my own legos. i just need a blueprint and a manual."
"ccp used to have a store where you could buy some very sexy models of the tier 2 battleships (apocalypse, tempest, megathron, raven). then they took down the store (for various reasons).supposedly the eve store will be back up sometime around fanfest this year (late april).keep your eyes open."
"i have to say that alt paint job on the drake looked bad ass"
"pirates historically didnt destroy ships, that risked killing a alrge part fo the crew, adn turning the rest off the business. and in a time like the age of pirates, you needed all the emrchants on the water you could get. (the emre fact that most merchants knew surrendering meant surviving to make another trip actually encouraged them to surrender their cargo the second they saw the black flag. historically the only pirates who ahd a real bad reputation for wholesale slaughtering of crews after surrendering were some of the female pirates)"
"there are 6 entries into syndicate, 1 hs, 5 low secs. if the null sec side isn't camped, 1 of the low secs in the bottleneck are camped. the 1 curse entry is camped on both sides, in doril and sendaya. wildlands has 2 lows you'll find camps in the bottleneck on 1 (egbinger) and the null side (7q-) on the other. fountain, stain, venal, delve and geminate npc have only sov null entries. the outer ring only has syndicate or sov entries.providence doesn't even have npc space. sov space is camped entirely at the will of the sov holder.add these up, and you'll find that of the empire entries into npc null sec, there are 9 total entries systems, 1 high sec, 8 low secs.the trade cosmos entrance into syndicate has multiple gate camps set along the line. you have camps at hier, shirshocin, gondista, 97x. there are 3 lighter camps in y9g, agaullores and d85, but most of the fish have been killed off in hier and gondista before reaching there.9 gates are camped basically. doril, 7q-, egbinger, pf-, 6-c, ostingele/harroule (depending on which side, if not both, that they want to camp), gondista, and hier. the only mildly safe route into npc null sec is actually through a faction warfare system bottleneck, leading into syndicate, of which there are plenty of gate camp possibilites that someone will pick up soon enough.this is, of course, the region with 6 entries, rather than the system with 2 or 1."
"what about more wh's from high/low sec to null?"
"so sov-holding alliance aren't allowed to deny access to their sov by the common interloper through means of interdiction?and who said nullsec was meant to be \"safe\" to get into?"
"it is safe to get into, so long as you bow before the banner of the major nullsec coalition of your choice.like seriously, know how often i get tears, adn i mean tears in local just from wandering in a group of maybe 3 frigates? everyone docks up their pve ships and refuses to fight, even when were outnumbered, all cause they are scared that were past their \"great blue wall\".to be quite honest, you guys need to start setting up more camps between low/high and null, if it keeps going on like this, all your ebars will quit and go cry in jita over how they cant make any isk in big scary null.(though i guess agtecamps wont do much against us wh'ers, unless we happen to accidentally happen across a combat system) *edit: and by \"you guys\" i refer to more than just goons, its a generalization towards a majority of nullsec."
"anything said from the candidates would seem like petty backstabbing, at this point. while the minutes show who was active at that time it does not cover the day to day skype etc. all covered by nda.this is why i miss the old once every two weeks meetings. ou could see who showed up and who had input.m"
"it is an idea about an news report,here is the thread to the other discussion,that was more of a debate set before an voting console."
"crossposting literally the same thread, only with a different title, is not allowed.thread locked."
"i like that idea. i think all sides of the table can get around this idea."
"+1 signed.... i want mah jukebox back!!!"
"so after a while i went back to eve... and no jukebox is a feature now? but let me get this straight... its been 4 months and ccp still didn't implemented it back?i want my 1.0 ambient music... i was flying with it in space engine.. for me 50% of eve is music.... come on ccp!!!"
"well i'm only a noob but i was bit underwhelmed the first time i went there. i get that it wasn't designed to be a central place and that players made it the central hub, but it would be cool if the building model was upgraded to something more impressive befitting it's nature. would make sense rp wise, all the money flowing through it etc. it doesn't look like a structure that is the beating heart of the eve universe. it just looks like..well... a small naval assemby plant."
"/agreeas the op said, even jita4 has been player driven. its not unreasonable that a station that popular would upgrade itself.jint hikaru - miner / salvager / explorer / spacebum in the beginning the universe was created. this has made a lot of people very angry and been widely regarded as a bad move."
"also upgrade the tax there to pay for the improvements."
"this doesn't make much sense.you've made a conscious choice to not be selective about your targets. when you see something you think you can take, you take it. that's the benefit to your lifestyle. you also benefit from non-criminal players taking pot shots at you and thereby becoming legal targets since you're simply defending yourself.while it's true that you don't have the benefits of being in a militia, you are also not encumbered by the target selection problem militia pilots bear. you also have a lower barrier of entry in that you don't need to have any faction standing to start shooting random ships. and you don't make yourself an enemy of any particular empire (by fighting against it).i do think you ought to be able to fly into high-sec without any penalty other than the big red flashing that is your badge of 'honor' ... which, you know, would force players to police their own space once in a while.story-wise there is really no reason for any 'pirate' faction to trust you. you select random targets and blow them up -- that doesn't make you more trustworthy to the criminal element, it makes you either a competitor or someone to fear.and finally, the sansha are not pirates in the sense that you're thinking of them, they are a society of slaves."
"see, there's your problem. you're trying to go to nullsec.if you're not part of the big blue donut of friendship, then nullsec is a waste of time and money. set foot out there and you will get <U+FFFD>ber mega blobbed to death. no sense in fighting back against an enemy that has infinite money, ships and resources.so why bother going to null? welcome to the 85% of eves population club. summary of eves last four expansions:"
"bad troll is bad. nobody mentioned limiting interdiction. nobody mentioned making nullsec entry \"safe\".the objective of this thread is to show there are limited routes into npc null, and that opening up the bottlenecks by adding gates will increase the players in npc null. there is still risk. it's still not safe. it just makes it easier to get into null."
"category: new user retentionbase concept: newbies want to train everything and they like shiny battleships. newbies wander around in the skills training alittle of this and that and are bad at everything. problem: newbies don't specialize and don't excel at anything and feel hopeless and quit. solution: help new players understand their ships so they don't feel hopeless.idea that builds on solution: a new tab on each ships show info with information to show new players a very basic outline of what will help them build up that ship with a generic basic guide.-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-solution expanded: on the show info on a ship there should be a new tab called \"new users.\" when a newbie clicks that link it will show a generic role that ship was originally designed to fill along with a very generic t1 fitting for both pve and pvp. then below that will be several categories like \"for more efficiency\" \"for better defense\" \"to fit better items\" and it will list the most basic skills that will let them be competitive. also for more elite ships like the battleships that newbies want to fly have a big disclaimer that says \"while flying a battleship is great, it takes a long time to fly one correctly, to be competitive now please look over these ships that will eventually lead to this one. like kestrel to drake to raven. we highly recommend you be able to fully fit a t2 kestrel before you advance to drake and then advance to battleship. please note that \"most\" of the skills required will follow you up the chain\" (or something like that) -=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-basis for concept: i have signed up for eve and then quit and then came back and then quit over and over. each time its because i want to do so much of everything but suck at everything. with so many shiny starships its hard to really focus on getting all the t2 fitting and gear skills you need to be truely effective and enjoy the game now. after having quit so many times i have finally come back and picked 1 ship i wanted to fly and trained up to fully fit and t2 fly the ship. it feels much better now."
"keep it alive! envoy-class vessels must live!i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"signed, been wanting this since 2011"
"i'd actually totally support jita 4-4 getting a kickass new station model. i could see it for dodixie/amarr/rens/hek as well.i mean, i'm sure there's **** that takes higher priority, but still, it'd be pretty cool.belligerent undesirables selling griefer immunity"
"there is a painful lack of basic information to answer the simple question: how do we vote?evelopedia has a lengthy discussion of the csm system, and even a detailed analysis of the voting patterns by nation and gender and god-knows-what-else. but nowhere is there any explanation of where to find the (multiple expletives deleted) ballot box. no wonder you got only 12,000 people voting out of a quarter-million active accounts; nobody knows how.why is there not a sticky at the top of this and every other csm-related forum with a step-by-step explanation of the idiot-proof variety telling just how we cast our votes for the csm candidate of our choice?pardon me if i seem a bit incensed. i just blew a half hour of my play time responsibly looking in all the right places for an answer to this very basic question, and finding sweet fanny adams."
"when the elections go live you will get a pop-up on your log-in screen (you know... those things you normally ignore). if you click it you will be taken to a webpage where you can cast your votes.you will also see a small news item on the character selection page on the right. it will say what is happening and provide the necessary links to vote."
"great! thank you.but that information still needs to be easily and readily available."
"take a fleet and kill the gatecamps.so tired of people asking ccp to do the things they cant/wont do for themselves."
"and why does there need to be more people in npc null? and why does it need to be easier (see: safer) to get into null?"
"quick bump"
"as far as amarr goes, youd think the stations in the capital of the \"golden empire\" would be a bit mroe... extravagant? let travelers know they just stepped into the hornets nest."
"as a character with industrial command 5, capital industrial 5 and industrial reconfig 5, i think it's fine, ultimately it is expensive yes, but as others have stated, there are pvp implants that are just as expensive and ultimately, orca/rorqual pilots really don't have as high a risk of getting podded as a guy in pvp implants.rorqual/orca pilot needs one, single implant, pvp pilots can boost their fitting/dmg/tank with half a dozen different implants of varying price, which they will loose and have to replace when they get podded, i think thats fair."
"hi,just a simple suggestion. can we have ccp add shipnames to killmails? makes it alot easier to find back where your ship could be if you miss it and forgot you got it killed. also a benefit for tracking corp ships."
"one of the things that's always bothered me about eve is that the nomenclature of warships, which seems to be based at least in part on late 20th/early 21st century naval usage, has developed some aspects which are clearly not at all within that paradigm (example: \"rookie ship\", \"assault ship\"). in current naval usage \"carrier\" has a specific technical meaning: it refers to ships designed to carry combat aircraft. in space terms, ships designed to carry small combat craft not capable, in eve terms, of using jump gates (too small to carry the necessary hardware, as opposed to too big to fit through the gate). i suppose if the majority of players in eve want to change the nomenclature so that this technical term doesn't mean that, but instead means \"a vessel that carries, as freight, other vessels\", i'm going to have to live with it, but i don't have to like it, and i don't.of course, i also feel that eve's carriers don't carry enough small craft (while ignoring the very real problem of how many of the darn things are reasonable to have in a battle considering (real) computer power and the number of people available to control them). i've also seen eve \"carriers\" described as \"giant logistics ships\" <U+FFFD> \"logistics\" being another word that doesn't quite mean in eve the same thing it means in rl. so perhaps \"carriers\" is the wrong word to apply to such ships in eve. certainly if you're going to call 'ship haulers' carriers, you're going to have to come up with another term for what we now call 'carriers'.all that said, i think the idea as expressed in the op is outstanding."
"bump for march feedbackfyi:this document is once again being updated into a pi 3.0 version to incorporate allot of the changes we've seen implemented and are now familiar with since the dust open beta was released.feedback from pi 2.0 (the f&i forums topic) beyond page 14 is also being processed and incorporated into the new version."
"let's get this going! +1"
"quick fix: remove the command processor module - the one that allows you to fit extra links to a shipbye bye off-grid linky strategic cruisersforces all non fleet command ships to only have one warfare link; if you want more than three bonuses then you need the leadership chain in place with command ships at each level."
"anything that encourages boosters to fly with gangs is a good thing. even a tier 1 battlecruiser roam can benefit from three boosters by making sure that the fleet, wing, and squadron commanders are sporting one ganglink a piece. deciding which three bonuses each squadron needs to receive makes structuring fleets a more interesting exercise.similarly, when commanding a fleet, you get to choose between primarying the logistics, the ewar, or the booster. that's another interesting decision, and interesting decisions are good for gameplay.+1 to this suggestion."
"bump to the top keep it going people"
"corp/pos management could do with a decent fix.on the pos labs n manufacturing units it can be very simple,give them dedicated bays like you did with ships.just make input, blue print and output bay in a public and corp flavor where the corp one can be set to read only so ppl can install and deliver jobs but not take them. they would be able to use the public ones for their personal stuff. and make it so that the public slots can only be delivered by the person who installed the job and corp directors.(this would also open up to ppl having high sec pos' renting out slots for isk)"
"+1 but i honestly don't see ccp working on this, they're way too efficient to look at something on the fringe like this, unless they upgrade all station models at the same time.no offense to op, just being realistic herping your derp since 19potato - [url"
"did i just time travel back to the days of pre-dominion?the stupid... it burns..."
"pos are just large ehp structures that take time to shoot.... and now, instead of having 1-2 rf timers in a system... you have 1 rf timer on every moon.... imo, have only a few rf timers is a good thing.... having some is essential for tz warfare... what sov needs is some element to encourage sustained activity in a system.... something that doesn't require a fleet, but can be handled by a sinlge person... and something that perhaps wont completely defend/conquer sov, but has a definitive effect on the sov game..."
"thanks for the support mate. let's keep this going.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"1. please implement bookmarks and document links into the pdf. 96 pages as a plain pdf in this time of digital documents s just a painful read.2. pi needs a revamp but should become a complete game within an already great game."
"i hope all future csm candidates take this cause up."
"who new all it took to get comments out of csm's was a troll by one of their alliance mates, puts all those weeks of silence into perspective."
"simple solution: more taxes on all kinds of activities.highsec : the fou empires take their cut from everything. thats including corp taxes (if you set up any).-bounties (not implemented)-trade (in place, needs increase)etc etclow: same taxes are in place, but to a much lower degree (half of what empire taxes)null: no tax. and thats the beauty: sov holding alliances now can tax whatever is done in their space. be it ratting, mining, you name it. and with different taxes to be set for different activities the sov holders can \"control\" on the kind of activities being conducted in specific systems, constellations, regions... so for the most / best cost effectiveness, people either have to move to low (less taxes) or find sov holders that welcome them with open arms to exploit their systems."
"i wanted to bring the following situation up for discussion - sorry if it has been mentioned before in another thread.currently in large fleet fights target calling is usually done by pilot name that is easy to sort in the overview from a to z. this brings a major disadvantage to all of us that chose a name starting with the first or last letters of the alphabet. chances are you will be primaried in the first few minutes of the engagement and you will die. this, just because when you were a total noobie and signed up to play the game, you had no clue that naming your character this way will bring you a lot of disadvantages.since it is not possible to change character name and fix this, i think we should find a way for names not to display in fleet fights just giving everyone equal chances. i can't think of a workaround for this matter but it's really unfair to suffer such penalty. if i knew this when i registered, i would have named all my chars something like \"jldlndment\" just to always be in the middle of the fleet names - so with less chances to show on overview and with a really unpronounceable name so that everyone would avoid calling me a target.so, i say make this fair for everyone so that everyone has same chances.idea: once in fleet every pilot is assigned a number from 001-250 regardless of his name. ship type and everything would show as usual but his name wouldn't."
"this has to be one of the most pointless posts i've ever read on this forum, which is saying a lot.leaving aside the the many, many things that really need fixing in this game and the matter of resource allocation do you actually believe that most fc's call targets alphabetically over situationally as the fight develops? just when you thought the signal to noise ratio of these forums couldn't get any worse you get proved wrong.i really hope your trolling."
"you may choose any 1 option from the list belowa) play eveb) play a game with a sense of fair play.choose wisely."
"u just described every single pilot in eve. everyone can do what a -10 can lol. and a -10 can do almost nothing that others can.and i never said sansha that are pirates. i said that like this, sansha hubs can be done too.pirate factions dont have to trust me. they get me a mission to kill militia, if i deliver it i am rewarded. pirates and factions are in war, so every bit helps. and to nariya i really dont get what u are trying to point out, the reason of your post."
"security status is determined by concord and has nothing to do with the influence on standings between players and npc corporations. just like earning the trust/better agent missions for the empire npc corps, you need to earn the trust of the pirate npc corps by shooting red crosses.unless you can provide a justification for implementing a radically different system for pirate npc corps...no.militia space is still controlled by the empires and monitored by concord. why would they stand by and let filthy pilots lay claim to permanent digs in their space? what purpose does interfering with the militias serve for the pirate factions? and those mechanics would be.............."
"well how about dropping the stats on the command modules, then give the fleet boosting command ships a role bonus that would make them 300% more effective when on grid. that would also give the commandship class descriptions more sense."
"back to the top ... like the main post if you agree"
"cost is a lousey tool for balancing ships, ccp realised this a long time ago and so should you.and what about the titan that gets tackled by a roaming gang that only has one hictor, first thing the titan does is doomsday the hictor then laugh at the bs while he caps up and jumps out, should they lose their chance at a super kill just because you think titans should be able to wave their dicks at subcaps again. as for your 'just bring another hictor' arguement i think expecting small gangs to be psychic and know everything theyll come across on their roams before they even see them is a little bit on the stupid side. the reason the ability to doomsday subcaps was removed in the first place was because if anything it made it harder for titans to die, not easier. even if you have a substantial number of tacklers with support if titans are involved the defenders will have support as well and its hard enough keeping hictors and dictors alive in regular fleet fights, let alone situations where every ten minutes x number of them die (x equaling number of hostile titans) with no chance of stopping it."
"paragraph one: sorry, lack of planning on your part does not constitute a right to a titan loss on their part. you dont bring the right tools, you loose, oh well, go away and find more targets you are prepared for. should we just let ships fit the whole toolbox because they \"might\" come across a golden unicorn with a rainbow fart in space? guess what, htfu and deal with it.paragraph two: yes, that was the case, it was a nerf to counter an issue, as was the original buff to bring titans to play in fleets, as the first buff was an overbuff, the subsequent nerfcannon was an overnerf, and titans have once again returned to the refuge of pos shields as they once were, guess what, now they have a pretty pos ornament again. the real fix lies somewhere between, hence the discussion of altering the doomsdays to lie somewhere between. just because you tackle a titan, doesnt mean it should be a guaranteed kill, you have to work for it, and you have to give the titan a chance to escape. to make it a fair fight, instead of a cow in a pen to be slaughtered for the glory of your killboard. on a slightly related side note, perhaps titans need another role, something they are a bit more suited to, to bring them back out on the field, and to deal with the fleet boost issue, give the titans the role of command capital, if command links are going to be nerfed to grid only, give titans the ability to fit 3 command links, reduce the turret slots to 3 instead of 6 increase the gun damage to compensate, and give the titan a 5% per level command bonus the command ships have now for a capital command link, increase current command ships to 4% and move t3 command ships to 3%. this will help bring titans back to the feild and provide an active role to make them want to stay on grid to risk themselves."
"that actually would not be a bad idea but i would say leave the turrets alone. or if you reduce the turret slots increase the damage output to match that of a dread. but in fairness when titans had thier aoe dd thats all they did was aoe dd or provide bonuses in pos shields. and to be fair why would i risk a titan for fleet boosting when i will get 1% less by using a command ship that not even a 1% of the cost of a titan. not to mention that a bonus toon has the mind link in its head. titans will always have their armor implant in their head. something that takes years to skill for should be able to \"wave their dicks\" at people. anyone who catches a titan these days has someone on the batphone. low sec pirates, 0.0 alliances, and even wormhole corps. soo all it takes is 1 bubble. and to completely negate your argument, hictors are rarely used in 0.0 unless its in a fleet of 60+ ships. hictors are really only used for roaming gangs in lowsec. and last time i checked dictors are cheap and i see them on roams all the time not just 1 but more like 3-4 and if 3-4 dictors cant keep a titan or any super for that matter tackled long enough to get reinforcements then your doing it wrong."
"i love the idea.eve needs more monumental displays of raw power and scale."
"agreed, it should be huge, with half finished ships since its a naval assembly plant, add space docks like on the ship construction arrays etc."
"there's a large body of paying customers that don't get to play much for a variety of reasons. many of them keep their accounts active during these periods simply to \"keep up\" - not \"catch up\" and not \"advance faster\" but to maintain advancement with those who are able to play more.those who end up in these situations vary across the years as different people have kids, cutting into their play time, job changes, etc... alts are common and the \"you don't need to log in with them all the time\"... there is a very healthy amount of accounts that burn up extremely small server resources as they only log in occasionally yet pay for the same full access as everyone else.all your suggestion would do is remove all that income from ccp. if they aren't keeping up, they won't pay for their accounts and that will end the use of those accounts - which then cuts funding of development, etc."
"or try flying with decent fc's where they sort by shiptype and broadcast your targets. a-z calling is so 2008"
"honestly, sometime soon i would love it if different stations actually had the scale and visual appearance of what they are supposed to be. looks weird to be at a naval yard with no yard."
"\"popular\" doesnt mean \"better\".over 90% of americans consume fast food as a part of their daily diet, does that mean fast food is better? no, fast food kills you."
"no."
"should be named dead gulch. having lived in cloud ring years ago i can attest that the only reason you would want to live there is cause you don't have ability to live elsewhere."
"thread locked."
"-10 sec status determined by concord = outlaws = pirates, etc. further on it really depends on players on how they will call themselves. pirates need some help to get rid of their problems. thats why missions exists. pirate faction would rather employ bad"
"tho i have been inactive for quite some time, it appears that in the meantime, ccp has authorized a program called isboxer for people to be used. appearently, this software allows multiple accounts to react to a single account.ive entered a system, and saw 80 accounts all with the same name, and they were mining ice. must i remind ccp that during the early years, they declared war on macro mining, and that everyone even doing it for a second was banned? with the use of isboxer, even if the accounts were paid for, they most probably were still just farming isk and sold it for real life money. how the hell can i take ccp serious if they allowed such things?the use of multiple accounts is allowed, but by allowing programs like these, you submit to the fact that you will never win against isk selling. that is not the ccp that i used to know. what happened from the early days of eve, till now, that made ccp allow isk selling? is it the constant line of active accounts on the servers? is it the declining interest in the game? start advertising on tv, would be a great start. get lady googoo to say, i love my spaceship. do you? and suddenly 5 million of her followers will start playing eve."
"instead of whining to ccp about behavior they already endorsed, perhaps you could consider killing them all?if you brought this up in the crime and punishment forums, and named the player and the systems they were in, there might be players interested in exhumer loot."
"no.answer me these.what does those 80 single accounts gain, that cannot be gained by another 80 solo accounts?what is the difference in cost, between the 80 single player accounts and the 80 solo ones?what happens if both the 80 single and solo players, leaves their pc for over an hour whilst mining?destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"we are not talking about 80 single accounts. im talking about 1 player having the ability to have as many accounts as he want, all working at the same time. 1 player could topple a market faster, than just 5 players mining together. prices would become too imbalanced, and other players would gain less out of it by doing so. in this case, ice mining. 1 player lowers the prices of ice dramatically, tho this is perfect for those who buy ice, but those who sell it are forced to move to another region to gain anything from it.also, this could help isk farmers gain their isk faster, and then sell it to people, for real life money sooner. as 1 player could make as many accounts as he wants, then devide the isk sold to other accounts, who then sell it off. this tactic used by isk sellers is legal, as only the account selling the isk directly, is getting banned."
"1.0"
"you were talking about 80 accounts. but i see you didn't answer the questions, merely started down the strawman route.as you avoided answering, i'll take it you agree there is no difference. ok moving on then.destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"80 x more ice per hour, (per player).jint hikaru - miner / salvager / explorer / spacebum in the beginning the universe was created. this has made a lot of people very angry and been widely regarded as a bad move."
"ccp has stated this app is allowed. it is not macro because a human must be at the keyboard to send commands, even tho those commands are repeated across more then one account. isboxer is legit non macro app that works for lots of games and across those other games they are also allowed and not considered macros, cheats, or hacks.your problem is that isk made could potentially be sold for real world money??? any source of isk making that goes beyond the characters immediate need could inevitably sold for real world money. so... lets remove incursions, level 5 mission running, all 0.0 gravimetric plexes, oh and wormholes too. that way no one can have any amounts of isk, with any amounts of accounts, with isboxer or manually, that could potentially be sold. nah that wouldn't fly would it????if market forces are what you are worried about then... how can you expect 80 pilots doing any singe task at a time giving them the ability to tip the eve market on their own? even if they do have some small effect then that means others who are also farming ice will move to mining other things in other systems or regions and the market will balance out.just because someone has 80 accounts (btw screenshot or your just bsing) this must mean they are selling real isk? those alts probably do pi too and fuel towers somewhere in deep 0.0. any extra isk made might end up going to pay for plexes for those 80 accounts, witch by the way would require 44b isk a month. in a way, they already sell isk.... if they use plex to manage their account they are essentially turning 44b isk a month in to $1,196usd and using that to pay their accounts already. that is the type of isk selling ccp likes and makes a profit off of.if you see it as such a problem then do something about it, rather then just posting on a forum. go war dec them or gank them. several hundred losses over a month then it would become more of a hassle then it is worth to them and they will sell off the toons and stop. take the path that creates content for other pilots, just like other pilots have done in the past rather then bitching about it on the forums./rant"
"maybe he's not an isk farmer, but earns isk to fuel his addiction for losing capital ships?there are also industrial players who own freighter accounts by the hundreds, but those are harder to notice. should we disallow them to? their isk could just as easily be channeled into rwt.if you feel something is unfair, shoot it until you're satisfied."
"the effective income remains the same. that person with 80 accounts has to plex those 80 accounts, which takes the same amount of time as a player with 1 account."
"macro mining and the use of isboxer to broadcast keystrokes are two separate things. macroing, by definition, is an automated process that does the job of the end-user by automatically executing repetitive tasks. isboxer's broadcasting of keystrokes does not automate the process of doing things. it simply makes the process easier to do across multiple accounts. macroing allows for individuals to perform repetitive tasks without being present at the keyboard (aka: botting). isboxer still requires the person to be at the keyboard and engaging with the client program.rmt is a completely separate issue and is handled by ccp's security investigation process. macroing is not limited to just rmt scenarios. the issues are two complete topics unto themselves and should be discussed as such, not lumped together in a hissy-fit."
"did you miss the other questions?if we apply your line of approach, we get the following answers to 2 and 3.2. 80 x more cost per month.3. they stop mining.you could have simply answered the question, instead of attempting to make a point. but the trouble with that point, was that you avoided the question that made it pointless. i. e. number 2.destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"they don't earn ice at a faster rate / pilot than anyone else.... isboxer is not the problem... the problem is ice doesn't deplete.... if those ice roids popped regularly, then multiboxing 80 clients would become very inefficient and/or tedious."
"+1 as inefficient and/or tedious as 1 client?botter =/= human multiboxinghuman input amount for 80 accounts:banned bot:0 human input, 80 botsisboxer:1 human input, 79 bots.multiboxing:80 human input, 0 bots."
"tho this would most probably cause under marketing throughout eve, i would like it if it could be discussed wether or not jump bridges could be allowed throughout eve using the market hubs (dodixie, jita, rens, amarr) as the 4 possible systems, against a tollerable fee. you could even give it a story like, an npc corporation has been able to make an agreement with all 4 factions, and that theyre allowed to use the latest tech in stargate bridges, that the 4 trade hubs were allowed to built a 3-way jump portal (to the other trade hubs) however, to cover the extensive costs for building them and maintaining, all users are required to pay (certain number for their sizes).as the under marketing thingy, as these jump portals would allow freighters through, they would have to pay quite alot to use them, but it would still be far less than what trade corporations are offering per jump, so it could supress the costs of transporting huge amounts of stuff from 1 trade hub to another. this could also mean that prices of the 4 trade hubs would become more normalized, instead of jita being as cheap as hell, they all could have an equal price. tho traders wouldnt like this, as the jump bridges are only allowed for the trade hubs, the regions outside of them should see only minimal changes in price."
"well...since freighter pilots would probably be the biggest users of them i bet it would be an awesome place to sit with a scanning alt and suicide gankers....or you could just use the thingys that let you jump between systems already in the game...i think someone the other day called them star gates or something...and as for shipping marketing goods...instantly between hubs why not ask for ccp to implement eveex...the eve version of fedex so for a fee you can ship stuff from jita to rens, balance the markets and not have to work transporting it at all....1/10"
"as i said, traders will not like this idea, and will therefor only be negative about it. predictable. those who wants to easily run between trade hubs, buying stuff from 1 trade hub and another, or move quickly between trade hubs that might be closer to a fight.for pvp it could also work out, like an alliance wardeccing another alliance and trying to stationcamp them. they are in dodixie, station camp there. then a member notices, they are all at rens. without the enemy alliance to react towards it, they are already station camped."
"i agree, the jita station should look like something that could actually hold multiple freighter sized ships. perhaps it could also be a station's first to have multiple exits. this could also counteract the station camping a little more."
"its really annoying when i try to set destination to my jump clones stations. you might ask why would i do this when you can jump there. i got a few reasons and i am sure any player who has played for sometime has the same issues.1. to check the no. of jumps from current location to see if its worth jumping or just burn through gates (implant differences)2. to check the no. of jumps from the jump clone station to a particular system (to know if jumping will reduce my transit times) those two were the main problems for me. i agree this is by no means useful but since ccp does those little thingies i hope they put this feature in one of the patches."
"damage you directly inflict to others logdamage you directly get from others logdamage your drones inflict to others logdamage your drones get from others if damage your drones receive would also be displayed and logged, it would ...be easier to see if someone aggroed your dronesbe easier to see aggro changes in pveallow to track damage your drones receiveit might not be a big thing, but if someone/something attacks my drones, i would like to see it the same way i see every other damage i receive or inflict. it is illogical the way it is now."
"the large coalitions do not benefit the average player in 0.0. they reduce all those emergent types of game play that people go to 0.0 for. if you say it doesn't then you are just another mindless drone, or a empire noob that has no idea what 0.0 used to be like. now a days you have 10+ alliances per coalition. you have no alliance identity what so ever while inside of the coalition other then how many pilots you can field in what time zones you can fight for the coalition and the hand full of key leadership you have to convey your alliance's abilities and intent to the coalition. if your pvp pilots fall short on participation, requested ships, or if one of those key leadership makes a mistake or an enemy then your entire alliance is at jeopardy.the alliance's identity is further stripped by the fact you will almost always fly under only one or two fcs and most often are both apart of only one of the ten or so alliance in the coalition. the fits for these fights are limited and pilots are required to train for those ships and fits to even be involved in pvp at all. these fleet fits can change drastically and leave you forced to change skill queues that can be as long as 60 days to start another.if someone does directly challenge your alliance by camping your station, attacking a moon mining control tower, placing an sbu in your system, or attacking any of your in space assets... then it's far safer to dock up and wait until a coalition fc comes on and get in a 500 man fleet then to risk forming a fleet inside your alliance with an alliance fc then losing the fight and looking bad to the coalition.it is stale, old, it is exactly what the average pilot doesn't want, and it needs to change. if the leadership of these alliances are not willing to break up the coalitions then it is our fault and not ccp's. if we really want ccp to prevent the ability for power blocks to form then the options are very limited.the fixremove the ability to assign standings for anything other then war target, faction war target, fleet, pilot to pilot, corp, alliance, and faction. limiting the corporation skill benefits to limit maximum corp and alliance sizes. remove moon mining as the only\main source of t2 production income. an increased cost of sov management.the outcome?alliances lose the trillions isk income they get from moons so they must rely more on the abilities of their pilots to maintain a fleet of pvp ships. but, the income that moons brought to an alliance wallet in the past now ends up in the individual's wallet instead.alliance size and wallet shrinks then the ability to hold large sum of systems are made more difficult. making way for other entities that can in turn add to the emergent game play we all look for.alliances lose the ability to share assets like jump bridges and outposts. coalitions lose a great deal of ability to work together. also splits a coalition's assets and pilots forcing them to rely on titan bridging witch have a much shorter range then the current jump bridge networks. creating more traffic between more systems and making it more difficult to defend logistic routes. this adds more to the emergent game play as it allows for those systems and gates to be camped to stop traffic. towers become alliance only entities with no password options available to allow friendlies. more towers are needed to support bigger coalitions. towers can become locations where fights happen as fleets breakup after leaving the field to safe up. you could still have nips and alliances can still work together but without the ability to filter friendlies from the overview on the battlefield it becomes more difficult the more friends you have. anything beyond a full fleet of friendlies on the field becomes a problem unless you can tightly control positioning on the field and keep fleets of friendlies separated.less likely to have those 2k battles with 20+ alliances on the field and the sole crushing tidi. fewer instances of tidi means fewer chances to advantage of it to reship or phone for more help from friends. more fights are started and finish without major escalation and blobbing then their is now. forcing alliances to be able to stand on their own two feet. and rely on friends that live closer by.i would personally prefer we as players take it upon ourselves to break up the coalitions but if the leadership of these alliances wanna blame ccp then this is the only realistic way it can be done."
"mallak azaria -power blocks are the result of social engineering. learn how to make & keep friends instead of whining to ccp about nerfing friend making.i have tons of ex-corp mates in other alliances in the 6 years i have play'ed the game. i don't feel the need to follow them from corp to corp or alliance to alliance like a lost puppy, maybe you do?.lykouleon - prior to the current system, alliance and corp standings were much more limited. what did players do? they kept standings displayable on external applications. have an igb window open to it -> check for friendlies. not too hard. limiting or removing the standings system will have no effect on the ability for people to actually make friends and wheel-and-deal in nullsec unless you can somehow miraculously change the way human beings interact (good luck).[/quote]i don't say coalitions would be or should be impossible. i said they become more difficult to maintain through the loss of shared in space assets like bridges, towers, outposts, and inability to automatically filter non-fleet coalition members. sure you can still share space and not shoot each other. player level nips would still happen.lykouleon - limiting max-corporation or max-alliance size only means i make more corporations and alliances and then run them via external tools/community bundles. more names, same leadership. again, nothing done that actually changes the dynamic in-game.[/quote]nothing stopping it. a 10k alliance can break up in to 10 - 1k alliances but they have to split their outposts, have individual sov'ed systems to place their individual jump bridge networks, and have the ability to take a 1k ship fleet filled of pilots from those 10 alliances, break it up in to 4 fleets, and some how the target callers for those 4 fleets need to not call targets that belong to the other 9 friendly coalition alliances while still calling targets of the hostiles. because the 10k man alliance is now broken up in to 10 entities, each hold 1/10th the sov, outposts, and it is now 10x more vulnerable when it comes to the ability for another alliance to target just one of these 10 alliances and take all the outposts they hold and that alliances ability to manage fleet and personal inventories. cause they can't just go live in another alliance's outpost, that wouldn't work. they can't realistically live out of a pos because the assets in that pos would be removed easier then the sov would be.lykouleon - increased sov bills mean i just spread the sov over multiple entities while still maintaining alliance income and social structure. big whoop, no change to dynamics.regardless how many systems you own. the cost per system doesn't change. if the cost is per system + upgrades then it doesn't matter how you attempt to manipulate the system, the cost of the sov has to come from somewhere and someone must pay it or sov drops.lykouleon - towers are, inherently, corporation-owned structures (even thought the names is \"player owned starbase\"). changing alliance mechanics does nothing to the corporation-level structure unless you rip out the current pos system and make it alliance-based. good luck doing that.only thing i mentioned when it came to towers is removing passwords and standing based aspects of them. towers can currently be set for corp and alliance use. passwords are required to give access to non alliance pilots. removing tower passwords remove the ability to set and use them and restricting non-alliance uses for them. remove standings would break standing based access to bridges.lykouleon - alliance and corp names are displayed on ships and characters in the overview and on the display. removing standings only means your overview gets more crowded. if xx is fighting yy and zz comes along, and zz is friends with xx, xx's fc just needs to not call any zz ships as targets. again, you're just making things more difficult for players to enjoy than actually changing anything meaningful.it only becomes truly difficult when you have 10+ alliances in your coalition and you bring all of them to the field. like... we have now.lykouleon - lastly, ccp has stood by their stance that this game focuses on player-generated content with the developers tending to not intervene. that means the creation of coalitions and the preceding and subsequent social engineering is outside of the developers hands. interfering with that would break down years of precedent by the company and would cause a large percentage of the player base to leave in disgust."
"power blocks are the result of social engineering. learn how to make & keep friends instead of whining to ccp about nerfing friend making."
"prior to the current system, alliance and corp standings were much more limited. what did players do? they kept standings displayable on external applications. have an igb window open to it -> check for friendlies. not too hard. limiting or removing the standings system will have no effect on the ability for people to actually make friends and wheel-and-deal in nullsec unless you can somehow miraculously change the way human beings interact (good luck).limiting max-corporation or max-alliance size only means i make more corporations and alliances and then run them via external tools/community bundles. more names, same leadership. again, nothing done that actually changes the dynamic in-game.moon mining is not sole source of t2 production. alchemy is a thing...not perfect, but still a thing. increased sov bills mean i just spread the sov over multiple entities while still maintaining alliance income and social structure. big whoop, no change to dynamics.towers are, inherently, corporation-owned structures (even thought the names is \"player owned starbase\"). changing alliance mechanics does nothing to the corporation-level structure unless you rip out the current pos system and make it alliance-based. good luck doing that.alliance and corp names are displayed on ships and characters in the overview and on the display. removing standings only means your overview gets more crowded. if xx is fighting yy and zz comes along, and zz is friends with xx, xx's fc just needs to not call any zz ships as targets. again, you're just making things more difficult for players to enjoy than actually changing anything meaningful.lastly, ccp has stood by their stance that this game focuses on player-generated content with the developers tending to not intervene. that means the creation of coalitions and the preceding and subsequent social engineering is outside of the developers hands. interfering with that would break down years of precedent by the company and would cause a large percentage of the player base to leave in disgust. stop being a whiny babby and cause some emergent gameplay that changes the landscape by player-devised means; don't force the developers to sandwich us into a corner and limit how we play the game."
"oh...look another person who named his character something that started with an a. how awesome...consider yourself lucky that the fc your fighting against is an idiot, overheat your hardners and enjoy the tank test...."
"let's get more support for this rolling.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"tell us all about how those 79 accounts require zero human input."
"back to the top"
"feel free to flame as i don't actually know much about titan dooms day devices but i figure they each get one type and because we like having something different for each they should each function differently. each one would have a charge up period allowing pilots to move out of the way of the damage. the aoe would be done differently for each. charge time would need to be balanced around 10-45 seconds or so.the amarr dd would be a giant beam heading in a straight line out from the ship. it would gather energy which would have a visual effect while it is charging. the beam would do approx 7.5k-15k dps over 10 seconds. realigning the ship would wave the beam over an area. any sig radius caught inside the path of the beam would take damage. the larger the sig radius the more damage it would take.the gallente would be a single powered shot with a burst upon impact. it would be fired from a large dd emplacement on the ship which when preparing to fire would come out of the ship similar to how a bomb launcher comes out when exiting warp. the shot would be for high dps on a single target with a moderate burst upon impact causing aoe damage around the targetted ship. any ships in the line of fire take full damage from the shot reduced only slightly by sig size. it is a much smaller attack then the amarrian dd so it is less likely to hit ships on the way in thus more damage if they get hit. the aoe damage would be similar to a bomb with a similar radius, so 5-10k damage around the targeted ship, likely split between kinetic and thermal damage.the caldari would be a very large missile with high damage and large aoe. basically a giant bomb. its charge would be a bomb launcher or missile launcher opening with the warhead getting primed. in addition it would have travel time and could be destroyed if targeted. the reason for this is balance as this will pose the largest threat to fleets. it would deal 40-75k damage depending on how close you are to the blast. it would not have its damage reduced by sig radius but rather distance from the center of the blast so burning away would be the only way to reduce damage. whether or not it is launched like a bomb or targeted i'm not quite sure. same for this weapons ehp to be viable in fleet battles but still balanced.the minmatar dd would be a large flack attack and the only one with aoe that wouldn't damage allied ships caught in the way. it would be a large flak style attack within 15km of the ship. it's charge would be shown by having dozens of autocannon type guns coming out of its model. when fired the flak damage would deal 1k-4k dps to all ships not in fleet over the course of 15-25 seconds.each fits their race and has its own strengths and weaknesses and situations to be used hopefully without being too under or over powered and each would be highly valuable in a fleet battle.again i could also just have no idea what i am talking about, in which case call me a noob and move on =)"
"i seem to remember back in the day goons hated blue lists. they have done more global resets then any other alliance in the game. now they suddenly are afraid what would happen if standings were gone?all this talk about sov warfare being such a chore. it is a chore because of how big the coalitions have gotten. the bigger coalitions get the more difficult sov warfare gets. it's not rocket science. their is no way that ccp can make sov warfare on the coalition level when it involves coalitions made up of tens of thousands of pilots any easier then it already is.coalitions strip so much away from an alliance's individuality they are basically just big alliances now. coalitions have 2-3 fcs between thema coalition wide unified set of fleet concepts share coms for fleet engagementsshare access to outpostsshare intel channelsshare fleet accessshared jump bridge networkshared number of moons who's output has a shared agreed upon sale priceisk made being used in srp's that buy the same materials from the same place and use the same route to get the materials to the same outpost for pilots to reship with for the next day of 0.0 warfare. how do you tell them apart?sov i guess, and some coalitions even share that."
"reserved"
"sorry about all your dead lokisi realise it's distressing for you to form a blue-list coalition of your own made up of all the washed-up sov-stomped failures and then get dumpstered when you try and mess with the big boys, but demanding that ccp completely change the way eve works is really not a rational solution to your own failings."
"nice giant straw-man post (not ignoring the fact that most of your points on coalitions are, in fact, hilariously wrong)."
"let's hope some of the ideas i posted in this thread will be in the next expansion : odyssey"
"please remember the rules concerning rule 12 on bumping. the last several pages are coming extremely close to consisting of what would constitute bumps. if this trend should continue further action will be required."
"won't happen again.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"you may be plesantly surprised. the problem i see with allowing dd's to hit subcaps again is they were primarily used on interdictors so they could escape. this resulted in remote tracking titans becoming a popular fleet concept which resulted in a nerf (because frankly, why should capital class turrets ever be able to 1-shot a frigate with a transveral of 3kms?). the other problem is creating a good reason for people to actually use them.titans will most likely get their change at the end of fozzie's ship rework. he's done a great job with the changes so far, so we need to wait & see what he has in store for them. it might take awhile but i'd rather see them get a great rework that fits in with the other changes than change them now & be in the same position in 6 months time."
"wow i really like this post. it was really well though out and was not the normal zerg of **** posting that goons are known for.. thank you for your response mallak.."
"so far you have not posted one idea in these forums that is not poorly thought out.jump bridges have already ruined nullsec by making it too small, now you want to make highsec small too?lets just take out factions, and 90% of the systems, i eman, people dotn use them much outside of travel-time right?all this would do is encourage players to cluster themselvs around these gates, leaving highsec to be a similar state as null, lots of high-population systems, and vast swathes of unsued space.so seriously, no to making highsec smaller. (yes this response is a little cut short and might have reiterated too much, but im typing on a time contraint, currently walking to the car to go to work, which im late for)"
"please! power blocks are about risk aversion."
"i have them follow me because i'm a likeable guy. superior social engineering."
"anyone else wanna help support this proposal?dmc"
"yes, bring it back. there were certain eve songs i actually like, and i would play them to get me in a spacey mood. i don't understand why they would take away this feature if they didn't have a better replacement :/"
"personally i think there is nothing else to day... i mean you are pretty much correct!in the past it made sense to do what they did. i remember back in iac, when -a- was dding everything under the sun...now days no one buys titans unless their alliance needs a portable jump bridge, and alot of times they just bat phone someone who does have a titan already.either they need to be given some glory again, or they need to come down in price to about 50-60b"
"it wouldn't really have that big of an effect on markets. since we have had fedex delivering goods for ages, changing things to be near instantaneous would just damp the noise that small fish make. the real manipulators and market makers would be unscathed.+1 for anything that limits fun killing game mechanics though. 60+ clicks and 45min to get across the map is not fun emergent play. its just another useless grind that has to be done (for those that do not have the means to use cyno-shortcuts) before your allowed to do anything entertaining. its like making people enter 30 captcha in a row in order to accept a mission from an agent.if ccp thought jbs were actually detrimental, they would have taken the opportunity to nerf them the last time a vocal minority threw a hissy fit. what is good for the goose is good for the gander!"
"the op is frankly laughable. you won't abolish coalitions by banning standings any better than you could ban war by making it illegal. alliances existed in the game long before ccp formalized them. coalitions came to being almost instantly after alliances did, and that was back when mechanics for alliances were cumbersome and difficult (they still are, but we know how to use them now). the war against ascn? early coalition warfare. people talk about the \"dawn of coalitions\" as if its a new thing. its popular right now because its next to impossible for an alliance to hold by its self the vast amount of space required to support it. truth be told, alliances like goonswarm are clamoring for the 0.0 mechanics to be fixed so they don't have to hold hundreds of star systems to afford their titans and slowcat fleets.coalitions naturally limit their size by the fact that you can't get the egos of 10 alliance ceos to fit into the same chat channel. if you 'shrunk' 0.0 so a single solar system could be as profitable as a constellation is now, and scaled the sov cost accordingly, many of these larger entities would shrink down to a more reasonable size, and there would be plenty of space for newer players to fight over the newly vacated systems. the coalitions aren't the problem, nor are they even a symptom of the problem. they're just fine."
"here's the problem, the people in the large coalitions are the average 0.0 player."
"the latest big war that didn't happen, and the talk about \"wargames\", etc just makes me think that - for whatever reason - null is falling into stagnation. the big boys and their coalitions often scream about the \"burn out\" they'd suffer if a real war happened, but i see that as a good thing, why should the current top few dominating personalities or groups remain at the top forever? if they start to \"burn out\" then it gives fresh faces and groups a chance to shine. current null is all about maintaining the status quo, and they'll use whatever excuse they can to hide the fact that they want everything to stay exactly the same, and they don't want real conflict because it's a ~risk~"
"we just discovered that someone with starbase defense operator role can use the pos guns to shoot the pos stick/ other defensive modules.i could not find this issue listed anywhere.it is not a game breaking issue as once the pos goes into reinforce it will be invulnerable from further fire which should hopefully give the owners a chance to defend it.cheersdark armata"
"sounds like a feature to me, not a problem."
"ok.. though this has likely been said before.macro mining and the use of 'multiboxing' tools are two very separate things.one is a pure automation tool. the other allows one player to control multiple accounts.the difference is that one allows a person to log in, turn their miner on, then go out / to sleep / watch a movie etc, while the other requires that the person still put in the commands manually, though they can do so on multiple accounts simultaneously.botting and macro mining is banned because it is an automation tool.multiboxing is not. it's a very fine line between the two, granted, but it is a distinction that has to be made."
"so basically what you're saying is you're too poor to afford the number of alts required for this sort of thing, and therefore since you can't have the ball, noone can have it so you throw it on the roof and go home and cry to mummy."
"the funny thing is that 0.0 has been mostly divided between 4 or 5 coalitions pretty much permanently since 2003, but it's only today that this has become an eve is dying bloobloobloo problem."
"maybe an alternative to shrinking systems would be enlarging the map!then everyone would have to fight for new land again... and it'll take 500 jumps to get to that coalition fight instead of 50! making geography somehow more relevant in coalition politics! spam new systems until the time it takes to get from one power bloc to the other can be measured in days!also, add more low-sec to sever the 4 empires from each other. sever the carebear daisy chain of easy freight. give war a chance."
"no offense... but i think your solution will not fix the problem... i too want to anonymize nullsec... but i think the best solution to do so is by changing the intel system... i'd prefer to replace local with an intel system that doesn't immediately show you the name of every pilot in local... something where you have to fly in space to determine who that new ship is..."
"have you ever actually gone on a roam? making nullsec bigger won't help fix the problems. a lot of fc's (myself included) don't have the time or desire to go the 40-60 jumps required to even make contact with an opposing gang, let alone find a fight. miniaturizing 0.0 is a much more viable and entertaining solution."
"thank you for sharing this feature that i previously had no idea existed."
"i think we really need to know if each csm candidate is properly supportive of bounce or not. it should be a major part of anyone's platform, i think."
"@ cia agent.you don't have to thumb very far through these forums to get a sense on the degrees of replies that fling back and forth here, so no worries, it was an expected outcome. i only intended to spark broader conversation on the subject or neighbori"
"finally a sensible idea in assembly hall - well done.perhaps each base station could have two or three \"upgrades\" depending on player activity volume based on a 30 day average/total or whatever.make new eden a bit more dynamic even if it's only eye candy."
"they could just make another category of racial station models, larger ones, and auto-apply them to the ones that see x amount of traffic or above.making one just for jita would be a bit extravagant, but i agree with the idea.could come along with station v3? which, you know, is scheduled and everything."
"if i recall correctly, ccp was looking into making stations \"modular\" in some way... adding or taking away a \"block\" or two depending on its average traffic and internal population.it's been awhile since i heard that though. maybe they are waiting for the v3 project to be finished and/or dx11 to become more widely used."
"dittoyeah i know spelling is wrong"
"bring it back!"
"to the top now that it seems poss may see some love come june. this is an easy love fix.hrolt ceo live free; die proud"
"might there be a chance that the very specific, very simple to fix problem described in this thread - that anyone can untraceably cancel corp industry jobs, when it should only be the job installer or a director - gets fixed in odessey?"
"why?"
"having come from wow where multiboxing by 40+ isn't as uncommon anymore, to see it has followed into eve is sad for players. i was hoping with a macro ban multibox software like that wasn't allowed. :(isbox and other macro (yes they are macro programs) multibox software are a bane to mmos as they allow so many players to act in unison with 1 click. no one cares if it's 2 or 3 accounts, it's the 40+ variety that is the problem. i don't have a problem with these programs for a few at a time, it's after seeing them pollute mmos with their presence, to know 40+ multiboxers are alive and well that is a concern to me. imagine them running pvp fleets - 1 player behind the wheel. talking about game imbalance. in wow such multiboxers literally own pvp battlegrounds, no chance to win. put them in a fw or null fleet, it's the same results (would take a blob to defeat them because of the concentrated firepower 1 click can offer...a huge blob). couple players like that could own territory even.+1 support from multiple mmo experience dealing with that tomfoolery._\"in a world of universal deceit, telling the truth is a revolutionary act.\" _ ~george orwell"
"absolutely. great idea . . . if you cannot do the pos then add eye candy around it, bigger billboards or 'pleasure hubs'mmike azariah ----<U+FEFF> <U+FFFD>|(<U+30C4>)/<U+FFFD>"
"like the idea.i would prefer it integrated into some ccp upgrade to stations universally though.dynamic station models based on their activity. something like 5 tiers.if ccp finally decides to get rid of the old npc building slots it could also be linked to the number of player owned slots rented to the stations, with visuals of npc ships moving from the stations to the planets related to the player owned moons.thus linking pos , stations and pi together in one nice trinity."
"i think this idea have been around in variations before, but thought it might need a fresh cycle.basically i would like ccp to once and for all get rid of the old station production slot mechanics. its getting old and boring.the optimal way to get a whole range of player activity and game content from a rather simple solution would look something like this.link pos research and production slots directly into stations.so players can directly rent the slots and player controlled prices to other players with the station as the middle man.this way the size of pos in systems would be directly linked to station activity, and actual dynamic prices would be a natural result.this would also mena that ccp would not need to tweak or change station facilities they would simply be build by players according to needs and price finding mechanics.renting to station would ofc demand an office. also offices should get a standing based deduction in rent, so grinding standing would have another added dimension.this way local starsystem composition would start making a direct impact on game activity. more moons would mean more competition on slot prices and thus cheaper research and production. also smaller would mean potential wars with a clear goal.should something like this become real a boost to maximum pos sizes might be needed so pos could have quite a lot of more installations running, to support the capacity needed in the system.the balance would develop by itself since small number of moons would mean bigger pos in system and thus potentially bring higher traffic in fuels and components giving some new targets to potential aggression.more details can be added to this idea, but the basics is the above. i believe its something we really need, to also make null industry really interesting and lucrative. since a system like this could make null interesting for new types of renters or allies."
"i've been hitting the report isk spammer on each one i see. seems to be working lately.summary of eves last four expansions:"
"i've noticed there is a lack of information on system names, constellations, and so on.systems like sahtogas have an actual little information panel, although a bit vague to its meaning. i feel as if when you show info, there should be some sort of info there on the main screen about that system ie jita has information about it being a market hub, luminaire have information about its significance and so on. even constellations could have a little more information about significant events/people living in those areas. i think this would be relatively simple addition and could really add to the immersion of the game.i also think that faction weapons/modules should have some sort of mention of who they come from, as well as storyline items. i apologize if this is not the proper area/way of proposing something like this, or if it has been proposed before. i feel as if this would be a simple thing to add to the game, and could be a good way to add more immersion to the game and meaning to certain systems and modules. thank you."
"although can use foobar to listen to the tracks outside the game, the jukebox is missed.+1_\"in a world of universal deceit, telling the truth is a revolutionary act.\" _ ~george orwell"
"^ this.rock. paper. scissors.hics have a purpose for being there, a weapon that can global them (and remove the warp jamming ability to get out of dodge scott free) isn't about game balance.like the suggestion about aoes, simply because that allows participation of other support roles. if they're not on the ball they, and their allies, will perish.ship fighting game balances is about bringing the entire fleet in to the fight, with everyone having a role and piece of the pie. more fun, and rewards those specializing in their favorite roles...just like titan pilots specialize in their own.eve isn't eve without fighting the biggest ships, and the loses that can break corp/alliances apart. destroying them is the biggest feather in any pilot's kb hat, and it is about time that fighting is brought back again (and use up the isk sinks)._\"in a world of universal deceit, telling the truth is a revolutionary act.\" _ ~george orwell"
"well if we can overcome the financial hurdles, considering how heavily the entire market system is based on the already established facts, perhaps there should then be talks of how to limit ccp's manhour investments and how this would benefit the growth of the game as a whole."
"a pos overhaul is something that is strongly supported, and i think even ccp is seriously focused on that now. this is a concept that would change many things, with rather little complexity change to the backend of the game.a lot of architecture to a system like this seem to have already been on the table in the early code. something that shows on \"dead functions\" in the station and standing functions.once the link between pos, pi and station is implemented a lot of potential new aspects will be a lot easier to add to the game. thus a feature like this could help a lot on ccp manhours in the long run."
"yes, it would.edit:i heard some one say interbusi said storyline, so this could really help this game"
"a logical step that many might really appreciate would be creating a link between pi and pos. just something as simple as being able to export materials from planets remotely to your own pos, that would then again make it possible for corp members to access the materials.some rather awesome pos,pi and station networks could result from functionality moving in this direction.i would also find it worth considering to let corp members or alliance members remote control planet activity from within pos anchored at moons of the specific planet pi.this would create a lot of new potential roles, that could then in future ccp work get new skills, or tools.if pi to pos and pos to pos moving of items could be automated and remote access, sort of like an player interbus system, then the next logical step could be creating contract types that temporarily granted access through pos shields for a specific player and shiptype (industrials, mining ships and similar)with temporary access functionality, this could then easy move into null sec activity for rental and standing functionality.since the aggression of automated systems like pos could be added to ships also. so parked ships could also have a simple autoaggression functionality. (maybe even limited script based)with autoaggression functions, and new fleet function like convoys would suddenly be an option.which brings another aspect of this relinquish control to fleet leader, or wing leader etc. thus making afk a sort of semi-npc state. the skills would limit how many player ships could be controlled on behalf of players. the interface would be something simplified like that for drones.so again many natural progression options from simple initial changes."
"the whole pos system needs to be redefined.poses are usually corp assets and really need to be associated with the corp office (like a pos section). there can monitor the pos and handle the blueprints/fuel/manfacturing/research/invention from that ui.doesn't make sense to have corp offices when they're not used for such activities. eve needs more of an unified ui not more screens to get lost in. 1920x1080 monitor filled with boxes. :shudder:_\"in a world of universal deceit, telling the truth is a revolutionary act.\" _ ~george orwell"
"if you are flying distribution missions and you accidentally try to undock after accepting the mission, but before you moved the cargo into your cargobay, you get a message that says \"are you really sure that you would like to undock without your cargo?\".this is obviously a game mechanic designed to help the mission runner. i imagine it might be quite frustrating to make your delivery and realise at the end, that your cargo is still at the starting location.-proposal 1:upgrading clones. if you get podded, and you have successfully reached a station with clones and you try to undock, the game warns you if your clone isn't upgraded.-proposal 2:if you are clicking on the abort mission button, the game pops up a warning window which tells you that aborting a mission is bad for you.i propose that the game auto calculates for you how much standing you are going to loose if you abort a mission. i've lost 3 days \"work\" because i thought i would loose only a little amount of standing. instead i've lost quite a lot.-i know that the community is split on these kinds of issues. there are a few who think these are bad game mechanics and should be removed/reworked.and than there are some who say: \"l2p n00b or gtfo\".objective sighted. target locked. lasers activated. pew-pew-pew. die roid..., die!"
"so that people can learn skills based on insurance so that they can make it a viable isk making business in eve, you could have it so that you can insure peoples ships based on character activity with a set of conditions to stop people doing insurance jobs on there ships etc."
"i'm sure this could not possibly hurt the new player experience one bit."
"only to those who don't have the time. only those who want to always be top of the skill sp curve by longevity and protecting turf.biggest problem is only one toon for account can skill up. so to get around that limitation we have multiple accounts (looks good on the 500,000 active accounts summary, but the truth is we have more than one account to have alts). other mmos allow players to level their alts anyway they chose, be it more time in game (which is a reward with having players ingame populating it) or casually playing 2hrs a night.i personally would prefer more work = more rewards.how that's done -- and without bots ruining it for everyone -- i don't know. but if players want to put more time in than waiting for paint to dry to skill up, why should they be punished? for the status quo?don't want eve to become like other mmos racing to end-game in 3 days, but allows the 2 other alts on an account to be able to be leveled. other accounts can be for helpers as needed (or to raise toons to resell as there's always a demand for more leveled toons). as it is, the other 2 slots are wasted, as stalling the leveling among 3 toons on one account is just pushing \"get more accounts\" scheme and encouraging more accounts with less people playing._\"in a world of universal deceit, telling the truth is a revolutionary act.\" _ ~george orwell"
"signed specifically for the fw context as a way to discourage farmers. the problem with the arguments above is that there is no disadvantage to a farmer who fits them to his ship. he has no intention of fighting so who cares about the reduction in scan res etc? i have no problem if i miss a travel-fit ship because of stabs - good use of game mechanics to make him safer. but the only use of stabs in fw is to farm. simple as that. sure, it would only be a minor discouragement but it would sure make it more tolerable for the pvpers in fw regions."
"totally agree!i only do fw so that i can shoot people. i do not care about ccp's \"rewards\" nor for artificial reasons to fight. i don't need reasons to fight in fw since fighting is the reason to be there.all other priorities and opinions are wrong and should be nerfed.amidoinitwright?"
"it is awesome that we now have our orders visible via the marking option, but it would be even more awesome if we could have the option to mark corp orders.additionally, i think that those with director/accountant roles should have the ability to modify corp orders.i realise this is not a high priority, as the number of corps which have vast numbers of corp orders active is likely to be very small, but, like with the highlighting our own orders, it is a small change, which would make life for those of us who have lots of corp orders much simpler."
"admittedly i do not have a lot of experience with null and sov conquest recently, but i wanted to share an analogy for a suggestion.basically thinking of sov as a meter much like in incursions, or as known from other games. the way i would like this to work in eve is as follows.the two opposing forces, or for that matter 3 or more is represented by a barrel on a seesaw. the barrel is filled with water by different entities in the system, and this at different frequencies.thus a tcu would add a lot of weight, but with slow frequency. a lot of small frigs drip faster but smaller amounts rof. the barrels drains at rising increments so it basically looses more water due to pressure from being more full. so all entites ships according to size, pilots in stations, stations owned, pos active etc would all add to the sov points frequency. the interesting aspect would be if only anchoring new structures actually changed? so you could end up having some sort of shared sov compositions in systems. basically allow small system and constellation ranged strategy to develop?with such partial sov sleeping or dormant powers could suddenly shift.too add a benefit too sov i would think station docking and gatejumping fees would be adequate? (also pi transaction fees ofc)"
"okay, i've been thinking about something i could add to this without it looking like a hollow bump, as isd was kind enough to advise me that i was borderline breaking rules. so with that, i have come to a decision regarding the envoy-class ships.if they were designed, there would be absolutely no need for a jump-capable version, as carriers fill that role nicely, but when it comes to high-sec logistics, there is still a gap. sure, there's always the courier contract, but why the **** should you have to go through that (which when you're moving enough stuff, gets extremely tedious) to move your own stuff? the answer, quite simply, is that you shouldn't. there is no justifiable reason for it, and to the \"get an orca\" camp, let's see you attempt to move all of your rigged battleships in an orca. some people multi-spec in their training, and thus have several different ship types, and other than the orca not having the ship maintenance bay to haul battleships, you are also severely limited as to how many ships you can fit into it.so with that, i am not saying that we as pilots of new eden want, or desire this. i am saying we, the pilots of new eden need this.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"what is the point of all these in game professions if all players need to do is swipe the credit card and buy plex out of game then sell it in game for 500 million isk? it really takes away the edge of losing a ship and allows players to be more careless and unrealistic in pvp since they know that their isk \"grows on trees\". there is no pride in your profession, whether its salvaging, mining, or pirating/looting since all you have to do is just buy more isk when you run out. i believe that the selling of plex should be removed from the game."
"no. plex is probably one of the smartest things ive seen an mmo do. in every other mmo people have to buy game money from rmt traders if they want a quick step up. here it is much easier to legitimately do it and support ccp rather than some chinese criminal enterprise, which reduces the number of rmt accounts wrecking the economy. it also rewards players who dedicate time in the game by letting them play for \"free\". name one other mmo that you can pay in-game currency for game time...as for people who waste isk on ship after ship full of shiny...well being a pirate i say bring it on...there is nothing like catching an entirely blinging mission runner trying his luck in low sec...money can buy ships but it don't buy skill..."
"there should be no quick steps up. period. plex or otherwise. you don't legalize crime to prevent crime. metaphorically speaking. and i am fine with purchasing plex with in game isk. just not selling it in game to other players. it should be purchased directly from ccp with in game money. it should have no in game resell value."
"how you think you gonna get that plex to be able to buy with in game money???? doing it your way means ccp doesn't get anything for the in-game plex and would therefore lose money just like it would through rmt"
"so your saying your fine if ccp take isk (their intellectual property) as trade for plex (their monetary property) and then let you trade it for game time or aur? you do realize that players who sell plex are paying slightly more than a monthly subscription in real life currency to ccp for the plex? in your model ccp is trading their property for their property and giving away game time so you can play free and they don't get paid.....if they followed that advice we would be out of a cool space ship game....and it is not legalizing crime. plex ensures that the exchange of rl money for intellectual property goes to the owners of that property. not some bot-scamming, account hacking, game ruining company that has no intrest in making eve a better game, they are just looking to make a fast dollar on players who have more rl money than time. trust me im not so well set in rl that i can plex my way to financial bliss either, but if by its existance i don't get spammed by rmt traders like i did in wow, eq2 and swg i'll accept it. ive played the game a long time now and have not seen a case where plex off-balanced the game other than providing some awesome km from pilots who confused shiney with invincible...."
"stupid idea oh if it makes people more careless to loose expensive ships i cant see what is the problem with that, i prefer that wayeasier and more targets with better loot , what better thing you could ask for ? .o"
"let me tell you what would happen in my instance if they stopped plex sales.i would immediately go down to 1 account. $15 a month i can kinda justify for a video game but certainly not $15 x the number i currently run. then it would dawn on me that i'm not having any fun with just one character and the last account would probably go.so...no.[u]**shepard wong ogeko wrote: **[/u] ccp should not only make local delayed in highsec, but they should also require one be undocked to use it. then, even the local spammers have some skin in the game. support a high resolution texture pack"
"pretty much my thoughts exactly."
"bloody stupid idea is bloody stupid.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"effectively making those system as one , oh god , eve is already too small\"+1 for anything that limits fun killing game mechanics though. 60+ clicks and 45min to get across the map is not fun emergent play. its just another useless grind that has to be done (for those that do not have the means to use cyno-shortcuts) before your allowed to do anything entertaining. its like making people enter 30 captcha in a row in order to accept a mission from an agent.\"why the hell do you want to go there in the first place? pls tell us why do you want to travel 60+ jumps away"
"same reason any non- root vegetable does anything in eve. fun."
"*sigh*i am looking for a particular thread, but couldn't let this thread go without dropping my 2isk.cloak is op, m'kay!?why?enemy cloak shows up.everyone scatters.cloaker then proceeds to \"perma camp\" the system.some knuckleheads decide he's afk, get hot dropped.cloaker continues to camp system.miners convince some guys to bring carriers, paying them (or not). carriers hot dropped by supers.miners go play planetside.cloaker \"wins\".cloak is op, m'kay?!?"
"let not this thread die."
"not a bad idea. i'd also like to see what drones have damage to their armor & hull when they're in the drone bay. that way we can send out the ones in better shape when we're up to our elbows in a fight."
"ok, i'm jumping in here with a few lines. i'm looking (yes actually using the forum search tool) for a particular thread, else i'll start my own about cloakers.cloak is op, m'kay?!?you can effectively shut down an entire constellation with just a few cloakers. please, don't tell me to change my game style, or use a defense force. anyone who actually plays in 0.0 knows those are troll statements nothing more. hot drop nullifies your defense force and even when paid, pvp'rs will not sit as long as a miner will. simple fix(es):1) make the cloak consume fueland/or2) make it non repeatable, but give it a reasonable cycle time, say 30 minutes."
"those ideas are nothing new. cloaks are fine and balanced.destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"i think null-sec dwellers will not be happy till there is a system upgrade module that won't let anyone without +10 standing use a cloak...ive both used the cloaking tactic and had it used and while it is annoying i think it is a legitimate terror tool to use against a hostile force. as for removing local...atleast with local you know there is a cloaker...i can't imagine the tears that would flow if suddenly the cloakers didn't need to cloak cause you wouldn't even know they were there until your dead....and before everyone starts yelling d-scan how many ratters in their cute little drakes and hurricanes are hitting d-scan or even know how to use it?"
"i was looking through some old qens especially the stats on sinks and faucets, and this crazy idea struck me.what if we could get all types of raw materials via lp store.each branch of npc corps would have only 1 or 2 types of raw material, and price would be based on balance decided by ccp, and accepted by csm?thus drone salvage could be reached vi things like creodronraw ore via mining corps.moon materials from soe or similar..the effective cost on lp should be high enough to not break the benefits, but the monopoly.since all these raw would be spread on a lot of different npc corps a lot of new missioning activity would develop.people would move around and specialize more.also some additional hand in to buy these raw materials could be useful, maybe just plain isk.this would also make it valid to reduce the bounty and boost lp, so the isk faucet could be turned down a bit.also missions asking for pi materials and paying out the upgraded versions would be useful.the bounty prize faucet is seen here back in the last qen q4 2010"
"i agree. the drone salvage monopoly needs to be broken. it is ruining the game."
"this is just a simple draft idea, but with some ccp and csm refining i think it might be helpfull to at least loosening the iron grip of the monopoly.also we would not have this new changes seesaw problem, since players could shift activity focus in \"safe empire\" to reduce the problems of new monopolistic entities and issues.also it might spread the bloody mission runners a bit more, to create more diverse markets for smaller industrialists and newbies.to much space is dead empty."
"what are you trying to achieve here, exactly?"
"trying to do two things really. reduce the perfect monopoly on any raw material.making lp store and thus mission runners role a bit more directly supportive of the player to player economy.the isk printing is disruptive and destructive to new players, and it seems to make older players a bit lethargic and even disgruntled.we have a desperate need of either some huge wars or a trickle down mechanism for the economy.the good dr e used to say we dont have inflation, but we seriously have a flow of isk and wealth problem.the irony is when current null politicians and especially csm candidates say null needs boosting, while seeing the financial report from mittani.we need to some stirring in the pot, and something to shine the game up a bit. its starting to feel old and dusty. so much that i even see people seriously suggesting server roll backs or server resets.i also recall mittani calling the monopoly problems downright stupid."
"i was just wondering what everyone thought of being able to block people on the account level rather than just the character? i get annoyed having to block who i suspect are the same people everyday on their new throw away characters while they blow up various local chats with terrible scams. one of my account has over 5800 people on the block list currently and it grows rapidly. i also wonder if this is possible from a tech stand point or not so if anyone has insight into that it would be appreciated.thoughts, comments, concerns?"
"yes this should absolutely happen.back in the day when you blocked someone in uo, on your list it would say 'the account of (turdburglar)'auto blocking based on a key word list that you can customise.doublingdoubleplexofficer modetc etcauto blocked 30 days, and a email to (turdburglar) you have been blocked by (soandso) for 30 days.[u]**shepard wong ogeko wrote: **[/u]<U+FFFD> ccp should not only make local delayed in highsec, but they should also require one be undocked to use it. then, even the local spammers have some skin in the game. support a high resolution texture pack"
"this is a stupid ideaso you want us to run eve client just to be able to get more sp? it is silly you should run the game to play it and have fun not to farm sp"
":o hmm so what does those alt ships do other than combat?maybe fw should give reward for pvp and not farming plexes"
