"missiles do have short and long range variants, and while it isn't easy to dodge a missile, it is fairly easy to go fast enough the missile only deals negligible damage.still though, it takes slightly under twice as long to train a specific size of missile to level five. all together, the large missile skills for example add up to be 9x multiplier. this means it will take 1.8 times longer to get lvl 5 large missile skills not including specializations. it would be great if the skills were either merged under the time multiplier of the longer range missile skill, or had their multipliers divided by two and rounded."
"i like the idea = supported."
"seems worth while."
"i've been thinking about the idea as a whole for a while now. it's left me a bit torn, to be honest.on the one hand, i like the ideas you've come up with that encourage people to group together and make friends early, really driving this point home. i think extending the trial period is an idea worth some consideration. i don't know the financial consequences of this action, but i'm sure ccp could come up with a figure relatively easily. i like the incentive for staying within the new area for longer, accruing more and more points, as you refer to it, and using this once they've exited the area. i have to wonder why you think isk isn't sufficient here though. introducing new players to the way the market works early fits into the theme with more cohesion and still accomplishes the same thing.the sponsors don't really strike me as necessary or beneficial.but really, my main issue with this is the splitting up of new players. mechanically and lore-wise i'm sure a separate area can easily be created and implemented and i get what you're trying to do and i even think it's a noble thought. but adding safe, separate areas is a slippery slope that i'd rather eve never take a single step down, even if that means the game is more difficult to get into although i think it simply means we need to focus on other solutions.if i had to take one idea from this, it would be that we need to encourage and give incentives for new players to find other players to accomplish their goals. hell, i'll make that two things - we need to teach players how to create goals for themselves, too.i really am glad you pointed me at the thread and your ideas. well written, and well thought out."
"good point, an isk reward coupled with a good introduction to market dynamics would serve this purpose just as well. i simply didn't think of it this way, but i guess it's a better solution yes.this is really the point i wanted to get feedback on from the community. i spent a lot of time considering this, wondering if it is worth doing something like that to improve the new player experience, or if other solutions can be found that don't require to create a sort of separate area for new players ? i'd be happy to get more feedback about it.well that's really what this proposal is trying to achieve at its core, because this is what, in my opinion, will make players want to stay and want to discover more. thanks for reading me : i'll try to think of alternative or more moderate ways to do this while gathering feedback about this whole idea."
"put the time to be able to use counter on bpos or bpc, and whatever needs skills to use.example:you open orca ship and check the requirements tab and it tell u how much time u need to train on skills to be able to fly it.but if you open a t3 subsystem bpo on the bill of materials, and manufacturing tab, it tell you that you need some skills to be able to build that item.so my proposal : is to add the same counter as the requirements tab on the orca, to the bpos or whatever needs skills to use or build so you can know how much time you need to train to be able to build that thing or research that bpo or manufacture.thanks."
"i had considered that problem as well. every corporation has a preferred \"home base\" region. for example, most corporations are highsec corporations that do roams into lowsec or nullsec. they would place their advertisement in the highsec subtopic and then mention that they do weekly roams through lowsec, etc. inside the actual advert. the solution is the above, but in more details the reason why i didn't suggest the check box idea is this. in-game the check box service is provided, but it cost isk to create and maintain a public advert. the eveonline forums are free for anyone. consider the in-game options the \"premium service\" and the forums the \"lite\" service. also, i don't want to over complicate this. i mentioned this was the first step in my first post and it's also the easiest and quickest to implement. it's just simple edit of the webpage to gain high returns in the form of better organization, quicker searches, and higher player retention in the form of players more actively logging in due to finding the \"right\" home*. *eve is a very much social game. i've been playing for almost 6 years nonstop now and i find i usually log on for the social interaction that comes in the form of my corp members or some of the chat channels i have but this doesn't help strengthen my point "
"or limit ability to use to alliance that owns the jump bridge."
"jump bridges in and of themselves aren't really the issue. removing them is a lazy way to add a partial band aid on a much larger issue. instead, we need to focus on giving null sec organiations organic incentives for focusing more on their local geography and organic disincentives for owning huge areas of space and easily maintaining control over it all.this is a very hot topic right now, and it's important we stand united when telling ccp that we want real, solid, and lasting changes rather than relatively simple, quick, and ineffective tweaks."
"would be great actually, an enormous time saver.just 'be careful what you ask for', because making things so much easier for the traders would probably result in somewhat reduced trading profit because easier order checking = more frequent order updating.also, you probably already know this but you can activate 'view market details' by double-clicking on the order. saves a small amount of time...make space glamorous! is eve dying or not? ask the eve-o death-o-meter!"
"re the sponsorship portioni like the ideas of paying to help but a slight payback could be based on 1 did the person stay in game after trial period and 2 what was their ratinguse these factors to determine an lp or faction standing payout for the vet who helped.m"
"all this discussion is getting us no where, we have been through all of it before. seraph brings the perspective of the cloaky attackers, having been a part or bombers bar i welcomed his input. however i do find it lacking in many aspects and that his arguments tend to be very pro afk play. nick on the other hand challenges both sides of the questions and begs people to think about what they are saying. in the end we seek the same, better ways of interaction. that is the main topic of this thread. i believe there is a use for cloaked camping. i also believe that pilots engaged in this activity should be encouraged to be present in game and not out getting lunch or fapping on another computer. all three of us agree that cloaked ships should not appear in local.our opinions differ on how to go about this.we have everything from changing the way pilots receive intel, and what kind of intel from where.to mobile structures to changes in the cloaking mechanic. please help the good ideas coming with arguments pro and con, and quit it with the bickering."
"typo in name corrected, many do the same i notice, lolthis is a fair statement, and i agree with it.i have a natural tendency to favor supporting roles, such as mining, and the guilty pleasure of indulging in covert play as well.this gives me the too often uncommon perspective of understanding both sides of this issue.i say it is too often uncommon, because i see many making requests that are actually not reasonable, once you look into what the results would be.cloaking needs to remain a valid and fun play choice, and i must point out that it is grossly handicapped currently. this is done for the sake of gameplay, and is due in large part to the way the game evolved.many do not realize local was once far less effective for intel, since you either had to remember names or look them up on the spot by right clicking them to know their standings to you. for those choosing to remember names, the risk was often hostiles making a pilot name which could be mistaken for something friendly.cloaking must never be a substitute for genuine clever play, or otherwise become an \"i win\" button.that said, do not be hasty to blame cloaking for how battles result, it was never more than a tool and required much behind the scenes for it to happen. this behind the scenes preparation tends to be glossed over and ignored, as if the pilot really did nothing more than what the target actually saw.i believe the real solution to this needs to acknowledge a point:the assumption that players will stand idle to defend others has proven too often to be a mistake.yes, it makes for ideal play experience, but it also handicaps anyone operating solo, or in a group too small for combat oriented players to be drawn in by an interest in protection.it just doesn't happen on too many occasions, judging by the number of complaints resulting around the details.my solution is simple, establish a valid means for players to be satisfied with their own defense.i feel this means pushing pve ships to function as effective pvp combat ships as well, and the breaking point to establish this will be that they do not choose to run normally.upgrading local to eliminate all afk influence what if local chat changed, hunting the cloaked..."
"bump"
"thanks to your prodigious amounts of evidence, you sure have me convinced!!!"
"what you want to kill is not jump bridges but jump freighters. trust me, that's a step in the right direction."
"well another call to the bank. as a global game one would think a subscription would be easy to pay for.... seems not. due to security changes in bank protocols after the target hack any transactions overseas have to be pre-authorized. honestly i really hate paying with plex and i hate buying plex casue it takes more to buy than a regualr sub. so ccp us uptite americans are asking for a way to pay a subscription fee in the us boarders without buying plex or having to call and get pre-authorizations for payments going over-seas."
"i think that's a problem with your bank being literally ********, not a problem with ccp.just use paypal."
"perhaps not complete removal of whole teleportation thing whether it's about bridges or jump drives, but proper constraints / limits in place, for example:- mass vs. distance limitation similar to wormholes, but with added distance constraint- proper cooldown per mass limitessentially only certain amount of mass is allowed per one light year and it's set to sensible number. once the limit is depleted, the bridge has to go into extended cooldown before it can be used againthis would limit overusage of teleportation over nonsensical distances - but - wouldn't cripple relatively small as they should be fleet movements or normal daily usage.this sould apply to all kinds of bridges as well as regular jumpdrive->cyno jumps where jumpdrive has analogous constraints as pos bridge and goes into extended cooldown after using up mass/distance limit.which in essence leads to: local tactical movements ? certainly yes - but bypassing 3/4 of the starmap quickly ? impossible."
"all those thousands of stars that are interspersed in the eve universe that are not connected by jump gates? get them connected to the eve universe somehow.options:1. can access them through wormholes. 2. can access them through a special ship fragile frigate that can make jumps without a cyno. this fragile frigate would not be able to jump as far normal ships, it could only jump perhaps as far as one adjacent star system. so it would take effort to move many systems away from regular eve space.from here the ship could then light a cyno that other ships could use to move stuff into. players could build stuff that define the system.\"local chat beacon\"\"jump gates\"\"jump bridges\"\"0.0 style stations\" - competing sides could both build stations here. there is nobody here to tell them they can't.\"capital ship assembly array\"anything - there is no sov here - concord does not exist. no bounties on rats, but anomalies would give out some sort of payments because surely the pirate factions have figured this stuff out already they never seem to jump regular gates as far as i've seen."
"1.0"
"sorry to break it to you, but the bank your using is indeed bad. time to change your banking services to a more global bank, not the local county bank that you're using now."
"isn't this more to do with homeland security or somesuch? i have us friends with the same problem."
"i have a target card and have no issues with my bank letting me pay for my non-plexed account. maybe you just need a better bank?"
"i've been wanting something like this for years. i'd have settled for a rig slot on the current freighters where 1 rig makes it a ship carrier and the other rig makes it a normal freighter but a whole new ship would be cool too."
"well, the reason i proposed a new ship was to help round out the industrial/support side of eve. i figured this could create some intrigue, and have potential for tears to be spilled by pirates. all in all, everyone would win.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"and add a nice cyno timer so that i can **** you up or gtfo before your \"active players\" arrive. sounds legit.the problem with local as an intel tool is that players abuse it both for intel and harassment. the problem of removing local as an intel tool is that it will remove the intel abuse but not the harassment abuse.the key here is the word abuse, both intel and harassment are valid player choices."
"of course they are valid choices.but, exactly how much power should we permit passive play to have?note the intel gathering, stereotyped by the risk free player docked in a station reporting new names into an intel channel.also note the genuine \"afk cloaker\", who deliberately places himself at a location just to mess with people's heads.because of local, players in null have the ability to know, with absolute certainty, when a system is empty of hostile forces.at the same time, intel gathering, excepting meta-gaming as a spy, is handicapped since the observed are perfectly aware of your presence. the ridiculous detail, wherein a player docked at a station with complete safety, can somehow know a covert vessel is present automatically...while we do have cloaks, we do not have actual covert, as the knowledge is not being denied at all.covert definition here, for reference.\"not openly acknowledged or displayed.\"competitive play can be fairly described as a comparison of efforts, with the quality and quantity being judged to determine results.if we are not making any effort, therefore we are not competing, regarding this issue.we are watching the game play itself, then simply responding at convenient points.upgrading local to eliminate all afk influence what if local chat changed, hunting the cloaked..."
"living in the us. not having a problem with my card."
"well another call to the bank. in a global economy, with the internet allowing us to buy things from all over the world, one would think a bank would be able to deal with that.... seems not. your bank sucks! call them, ask for this one payment that you make every month to a 'computer game company' gets placed on a white-list for you.if they wont do it, tell them you want to change banks.i'm willing to bet that they accommodate you.jint hikaru - miner / salvager / explorer / spacebum in the beginning the universe was created. this has made a lot of people very angry and been widely regarded as a bad move."
"while this is not my original idea, i am trying to get a little support for this, and some more exposure for a great member of our community, rixx javix.check out his pirate trading cards here:"
"i also don't think its a good idea... carrier i capital logistic and support with transporting ships much more versatile than dreads... i think carrier could do with a small + on repping range or other bonuses but not damage. dreads shpuld be pushed a little ;.- get them more nto line ;-"
"no it's a good idea...new ship would be cool. the rig idea was just something i thought up a long time ago because i thought it would be less development work no need for new models and more likely to be implemented.totally cool with having a whole new ship class. :they should have another one of those artist contests to have the users submit design ideas. that'd be cool."
"although mission running is in a good place right now, the mechanics favor a solo player over any type of fleet. i'm not talking about the difficulty, or layout of the missions, but a lack of information for the majority of the fleet members. when a fleet tries to run missions cooperatively they rely on the mission provider to tell them the system, warp the entire fleet to the location or be on site for a warp to 0, and let everyone know the objectives / weather it's complete.it would be helpful if you had the option to 'share' a mission's information with the rest of the fleet, allowing them to see the system/warp location as well as the objectives. the mission runner would still have the option not to share profits, but until the turn in every member would have access to the same information.it would go a long way to making the process smoother, but not easier."
"why? because of this. can ccp please implement this feature ?"
"great idea, but please don't call it a 'tug'what you propose is a 'heavy-lift ship' or 'heavy transport ship'like this:"
"the support tug was simply the first name that came to mind while myself and a few friends were spitballing ideas. the official class name that we decided to stick with after the fact was \"envoy.\"i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"i like the idea to transport your goods by bypassing the poco but its should be risky to do this no suspect flack or something else, no totally destruction of your command center would be it but how combination of orbital bombardment and dust bunnies for this we leave the current commandcenter how it is and create t2 version with landing deck for industrialships and with a fitting able option like eve ships for attack and defenseby sending dusties on planet would generate a contract by dust and they will sabotage or help to destroy the commandcenter ok, here are some details orbital bombardment would not complete destroy cc but it will destroy the grounddefense making for dusties easier to move forward forward?? yes the cc would have 3-5 defense lines and it is up to defender what he put in there he also can create a contract for defense by dust or he could use npc drones instead pve- content for dust be creative this is great opportunity to increase the eve-dust link"
"copypastathe solution isn't to limit what players can do [mod nerfs in plex], this is hamfisted and badthere are two problems with fw plexing. the first is that 'running and hiding' is actually more effective and profitable than 'staying and fighting' which is what fw is all about. anyone who claims plexes aren't supposed to facilitate pvp is wrong. if the best option is 'bore the other guy into leaving so i can keep making money' there's something wrong with the system. fw is about pvp and the game should be about having fun. not staring at a condor orbiting a button or watching some bear warp between safes.the second problem is that solo plexing is always more desirable efficiency-wise than plexing with a friend. anyone looking to hunt plexers for warzone reasons or killmails rather than 'solo goodfites' will bring two or more people. so the plexer will prefer to be solo due to mechanics and hunters will prefer bringing a friend. although i aware most of us have been on plexing fleets where we all jump in different plexes in the same systemthe problems are linked. mechanically-induced solo plexing means 'running and hiding' is the better choice more often.i don't know if ccp sees fw as newbie-friendly or something, but i sure hope those newbies are having a great time orbiting buttons for fifteen minutes, warping out and cloaking up, or watching other plexers do the same. such entertaining gameplay is sure to impress them so we need two solutions. the first is to make 'staying and fighting' more desirable than 'running and hiding'. i actually have no problem with people who don't want to fight... but they don't deserve more reward than people who'll defend their plex. and assuming fights have a 50/50 chance of you losing, you're worse off fighting for the plex. besides, who in gallente militia wants to attack and take a plex that some caldari guy ran down to one minute? they'll have to win a fight then sit in a plex twice as long for the same reward.honestly? as it is, if you're looking to make lp, fighting for plexes is stupid.so yeah, make 'staying and fighting' more desirable than 'running and hiding', keeping 'running and hiding' an option. more options is always good, as long as the best option facilitates fun gameplay. the player should be able to say to themselves \"if i stay, fight and win half the time, i'll be making more lp than running all the time\". i think the answer is timer rollbacks. no friendly militia in the plex, the timer runs back down to zero. maybe if there's an enemy in the plex, the timer runs up twice as fast until it reaches halfway, then runs down at the normal pace. maybe the timer should reset to zero? whatever it is, cloaking or running from the complex should hurt your bottom line.the idea for the second problem is to ensure that solo plexing is most desirable, but that plexing in a team is not completely undesirable. obviously the solo plexer should be getting the better deal because they're less safe. and at the same time, you don't want to make blobbing a way to win the 'plexing for lp' game. i think that having more players inside should run down the timer a little faster with diminishing returns for each additional player. two pilots could run down the timer at 1.15 timed seconds per real second, three pilots 1.25. probably the actual number should be a little higher than that but you get the point"
"well, it seems this feature doesn't interest developpers after all.it's sad because i think my ideas about new filters for the overview window were nice."
"for the exact reason running away or cloaking should be made inefficient. and timer resets are vehicle for that."
"rvb has pocos with a 5% tax now. if a 'skill' reduces that to 2.5%, wouldn't they just change their tax rate to 10%? pretty much break even for characters with higher skills, but to new player just trying out pi they would get hammered."
"if you limited the volume and frequency of the launches, this might help out the new low volume pi characters."
"this wouldn't be a problem if there would be a certain amount of lightyears you can travel with a full lightyear bank which empties on traveling and recharges over 18 hours.jump bridges are fine the way they are. they only cover what, 5 light years of distance? and you can have 1 per system, so you can still blockade them just fine."
"i like the fact that none of you actually live in sov null, and are proposing changes that would only directly negatively impact those who do live in sov null."
"what ccp actually needs to do is factor in the skill attributes when you can actually fly something.for example, when you can sit in a charon, it gives you 824250 m3 of space. not 7something. see the difference? yeah, those 5% that come from your freighter skill bonus."
"that's what i said, yeh"
"you're both right, honestly.the incentive to run is greater than the incentive to fight. the tools to run are greater than the tools to force a fight. the combination is the problem. and arguably, individually they are a problem too, especially the first one."
"as older players know, wildly high buy orders [esp. for obscure or rare items] in the markets are frequently part of a scam -- any attempt to sell to one fails because the 'buyer' doesn't have and never had the isk required to complete the sale.this mostly impacts newer players who aren't aware of the mechanism involved -- that some skills permit a buy order to be placed without having 100% of the isk to back it up and therefore trying to sell to it always fails -- meanwhile, the scammer is selling a few units at less wildly overpriced values -- usually via contract or five jumps away.i think this violates the eula -- it takes advantage of game mechanics to do something that ordinarily shouldn't be possible.it also takes advantage of the new players that ccp so needs to join and continue playing. [games that lose player numbers over years die off and ccp's entire business is based on eve.]***my proposed change -- keep the skills as they are. change the market mechanics so that when a buy order fails because the 'buyer' hasn't the isk to back it up two things happen:first, his deposit is irretrievably lost. [sure, maybe it was only 20% of the buy price in actual isk -- but lost is lost].second, such incidents are logged and any 'toon that appears more than a very few times over months is investigated for eula violation.seems to me that any one 'toon acting as the 'buyer' can't have very many of these going at once, or his total deposits would be enough that the first one to be tried would actually work -- which the scammer can't have happen.a possible replacement for the third change would be to force the 'toon's account balance to negative -- thus seizing any funds transferred in for any reason -- and the scammer would then have to abandon that 'toon and go to the trouble and isk of using a different one for scamming. [still have the 'sale' fail -- some risk to unwary players is appropriate.]my two cents' worth after over ten years ingame. i was in earth 'n beyond before eve and watched that game die due to lack of new content and thus lack of new players. of course, being bought by ea didn't help enb either since ea's purpose was to get the programmers for their other games. yes, the scammers and their representatives will dislike this idea. behaving like a 12 year old should have consequences in games just as in rl."
"it doesn't. that's not to say it is or isn't a bad mechanic in the first place."
"yeh let's start the thread by being derogatory. when i was a newbie a few weeks old i saw the scam in local, thought 'this must surely be a scam', bought the item at a different hub and lost no more than 500k isk. using only a little brains instead of being greedy means so much.scamming's a legitimate playstyle. the only problem with the margin trading scam is ignorance."
"you touched on the true problem, that ccp's tutorial and interface simply don't inform players that buy orders are not guaranteed. that is all that needs to change! we simply need more information disseminated that buy orders are not guaranteed and my fail because the buyer doesn't have enough money. the buyer loses his broker fees. as for his escrow account which holds more than 24% of the total order, this can easily be emptied and is by a competent margin trade scammer, insuring only the broker fees are lost. in other words, your first change is pointless. second, it isn't a eula violation, so logging and investigating it is pointless extra work for no benefits. negative account balances would be broken beyond belief. i'd simply setup a 100b isk sell order for some obscure item, with 24b in escrow. then i'd sell myself that obscure item, increasing my main's balance by 76b isk. i can do this three times per account, and make more than enough to plex accounts to do this repeatedly. negative balances will break the game. if you really want a \"solution\" to this that isn't taxing on resources, and is fairly balanced: create a \"verify order\" function: simply right click on a buy order and select verify order. the broker then verifies that the buyer has funds to complete the minimum buy order.  if he does, it tells you the funds are verified, and you can race to complete the order.  if he doesn't, it tells you that there are insufficient funds to complete the order, and auto-cancels the order. to prevent spamming, this function should cost you 1m isk to perform."
"almost exactly what i expressed in the official feedback thread"
"just as buying items without taking the time to verify their value does. i do find it odd that you blame the scammer, when it was in fact the buyer of the over priced items that first thought he was doing another player over first."
"hahaha that thread's last pages are awfuli see gizznitt making a lot of sense in the first few pages, too"
"i do support that something needs to be done with afk cloaking. because it's not balanced as it is now.now, someone is saying if the cloaker is hunting after targets to drop a cyno on, they are active. someone is saying that the cloakers are active if they are gathering intels on something. this is true to some points. yes, this is true if you looks through the cloakerts pov.the problem here is that it's not so easy if you looks through the other peoples pov that are in local. because how the cloaking works now, the other peoples don't know if the cloakers are active or not. and because of that, they will automaticly pretend that they infact are active and always will be prepeared for them.here comes the issues with that. why do everyone in local have to be prepeared for something that might be afk?why do the other peoples in local have to works their asses off by defending them self to something that might be afk?why do the others in local have to make huuuuuge effort to defend them self while the cloakers doesn't have to make any efforts to cause fear upon others while being afk?why don't the cloakers have to make as much effort as the others in local to achieve something instead of gaining free benefits for being afk?yeah, i know you have to barely lift a finger to gain intel on someone, but how much effort is that compared to how much effort everyone else in local have to do to defend them self to someone that again might be afk?the issue here is not to touch local, period. anyone who thinks removing local will solve this is delusional and just want to make the game 10000 times worser for everyone just to solve one thing in eve.the simple solution to fix this is to create an afk timer. the afk timer will kick in if you haven't been active in 30 mins. this will mean if you lift a finger by pressing on something in eve within those 30 mins, you wont get logged back to the character screen yes, this is my idea on how to fix the afk game.if you actually are afk, you wouldn't care if you would get logged back to the character screen. if you actually cares about this, then you would make some effort to not let the afk timer kick in on you.this afk timer that kicks you back to the character screen will also solve the issue with afk mining / afk mission running as long as they aren't using any kind of macro softwares witch is illegal to use anyways.this is a very easy solution to fix many of the afk issues that are in eve. this doesn't even have downsides as an mmo game is focused on those who are actively playing the game. those who are not playing the game should not get any benefits like they do now in eve.so again, those who want's to remove local to fix this are here to ruin the game for everyone rather than fixing the core issues that are in eve."
"you know how afk cloaking is balanced? by the fact that i have to jump out 30 jumps in my paper thin frig to find you. the moment i enter local you all dock up, spam intel channels like a panic stricken rabbit in a thunderstorm and then sit and wait to see what happens.why should i bring a conventional ship that you can outblob or counter fit to whatever ship you have in your station? you have the home advantage of picking whatever ship you want and with more than likely overwhelming numbers. cov ops are the way for the little guy to do something to bigger alliances. all you guys are scared about is not being able to bear it up. your notion of fun is guys like me showing up in a gang of shield cruisers cause **** flying 30 jumps in armor and when you see us for you guys to undock with bigger better stuff and of course more of it kill us and smug it up.no sir, i'm going to sit in your system for hours, days, weeks, months with glee knowing you're terrified of leaving your cozy pos or station and the moment when you let your guard down i'm going to drop thunder on you little rabbit.eve is a patience game and no one can honestly suggest a timer mechanism with any serious understanding of what the game is."
"you clearly didn't take my point, so let me explain again.why do others in local gain benefits only when they do make some efforts to gain those benefits while afk cloakers can gain many benefits by making absolutely no efforts what so ever or doing nothing or being afk?yes, the afk'ers gains the benefits of causing fear upon others in local and denies them resources as it forces them to dock up or leave the system because there is no ways to figure out if they are afk or not, witch makes everyone else in local to be in a defense mode, even to players who are afk cloaked.that's the unbalanced part i'm talking about.why should afk'ers gain benefits by being afk in an mmo game that is all about those who are actively playing the game?why not change eve so it makes those who afk alot to actually make some effort to stay in space instead of getting booted to the character screen?is that so much to ask for?"
"i have the upmost respect for you seraph and both a writer and a covops pilot. however you are strongly missing the point.i think you are so afraid that some of the suggestions made here are going to make it even harder for you as a covops pilot.that is not what we are seeking at all. re read, re think, give valid reasoning. we all know that status quo - that is what we want to change."
"snipped for brevity.the primary issue, as i read above, seems to question the need for players to make an effort.why do \"defending\" players find themselves in a position to defend?while it is true, in almost every scenario i can find, that they have chosen to fly a ship which is impaired for combat, why should this be an issue?ok, perhaps this bears more explanation. these combat impaired ships usually are specialized for isk generating activities, often to the expense of even basic defense capability in many cases.eve is an mmo.the expectation of privacy from hostile players is not a reasonable expectation here.your allies must stop them, when they attempt to reach you, or it becomes your responsibility.gate camps and roams, are the keystone elements of this defense, the rest being thrown together as needed.as might be expected, the ships best capable of evading these defenses are the only ones left on the field still able to threaten others with.for reasons ranging from combat limitations, to target availability, they are often targeting pve ships.your real question, stripping away the layers of misdirection and pretty labels, seems to be this:why do i have to be prepared to encounter other players in an mmo?upgrading local to eliminate all afk influence what if local chat changed, hunting the cloaked..."
"i did explain better on what i'm talking about here incase you missed it.maybe you should explain what i'm asking for there instead?"
"it will be my pleasure.snipped for brevity.it appears to me, that you are treating cloaking in a manner much like an audience does for a magic trick.and, apparently, for much the same reason.please, permit me to explain:a magic trick, to an audience member, is quick, and simple, despite often appearing difficult or impossible to explain.they see none of the actual preparation, and accompanying effort that goes into crafting such illusion.you, are suggesting that the cloaking ship, whether afk or not, is also a quick and simple process.you would seem to suggest that no preparation goes into it's ability to be present, and maintaining this presence in a manner that supports genuine threat is also free of such effort, since it goes unseen.you would possibly suggest that a roam takes more effort, since it is highly visible. this visibility makes you aware of it, so the effort is given credit.but, an equal number of players, waiting an equal amount of time, but behind a titan... well, you cannot see this before hand, so you seem to suggest it does not exist.it almost seems that you suggest these other players are conjured by the cyno, rather than waiting patiently for this door to open.the effort exists, when the threat is real.in my opinion, knowing a player might be bluffing with this threat, is your responsibility to determine.upgrading local to eliminate all afk influence what if local chat changed, hunting the cloaked..."
"didn't i just treat the cloakers the same as everyone else that you have to make efforts to gain something?if you are afk, you should not gain the benefits of causing fear upon others and deny them resources. as eve is now, you are freely able to do this without making any effort or lift a finger to do those things. that's the problem. you should gain nothing by being afk.can i gain something by being afk in a station?why should you get free pass to gain free benefits by being afk just because you are in a cloaking ship?lol, talk about driving the point i'm taling about away in a totally different direction. what does this have to do with making effort in eve to achieve something?no, i'm suggesting that you should make effort to be able to cause fear and deny others resources. sitting afk and making no efforts to the game shouldn't gain you free benefits like you get now. again, fear and denying of resources is the benefits an afk cloaker gets now, witch should be changed.you still didn't answer me on why afk cloakers should gain the benefits by causing fear and to deny others resources by doing no efforts at all while being afk to achieve that?why can't i do no effort while being afk to cause fear upon you as an afk cloaker while you are in space?wouldn't that make it fair so both you and me have to be active and do something to not end up in troubles?"
"i must reject the premise of your question, since i feel it makes a bad assumption which i cannot work with here.i do not believe a so-called \"afk cloaker\" can cause fear in anyone, unless they deliberately place themselves in a position to be vulnerable.i believe it has been shown that vulnerability is not required, in order to generate isk. i feel that many are lured by the quick and easy temptations cutting corners may offer, and block themselves from playing when this tactic has risk.or, to put it another way, you seem to want to fly in a manner with higher income potential, that also comes tied to greater risk.but, when that risk seems present, you suggest that you have no choice but to stop play, instead of adapting more defensively.your argument appears to center around your conviction that this choice you make, to either fly with maximum earning ability, or not to fly at all, represent the only options you have.i do not agree with this conclusion.i feel sympathy that you appear to have this all or nothing view, but i also feel that you put yourself in this position.upgrading local to eliminate all afk influence what if local chat changed, hunting the cloaked..."
"again, you didn't answer my questions on why afk cloakers should get free benefits by making no effort?could you please stop avoiding the questions i'm asking?or are you out of arguments?oh yeh, you have to take 20 fking jumps out to somewhere to spy on someone. huuuuuuge effort man. does that mean the rest of the things you have to do in that system when you have arrived should be effortless and should grant you other free benefits for not playing the game in that system?yeah, that's as much effort as i have to do to move my slow ass battleship 10-12 jumps to do a story line mission. does that mean that the mission i'm gonna do have to be effortless to complete the mission just because i made some effort to move there?why can't i do no effort and gain benefits on afk'ers while being afk when i'm not in a cloaking ship?if you think it's fine to gain benefits while not playing the game, then i think it's fair that i also can get free benefits while not playing the game against the cloakers or others.until you have answered me on why afk cloakers should gain free benefits for not playing the game and why i as a non-cloaker shouldn't get other free benefits by not playing the game in the same way as the afk cloakers do, then you can write down as much wall of text as you want. if you can't explain those things i'm asking after here, then you are just doing damage control because you know you can get benefits for doing nothing and because you would hate to see this unbalanced mechanic go away."
"i feel the question to be misleading.i think that they do not get free benefits, as i feel their efforts are significant.i would suggest that your view of them does not take into account the actual cost they pay in both time and direct effort.to hold them accountable, because you are unable to determine between a genuine threat and a false one, seems to be what you are having trouble with.if they are not a genuine threat, you are free to do as you please, having no more risk than if they did not exist at all.but, for the quality and quantity of their efforts, which they are under no obligation to reveal, they can become a threat.if they tell others of your activity, they are a scout, and alert more direct threats to your presence.getting this ship in position to scout takes effort both in time and isk, in significant amounts.informing others also takes effort.if they attack you directly, they are the hostile, and may be able to damage or destroy your ship.getting this ship in position to attack with takes effort both in time and isk, in significant amounts.attacking also places this ship at risk.if they open a cyno on you, possibly putting a point on your ship, then they are both hostile as well as the vanguard of enough to be dangerous.getting that ship into position to attack takes both time and isk, as well as every other player involved who went to the significant effort of coordinating and preparing this elaborate attack.attacking also places the original ship at risk, in addition to each vessel arriving on the scene.you should feel flattered, as several players chose you to play with, and your skill and ability to keep the encounter going compared to theirs will determine the duration and outcome.but i feel, that you consider this whole thing to only be a problem, and not an interesting part of eve online.may i suggest you do some research, and see first hand what it takes to stage these zero effort situations?after all, if it is so little effort as you describe, it should be easy for you to judge it yourself directly.upgrading local to eliminate all afk influence what if local chat changed, hunting the cloaked..."
"the effot comes from actually going 30 jumps into enemy territory and finding the enemy. you can't think in such a self centered manner to consider the situation purely from your perspective. and the only reason i afk cloak is due to showing up on local and everyone docking up asap. remove cloakies off local. problem solved. agree?"
"and here is the part where you totally fail to understand what we really are talking about, pal.if you see the question on why cloakers should get free benefits of causing fear and to deny others resources while being afk as misleading, then what question makes it not missleading?it can't be more clear on what i'm asking after. again, why should a player who are afk be able to cause fear upon others and to deny them resources as the others in local will assume that this cloaker is always active and are sneaking around as there is no ways to find out if they are afk or not?cost doesn't have anything to do with this discussion as we are talking about making effort to achieve something. stop making ******** excuses.a player in local have no tools to figure out of one cloaker is active or afk. because of that he will automaticly take him as active and will go into a defense mode everywhere where he are flying around. this is why it's a bad mechanic, because if you can gain those benefits to cause those things to the others in local while not playing the game, then why shouldn't i be able to cause the same / similar by sitting afk in station masturbating to a porn movie?yeah, i'm also afk, so i should be able to do the same as you right?or do you think you get some special treatment just because you are in a cloaking ship?how do the others in local knows that?stop looking through your own eyes. look through the others peoples in locals eyes to see where the problem is. if your not completely blind here, you will see where the problem is. why are your pov more important than the others pov in local?is that because you think you are special just because you are in a cloaking ship?they should have the right to know if someone is afk or not like every other mmo games lets us know."
"being afk is no effort and should get no benefits for that. you are mixing being active with being afk. wake up and read what we are talking about. no wonder why it's a pain in the ass to talk with someone that can't even read what we are talking about.what you don't understand here is that once those attack happens, it's game over for that person who gets attacked. that's why they should have a tool to see if someone is active or not. if they see that you are active, they will make sure to be prepeared to fight you before you drop the cyno.or are just just admitting that you are **** afraid to meet his weapons of destuction if he's actually prepeared for you?why should he fly around prepeared all the time and make tons of effort to defend him self for someone that isn't playing the game?again, this is not about you as an attacker. it's about the pov to those others in local. why are your pov as a single player more important than the rest of the peoples in local?again, just because you are in a cloaking ship, you shouldn't get special treatments with free benefits for not playing the game. if that's the case, then i also want's special treatments for being afk in a vindicator in a station.if you see through the other in locals pov and not your own ego pov, then you will see that there is alot of problems when it comes to afk cloaking. but hey, your pov is more important because you pay some gold premium membership for your account or something, right???maybe you rather should do some research by looking through the other peoples pov in local instead of your own ego pov where you don't want to see the massive problem the afk cloaking is causing."
"try not to be a superman or at least pretent to be some sort of a smug hero.so basicly, you think you should do no effort to gain something in that system after you have arrived just because you made \"some\" efforts to get there?should i say i want no effort to complete a story line mission 10 jumps away just because i made some effort to get to that system where the mission is?"
"perhaps it would help, if we were to clarify some things.could you explain, please, why others in a system would assume that an apparently cloaked ship remained constantly active?your own writing suggests that you do not believe this to be true at all, since you seem quite passionate that they are afk, and therefore not making any effort.i find this to be contradictory, where you both declare them to be afk and devoid of making an effort, while stating without compromise that they will be treated as perpetually active.upgrading local to eliminate all afk influence what if local chat changed, hunting the cloaked..."
"or let me ask you this. if just me and you was in the same local. you are out in space hunting npc's and doing your own business. i'm in a stealth bomber sitting somewhere.as you don't know what i'm doing, would you just pretend that i'm not spying on you or are not sitting ready to drop 30 blops on you?what makes you to believe that they aren't active while they are in a cloaking ship?my writing tells all about that there is a problem with the afk mechanics when you looks through others peoples pov in local who are not using cloaking ships.ofc, your pov is more important than the rest of the others pov, right?i find it pretty amusing that you actually have problems to see the problems when you looks through the others pov that are in local. again, are you some kind of a smug hero and will need some special treatment over others and that makes your pov more important than others?"
"the local credit union i'm using in the us has absolutely no problem paying my eve subscription.it's not the size of the bank, it's the level of paranoia."
"ive lived in nullsec for many years. was enough now i just fly there to kill people ="
"over some time, i been having a look and not seen anyone suggest for these specifics. this is my list of little things. i would like to see. i have a few items that would help industrialist in null. keep in mind these ideas are only to make things work smoother not necessarily safer.1. survey scanner ii - increase in range to 30km, this can be done by either modifying the unit specs or passing the orca bonus on. the orca has bonus to scanner range but i do not know anyone who fits one.2. give orca drone bay more space and bandwidth. not too much just enough to carry a full flight of sentries. this helps as often rats in null may not come closer than 100 km and a set off bouncers would help ease this nuisance. it would also allow for a mix of shield and armor repair drones. often there are places where it is impractical to dock up or have an extra ship dedicated to minor repairs. 3. give orca and mining barges longer lock range. again this is to assist in keeping belt rats at bay. orca should be able to lock within range of sentry drone range - mining barges medium drone range 45km or so.4. this is a stretch but food for thought. a faction capital industrial ship, a midpoint between orca and freighter. large cargo and instead of an ore bay, increase the ship bay. a bonus to fit cloak not a covert cloak with 2 high 3 mid and 4 low fitting slots and rig capability. cargo bay should be scaled with skills to a max of 250k m3, fleet hanger at 50k m3, ship maintenance bay large enough for 1 bs, 1 cruiser, and 2 frigs. this would be enough space for several combination of ships and offer a portable base of operations. this ship can be used by nomadic people whether it is mission runners, incursion peeps or some of industrialist that like to move around. used in conjunction with mobile structures would make for some interesting nomadic gangs. for that matter make it similar to a roquel and instead of manufacturing just compression deploy to a mini station. no docking but jobs, repair ships, just the basics while deployed, could even use fuel blocks as fuel. 5. this is a tired subject already but not much has been stated about specifics. corp. roles, access and in particular access to lab and build slots on pos. you should be able to give access to anyone to use a lab or manufacturing array without giving them access to online offline or unanchored modules in space. maybe it is time for a deployable that has labs for personal use? i know some room is in the old code because the options for public use is there along with many other options that cannot be used.7. is a small request but as many do pi it would be nice to make it faster with less clicks. my idea is the ability to set routes without the product present, and the ability to make routes between launch facility and storage facility.8. my ideas for scanning appear to be making it on rubicon 1.3 so deleted this entry9. bravo on the changes to fleets, now can we set up optional chats for wing, squad in addition to fleet chat please. or an option to just broadcast or chat to your squad? i think this would promote better fleet strategies and give more options.10. this idea has had a lot of thumbs up in other forum discussion. allow cloaked ships to use passive target modules and scanners while cloaked. this would allow for better intel and open up the true capabilities of cloaked ships.this is just my top ten list of little things i would like to see. comments welcome."
"i am saddened that you think so poorly of me.i am neither a hero, nor so egocentric as to portray my view as superior to another soul.i will try to answer your points, referenced above.point a:i have a few options available. i can check out your history of kills, and determine if a pattern exists that shows when you are usually active.i can take precautions, adding extra tank along with dps, possibly adding friends locally if available. mining in a venture, or ratting with omni resists and asymmetric damage types should help make me an expensive consideration.it also helps if my hypothetical alliance has anchored a cyno jammer, meaning only expensive covert ships can be dropped.nothing needs to be perfect, or foolproof. it just needs to look too risky for a drop, or smell like an ambush.fear works in both directions.point b:they are either afk, or they are not. schrodinger's cat analogy stands, since you won't know which it is unless you open the box and look inside.as to my point of view, i try to be quite open, and not make assumptions. it is not possible for my pov to be more important, but i like to understand the differences between our respective views.i hope to learn more at every opportunity, and the only way i know of is to challenge my beliefs appropriately.please try to convince me.point c:i have faith in human nature, and i am most assuredly not special.i have known many who let their expectations hold them back, from many opportunities for growth and happiness.i know that i have made this same mistake many times myself, but i try to accept this and grow beyond it.questioning why we are afraid of something, seems to be a good place to look, in my opinion.upgrading local to eliminate all afk influence what if local chat changed, hunting the cloaked..."
"point a:kinda funny that you miss the point that a stealth bomber with a cyno is not supposed to kill alot stuffs. it's supposed to cyno in stuffs.so if you see that i have very few kills with the stealth bomber, does that make you safer from letting me drop a cyno on you and jump in 30 blops on you?looking up on my killboard wont reveal any of my spying and cyno dropping activities. so i'll guess you failed that one pretty hard, lol.point b:again, in your own pov, there is no issues as it gives you free kills with no risks. however, if you look through the other peoples pov's that are in local, you will still face the problem that they have to work their asses off and make alot of effort to defend them self to something that might not even be at their computers.your pov is fine, so why not make the others pov fine to, or do you think it's unfair that the others should have a fair game like you want to have a fair game?point c:again, according to you, your pov is more important than the other xx amount of peoples pov. again, do you think you get some special treatment just because you are in a cloaking ship?lastly, your post was just a typical wall of text that is nothing more than an avoidance of what i'm telling you. you didn't even bother to answer any of my questions. you just came with some brainfarts about why you are more important than the others in local and why your pov as a cloaker is more important. witch makes the conversation with you stupid."
"this is getting off topic. to be honest both have made good points about the issue discussed here.however poking at each other is not productive. bicker on another thread if you must. yes stolen and adaptedsimply put there is no way to make everyone happy, one thing nightmarex and nikk have in common is recognizing there is a problem. both have examples of different causes and solutions. basic premise of this thread is the cloaking has an issue. threat of force projection from someone who either is, or is not afk whilst cloaked in a system for long period of time.currently there is no ability to open the box to see if the cat is asleep or not without substantial risk.overwhelming agreement from most commenters is the activity regardless of kind should benefit active players not afk ones.i have a tldr version of the current suggestions in the opening topic on this thread.solid arguments for or against possible solutions are welcome. trolling will be ignored, but please attacking a posters pov is not helping find good solutions to the issue."
"and this is why ccp ought to implement timer rollbacks in fw. give players some tools to make it inefficient for \"rabbits\" to run plexes."
"i'd add the 13 text: increase the rorqual production lines from 4 to 8. no way can a rorqual keep compressing stuff for a small fleet mining ore, much less ice.for a fleet of 18 skiffs mining ice, we needed 3 rorquals to barely keep up to par on compression of ice."
"i tend to agree, or atleast make a new module or a tii industrial core that allows for more jobs.i run into a case with just three or four hulks mining different ores to clear a belt. good one"
"this thing still needs support and input. invite your corpmates, alliance mates and friends to check this out and make their input.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"sounds like you want a bank which either has a one-time pad for credit card authorization or is using 3-d secure."
"i still endorse this product and/or service.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"fleets use titan bridges, not jump bridges.jbs are primarily used by the people who live in the space as they go about their day to day activities, and they're one of the few reasons to actually bother owning space.since the jb nerf a couple of years ago, you need to make at least 1 gate jump to cross to the next bridge, which gives ample opportunity for interdiction and interference not to mention that you can temporarily disable a bridge with bubbles, iirc?"
"go check this out, it's pretty cool.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"this is an interesting idea, and i personally do see a use for it, as it would allow for individuals who process numerous contracts to effectively hire sub-contractors to complete a task, and thus creating another mini-career path within eve. i'm sure there would have to be some for of set limitations on this, but all in all, not a bad idea.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"on a related note, it would also be nice if you could issue a courier contract to be delivered to someone else for example, bob creates a courier contract to be delivered to fred's hanger by george."
"the information present clearly and loudly states that op is just an inept pilot. end of ****ing story.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"hello everyone!!i am proposing that ccp allow for viewing ships in the ship hanger by hull type, rather than by 'name\", 'quantity', of 'type'. /my reason for this is so that ships will be easier to locate,and the hanger will be better organized. for example, while the current system of arranging ships by type organizes them to some degree, ships of similar hull types remain separated and the ship hanger still looks cluttered. it appears that the current system is arranging ships is in alphabetical order by class of ship. quite simply, my proposal is to allow arrangement by hull type, then by t1 and t2 variants. incidentally, i have the same issue with rig bp's, which again should be organized by rig type and not the current alphabetical system that appears to be used currently. arrangement buy hull type and rig type would be more efficient and aesthetically pleasing. thanks for your consideration."
"lots of tears."
"the orca fits your need: 50-65k m3 cargo bay + 40k m3 corp bay + 50k m3 ore bay + 500k m3 sma while sporting 200-250k ehp. can reduce your ehp to 65-95k and increase your cargo bay to 90-100+k m3. it is also fairly easy to train into perhaps 10-20 days depending."
"+30 this needs to be re-added"
"captain stringfellowhawk,thanks for showing support for this proposal.hopefully ccp will get the message.dmc"
"it has come to my attention that a lot of players complain about being bumped in hi security space and they cant do nothing but move to a different solar system. it is a broken mechanic rule. there should be a way to retaliate with this lowest of scum. there should be some game mechanic that prevents players from hiding in npc corporations to do their dirty work. i propose a suspect flag for npc corp characters that bump. if they are in a player corp, thn business as usual, this way the would be bumpers will have to be subject to retaliation/ wardecs for their actions. at this point the only thing you can do is run to another system and i think that is idiotic. lets make the miners run all the time. help us make a stand so we can defend ourselves. last time i checked the rebalanceing of the gameplay was to make it more war friendly. give miners and other hi sec dwelers the ability to retaliate, because as it sits this game mechanic is just bad."
"players 'hiding in npc corps' who bump may be doing so because they cannot dec miners who 'hide in npc corps'. should miners also face penalties for mining in an npc corp? because currently there's nonesecondly wardecs are an absolute joke, the only reasons you'd voluntarily recieve a wardec and at the moment it's entirely voluntary are because you wanted a dec in the first place or you don't care what happens in highsec because you don't undock or you live somewhere elseotherwise the corp'll just reform"
"quoth a player in an npc corporation... but sure, good idea. you, too, should have to join real corporations and deal with wardecs and such; it's not fair that you can gobble up all the ore in perfect safety with no chance for your competition to stop you.aside from that, suspect flagging for bumping has been brought up before. it's a terrible idea, for reasons such as legitimate unintentional collisions, chaos on station undocks, and clever gankers positioning themselves to get bumped so they can kill you."
"this sounds like a job for a new mod, rubber carebear bumpy bumpers: low slot module, increase the ships mass %1000 when active, any incoming inertia is reflected back on the incoming ship magnified by %300, can only be fitted to t2 class exhumer ships. drawback is it runs on ore, will suck out 1 unit of ore from the ore bay per cycledoes not work on icelet the fun and games begin."
"i used my csm time machine and went back a few years and persuaded ccp to add over 5000 systems where you can do anything you like to anyone who pisses you off.hope that helps.malcy"
"it is simple because there are no tax on mining. so miner have zero reason to form their own corp beside mining ops fleet, but even they can form mining ops fleet and still be in npc corp.just find way to implement 15% tax on ores so for every 1000 unit of mineral, 15%, 150 unit, go to npc corp.i bet if miner get 15% tax on their activity, more would go to tax haven corp which you can wardec on."
"jump bridges are great places to kill people. one of my most entertaining days in eve involved a full bomber wing, a ton of suicide dictors and someone elses jump bridge.edit: the pl fleet pushing them through the other side of the jb helped :v:edit: in fact i'd say fully jb'd nullsec is far better hunting than non-upgraded nullsec, people get a lot more predictable when they think there is a little bit of safety."
"and careless..."
"you mean give them more ability than they already have? no. you have plenty of tools available to you so use them."
"so i should be able to aggress freighter pilots when they undock because they can't avoid me?"
"actually currently the mission runner can autolink the mission into the fleet window simply by dragging it there from the journal listing. that should help you out a little bit with that, though i agree more could be done to make fleets seem less...intrusive to missions"
"i would like to point out that the op's argument is the same one used for jetcan theft early in eve's life jetcan's originally did not give aggression.when aggression was given for jetcan theft... well... pvpers used this to blow up countless angry miners.so go ahead... champion this op. if history has shown us anything, it is that the pvpers will use this against you in ways that will make you cry foul and wish it never came to be."
"does anyone have anything that they would like to input?i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"yet you still beat on that the afk problem is limited to 'cloakers'.the solo cloaker has no way of knowing if all the ships behind the pos shield are afk or not, or all the people listed in 'local' who are not in space..... are they waiting in the station/outpost, ready to mass undock as soon as he makes a move on some ratter... or are they simply afk, to give the illusion of a threat.you really need to decide if your thread is about one of two issues...1. cloaks can stay on for a long time and i don't want them in game because i cant catch them.2. people can go afk but appear to be 'in game' in a large number of locations.these are two different things, which you are lumping together to try to address what you see as a threat your personal gameplay style.jint hikaru - miner / salvager / explorer / spacebum in the beginning the universe was created. this has made a lot of people very angry and been widely regarded as a bad move."
"you are right to an extent. this has been argued before. there are many threads on how broken local is the the lack of proper intel mechanics. this thread is intended to address only one aspect. i will address your concern.1. on this point if you read throughout the thread you will find i do not want to remove cloaks, nor do i want to \"nerf them\"i enjoy using cloaks both as a defence and as an offence. however i do belive that someone who remains cloaked for a longer than normal game session. for say three days from down time to down time, yes that is something i have an issue with.2. on this point i am in agreement. i play many games besides eve. all including dust make eve and exception by having an auto logoff mechanic based on activity. there are many many reason both positive and negative on both sides of the coin on that issue alone. but that is not what this thread is about. only a small portion of this issue is even involved. nikk narell and myself have covered many ideas and point out that there should be a balance where by inactive players are effectively removed from the equation. there are several other threads on the issue. this one is about afk cloakers. blaming the rest of eve for actions or inactions is silly. your last statement tells me that you did not bother to read past the initial headline.i have never mentioned that afk cloaking threatens my playstyle.i merely wish to expand upon it.if you sit in a system cloaked, active or not, i should have an ability to hunt you. that is not a current form of gameplay.i also believe that if i am cloaked in a system i should have the means within the vessel i am currently in to gather intel and hunt without resorting to lighting a cyno.if i am a say miner or rather i wish to have the ability to stand a reasonable chance based on skills, fit, tactics to fight off a cloaked vessel that has attacked me.and personally i believe that that one person who is in my local and stays cloaked, afk or not, should do so with the same about of risk as me undocking and going about my usual business with him there. now i have taking time to read and understand what you are saying and have taken the time to give a measured response. please look things over again and give an intelligent response affording me the same respect i have given you."
"there is a way to mitigate. move to null-sec space. level the playing field."
"the first time i was bumped, i returned and moved right next to the roid. now the bumper had to deal with the me and the roid which made for entertainment value. even when he/she did bump me, i didn't go too far as the roid took some of the impact. having a roid on your ass can be a good thing."
"i see what you're saying but none of that is strictly true is it.if you plug in to pyfa a given fit and then copy it, modify it to have faction weapons and then directly compare when at all v skills the t2 ship will perform just as good if not slightly better.the advantage of faction weapons is their lower fittings. the rof and other stats are really high but not so high to be game breaking. also i will lean back on my op and state again that the effort to build a faction weapon is quite considerable but that the market sells pirate weapons with identical stats for often much less. just compare fn 200mm rail gun vs ss rail gun and notice the price difference. i can't really say much more than i already have so when i get home i'll build some ships in pyfa and transliterate their stats on to here. can not do very much on my phone here."
"in their place, what do you propose to make holding sov worthwhile?"
"even if this were to be reduced to a single faction ship, give it the appearance of a skeletal structure with ship transport bays within the structure.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"recently ccp in all their wisdom decided to \"fix\" escalation timers. now you can't refresh them anymore.aaparently the refreshing timers was \"just\" a bug. but it was stanard practice for the past few years. a lot of people running anomalies relied on refreshing timers. also because ccp didn't make any offical announcement about the change so you had to find out through trial and error.but, current sitation is that you have 24 hours only to do an ecalation. especially for the harder sites which i do with friends this is only a very small window of opportunity. i play like 4-6 hours/day on weekdays.such a short timer makes it basically impossible for people with limited time, to get a group together on a weekday and run them.to make those site more doable i would like to propose to increase the timers to 72 hours. which is still a limited time. and remove the ability to cargoscan npcs so people can't abuse that."
"stupid suggestion is stupid.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"no, no, a thousand times no.the rub lies here: with your standardized weapon systems i.e. blasters, autocannons, pulse lasers, railguns, artillery and beam lasers, there are specific skill trees for the specializations related to them. why should this differ with different missile types? therefore, each missile type i.e. rockets, light missiles, heavy missiles, heavy assault missiles, cruise missiles and torpedoes should have its own specific skill tree.quit trying to create easy buttons due to laziness.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"more support for this, and other artistic works that people do that help further the eve community is needed.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"not even once.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"that is also a fantastic idea.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"i believe that the bookmark cap should be increased to 50,000. having a large, complete set of bookmarks is exceedingly important for people who live in fight in nullsec. while having two or three bookmarks per gate per system plus safes might be enough for the average grunt, scouts and especially fc's need many many times more.it is not uncommen for fc's to have upwards of 50 bookmarks per system. having an artificial cap on the number of bookmarks you can save detrimentally effects players game experience.nobody likes having to make bookmarks, and having to remake bookmarks because you had to delete some to make room for bookmarks in another region is incredibly frustrating."
"this, so go for it op.destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"plnety of people cant do this or that on weekdays, its common assumption in eve that nothing will ever get done on a weekday, unless your in a wormhole corp cause were all hardcore like that girlfriend taking up too much time? buy her an eve account!. but in all seriousness, 24 hours is plenty fo time for most people, if you and your buddies' schedules are so conflicting that it is difficult to find time to run an escalation within 24 hours, then you either need to coordinate your efforts to do escalations on the weekends, or expand your pool of friends so as to have more people available."
"why is it that you think 'making everything the same' is a good thing???who cares if it takes a little longer to train missiles, or its a differently laid out skill tree.... its differences that stop games becoming boring. i'm not saying that choosing skills is the most interesting thing on the planet, but you know what i meanjint hikaru - miner / salvager / explorer / spacebum in the beginning the universe was created. this has made a lot of people very angry and been widely regarded as a bad move."
"ok, im gonna summarize. players running isboxer are ruining eve online. using it for pvp is basically cheating, it removes the requirement to have a competent fc managing your dps, targets, etc. ccp, if you dont ban isboxer you will permanently lose my respect and that of many others that i know. ive been playing this game for a long time and the isboxer thing has me hot under the collar. ban it now before you end up looking like wow. -just saying. -los"
"alliances don't have roles and access rights to manage bookmarks, like corps do communications officer.it would probably require a role management overhaul, and we all know how ccp loves that topic."
"surely this is bad for content creation? surely this is not good game design?generally when we do this, we have the heavy tackle cloaked next to the stealth bomber.you can point outside of neut, scram, and web range. the only things that hurt are bonused webs, bonused neuts, light drones, and really good tracking. regardless, many targets don't have any of these.i too have spent a lot of time in them. but unlike most of the posters here, i've used them for far more things. they're not overpowered at any one thing, but they are good at too many things. that's versatility, which in abundance is imbalance."
"except in a fleet situation, isboxer is entirely worse than a fleet of actual playersin any pvp scenario. unless your talking about people sitting on gates with sebo tornados, but in that case, it doesnt really matter if its 10 guys with 10 accounts, or 1 guy with 10, your equally dead the second you jump."
"post your lossmail."
"thread closed."
"rather than alliance book marks could there not be a book mark skills for corporation skill so like 50+book marks per level for corp max 500 book marks.. if trained empire control the advanced skill could be added 50+for alliance per skill level max 250 book marks for alliance simples. this second skill would only be used for alliance holding corp not every corp in the alliance."
"hi all i as we all know at the moment the bounty system is viewed as a joke since eve came out in 2003 so i wanted to jot down this idea to see if it would help improve things.i am going to be using the names jack and bob to explain the problem and see if you guys than will like the fix for this.so the problem is simple this jack kill bob one day does not matter wear so bob go oh ill know ill let all the people of eve know he is a bad guy buy putting a bounty on him. so bob adds say 10 mil isk on jacks head. jack thinks this is rely cool i got a bounty on my head i want more. bob is still sad because bob at this point is new or bad at pvp. a while back kill rights wear added so bob could sell or trade the kill right to a friend or some one. this made bob a little bit more happy but still sad as the isk spent on the bounty was wasted. so to fix this little problem to make jack look a bit mean and make bob a lot more happy and make bounty hunting become a vital role in eve is we ask for the remove of all bounty's before you guys shout and scream i am of my head keep reading.ok so jack kills bob once again leaving bob rely sad but this time bob has a little tick up his hands. bob looks for a bounty hunter to kill jack while learning more about pvp, after finding one bob makes a coatrack with the bounty hunter and links the x amount of isk agreed in to the kill right. jack at this point does not know what bob has done and after a while the bounty hunter kills jack and collects the bounty from the kill. not the ship not the pod but the kill right its self. witch can be sold from a player with one or traded of the player that just wants the bounty hunter to kill him out right. this makes things fear because jack killed bob and hurt him bob may be a new person or old but low on pvp could not do much about it. now bob can do something about it and no be a wanted person with silly bounty's put on him for no reason.so i thank you all for reading it and hope you guys like it, may be if we agree on it this could be included in the summer or winter patch of 2014 fly safe and hunt well. +1 spell checker."
"the problem in your argument lies in that the gunnery skill tree just got all the bonuses of the missile tree, in that you no longer need to tier up through all the specs like you used to.however gunnery support skills apply to 2 classes of weapon normally, some of them apply to 3. while missile skills only apply to 1 class of weapon. and you have to train short & long range weapons separately while gunnery gets to train them as one.this is a valid request since all the old advantages of missiles being able to train direct to a single spec without going through all the tiers has been removed."
"i'd love to see this come to fruition so that everyone can have something else to fly or shoot at.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"apparently ccp has changed the operating /update model from large updates applied occasionally to many smaller patches and updates applied frequently often a few a week that's what the gm feedback was when i queried.speaking personally i am getting more than a little frustrated of getting home logging on and having to wait for the latest update, by my count it's 2 so far this week , i can appreciate the necessity when something is really broken but mostly it appears these are just tweaks to do things the developers want to do and are not essential to game play at all..again from what the gm who fed back to me told me , that's the new policy and it's not going to change so i'd appreciate some csm action here to feedback directly to the developers on this matter.thanks,naldo."
"i agree.rapid fire patching a live service is asking for trouble. let this stuff bake in bigger batches before deploying it."
"i endorse this product and/or service.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"solution to that: ceo/directors from executor corp can manage them.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"gank catalysts day 1eaf, af not very long at all.ceptor not very long at all.decent dps in a t1 cruiser not very long at all.i was involved in large null battles from 3 months of age.now at a year old i am leadership group of a 7 year old pvp null corp. low sp pilots can do a ton of helpful stuff in t2 frigs, faction frigs and t1 cruisers.money at its root is a form of rationing. when the richest 85 people have as much wealth as the poorest 3.5 billion 50% of humanity it is clear where the source of poverty is."
"you currently can't assemble t3's at a pos, which is really stupid. you can change out the mods, and you can assemble every other ship in the entire game including a titan, but not a t3. thats literally ********, you can put together a ship that is supposed to be the size of small moon, but you can't figure out how to plug some sub-systems into a cruiser class hull?"
"dear ccp,latest ui improvments are awesome.but could you add a simple button to switch system map &starmap. it's very annoying to search for starmap switch button like faction buttons in isis .also add more options to starmap .distinct low ,high or null sec.systems i've visited last 24 hours.would be awesome.p.s good idea to save space signatures in spaceship memory and viewing em on starmap."
"i think you just accidentally the whole forum! jint hikaru - miner / salvager / explorer / spacebum in the beginning the universe was created. this has made a lot of people very angry and been widely regarded as a bad move."
"ok, i've read through this and think i understand what you are asking for.you want to pay a someone who is a bounty hunter for killing someone instead of putting a bounty on them.this exists in game right now. there are loads of mercenary corps, and i believe a dedicated merc channel.just give them the name of your target, and agree a price, they will do the dirty and you pay them.everybody's happy... apart from your target. jint hikaru - miner / salvager / explorer / spacebum in the beginning the universe was created. this has made a lot of people very angry and been widely regarded as a bad move."
"doesn't that mean that i would not be able to put a bounty on you for your posting?"
"yes its simple tying the bounty on to the kill right so mercenary corps if you like you can give them the kill right with the bounty on it once they kill the person with the kill right gets the bounty."
"mercs.also, proper grammar would prevent misunderstandings here.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"i think bounties are in a great situation right now. a bounty simply rewards pilots for destroying the target, and it does so in a manner that the pilot can't claim his own bounty for profit. i think killrights are decent, although some tweaks would make it more entertaining. one idea i've been thinking about, is to have killrights to not expire when the subject loses their ship. that way you can repeatedly hunt down and activate killrights on a target for an entire month from the time they committed their criminal act."
"it would be really helpful to the non bot community if your own sell and buy orders where highlighted in some way. this would make it much easier to check your own price compared to your competitions.yes this might be another step towards easy mode but, it just really painful to check your own market orders compared to market price. the only people this would be a serious disadvantage to is the bots who will have less of an advantage playing the market."
"this already exists. just check the box \"highlight my own orders\" or something like this in the markte-options"
"thanks now i feal nubish."
"smaller patches are by and large better than big ones. that way, when problems happen and they always do no matter how much testing you do, they can quickly identify and fix it."
"ccp changed to this schedule so that they could implement things as and when they were needed/ready to be implemented/etc, rather than wait for scheduled main patch dates and implement them then.you know the whole fixing little things initiative? yeah, that is involved with the frequent small patch schedule. so yeah, if you'd like to wait ages for that trivial yet annoying bit of the ui to be fixed, then sure, by all means go back to the old way.i also wonder how happy you would be to have to spend longer to download patches, due to the increased size because they aren't being broken down into smaller release-when-ready chunks?any patch they put in is of benefit to the game, whether it be an immediate benefit i.e. module or ui change, or long term, by putting the groundwork in for future releases.hal.why yes, yes i am going to shoot you."
"seriously, its like 45 seconds of downloading, maybe a min and a half tops.if its really giving you that much frustration, i would suggest cutting out the coffee after 2pm and try some yoga or meditation. jint hikaru - miner / salvager / explorer / spacebum in the beginning the universe was created. this has made a lot of people very angry and been widely regarded as a bad move."
"actually its completely the opposite. you have to have the right infrastructure, development and qa process behind it, but many smaller releases is better than fewer large releases. ci and cd is the way forward ;."
"multiple small patches that apply hotfixes are better than multiple large patches which take ages to download.so i say, let the many patches and updates continue.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"so can erotica 1 still run for csm if he does it using a different account/toon?"
"that would be awesome for when i'm picking something frozen out."
"does your bank also hate paypal?"
"honestly it's time to change banks. my large bank is perfectly fine for international payments."
"the conditions for who can run is contained in the csm white paperminimum 60 day old character is one of themso making a new character would not work, on that basis alone, let alone any other conditionsm"
"definitely not. eula violations are assigned to the player, not the account. eg: if you're caught botting, all your accounts are sanctioned, not just the bot account."
"the issue is not afk it the cyno's they typically fit. its an asinine argument to try to say oh they're afk how can they be denying you anything when they're afk. its asinine because:1. while they're likely often afk you never know if they are truly afk or not. this means if you're smart you have to assume they're not afk even though they likely are.2. a question often asked ironically by the same people that think cloaky cyno's alts are fine of hotdrop victims on the forums is \"why were you ratting, mining, missioning, hacking in a system with a nuetral? it was your own fault\" which would suggest that those people consider that a nuet in system, whether potentially afk or not, would preclude all activities mentioned. bit hypocritical imo.3. a t1 frig even a newb ship with a cyno is one of the easiest skilled but most dangerous ships in game.ibis: informationdevelopmentthe caldari ibis rookie ship is a small but stout vessel that fits admirably well as a cargo hauler, small-scale miner or highly agile fleet carrier. its reliability makes it a good choice for novice ship captains.special role bonus with cynosuaral field generator fitted: 36,975,000,000 m3 of hanger space. cloaks pilots in hanger bay so they do not appear in local. frankly as long as almost all ships can fit cyno's very easily, can deploy those cyno's any time, cannot be determined to be afk or non-afk, then any nuetral in system, especially with a history on their killboards of blops or titan drops, would logically preclude any activity in that system."
"joke's on them, dude. they spend like, $2/day on electricity to camp your system. or their mom does, at least."
"the premise of this response tries to sneak in a few assumptions, as if they were accepted by everyone automatically.this is not true.using the numbers above, as reference:1. you are not required to believe anything.claiming smart people will believe your view implies any other view is foolish.the truth is, you have to weigh your options, and whether it is cost effective for an opponent to attack you. if your system has a cyno jammer in place, you won't see any noob ships able to threaten with regular cynos.if your ship has meaningful tank and fighting ability, and is not obviously solo and unsupported, it becomes a meaningful deterrent.keep in mind, the remaining possible attack ships are both pricey and less effective in combat.2. untie your perspective from the all or nothing choices, and you might see more options.with a neutral in the system, hedge your bets. that means take additional precautions, like not using a min maxxed exhumer fitted for maximum yield, or a ratting ship fitted for maximum efficiency against rats with known tank and dps profiles.use omni tank and dps, in short3. a t1 frig looks great as a talking point, but the defending forces have to either be working in unprepared systems, or not bothering to protect them with gate camps and proper jamming.you can't pretend to have prepared for defense, when you leave this open.implying that players should be able to operate safely in null, with no previous effort to prepare in place, suggests that 1 or 2 players should be able to thwart significantly more players who have made the effort.null is about group effort, and with strategic gate camps and cyno jammers, you can sometimes operate understrength or even solo if you play wisely.suggesting otherwise, that you deserve effective privacy in an mmo, is not reasonable.upgrading local to eliminate all afk influence what if local chat changed, hunting the cloaked..."
"i think this is more apologetic than reasonable. no amount of fitting for pvp will protect you against a fleet of magically appearing ships.cyno jammers do not protect against blops and are not deployable in npc space. nor are they realisticly deployable in most active sov space. any hot droppers will of course choose blops or to use cyno alts in non-cyno jammed systems.you cannot prepare a defense against hot droppers. typical hot dropping alts will sit in local 23/7, its not realistic to have every member in space with a cyno fitted, in fleet and a 24 hour counter drop team on standby. it is realistic to have a cyno alt cloaked in a system 23/7 and able to become active at any time of the day or night.no one is implying players should be able to operate safely in null. and there is no effort at all required to park a frigate in a system and leave it there. there is no appreciable effort required to click scan everyone once in a while on your cyno dropping alt, undock blops in the safety of your home system and drop on top of a single easy to kill ship with that fleet. to equate effort to that is ludicrous.at the end of the day eve is about space combat. its not about dropping fleets of pvp fit ships on one victim so you can get easy pointless kills. if a mechanic is harming the game, and i believe cyno's are, then that mechanic needs to be balanced.every module in eve has a counter except for cyno's. a microjump drive has a 10 second delay, a cloaky ship has a minimum 5 second delay, a stealth bomber has a very fragile tank to make up for its instant lock, a bomb has a 10 second fuse, a smartbomb has very limited range and can't be activated on stations or gates.... a cyno has none of this and that's why we're seeing them everywhere, they're the current i win button of eve."
"oh no, the developers are actually doing things regularly and in smaller amounts, instead of just dumping one massive change occasionally and leaving it broken for several months.more seriously, were at a point in time where internet is fairly accesible and cheap, even in wireless form. if you have trouble affording a better connection, then maybe shelling out cash monthly for a game isnt the best course of action for your finances. if its a matter of just accessing an internet fast enough to download these patches that under any practical connection takes less than a minute, i feel very badfor whatever hellhole of earth your job has you stuck at."
"it's so sad when a badger does the job better than a blockade runner when item logistics are concerned."
"so what you are saying is that no mining in high sec unless you have been in the ame player owned corp for 7 days? fixes dropping corp and npc issue in 1 gomoney at its root is a form of rationing. when the richest 85 people have as much wealth as the poorest 3.5 billion 50% of humanity it is clear where the source of poverty is."
"as the more f&i following csm members may already know, a number of times in the last year i've posted some sketch concept designs for a more interactive pve design, that could easily expand across all areas of space and bring pve & pvp closer.however i also know that the f&i forums have a lot of noise, and a great many good idea's, especially if only in sketch form due to the scope of the idea, get lost in that noise.so i was wondering if after working along side some of the csm to create a full design proposal, this is the sort of thing the csm would be interested in forwarding to ccp.to summarise the basic points in the concept.npc's no longer come in pre defined by name types.- instead all npc's are simply named 'faction' 'class' and use the same ship types as players in most cases. e.g. 'angels cruiser' 'rupture'- npc's are created via a dynamic system that takes the input of risk level of the site.-- factors affecting creation are crew level, module level, ship hull level, and implant levels.-- ships are created with real fittings, subject to the same rules as players for dropping. this reflects increased danger in each npc most likely with increased drops, ideally keeping overall drop rate almost identical to the current situation.-- some npc's, likely high value npc's relative to the site, may also warp out if certain sub objectives are completed, meaning - ship bounties are no longer visible, instead are calculated based on the value of the ship when it is destroyed.sites are created like anomalies, but in a linked site cluster.- these site clusters have a primary site. for example. 'angels staging post'. the primary site would be their 'pos' equivalent structure- these clusters would also have a number of secondary sites. interacting with these would affect the ships at all sites in some ways. e.g. 'c&c relay' when engaging the relay, it forces them to switch power to shields meaning their fleet boosts are no longer available.'- completing any site, primary or secondary would start a despawn timer, based on the site completed. this rewards team work without forcing team work.- each site would have several sub objectives possible also, most of which would be optional, again to reward team work, but not require it for individual income.- site clusters may have local environmental effects. these may be damage clouds, buffs/nerfs like wh's. high speed asteroids that will bump ships around, or other such things to make space feel like it's 'unknown'the npc generation is meant to stop players being able to look up that for example an outuni is a neut heavy ship, primary them first, instead the outuni would hide in the middle of the other battleships and you would have to find it by looking for the neut visuals, or by ship scanning. it is also meant to keep things fresh each site, and avoid the massive database and cumbersome ways of creating new enemies. if ship skins are implemented as a 'slot' device, this makes it even easier to do this as you can then put an appropriate sub faction skin on all their ships also.the site generation is meant to allow for fleets to do these sites without changing the individual isk/hr ratio in most cases. 1 player could for example generate 50 million/hr pure example number. however 5 players spreading across the various sub sites & also doing a few optional objectives should also make 50 mil/hr, or maybe 55/hr to provide a small buff for group content, but should not be less on average, and should not be vastly greater either.additionally it should be possible to generate scenario's that actually require several players to work together, but these should not be every site.in the long run, my idea was also to have these sites replace missions, making high sec no longer capable of supporting an infinite number of pilots from a single lvl 4 agent in theory, tidi mechanics would slow it down a bit, while also making it much easier to support a decent number of pilots active in space in a low/null/wh system, and to have pve & pvp fittings come together much much closer by making ewar & tackle a relevant part of these sites. however that's a trickier proposal and certainly couldn't be done at the same time as the sites were introduced since the sites would likely need a fair bit of tuning first, however i do also have some notes on various ways to handle replacing the mission system with this more dynamic system that allows & encourages fleets also.now, as you can see, even for a very quick overview without even trying to get into any kind of nitty gritty or real details on exactly what ship lines would go under what factions, how you would handle the fittings, how you would scale the crews & implants etc is still quite a long document. so obviously before i write 500 pages i'd like to know they will actually get read by the right people at ccp, and additional input especially from data crunchers myanna, i hear your one of those to try and pre generate some of the values for balance would also be great.yay, the draft actually saved when the forums tried to eat this post"
"no, you want pvp go do pvp, there's plenty for you to choose from. any changes will just be overcome in some time and you'll be complaining and wanting another change."
"tl;drmy proposal is that automatically generated emails on aggression of structures be removed from eve. eve should be a sandbox game in as many aspects as possible. this includes one of the most useful tools in eve online, scouts and intelligence gathering. with timers automatically providing free intel on every and any aggression the sandbox is not only not working, its completely broken.the problemin our current eve online we are having to deal with coalitions that are close to 40k players. that number if the players in that coalition were a population of a country, would place that country number 30 on the 30's smallest countries. meaning there would be 29 other countries that exist in rl that have smaller populations than our biggest coalition.given this, when an email is generated and sent to a large coalition of players it means that that coalition will be able to gather enough of a defense to completely destroy any smaller entity. this removes the ability for any smaller entity in eve online from being able to use sandbox methods to attack that large group. this means there is only one way for anyone to take space in eve, by activating the email, alerting the enemy, then turning up at the time of the enemies choosing and if its one of these mega-coalitions, being completely eradicated.this is the antithesis of sandbox and i feel that these mails should be removed asap to allow sandbox methods to once again be used in eve online for attacks against other parties.the proposalremove automatically generated mails. place the responsibility of noticing and informing on the players themselves. if a player doesn't notice there is a big red timer spread across the system view within 24 hours then the owner loses that structure as is only fair in a sandbox game. intel gathering and scouting needs to be part of holding sovereignty and should not be handled by the server at all. eve is supposed to be player run, player created, player focused and player driven. for those huge coalitions that hold vast amounts of space but never go there this will be a blow but given that they have up to 40k players, its hardly much to ask them to check their systems imo.like this is you would like to see a non-blue donut, player focused, sandboxy eve again"
"four things:1: \"i can't figure out how to deal with this mechanic\" =/= \"this mechanic is broken\". if you think people are gathering undue information on your plans from structure mails, use them against the recipients. if you hit a bunch of structures at once, you can clog the inbox with lots of 'fake' mails not actually related to your plans, giving yourself cover in which to work. it's not even necessarily all that hard, since you can send people extra mails just by taking casual potshots at things as you go by. the more you do this, the less useful structure mails will be as an intel source.2: it is in no way unrealistic that your expensive facilities would not have security on the level of a car alarm, to alert you when someone's trying to mess with them. the power of 'email alerts' is already something which exists in real life today, so it's entirely unsurprising that, in the future, you can do the same thing.3: malcanis' law applies here. sure, it'd be somewhat inconvenient for a huge coalition to have to check its space regularly. it'd be a lot harder for a small organization to do the same, despite the fact that they have less to check. major alliances have the manpower and organization to execute regular patrols re: handling of siphons. smaller groups don't. this change wouldn't hurt large organizations in the way you think it will, and it'd serve as yet another barrier preventing small and inexperienced groups from holding sov.4: structure mails are not a sov-only phenomenon. there are hisec carebear types that own research poses and whatnot, and they need all the help they can get in defending their facilities even if it only amounts to an 'evacuate before this time' notice. sure, professional structure-shooters probably could do without extra help in knowing when they need to be shooting structures... it's the amateurs and wannabes that really do, and they'd be hurt a lot worse by this change than anyone else."
"1. it has nothing to do with \"i can't figure out how to deal with this mechanic\". in a sandbox game its entirely \"this mechanic should not exist\". while you could theoretically attack a bunch of structures that doesn't negate the problem. unless you are talking about attacking hundreds of structures it would be trivial for a 40k man alliance to go check which ones are actually under attack since they have more than 24 hours to do it. sandbox = player made content not server made themepark ride.2. in real life i could pop your bonnet, disconnect the alarm, steal your car and it wouldn't magically become invulnerable for 24 hours while you get a gang of mates to come beat me up. not that i'd turn up 24 hours later. trying to equate real life in any way with this mechanic is ludicrous. 3. there is no such thing as malcanis law - its made up nonsense. this is already been argued to death. its fallacy to try to say that this would hurt smaller organizations. it wouldnt. smaller organizations actually live in and around their space. they would certainly notice a big red reinforced when they logged in, much more reliably than a big alliance / coalition player that lives in tenal and has systems in period basis they never visit. if you're incapable of noticing your under attack then you don't deserve to have that space. pretty simple concept.4. high sec carebears would not be affected at all. in most cases if high sec carebears and small corporations are under attack, firstly they would notice it, since they don't own 1000+ systems. secondly in most cases noticing it won't do them much good at all. if they're under attack they're likely not going to be able to defend it anyway - given that they're small and carebear."
"lately, a lot of people have been challenging new players to duels in starter systems only to blow them up if they accidentally click on the accept button. many people have quit due to this, and canbaiting was previously off-limits in the starter systems though as a bannable offence.for the new players, i recommend that duels do not occur in starter systems the systems where you start the game in, and the systems that have the career agents. this is 24 systems out of almost 8000 that will have the duels off-limits. if dueling is desired, it's simply a jump away.i seek your votes to ensure the future of this game and it's healthy player growth. thank you in advance."
"isn't harassing actual newbies in the starter systems already bannable?if you're aware of people going after newbies like this, i think you can just report it... but on the off chance that this isn't already against the rules, sure, i'd support changes to reinforce that.specifically, an extra tutorial warning popup thing that advises new players not to accept a duel request wouldn't be unreasonable."
"i support this proposal, i have seen this happen one time too much and certainly when new players are starting out this is not a way to welcome them. i would further ask that this be an offense that can carry a heavy penalty.+10"
"duels against newbies is are already a bannable offense in starter systems. however the gms can't be everywhere at once and rely upon people to report such actions."
"i don't think removing them is the right thing to do. i think putting additional restrictions on them to make them less desirable to put in every system is a much better solution. if you go into map and have a look at how many there are it is pretty stupid - warning: wear sunglasses when you do, its a pretty potent light show."
"an overview of the topicits common knowledge that players in game use the threat of hotdrops to disrupt other players activities in game. while i don't disagree with the tactic itself the ease of use and power of the cynosaural generator is overwhelmingly imbalanced.in the last few months i have been involved in the hub-zero project, a drive by some players to create a nrds area in stain. in that time the area we have set up operations has become somewhat of a mecca for cyno alts permacloaking in systems. we have had up to 7 at once in the 4 main systems we use. recently i had to petition one of them for following me around, for being abusive and harassing and calling me a pedophile, insinuating that i am watching child porn and other pretty foul comments.we have had multiple blops drop on exploration cheetahs doing relic sites. what i am proposing in this thread is not the elimination of cynosaural fields but an adjustment to make them less of a griefing / harassment tool and more of what they should have been intended to be, a logistical tool.the problemthe issues of cynosaural field generators can be summed up using the following points:1. they are too easy to train - it takes 5 days of training to be able to fit one.2. they are too cheap to deploy - you can fit one on an ibis. it costs a couple of hundred isk to generate a field to bridge in 250 ships.3. they are too easy to fit. they can be fitted easily on a newbie ship, can be fitted on virtually any ship in game. you can fit one on an arazu and tank the arazu to have 50k ehp quite easily.4. they cannot be countered with any of the usual mods in game, such as ecm.5. they do not follow the normal rules around deployment. they ignore the cloaking recalibration delay that most offensive modules are required to follow because they were likely not seen as offensive modules when they were developed.6. description of the ibis without cynosaural field generator:developmentthe caldari ibis rookie ship is a small but stout vessel that fits admirably well as a cargo hauler or small-scale miner. its reliability makes it a good choice for novice ship captains.description of hte ibis with cynosaural field generator:developmentthe caldari ibis rookie ship is a small but stout vessel that fits admirably well as a cargo hauler, small-scale miner or agile fleet carrier capable of holding 36 trillion m3 of ships and their pilots. covert pilot cloaking hides the pilots contained in its hanger bay from showing up in local. its reliability makes it a good choice for novice ship captains.the solution:cynosaural field generators should have two modes. mode 1: untargetted activation. 30 second delay on activation reducing by 20% per level of cyno field theory minimum 5 s. removal of beacons - beacons were put in before easy scanning was implemented and as such were a counter to people dropping cyno's in impossible to get to safes. they are no longer necessary when you can scan down a ship in 30 seconds or less. not affected by ecm.mode 2: targetted activation. follow the usual rules of targeted offensive modules. affected by ecm.vote if you would like to see this."
"also for anyone who wants to claim i'm only \"whining\" about this because of hub-zero please refer to -> linkits a very long held belief of mine that cyno's ruin eve pvp."
"agreed cyno jammers do not protect against blops, and i realize that most of eve cannot realistically prepare a defence against hot droppers, however there are those who can depending on the time of day and what is going on in eve at that given time. i believe cyno's are however another area that needs to be looked at, however the flip side is with the nerfing of force projection that means cyno's titan bridges, and jump bridges can have a very negative effect on the overall eve economy as it will take great effort to move the things that keep combat active. however all of that is for a different discussion.your next point about space combat, nikk and i can both wholeheartedly agree that this is what eve is about. this thread is about afk or not afk cloakers sitting in system 23/7, we are looking for valid arguments for and against balance to the long term cloaker, personally i think there should be an active counter to cloaking that is effective once that person is in system and cloaked up. should that person be active and paying attention they would still have a multitude of tactics to counter my attempts to find him. to me this cat and mouse - mono amano game of hide and seek would be fun! i major by product of this would be that the afk or not afk cloaked vessel sitting in system 23/7 would likely become an easy target. from the comments and trolling i and others have received on this thread, that sentiment appears to butt hurt a few people.i will state this. anyone in space or station who is afk for long periods and still is has an ability to affect the gameplay of others. this should be balanced. only active players should be able to affect game play. and if you are or are not active and cloaked in a system i have access too, i would hunt you, maybe i find you maybe not, currently i do not have a mechanic available to let me do so."
"pointing out that cyno jammers are not effective against blops, was never a point of debate.if all you have to worry about are overpriced and inefficient ships trying to attack you, then your problems are manageable.sov null is a unique play area, as you can deny unwanted pilots docking rights at much needed outposts.pointing out that you cannot cyno-jam npc space is also pointless, as you cannot effectively use local there any more than you can in high sec, as non-allied ships are expected in this area.npc space, like low sec, is unsecured by nature. the moment a non allied ship can safely dock in that outpost, your control is reduced to moment by moment ability to use strength of force over all.solo or small groups operating here do so expressly at their own risk, for obvious reasons.as to being unable to prepare a defense against hot droppers, this is a strange perspective.the real fact is that you cannot predict when other players are going to show up and attack you, in this mmo.as it is intended to be.being able to use local as an early warning system is an emergent form of play, that makes other groups of players extremely limited as to how they can threaten deliberately evasive targets.can these players jump gate by gate, and reasonably expect to find and attack ships that would want to avoid them?no.any alliance not totally offline would have at least enough players at key choke points to at least notice passing traffic, and report this into intel channels. the fact that they can do this while safely docked, and never need to worry about local reporting this presence faithfully, means that the intel is flawless up to the point where someone simply needs to see a new name, and paste it into another channel.if they can't do this much, get out.suggesting that this demonstrated as incapable method should be the only means to threaten targets, is effectively expecting privacy in an mmo.if you want to compete, and play a game to determine if you notice them before they can ambush you, that is different, but please be more reasonable than simply expecting hot dropping to be flat eliminated.upgrading local to eliminate all afk influence what if local chat changed, hunting the cloaked..."
"while i agree with some of the points you made i have never suggested that hot dropping be flatly eliminated. as i stated earlier its a valid part of the game but one that is too easy, too cheap and too one sided in its current form. it needs if not a counter, a risk element associated with it. it currently doesn't.some of the things you have stated i find are not entirely correct. you certainly can get kills jumping gate to gate. you can get kills cloaking up in someones system and killing people with the ship you have rather than 10 battleships 10 jumps away. check my kills vs tribal band for an example of that sort of cloaking. you don't need to i win every kill. risk is good.also your npc null comment is not true regarding neuts. i have only been stain for the last 3 months and i can spot an actual neut from the locals instantly. you get to know your area just like you get to know people in sov null, which i have also spent a lot of time in. local is unfortunately not going away but hot dropping is not a solution for local. its an anti-pvp tool that people use to avoid risk and it creates a large amount of fear which encourages people to only go for easy kills in case they accidentally hit a cyno bait. that's a bad thing for a pvp game. mechanics should encourage pvp not dissuade people from engaging in it.anyway this thread is about afk cloaking but the reason i bought up cynos is because the hate against cloaking is imo, mostly a fear of being hot dropped."
"this.the reason hot drops keep resurfacing, is that cloaking by itself is ineffectual as a means to engage pvp outside of a too limited set of circumstances.this issue, in my opinion, resembles a rock paper scissors chart, up to a point.regular pvp ship beats cloaked vessel.cloaked vessel beats pve ship.pve ship immune to regular pvp ship due to intel.nothing actually beats the regular pvp ship, but it is also the easiest to avoid for most.in my opinion, pvp does need to be encouraged, in this context.regular pvp ships have each other, and are thus satisfied.in my opinion, cloaking ships and pve ships need to be balanced more closely, and given incentive to confront each other.the cloaking ship is the seeming counter for the pve pilot, as the friendly pvp ships block the unfriendly pvp ships.i would really like to see cloaked and pve more able to fight, with both sides positive about the encounter, and have this be the normal state of affairs.upgrading local to eliminate all afk influence what if local chat changed, hunting the cloaked..."
"additional idea i just had:if you put the player into battlecruiser or battleship for that intro - make sure somewhere during the battle there is a smaller ship frigate? involved fullfilling a vital role, like getting tackle or such. so the new player knows, while he is now 'forced' to wait til he can fly the big ship, the small ships are as essential in a good fleet."
"so you like bugs to not get fixed?"
"i want the jukebox back, too.oras someone else suggested, ad a feature to the client that allows be to play mp3's from my hd so i dont have to tqab out all the time."
"if you want \"teeth\", fly a combat ship. if you don't want to get bumped, orbit your roid with an afterburner on. when the solutions are so very, very simple, you don't need to tack on extra game mechanics just because people are refusing to use the defenses they already have."
"bumpy, to the top cause still not fixed."
"us resident... i don't have that problem with my bank either.op, are you beginning to see a pattern to these responses?"
"i never had a problem with my us bank."
"you obviously have missed the part where the devs want pve to be closer to pvp as it keeps things more dynamic, if things aren't strictly scripted you can't blindly follow a mission guide, as well as making it easier for people to get into pvp because pve is actually a useful learning experience in things like tackle, ewar etc.unlike now.this isn't about 'i want easy pvp'. if i wanted that i'd take up gate camping in a gang or miner ganking. this is about improving the game overall."
"i wold agree only if said mail were actually working and accurate.received a mail a few month ago about a pos of mine being under attack, so i checked it right away.first mail is supposed to be sent right after the pos or any of it's mod drop1%, yet between the moment i received the mail, and the moment i showed in pos, it was rfd.i travelled in helios, in low sec, and was 2 jumps away. i received the 2nd mail while entering the system, they were 10 attackers in stealth bombers, my pos was medium, 2 mails are not even 2 minutes appart.now i thought that maybe they had dreads and spotted me, thus jumped out why not after all, already did that myself, that would explain....but no, i spoted them attacking another of my pos very similar than the first, with their 10 bombers, and sat in the pos the whole time they rf'd it and yet again, mail first mail claiming pos was 99% shield came about 2 min before the pos was rf'd......do the math, they were shooting at the pos for a fuckin while before the mail actually came.petitionned the thing, ccp's answer as usual, htfu the logs show nothing blabla....any pos manager will probably tell you the same, pos mail work....when they want, i you rely on them, your pos is likely to be out of fuel for example, because 20% of the time, you will never receive any mail, or the mail will have such a delay that you won't be able to respond in time for attack"
"hmm that's interesting. could have a been a new 'undocumented feature' that crept in recently? :"
