"not a single isboxer was able till now to show he can do things like incursions of highsec ganks the same way without isboxer. why nobody shows how to multibox an incursion with 10 chars ? or why is an 10 men isboxer gatecamp an instant dead situation ?and you really want arguments why isboxer is a third party tool against the eula ? nobody ever showed how to do the same things without isboxer and no, there is not a single hardware solution to do nearly the same thing."
"it makes isboxer not more legit to tell that there are more tools to do the same.and nice computer array, well know as example but still bullshit. tell me how he controls his logis in an incursion fleet via the same mouse and keyboard ? yes, yes, there will be also other tools that give the possibility to create a complete other screen with seperated buttons from different screens and so on, but still, this is an advantage a player or a alt-tab multi boxer didn't have. the main advanatge is the new screen. to be honest, from a technical point of view, this is far away from \"just clone mouse and key commands\"."
"i run multiple machines because i'm an old school multiboxer from the old ffa pvp mmo days. even with isboxer i use multiple machines and screens. i only use the repeater function for my dps and the rest are separate. i don't use videofx or any of the fancy aspects other then the frame limiter and the cpu assignment. so even without isboxer i'd still be running vanguards and ganking people with my fleet.edit : be aware that part of your complaint about isboxer also applies to wine and other virtual environments..edit 2 : you're \"solution\" would add massive overhead to the server. i'm pretty sure part of the reason that ogb still exists is because of the hit to server performance that checks would require. what you're asking for is every single person's commands to be logged crosschecked and tracked while comparing to past commands. that's insanity...."
"complaint ?dude, you are not able to explain how you will manage it without tools or hardware like isboxer. tell us how you manage 10 accounts in a vanguard site ? shut down all the tools and repeater you use, open 10 clients on the same computer and explain how you manage them in a vanguard site at the same time."
"isboxer doesn't give you items, cyrrency, objects, character attributes, rank or status at an accelerated pace. multiboxing software is also allowed by ccp.i see no reason why to ban it and i still haven't seen a legitimate argument why boxing software should be banned. remember, in a game where ganking, scamming and mental harm is allowed using the words \"morality\" or \"fair\" are not applicable."
"yes it does. see screenshot"
"not really, although you can debate if \"one action\" really is one action. since you brought up hardware, i went and looked up the policy on g15 keyboards and found that programming a key to turn all your hardeners on (the example i found) can involve inputting multiple keystrokes. ccp might consider that one action, but you won't get any argument from me if you state that is entering multiple commands with one keystroke. since i'm conceding the point (kind of), i hope you don't mind if i don't supply the link.and you're correct about the ability of making isboxer (or in reality, inner space) impossible to detect. the man who invented inner space (and isboxer) wrote software (isxwarden) that hid botters from warden until blizzard's lawyers convinced him to stop. that's one of the reasons i'm wary of trying to ban the use of isboxer. do we want team security to have to possibly fight that war and be diverted from the fight against rmt? that type of detection arms race could get out of hand quickly, depending on how willing isboxer users are to break the rules to use their software. most would probably follow the rules, but you know there'd be a few that would try to keep going if ccp instituted a ban."
"you are mixing up \"player\" and \"character\". he is not getting anything any faster than anyone else with the same fleet wouldn't.hypothetical:player a mines in a field to make a plex. it takes him 40 hours to get that amount of isk.player b mines for a plex to keep his isboxing 40 account running. how many hours does it take?spoiler, it's not 1 hour."
"and now math for advanced players.player a has finished his 40 hours for his plex. he does 4 hours a day so he has finished it after 10 days. in the next 20 days he earns another 2 plex, thats his yield per month after paying his plex.player b has finished his 40 hours with his 40 characters for his plex, he also does 4hours per day = 10 days. in the next 20 days he earns another 80 plex.so, you really want us to explain that 80 plex is equal 2 plex ??? and yes, nobody is able to control a 40 character fleet without tools."
"no need to ban it. just redesign pve (mining included) in such way that isboxer will be of no use. like, that some situation presented to different windows doing one mission or mininig at one spot would be significantly different and would require individual approach. doing so, randomizing all these activities, adding more minigames and interactions with environment to it (including simultaneously from several different clients participating in some action, all presented with different tasks, so it's not solvable by simple multiplication of key strokes) will definetely do wonders to the game, will make its pve activities more challenging, intresting, diverse. and will make simple multiplication of key stroking events useless. it also could stimulate players to more collaboration and enchance social ties within community.but hey, that means that a lot of work have to be done and in the end this will lead to ccp's incomes dropping, as multiboxers cut their numbers of simultaneously used accounts from 10-30 to 2-3. thats why it probably won't happen."
"and yet, on a per character basis, it's exactly the same - 2 plex per character per month after the initial 1 plex per character is earned to pay for the account.so the 40 man isboxer fleet is not earning that amount any faster than any other 40 man fleet. which means, based on a common sense reading of the eula about gathering \"at an accelerated rate\" it is not in contravention of the rules, since the rates per character are exactly the same (3 total plex per month per character).then why are you lot so focused on isboxer and not on every other method that allows for exactly the same thing? i have yet to hear a single one of you call for banning people using hardware solutions."
"i love people keep taking about \"hardware solutions\".show me someone who has 40 mice glued together on 40 computers and i'll show you a damned fool. you simply cannot control 40 accounts solo without cheating."
"repeaters and identically configured ui's have existed for ages. hardware solution does not mean a bazillion of mice and keyboards."
"repeaters are software."
"i already told you i run multiple screens/keyboards/mice. if you run drone doctrine it's fairly easy once you get assist assigned. yeah you can't run them as fast as you could with isboxer but you can still do it.i don't feel like drawing out an electrical diagram for you but it's quite possible to clone mouse and keyboard inputs for multiple machines. you could also run multiple virtual machines on one machine and have the key/mouse cloned to all of them and eve wouldn't even know.he's earning isk at the same rate per account as anyone else. there's no acceleration involved...if you're going to call that cheating then any form of multiboxing is cheating. also pi alts market alts etc are cheating. all alts are cheating.@rosewalker : i would much rather ccp spend their time on botters and hackers. including repeaters and such would create a nightmare for ccp to enforce.it's like you've never heard of window mode or alt tab.it's very possible and quite easy to do. it's also extremely mind numbing."
"hi folks,this is an idea for when you are in your captains quarters...when in cq, and you private message someone, their image should come up on the center monitor. this way it is like having a chat via webcam, without the bandwith issues.if you are in a group private chat, all invitee's images should be up, then when someone posts up in that channel, that persons image comes up to the front..this should only work on private conversations to start with and maybe later to corp / alliance channels on a side monitor. leave local out for the time being.this will make the cq area a little more useable than it currently is without needing a lot of work done which would take away from the changes the devs are working for ingame.it would also make a nice area for those dull corp meetings and alliance meetings :)"
"this sounds like a good idea, it would mean that there is a reason to wander around station."
"would not be a bad idea. while i don't use cq that much it would add one more sensible level of immersion to the cq."
"wis was created to serve as a new socializing platform, the place making game world more believable, enhancing submergence to the imagenary universe, and making some sense out of those fancy clothes and probably some other similar fancy stuff that could be added in the future. the place different from mundane \"spaceships in space\" experience, while still tied to the game world tightly - where you can change scenery and relax together with your friends, while doing some meaningfull and fun stuff, that is not spaceships, without resorting to third party tools, like other games, seedy poker rooms of unknown origin etc. the place where you can show up in your new unique, expensive fancy dress. but all these are worth nothing if there are no audience. your unique and expensive fancy suite worth almost nothing if no one have opportunity to see it aside from rare occasion he clicked for some reason on your character's picture. wis made a mistake trying to force players to attend this new space. i think that creating meaningfull and fun content, integrated into the game world can be a key to raise it's popularity in natural way. thats why gambling and similar feature should be accessed only from within this space. we can simplify it to some degree, redesign it to be like some virtual space, accessible instantly anytime from anywhere, with ability to instantly teleport between rooms or tables and such. but it still should require to be there in form of a human being.those things are definetly not the most important on the to-do list, but they should have some time contributed to them too, after core gameplay's problems eventually will be sorted out."
"no, i will not pressure ccp to ban it :)"
"so, does using isboxer to mine with 10 accounts net you ore any faster than mining with 10 accounts and not using isboxer?the answer is no, the ship you fly, the lasers your skills and the boosts you receive determine how fast you mine ore.isboxer does not in any way accelerate how fast your acquire in game currency or goods."
"kvm switch (and matrixes) are cheap and can be scaled to 64 computers in most solutions. switch itself doesn't repeat anything, but a matrix will send the same signal to all machines. fully hardware solution.edit: or you could just build a simple demultiplexer, they are electrically simple to create."
"for those arguing that a 40 man fleet doesn't make more isk an hour than a solo miner add fleet bonuses and orca bonuses in. you will find the fleet makes vastly mope money than a solo player and each member past point x only exaggerates the isk difference."
"one character with mining boosts (you know, like in null you usually have in standing fleets) does exactly the same amount of income than an another character in a fleet of 40.where's the multiboxing reference in this?"
"no, they aren't, as i explained to you way back in post number 2 of this thread - but please do not let facts get in your way."
"the main problem with the push for more wis features is that they're likely to eat up development time that could be used to implement other features more relevant to the game's focal features. the existence of character portraits seems like enough of a justification for spending money on fancy clothing, and the substantial amount of people who are willing to spend lots of time building their perfect space waifu/husbando is another. adding new features in order to justify integrating \"second life in space\" into a game whose aesthetic focuses are completely different seems kind of unnecessary when they could be built into pre-existing features."
"oh please, anybody who says overview defaults are ok lives in frakking denial. it's frakking torture to set it back when your client decides to go fubar and resets itself to fresh install state.and i suspect shah might not be far from truth about reasons why generally most important part of in-space ui is still neglected."
"considering that the overview is the most important thing needed to figure out just what the heck is going on around you, improving its default settings would definitely do something to ameliorate the steep learning newbie learning cliff that eve is so infamous for. even pretty basic whitebread setups like the recommended eve uni ones require you to spend a fair amount of time reorganizing a system that could just be functional from the get-go. it took me five days of gameplay to figure out that clicking on things to figure out what they were wasn't an integral part of the eve experience. this is probably not an isolated experience.basically; this is good stuff, op"
"so would i.nice ideam"
"thank you"
"this does make sense in the broad terms.free intel from across the galaxy is worse than free intel in the solar system you are in (local)mmike azariah ----<U+FEFF> <U+FFFD>|(<U+30C4>)/<U+FFFD>"
"exactly the same with ratting/mining/marketing bots, they earn isk at the same rate per character as everyone else. no acceleration involved in traditional notting either, just a 3rd party program controlling the game client, like isbotter does."
"a quick bump as i've updated and cleaned up the post. thanks for the read!"
"don't give in to the \"tyranny of the 'or' \" - somebody should build a map that can change colors based on whatever figure of merit the person viewing the map wants to choose.possible figure of merit1. kills2. pocos3. pos4. jumps5. rats killed6. ore mined7. missions runyada, yada, yada."
"only problem is that there is no pvp in hi sec, and some minerhumpers \"dominating\" an area would be even more meaningless. if you want to play this game, get out of the safe zone, or continue bending over to concord like the little bears you are."
"well, i am glad it makes some sense at least :)now i am hoping there will be some discussion about it, and maybe some changes in the future.ofcourse pl and other big supercap entities will complain about it since they will have to do muchmore \"effort\" to get easy capital kills.on the other hand it will be much more exciting for super and titan pilots to fly their ships since they can move it around the galaxy much easier without the enemy knowing it. (if they do it right) and people will hopefully be more confident flying their supers and create more content."
"unfortunately there is an un-intended side effect of this in high sec wars. watch lists are used to calculate if your targets or your aggressors are logged on at a given point. tracking down 5 active pilots in a corp containing 50+ inactive alts would become exponentially more time consuming (and expensive) without an alternative game mechanic in place.in the opposite direction it is quite comforting knowing that the 20-30 man war dec'ing alliance siting in the jita pipe has only 1 dude on, (mostly likely camping the jita undock.) after 3 weeks of war decs."
"there is no unfortunatly in this story, since your enemy doesnt know how many you have online either..."
"think about the net result.--edit if out of 50-100 man corp there are 2-10 people active without the watch list you'd not be able to find them without flying around every system in high sec. when we have had a high sec contract involving one of the first activities is to add all the target pilots to the watch list and us this as a basis to track them down. this involves looking at contract history of the active pilots and use locator agents to get their approximate location, then track them down. this isn't trivial in the amount of effort / time spent. if you made watch lists consensual by default without providing another mechanic to filter inactive players you'd effectively leave empire wars to camping on the jita undock or people war dec'ing as many people as possible to have targets, its a rather blunt instrument and ultimately less fun. removing watch lists in high sec is \"kind of like\" removing local in null sec. you'd not really know if there was anyone out there to fight."
"that could be easily solved by making that if 2 entities are at war (through a wardeck) they automaticaly become available for watchlist.as soon as the war drops, the availability of being able to watchlist them drops as well.you can even put that in a story line. that if people wardeck each other they will have spies everywhere that will keep an eye on the enemy and will tell you when they log on. so roleplayers are happy too.....therefore i am not against the idea that if 2 corporations or alliances have wardecked each other the watchlist becomes available for them. because if pl or any other big entity wanted to watchlist every super or titan, they would have to wardeck the entire galaxy."
"interesting, you are basically saying that opt-in watch list contacts would also fix hi sec wars- unintended, but desirable consequence."
"hi all,right so basically i see an inconsistency in logic in the game and would like to report it but support guys basically said non of there business.game play bugright so bumping a ship knocks it off its align and increases its speed correct ?so why is it i can use an mwd on an orca to warp faster while unaligned and way over the warp threshold.was ganked recently using the bump mechanic, lost a ship but what ever (first rule of eve don't undock if you cant afford to loose it)the gank was well executed and very well planed (fair play to brave noobies)ship lost was a \"what ever\" moment cause i was tired at the time but it got me thinking around the logic of the micro warp and around webbing and bumping there inconsistent.so for warp you require to be at a certain speed and fully aligned correct?so there for the mwd trick shouldn't work and the webbing trick shouldn't either as your not fully aligned.(obviously being over the speed is necessary)bumping as gm mace and gm the doctor put it is an intended mechanic.and as a developer my self and inconsistencies in logic annoy me to no end so id love for a dev to take a look.more detail around why this works as it does would be great, a fix would be fantastic but a explanation from a dev would be amazing.regardsmr yoshinesansha sympathiserp.s thats it now troll away forum dwellers xd"
"um align then use the mwd or web trick? most gankers don't even bother to fit scamblers which still allows you plenty of time to get to warp.edit: you could also warp to nearest celestial directly in front of the gate first then warp off to the next jump gate."
"didnt read it properly did you saw a change and started the opinion this is not about getting away its about how the mechanic works and how it should work intended by ccp. the fact that i didnt get away is irrelivant thats pilot error as in my bad lol"
"the orca mwd trick and webbing a feighter into warp work because after you jump through a gate you are stationary and therefore aligned to all directions.with webbing your max speed is reduced but your acceleration isn't, so you reach 75% of your new lower max speed quickly.with the orca and mwd. the mwd vastly increases your acceleration and your max speed. when the one cycle ends your max speed drops back to normal which means your actual speed is above the 75% needed for warp and you are aligned due to the gate jump making you aligned to all directions.bumping stops you from warping because they knock you out of alignment. if the bumpers don't know what they are doing they sometimes bump you in the direction of a celestial, which you can then warp to."
"ok, so... warp requires two things...- alignment towards the object in question.- be between 75% and 125% max speed.the mwd-pulse and webbing trick are not inconsistencies... rather, they are workarounds that manipulate the speed requirement (alignment isn't a consideration when starting from a \"dead stop\"... you are already \"aligned\" once you start moving).how it works:- the mwd-pulse trick increases the max speed of a ship, however the agility (acceleration) of certain ships are so low that they will never reach even close to max mwd speed within one mwd cycle. instead, they just happen to reach (or be within) that needed 75% to 125% max speed threshold when the mwd is turned off.- the webbing trick does the exact opposite of the mwd-pulse trick... instead of temporarily increasing max speed it reduces it to where the current speed is.again, remember that some ships have very poor agility (meaning very poor acceleration). a single web reduces max speed (not current speed) by 60%. two webs by ~87% (because stacking penalties do apply). this means that a freighter that has a max speed of ~100 m/sec only needs to be going ~10 m/sec for the desired outcome (warping).as for what ccp thinks of them...- the mwd-pulse trick has been known and used for years. more thrill-seeking players often combine them with a cloak (the t2, non-covert-ops one) to get through gate camps in battleships. petitions (and threads) have often been filed against this tactic but they usually are rebuffed and the filer pointed towards the features and ideas forum if they \"feel very strongly\" (which is then generally rebuffed by the playerbase because we do not see a problem with it). - the webbing-trick was never intended by the devs... but it was showcased by ccp during fanfest 2013 as an example of \"emergent gameplay\" that they were generally fine with (note: watch the whole thing, it is quite interesting how they view their own game and mechanics)."
"this is a topic about isboxer so yes, i am focused in such a topic on isboxer. but anyways, i sad also they should search for characters doing exactly the same thing at the same time to find such tools or hardware. but yeah, don't read it ....about \"a single character in the 40 men miner fleet is earning only the same amount of income than an equal solo player doing the same\". to be honest, why are people mining with 40 ships if there is no advantage at the end ?your argument is he earns nothing more when you compare character by character. you drop the main part, he is flying 40 ships. it really doesn't matter if he uses isboxer or any other hardware/software solution, he is not able to do it without any tools/hardware. if you would compare your argumentation to a car and the speed limit, you would be allowed to drive 4000 miles/hour in a 100 miles/hour zone because every single car would only \"drive\" 100 miles/hour ? and sure, you will never reach your destination any faster than a single driving car. 4000 miles/hour are equal to 100 miles/hour.thats complete bullshit. people use software or hardware solutions to get a benefit, new options and possibilities. the benefit here is, you earn isk much more faster with a system you can't do without such tools. @ashley eoner about drone assist in vanguards ..... i think you know exactly why people will not use drone assist in vanguards instead of isboxer and real dps ships.and there is still the major question, why is this topic a problem for isboxer (and what to ever repeater solutions) a problem when you have really not a single advanatage and benefit ?"
"a client run by isboxer does nothing if there are no player inputs.a bot does what it is programmed to do without player inputs.see the difference?"
"you see the difference between 1 and 40 mouseclicks ?"
"yes, but how is that relevant?"
"the significant difference is that the bot does not require continuous human input - you start it and it runs for hours at a time with no further interaction required on the part of a human player."
"it is entirely relevant. no one human could control so many other characters with out automated assistance. no one human, without assistance, could control two characters as well as one human with the assistance.this debate hinges on the definition of automation. some seem to demand that \"automation\" is more than \"one event\", such as two mouse clicks, on the same character as opposed to two clicks on two characters.this canard of \"input\" is just that, a canard. programmatic assistance is being used to accomplish more than one human could do alone, end of story.necessity is the plea for every infringement of human freedom. it is the argument of tyrants; it is the creed of slaves. - william pitt"
"now you're going into the debate if we should use computers at all. what is allowed is clearly outlined in the eula/tos and isboxer is not currently breaking it. if it does start breaking rules, ban it, but for now this discussion is just a pissing contest."
"it's really fantastic how people spin a topic just to keep their advantages they couldn't keep without a third party to and without automation via reteating commands on different characters. it's really fantastic. till now, you have brought not a single arguemtn why such tools should be allowed.an about the eula. only because ccp is currently doing nothing is not equal to it is fine with the eula. 6. conducta. specifically restricted conduct2. you may not use your own or third-party software to modify any content appearing within the game environment or change how the game is played.3. you may not use your own or any third-party software, macros or other stored rapid keystrokes or other patterns of play that facilitate acquisition of items, currency, objects, character attributes, rank or status at an accelerated rate when compared with ordinary game play. you may not rewrite or modify the user interface or otherwise manipulate data in any way to acquire items, currency, objects, character attributes or beneficial actions not actually acquired or achieved in the game.we do not endorse or condone the use of player-made software or any other third party applications or software that confers an unfair benefit to players. we may, in our discretion, tolerate the use of applications or other software that simply enhance player enjoyment in a way that maintains fair gameplay. however, if any third party application or other software is used to gain any unfair advantage, or is used for purposes beyond its intended use, or if the application or other software violates other parts of the eula, we may fully enforce our rights to prohibit such use, including player bans. please use player-made or other third party software at your own risk.ccp may allow currently isboxer, but it breaks all rules of the eula.- it is a 3rd party software tool- it accelerate things- it modifies the user interface"
"indeed. it's also funny when people suggest that their understanding of the eula is better than ccp's.things we know:it doesn't break the eula. as told to us by ccp. it does not gain you items at an accelerated rate. see point 1. it does not modify the ui. see point 1. destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"wow....think outside the box and not in your tiny realm people...not even going to go into details as trolls will be trolls."
"depends if you believe it is a desirable fix, remember it cuts both ways. the defender is more likely to be inconvenienced as the same intel is not available to them. they are unaware if their aggressors are online so either they will dock up out of paranoia or always have to move around with scout which isn't always a possibility with lightly social groups.this wouldn't prevent the other methods i.e. log-on traps, liberal use of 90% pointless war decs similar to the privateer alliance trick a number of years ago, suicide ganking or awoxing. if you make one play style less effective people will adapt to the next best thing.as for the suggestion of a \"war dec\" watch list, if we are going to choose game mechanics we could come up with something better than the current locator services + watch list. effectively combining the two into a kind of a short delayed target radar, something that is used every 20 minutes that tracks \"legal combatants\" available to both parties, (maybe through standings.). depending on the length of delay, war dec requirements & watch list opt out it could help with the ops post of super capital pilots being easily tracked."
"what about if there was a second version of the locator agent?one that, after a variable amount of time (hours) would let you know if your target has been 'active'this would tell a hunter if the super was on the move but not with enough warning to batphone. would provide wardec info as to who was active and needed closer watching.mmike azariah ----<U+FEFF> <U+FFFD>|(<U+30C4>)/<U+FFFD>"
"oh please, you're argument is just stupid, give it up.necessity is the plea for every infringement of human freedom. it is the argument of tyrants; it is the creed of slaves. - william pitt"
"how exactly does is boxer modify the user interface? because i have to admit, that one's got me stumped, and if you can prove that someone is using it to modify the game interface then they should, indeed, be banned."
"rofl, the argument of ignorance. \"as told to us by ccp\", the huge glaring caveat, full of self serving bull ****.so let's see, ccp gains by having alt accounts, thus ccp has a large incentive for it not to be against the letter of the eula while ignoring the spirit of the eula. is that the basis of your argument, and as you claim, ccp's? lol,let's look at this stupid list: doesn't break the eula, as told by ccp - ccp is not a fair arbiter in this case, they have an incentive to break their own rules, which they are clearly doing as exposed by your item 2.\"does not gain you items at an accelerated rate\" - absolute total bs. i challenge you to prove that you can control just two characters as efficiently as can be done by isboxer. go ahead, prove your assertion if you can. good luck. go ahead and prove it with a nice youtube vid with enough detail to pass the bull **** test. your argument is crap just as is ccp's position on this issue.necessity is the plea for every infringement of human freedom. it is the argument of tyrants; it is the creed of slaves. - william pitt"
"is this still going on? so you do want to see isboxer banned? ccp basically states that isboxer is violating the eula in the policy on client modification.the \"multiboxing application\" in the policy that violates the eula but ccp states it will not actively police at this time is isboxer.if you really want to convince ccp to ban the use of isboxer, you cannot base your argument on the fact that isboxer violates either section 6a2, section 6a3, or section 9c of the eula. they have a written policy that acknowledges that it does and that ccp doesn't care, as long as isboxer does not violate other parts of the eula.if you really want to get ccp to change its mind, you either need to demonstrate how isboxer breaks other parts of the eula or how the use of isboxer breaks down game design. one example of that is that isboxer can allow a user to get around the drone assist limit of 50 drones. are their others? if not, you probably won't see isboxer banned."
"ccp's game, their rules. learn to deal with it. as far as your accelerated rate claim, i'm not the one claiming it breaks the rules. therefore the onus is upon those making that claim to show proof.but talking of ignorance, i'm sure you can show that right? i mean two miners definitely mine more ore than two miners would.oh and your argument regarding 'ccp's incentive' would hold some water, if it wasn't for the fact they regularly ban thousands of accounts. due to bots breaking guess what? the very rule you claim isboxer does. destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"so ccp should not be the one setting and enforcing policies related to a ccp product?accelerated rate has been explained, no character gains anything at an accelerated pace, you are mixing up character and the actual player.controlling efficiency is not something which is giving you any gains at accelerated speed.tl;dr: you think something is unfair and unjust, it's your responsibility to provide proof, not those who uphold the current status quo. you have yet failed to do so."
"see the ice mining comment on page 3."
"yep, it is their game and their reputation. if they want to look like double speaking liars, they're more than welcome to do that.so you are saying that software, that can send key strokes and mouse clicks to other clients, is no more effiecnet than one person having to to interact with each client?your equivocations, and ccp's, are lies. necessity is the plea for every infringement of human freedom. it is the argument of tyrants; it is the creed of slaves. - william pitt"
"1. isboxer does not \"modify any content appearing within the game environment or change how the game is played.\" isboxer is merely a software for managing multiple clients. no game environment settings are altered by isboxer and no gameplay mechanics are altered while using the software.2. isboxer does not accelerate the \"acquisition of items, currency, objects, character attributes, rank or status at an accelerated rate when compared with ordinary game play.\" isboxer allows for scenarios that spreads the tasks across multiple clients, but each individual iteration of the action being performed by isboxer occurs at the same rate as it does on the primary client: ie: at a human rate of input. specific scripting of actions is in violation of the eula as the computer then processes those actions at an accelerated rate, but the broadcasting system used by isboxer for multiple clients is not performed at an accelerated rate when compared to a primary client.3. isboxer modifies no ui assets in the eve online client. all additional assets provided by isboxer are dialogs overlayed by the program on top of the eve client. if anything, it's a modification of information presented on the screen, but there is no actual modifications of the compiled client code and ui elements (unless done through additional scripting which is a no-no)."
"no one human can switch to each individual client and issue events with the same speed and pointer/mouse accuracy as can be accomplished by one human with the aid of isboxer. isboxer goes beyond the human rate of input and capabilities, no one human can operate multiple clients as efficiently or at this accelerated rate.\"accelerated!?\" the whiners scream! yes, accelerated. all of the time required by a human with out isboxer is done in the blink of an eye with isboxer. instead of the time it would take a human to switch clients and issue the commands, it's all done automaticly, automated for you, automation.isboxer provides a huge advantage compared to not using it due to automation, that automation provides for accelerated issue of commands to multiple clients. all of that time saved, by the user of isboxer, gives advantages far above what is possible by ordinary game play.necessity is the plea for every infringement of human freedom. it is the argument of tyrants; it is the creed of slaves. - william pitt"
"no, i'm not saying that isboxer is not more efficient at giving commands to clients than one human alt-tabbing between clients.i did say that isboxer does not accelerate the \"acquisition of items, currency, objects, character attributes, rank or status at an accelerated rate when compared with ordinary game play.\"you have not found a rebuttal to this, i'll lurk around waiting."
"you rebut it yourself every time you play the equivocation game. it is not my fault your argument rests upon a lie. you purposefully ignore all of the time saved by the isbox user, time that would be consumed by normal game play. the isbox user can start to accumulate resources from all clients right away, the normal user can not. the isbox user can target, fire, orbit, evade all clients at the same time. a normal user can not, they would have to spend considerably more time and effort controlling all of the clients.that is what you purposefully ignore and try to assume away, and what makes your argument a lie, time and effort. time and effort are the only things that have real value in eve. anyone with half an ounce of economic sense about eve knows that. isboxer saves the user time and effort. you can try and argue against this fact and i will continue to expose your position for the bull **** that it is.necessity is the plea for every infringement of human freedom. it is the argument of tyrants; it is the creed of slaves. - william pitt"
"shah, you're usually always right and the rest of your post is spot on.but where did you get the 125% max speed treshold?i just tested it in a covops (the fit had max speed around 400 m/s):- align- turn on mwd- turn off mwd- when mwd cycle ended, wait a second or two to be sure- hit warpmy ship instawarped, even if speed was still well over 1,000 m/s.make space glamorous! is eve dying or not? ask the eve-o death-o-meter!"
"i remember it from a dev post from long ago (you have to be within 25% of max speed)... and my orca usually insta-warps when slightly over max speed (using the mwd trick).edit: after some tinkering i think the reason your cov-ops insta-warped is because its agility is very high, which means that it speeds up and slows down very fast. you were probably going well over 1000 m/sec at the end of mwd cycle... but once it comes down enough it flies into warp (the speed would have to be down to 500 m/sec)."
"but csm members don't seem to be really interested in this topic either it's been months that i keep bumping it up but rare are csm members who comment..i'll try to contact them ingame.please, if you know some of them, ask them to support this topic. thanks"
"i sent a mail to my good friend mike azariah (who i actually barely know) and asked him to have a look. i have talked to him before, maybe he'll remember me. or maybe he'll think my evemail was well-written and convincing enough to have a look.also, i note that this is posted in the assembly hall. you might consider making a satellite post in features and ideas discussion. i wasn't getting much support for my ideas until i discovered that's where all the activity is. f&id is for casual chat about what could be a good idea, just to run it by others. when you get a lot of support, you would post it in the assembly hall and ask people who have claimed support to endorse the post. then when the csm note that it is being talked about, they're more likely to take the assembly hall post more seriously.at least that's my best guess at current as to how it works. in any case, you might just double or triple your traffic (at the very least) by moving this topic over there."
"but i already have a similar topic in features and ideas."
"hi. i've been sent this more than once. people have been paying attention. i like the feel of it is you want.my personal opinion. i lost my overview settings with a reinstall and kind of gave up.i know it is frustrating to not receive the feedback you are looking for with an idea like this. the csm won't always be able to share what is going on with ideas and proposals. it can be infuriating for you. however, we have our upcoming little things project whcihnis a great place to feature settings additions like this. i also have it in my personal player ideas and desires files."
"some issues that are not brought up alot. the presets do not pre seed in the settings menu and you cannot save new settings while sitting in the hanger. you can change all the settings around but until you are in space there is no way to save what you have changes."
"time and effort savings aren't mentioned in the eula in the same way you are saying timeone isboxer running 10 ice miners doesn't not make a single isk more than 10 players ice mining next to them.he may do it by himself, he may save time over a single ice miner in getting 200 blocks saved up, but again no faster than if he had 10 computers and 10 accounts, one on each computer.more efficient, but not faster"
"that doesn't still accelerate the gain of anything, being effortless and saving time is exactly the reason to use isboxer. this is not barred by the eula/tos and would be stupid if you didn't try to optimize your game play by any legal means necessary.what i'm gathering here is that you are just angry about people being better at the game and want to ban their tools?"
"i'm still waiting for an answer to how ccp are supposed to differentiate between a software solution and a hardware solution without flat out banning multiboxing all together."
"i wouldn't say they're better at eve. better at time management maybe."
"no it doesn't but, please, continue to think that. the differences are measured in fractions of a second - the reaction time of the human body.let me give you a real life example. before i took my last break, i used to routinely run four clients on four separate screens, from two computers using just one mouse and keyboard. no is boxer. \"but what is this sorcery?\" you might ask. i used a software product called synergy that automatically shifts the keyboard and mouse inputs to another computer on the same network simply by dragging the mouse to the edge of the screen. in theory, it scales infinitely, though the need to have physical screens provides a hard limit for how many you could run practically.all that was required for me to keep mining was occasionally dragging my mouse from one screen to the other, and hitting a few keyboard shortcuts. is boxer essentially removes only one step in that process - dragging the mouse. so this \"vast difference\" you're talking about is marginal at best over other software, or hardware, that provides the same results."
"are you even reading your own arguments? you contradict yourself. what about the mineral miner? what about the pvper, the ratter, the mission runner and the incursion runner? the vast majority of the ui overhead is reduced for all of them due to automation. they can run around and shoot more rocks, more rats, more targets.could a player with out isboxer accomplish the same? nope.necessity is the plea for every infringement of human freedom. it is the argument of tyrants; it is the creed of slaves. - william pitt"
"so do you use isboxer now? and if so, why? do you mean to tell me you spent your money for no reason? really. do tell us all how you just throw money away for no reason, oh excuse me, fractions of a second, we're all interested in hearing about it.necessity is the plea for every infringement of human freedom. it is the argument of tyrants; it is the creed of slaves. - william pitt"
"come on, stop talking. show me how you do a vanguard without isboxer or any other tool/hardware. show me that is is exactly the same ratio with alt+tab and that you have no advantage with it. show me how you can ice min with 40 accounts without tools and haul all the ore at the same time.just show it and stop talking. should be really no big deal with all your arguments."
"you're starting to foam at the mouth there a little bit man. wtf are you on about?"
"this whole thread reminds me of bugs bunny and daffy duck:rabbit season!duck season!rabbit season!duck season!the game warden has said it's duck season, the argument is moot until ccp changes their mind."
"one player alt-tabbing at 10 clients vs. 1 player using 10 isboxer clients will have a different income because isboxer make sit more efficient.this still doesn't mean that isboxer accelerates the \"acquisition of items, currency, objects, character attributes, rank or status at an accelerated rate when compared with ordinary game play.\"you really have a hard time understanding what is being talked in this thread."
"actually with a little bit of thought, you can."
"the entire eula is on a character/account basis. character a+b+c being controlled by isboxer will achieve the same amount of items within the same time fram as characters x+y+z each being controlled by a separate person.this is the interpretation ccp has ruled with. its the interpretation you will have to live with.if you have a problem with it, i really dont think ccp cares, because youll find something else to whine about with players having these insurmountable \"advantages\" over you."
"there's only 2 or 3 useful attribute layouts anyway. needing to frequently change them indicates that you're doing something in an extremely inefficient way."
"you're the one trying to make a ship the counter to it's counter, not us."
"that could work too, you could even use the same agent that will tell you boththe location and if he is active or when he was last seen active."
"alternatively you could log out your spacepeniscoffin in a pos instead of the same spot in lowsec that you were in 6 months ago."
"pretty easily, in fact. i do escalations without using any isboxer features other than window management, did ice/belt mining and multibox ratting for years before even getting isboxer, and i did it all well enough.isboxer simplifies things, yes. i actually don't even use the broadcasting features and mostly just use it for window management and managing cpu/fps across all my clients. if you'd like to see how that's done and (still) doesn't accelerate play, well...you know how to contact me."
"see, you are comparing one person, to one person, that is not the metricthe metric is account to accountcan 4 people playing their accounts talking on teamspeak go thru low sec and kill things, yes, arguably better than the isboxer if their is logo involvedwhere isboxer shines is when you have enough to aloha a ship, which still can be achieved by xx number of single playersis an isboxing single person running 10 accounts going to be better than a single person alt-tabbing 10 accounts, **** yes he will, that is why he got isboxer in the first place. but does it accelerate the ability to gather things in game? no, they are all gathered at the same rate"
"it doesnt matter where you log it off.what does matter is that nobody should have free, easy and instant intel when you log on....i am ok with the locator agent giving locations and telling if you are active or were last active, because that requires \"effort\"."
"interesting aligned in all directions that seems like a bug in it self and once you move your no longer aligned in any direction as your aligning to something. so there for the orca mdw still has the same issue it warps while not aligned ?? its a very strange mech imo and bumping has effectivly the same results yet one warps the other doesnt ? both-unaligned but over the thresholdi should never be able to warp side ways :d"
"okay so... here is where we get into some technical stuff.the server only sees your ship as a sphere (the diameter of this sphere is the \"axis\" listed in the in-game ship viewer). \"front\" is wherever your trajectory is. to be \"aligned\" to something is to have your trajectory pointing in the direction of your selected \"target\" with no curvature in your flight path.what you see in the client is purely graphics. whenever your trajectory changes, the client will try to adjust the graphics accordingly. however this doesn't always work out and it occasionally \"glitches\" or is not fast enough (hence, the occasional sideways warp with large ships).this also means that when you are at a dead stop there is no \"front\" to your ship (see: the \"sphere\" has no trajectory so the graphical \"front\" is based on what your last known trajectory was) and can warp in any direction you choose equally well (see: \"passive alignment\" is a myth).now... when you begin warp from a dead stop, you are already \"aligned\" towards a target... you simply have not fulfilled the speed requirement (which webbing and the mwd-pulse trick work around).and when someone bumps your ship, they are altering your trajectory so you cannot fulfill the alignment warp condition (even if your speed is sufficient)."
"oh dont get me wrong i get the tech for it im a game dev my self so its a simple enough process what im talking about its the fact that tho not always possiblee the graphic should reprisent the logic so your ship should have a front direction ie a point on the shpere to refrance as the facing direction and alignment should only be achieved once \"the point of front\" is facing the target. as per to say align the sphere its one extra point to calculate and eve is already pretty light on the band width so shouldnt be an issue on that end of things servers might be a pain though as there not really up to the current task as it is i.e. tidi for example"
"purely a point of \"its bugging the hell out of me\" no meaning to disrupt anyones game but this kinda stuff annoys me :d personal bug for code bugs :d"
"i'm sorry, but what you said was closed minded at best. \"sucking it up\" is a code word for lack of empathy and lazy problem solving. i would concider maybe actually countering the ideas set on the table, rather than white washing the issue with a \"we don't need this\" excuse.i hope this has helped you in discussing about name changes.have a nice day."
"by that logic, ccp should stop banning botters, because they earn isk at the same rate as any other account.1 player botting on 5 or 10 accounts for 7 hours earns the same amount per account as another player playing the same 7 accounts manually for 7 hours. therefore botting is no different to isboxer and should be allowed."
"you can repeat it over and over again that isboxer didn't accelerate any gain, and it will be still completely wrongyou have no delay with isboxer compared to somebody who alt#tabs so you have a alpha damage without delay you give all commands to every single account at the same time with isboxer you only play 1 character and copy everything to another characterthats plain and simple an automationstop comparing to single characters, you can play only one single character with full concentration and no delay on en24 is a nice example, the isboxer bomber quad possible with isboxer, impossible with alt+tab same with isboxer alpha gates, all ships align at the same time, all move at the same time, all shoot at the same time and so on nothing you can do without such toolsyour gain is that you play only one account and several other accounts do exactly the same at exactly the same timeyou can kill stuff much more faster without any delayyou have an alpha because you have no delaywith automation you avoid to do the same thjing on several other accounts like open the cargobay and put ore into the bayyou warp, align, decloak, jump what ever without delayyou gain alot with isboxer tools, advantages you can't do without them and you accelerate things killing faster is also an acceleration, doesn't matter if it is a npc or a player and with isboxer bomber squads you can also switch complete fleet fightsthe eula is talking exactly about this kind of third party software"
"did you read a word of what's actually been said i will offer again, out of the kindness of my heart and the spirit of ~you are blue to me and i have to suffer through that every day~ to show you the error of your thinking"
"how is it argued that isboxer does not accelerate gain for someone?isboxer makes it so you do not have to go to each of your pilots and command it to do something how is that not accelerating you faster than someone else? instead of going through 10 20 30 40 pilots each, you just have to do it for one so it drastically reduces the time needed for you to command your own fleet you then benefit from that if isboxer does that, makes 40 pilots into 1 pilot command wise, how is it argued that does not accelerate gain of isk for someone? it does not matter at all what he does with the isk, it is the fact that he gains it at an increased ratecompare time needed to go from one pilot window to the next to input commands with time needed to input command to 1 pilot and isboxer replicates said command to every other open window making it so you do not have to go to each window to input commandthis is not accelerated rate?conspiracy from within"
"you know you could read the last 5 pages of discussions as to how isboxer doesn't accelerate earnings on an account basis that botting isn't the same as isboxer as botting requires no human interaction once it's set to go where as isboxer's actions can be done with hardware or other software optionsi can mine just as fast with 20 characters via alt tabbing as i could if i used isboxer or any number of cloning programs/hardwarebtw do you have any idea how long it takes to setup 40 accounts for repeater usage? do you have any idea how much that costs in money or time? do you have any idea how frustrating it is to keep 40 clients synched with eve's incredibly buggy ui? if it was an easy task you'd see massive isboxer fleets taking over everything reality doesn't jive with you"
"*whispers quietly* rabbit season! duck season!"
"prove itvideo yourself mining with 20 accounts isboxing for 2 hours and then do it without isboxer for 2 hours if you are right, you'll have exactly the same amount of ore on both runs"
"in other words, you can not answer the question with out exposing your argument for the bs that it is, so you must resort to insultsnecessity is the plea for every infringement of human freedom it is the argument of tyrants; it is the creed of slaves - william pitt"
"prove itnecessity is the plea for every infringement of human freedom it is the argument of tyrants; it is the creed of slaves - william pitt"
"more insults from the crowd of liars what a surprisenecessity is the plea for every infringement of human freedom it is the argument of tyrants; it is the creed of slaves - william pitt"
"aww more insults is that all you have? and no, i don't have to live with it i am the customernecessity is the plea for every infringement of human freedom it is the argument of tyrants; it is the creed of slaves - william pitt"
"there are animations for guns to go from prone to ready and a radial alignment time. i propose that not only should these animations be calibrated directly to the rate of fire of the module, but also that the first shot occurs after the initial animation (like armor repair vs shields) a few rationales:missiles have an inherent disadvantage; time of travel. in new eden where there is all this technology it is absurd that a projectile's vector ever be calculated incorrectly, there is just too much technology for such a simple calculation to miss. we see on many shows like mythbusters that projectiles for example can be calibrated to hit within a very small spread over great distances, even though is atmosphere there is so many more variables that could ever be added than to a simple spacial vector. all weapons should hit always with a few acceptations to ecm.; if they do not have a firing solution they should not be fired. if there is a small signature radius ship that is travelling outside the turret's radial movement it shouldn't be fired until there is a firing solution. this will work to lower large sized guns vs. smaller sized targets. falloff would not happen, (inertia) however rate of fire should be adjusted to compensate for trickier vectors. this will work to compensate for falloff misses. as with missiles unless there is some sort of quantum laws that are being crossed in eve-verse (eve is real?) ammo should have traveling delay as well. now this is \"space\" so they can travel \"very fast\" however they should not alpha on keyboard press.when the shots are fired and it causes suspect, limited engagement, or criminal status this should happen as the thing fires not as soon as they hit or miss. what this might accomplish:bring a more level playing field to missile eggers.it would keep the dps, and volley damage of guns the same but decrease the rate of fire always to penalize damage; all the way to the point of never being able to accomplish a firing solution against some targets. this will **** everyone off, even laser people, missile people will be happy. this is not my intention. i believe this game play mechanic of very basic vectorization failure would not happen in eve so you must get over it."
"an appeal to authority is an argument from the fact that a person judged to be an authority affirms a proposition to the claim that the proposition is true.appeals to authority are always deductively fallacious; even a legitimate authority speaking on his area of expertise may affirm a falsehood, so no testimony of any authority is guaranteed to be true."
"you would have a point if it wasn't for the fact that in this case, the authority is the owner of the game and makes the rules.not only that, but they requested input from the playerbase before deciding on that ruling.so yes, we have that facts and know the rules from the owners of the game.at least have an understanding of the situation, before trying to apply any fallacies. no matter how good you think they may sound. destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"no, i mean i have no idea what the hell point you're trying to make about my supposed use of isboxer, or how that in any way relates to the discussion at hand your ideas are jumping all over the place like a seagull on crack hold my hand and walk me through it slowly, because frankly my man, you're not making any senseyou do if you choose to continue playing the game if, on the other hand, you're unsubscribing, then you're absolutely correct, you do not have to abide by any rules made up by ccp except the ones regarding the resale of their ip for real money also, the customer isn't always rightactually there's a very simple question that can solve this answer with a simple boolean1 ccp, as the owner and administrator of eve online, has the right to create and enforce rules pertaining to the playing of said game"
"actually botting is fundamentally different, as has already been explained at least once in this thread i leave it as an exercise to the reader to determine the crucial difference between the two as a hint, it's called botting for a reason"
"so you want me to buy a video camera so you can get your creepy stalk on watching me play eve? that's just weird brahnow if you're offering to buy me a good video cam then i'd like at least a go pro level has to be good quality so you can be sure to see my fingers on teh keyboard and such in detailedit : to get serious for a moment if i did manually first and isboxer second that would easily result in less earned on the second"
"you are comparing apples to oranges not a single character under the control of an isboxer entity gains at an accelerated pace"
"botting is not allowed because it:1) tampers with the game client, mostly hooking into same processes and dll's to harvest information (client modification)2) injects information to the game client (client modification)3) performs actions without human input (automation of game play)isboxer does none of these as it functions over directinput, just like your keyboard and mouse it also does not hook into the process to harvest information or to post information into the client neither does isboxer perform any actions without human input"
"you are one player, one player only if you play 10 characters controled via isboxer you are still one player and not 10so, you can compare player vs player and both gain the same amount of isk when they rat with one character but if player a is doing an incursion via alt+tab and player b is doing an incursion via isboxer the result is different for a good reason player a is playing 10 different characters, player b is playing only one character but 9 character are doing the same thing at the same timeplayer a is multiboxing, player b isn't isboxer is creating single multiple single players via automation under the control of a single playerplayer b is getting stuff from 9 characters at an accelerated time"
"only comparing player vs player is pointless as ccp has clarified that the eula refers to account vs account comparisons"
"the problem with this statement is that you assume what is cheatingits ccps game they get to decide what is cheating, not us playersif you dont like that simple fact, then its time to move on to another gameor make your ownbest of luck-st"
"again, no player b is just as limited as player a in how long actual events in eve transpire isboxer does not accelerate gameplay it accelerates, if anything, interaction across clients everything else that occurs in the game environment, from reloading to rats actually exploding, happens at the same rate regardless of use of isboxer or not there is, therefore, no accelerated time on the server side of the acquisition of items or isk, and the same rules still apply to the client side in regards to how interaction must occur from the player to the client"
"i still support this, it should be back on the front page for a bit :)"
"so talking with incursion fleets the idea of either a repurposed rorqual (poor thing is lonely) or an orca would make a good choice fgor a ship that can carry fitted bs's (they wanted 2 plus a cruiser for incursion caravans)mmike azariah ----<U+FEFF> <U+FFFD>|(<U+30C4>)/<U+FFFD>"
"(i haven't read the 21 pages of this thread, so if already mentioned, please be kind with your reply.)wouldn't a module which converted ore cargo space to sma space be less work for ccp to implement? something along the lines of an overdrive (which converts cargo space to speed).mdd"
"so, are we doing this thing yet? it woulda been handy to have around last weekend."
"erm... while i agree that there is plenty that could be improved upon with the different weapon flavors, they need to be improved in such that there are still different flavors, not just lasers for everyone with different names and animations.as much as i would like to conserve ammo with your 'firing solution' recommendation, shots need to miss for the game to be fair.also, welcome to the submarines in space game. -st"
"perhaps in the beginning of the cycles you would miss but as more shots are fired accuracy improves to a point and rof improves also.... i know i've had problems with inertia in this game, wrote it off as having something to do with warp core. i also write off the 1400mm rounds having not only the same volume as 1200mm rounds but having only enough volume to make a sliver of a round @ 1400mm as these \"rounds\" are not actually \"rounds\" but instead they are payloads that might be loaded into \"shells\" :/"
"i would go with an updated version of the locator agent, with some features ;-)1) mode 1 - search for all active war dec'd pilots / user defined pilots that are currently online. - you'd just get a list of names or an indication that they are online or not, just like a snap shot of the watch list. - a mechanism to stop spamming. - cost scaling based on the search parameters, all, current region, constellation etc and number of pilots.2) mode 2 - search for a group of pilots, option to use the result set / parameters from the previous query. - approximate system location 15-30 minutes ago, maybe a map graphic representing the results. - a mechanism to stop spamming - cost scaling based on the search parameters, all, current region, constellation etc. and the number of pilots selected.then we remove non-consensual watch lists.i guess could place both modes into 1 gui and adjust pricing / results accordingly, however the purpose is to make hunting targets possible but certainly not passive like it is today. another example is quite often in low sec we place known titan pilots of locals on watch list to see if there is a chance that someone is forming to counter hot drop on us. this will now require human eyes.the proposal above would make it harder to determine trouble is on the way and tracking supercarrier / titan pilots for kills quite a bit harder, (assuming no spies in the target corporation.) without removing one of the tools for active war-dec campaigning.xav"
"to be fair on that last point. it is kind of the entire point of democracies, the \"cool kids win regardless of the political positions and/or actual aptitude for the position\".its kinda why america and half of europe keeps finding itself in such ****** situations."
"i can't even figure out how to access the overview while in station, and that has bugged me a lot."
"short cut in the esc menu."
"checking in, looking about. was asked to by my good friend reaver whathisnamembtw i do really like the proposal, would use the living daylights out of it if it were put into the gamemmike azariah ----<U+FEFF> <U+FFFD>|(<U+30C4>)/<U+FFFD>"
"im one of those duders who re upped my alt so that i could use isboxer, why would ccp ban it expecially when it only encourages people to purchase more accounts"
"bots also purchase more accounts."
"i am floored by the amount of support this idea i came up with while drinking has received. and mike, that is why i voted for you, you listen and actively engage the community while lending support to new or innovative ideas. thanks for the support everyone. keep it up and don't stop until we have this or something like this.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"i think this would be a great idea, so long as it is coupled with another \"real world\" consequence...the corp or alliance is categorized as a terrorist group, its assets frozen and seized, and its members subject to \"arrest\" (i.e., destruction by concord). of course, game mechanics don't allow some of that, so a simple case of having the corp flagged with a -10 security status would do. no empire could allow a private corp to claim some form of sovereignty, particularly using military actions, over their own space. if you want to play criminals, and gain recognition for criminal acts, then you should also suffer the consequences of being criminals."
"no, i am trying to give a heavy dictor a place in eve which currently it is only used for capital tackle and cynos....interdictor bubbles that use the charges wont stop them still. i would suspect the power coming from a ship based bubble instead iof a probe that is launched would be stronger...simple - give the ship class some life."
"fyi: if you're only using hictors for capital tackles and cynos, you're missing out on some of its other uses."
"freighter bumping is not a problem. one corpmate in a rookie ship equipped with a web will launch a freighter into warp and a fraction of the usual required speed. this tactic is used all throughout new eden by smart freighter pilots to help prevent ganks and to increase their isk/hr by drastically reducing align times.miner bumping is not a problem. if you are a miner getting bumped off your mining spot, move to a different belt. if the bumper keeps following you and you are taking measures to avoid him, then report him and the gms will deal with him as there are rules against this. if you are afk and getting bumped, well perhaps you shouldn't be afk and should be paying attention to your mining.miner bumping is a valid tool used by people like myself who merely dislike afk miners, but truly despise bot miners. i have reported several bots over the years because a timed set of command continues even after a miner is bumped off his spot, whereas a simply afk miner will simply sit in space until the pebcak returns.as for the '45 minutes' of bumping on a freighter waiting for a gank squad. you do know that safe logout only takes 30s, and as long as you're not actively trying to fly you will simply disappear from space. bring an alt to the system and watch for the bumper to move on.but again, you probably don't want to listen, you just want ccp to fix all your problems for you."
"i searched to see if this topic has already been addressed but did not find anything. my suggestion is that the kestrel be made to look like a tech i version of the manticore. i noticed that the condor matches the raptor and the crow. can we get this kind of symmetry for the kestrel? thanks."
"you want a probably bad idea for hictors?targeted blocking of docking."
"dockblocking?"
"dockblocking? that sounds too close to...oh you tricksy hobbits"
"your own lack of imagination is not sufficient reason to expand the capabilities of a ship."
"i would love to ask the ccp to consider my suggestion.every single character that has less than 10 million skill point should get 100% or 200% learning boost, it should be a free passive effect.the new players can only play with fregatte with this little amount of sp, who wants to wait months to play normally, and should i pay for this?"
"1 mil, maybe. 10? you're joking.either way, it makes for easier cyno alts, fw alts and gank alts."
"came expecting something with substance.lolled and left disappointed."
"omg you've totally convinced me, how could i have been so wrong, i completely reverse my stance on this subject.wait, nope.... sorry, i was in sarcasm mode.name changes still bring extra complexity, the need to check for a name history on everyone you meet and unwelcome character reputation laundering. jint hikaru - miner / salvager / explorer / spacebum in the beginning the universe was created. this has made a lot of people very angry and been widely regarded as a bad move."
"we can has?i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"for anyone living in catch the intergalactic news message that appears is a very annoying. every time you warp to a stargate to enter the constellation 9hxq-g the same message pops up. i think just about everyone in the hero coalition is very frustrated by this message and would like to see it removed. this pop up message has been on these gates for years now and is listed as news. please, add a check box to this pop up window which will prevent the message from popping up again."
"+1 yes please"
"this needs to happen"
"1.0"
"+1 7o"
"+1 please, thank you"
"+1+1 ty !"
"yes please, having to click thru that multiple times per day is very irritating."
"this!please make an option to disable ok? thank you!"
"1.0"
"i don't know dude, that's some very important news that we need to be well aware of"
"+1 yes plz.or at least change the message to give directions to jita"
"it really is annoying"
"yeah, this is incredibly annoying.. all it needs is a do not show this again option!"
"1.0"
"1.0"
"1.0"
"1.0"
"+1annoying and doesn't add to enjoyment."
"the sansha's nation wishes to expand its borders, and 9hxq-g is one of its targets. they have set up a major base of operations in 3gd6-8 and are slowly destroying all opposition to their forces, while their peons build their new starbases. the biggest hindrance to their plans is in my-w1v. a gigantic mining colony, along with a trading hub, is located there and the inhabitants are extremely afraid of what might happen to them should sansha declare ownership of their solar-system. they have assembled a sizable fleet of amarr and ammatar ships to protect their assets, and prevent the sansha's nation from expanding their sovereignty into 9hxq-g. i'm not sure how i'll be able to survive when i can't spam that in fleet, alliance, and local chat every time a fleet warps to any gate leading that constellation (basically every fleet we take out)."
"pleasedo it for my sakei still dont know"
"extremely valuable gas clouds have been discovered in the pegasus constellation which have created a gold rush. ore was quick to claim 'ownership' as the constellation borders its sovereign space, but the serpentis and the syndicate, as well as multiple entrepeneurs from the gallente federation, have all claimed their own piece of the pie. inevitably collisions have occurred and the constellation has become a sort of 'warzone' between various groups of greedy claimants."
"extremely valuable gas clouds have been discovered in the pegasus constellation which have created a gold rush. ore was quick to claim 'ownership' as the constellation borders its sovereign space, but the serpentis and the syndicate, as well as multiple entrepeneurs from the gallente federation, have all claimed their own piece of the pie. inevitably collisions have occurred and the constellation has become a sort of 'warzone' between various groups of greedy claimants."
"extremely valuable gas clouds have been discovered in the pegasus constellation which have created a gold rush. ore was quick to claim 'ownership' as the constellation borders its sovereign space, but the serpentis and the syndicate, as well as multiple entrepeneurs from the gallente federation, have all claimed their own piece of the pie. inevitably collisions have occurred and the constellation has become a sort of 'warzone' between various groups of greedy claimants."
"but if you ignore the intergalactic news than how will you get your intergalactic news updates"
"extremely valuable gas clouds have been discovered in the pegasus constellation which have created a gold rush. ore was quick to claim 'ownership' as the constellation borders its sovereign space, but the serpentis and the syndicate, as well as multiple entrepeneurs from the gallente federation, have all claimed their own piece of the pie. inevitably collisions have occurred and the constellation has become a sort of 'warzone' between various groups of greedy claimants."
"+1 , annoying."
"+1 yes please."
"nullbares! gonna ruin eve! sign is not op. maybe we should have the sign read:\"thanks for the tears\" - intergalactic news"
"1.0"
"1.000001"
"+1, not anymore pls"
"plzzz ccp"
"ccp plz fix"
"i'll be honest, even if it did have that option, i probably wouldn't click it.i never do..."
"+1it's nice fluff, but it would be great to have a checkbox to stop you from seeing it again and again."
"hell, i'm even for moving it to any other system that isn't a major route :) +1 pleasepleasepleasepleaseyou never fly alone - broadcast 4 reps | twitter: @thecoffeerocks | steam: coffeerocks"
"(not the same copy and paste)the sansha's nation wishes to expand its borders, and extremely valuable gas clouds have been discovered in the pegasus constellation which have created one of its targets. they have set up a major base of operations in 3gd6-8 and ore was quick to claim 'ownership' as the constellation borders its sovereign space, but the serpentis and the syndicate are slowly destroying all opposition to their forces, as well as multiple entrepeneurs from the gallente federation. while their peons have all claimed their own piece of the pie. inevitably collisions build their new starbases. the biggest hindrance to their plans is in my-w1v. a gigantic mining colony have occurred and the constellation has become a sort of 'warzone' between various groups of greedy claimants, along with a trading hub, is located there and the inhabitants are extremely afraid of what might happen to them should sansha declare ownership of their solar-system.+1"
"the sansha's nation wishes to expand its borders, and 9hxq-g is one of its targets. they have set up a major base of operations in 3gd6-8 and are slowly destroying all opposition to their forces, while their peons build their new starbases. the biggest hindrance to their plans is in my-w1v. a gigantic mining colony, along with a trading hub, is located there and the inhabitants are extremely afraid of what might happen to them should sansha declare ownership of their solar-system. they have assembled a sizable fleet of amarr and ammatar ships to protect their assets, and prevent the sansha's nation from expanding their sovereignty into 9hxq-g."
"+1please let us at least have a check box to ignore future messages"
"1.0"
"+1,"
"+1very annoying."
"the sansha's nation are a widely misunderstood people. they only wish to live in peace with us as their loving and devoted subjects. they are forced to live in shanty towns, with only spikes to hang their tattered rags out to dry. this is our failing as a society and it is one i will not be a part of any more. when you warp through the gates, please spare a thought for the children. for just 1 million isk a year, you can be a part of changing the lives of some of these children. my not for profit organisation: sansha's news popup baby children need blankies is a hardworking group, dedicated to bringing joy into the lives of these cute but mutated munchkins. please, give generously. and ccp - please remove the oppressive \"news\" broadcasts from the spacelanes. be a part of the solution, not the problem. think of the children."
"the sansha's nation wishes to expand its borders, and 9hxq-g is one of its targets. they have set up a major base of operations in 3gd6-8 and are slowly destroying all opposition to their forces, while their peons build their new starbases. the biggest hindrance to their plans is in my-w1v. a gigantic mining colony, along with a trading hub, is located there and the inhabitants are extremely afraid of what might happen to them should sansha declare ownership of their solar-system. they have assembled a sizable fleet of amarr and ammatar ships to protect their assets, and prevent the sansha's nation from expanding their sovereignty into 9hxq-g."
"i, for one, appreciate the intergalactic news. they make me feel like i'm part of the grand scheme of the eve adventure, and literally help me immerge myself in the lore. -1"
"+1the sansha's nation wishes to expand its borders, and 9hxq-g is one of its targets. they have set up a major base of operations in 3gd6-8 and are slowly destroying all opposition to their forces, while their peons build their new starbases. the biggest "
"-1 keep it as is"
"1.0"
"there's a similar message near antem system iircnot fun"
"the sansha's nation wishes to expand its borders, and 9hxq-g is one of its targets. they have set up a major base of operations in 3gd6-8 and are slowly destroying all opposition to their forces, while their peons build their new starbases. the biggest hindrance to their plans is in my-w1v. a gigantic mining colony, along with a trading hub, is located there and the inhabitants are extremely afraid of what might happen to them should sansha declare ownership of their solar-system. they have assembled a sizable fleet of amarr and ammatar ships to protect their assets, and prevent the sansha's nation from expanding their sovereignty into 9hxq-g."
"yes please get rid of this!"
"+7o. ccplzzzzzzzzzz"
"+1 annoys me to no ******* end when ever i am leading fleets and that stupid thing shows up"
"extremely valuable gas clouds have been discovered in the pegasus constellation which have created a gold rush. ore was quick to claim 'ownership' as the constellation borders its sovereign space, but the serpentis and the syndicate, as well as multiple entrepeneurs from the gallente federation, have all claimed their own piece of the pie. inevitably collisions have occurred and the constellation has become a sort of 'warzone' between various groups of greedy claimants."
"the sansha's nation wishes to expand its borders, and 9hxq-g is one of its targets. they have set up a major base of operations in 3gd6-8 and are slowly destroying all opposition to their forces, while their peons build their new starbases. the biggest hindrance to their plans is in my-w1v. a gigantic mining colony, along with a trading hub, is located there and the inhabitants are extremely afraid of what might happen to them should sansha declare ownership of their solar-system. they have assembled a sizable fleet of amarr and ammatar ships to protect their assets, and prevent the sansha's nation from expanding their sovereignty into 9hxq-g."
"please yes, these news notifications are really annoying after the first time."
"1.0"
"brave, why cant you accept the best part of living in nullsec?"
"extremely valuable gas clouds have been discovered in the pegasus constellation which have created a gold rush. ore was quick to claim 'ownership' as the constellation borders its sovereign space, but the serpentis and the syndicate, as well as multiple entrepeneurs from the gallente federation, have all claimed their own piece of the pie. inevitably collisions have occurred and the constellation has become a sort of 'warzone' between various groups of greedy claimants."
"extremely valuable gas clouds have been discovered in the pegasus constellation which have created a gold rush. ore was quick to claim 'ownership' as the constellation borders its sovereign space, but the serpentis and the syndicate, as well as multiple entrepeneurs from the gallente federation, have all claimed their own piece of the pie. inevitably collisions have occurred and the constellation has become a sort of 'warzone' between various groups of greedy claimants."
"nice job missing that snipe too gio."
"1.0"
"+1 , we should paste into rookie help till' ccp take notice."
"1.0"
"1.0"
"+1 cause, yes"
"extremely valuable gas clouds have been discovered in the pegasus constellation which have created a gold rush. ore was quick to claim 'ownership' as the constellation borders its sovereign space, but the serpentis and the syndicate, as well as multiple entrepeneurs from the gallente federation, have all claimed their own piece of the pie. inevitably collisions have occurred and the constellation has become a sort of 'warzone' between various groups of greedy claimants."
"1.0"
"every day, not only once but again and again and again:\"the sansha's nation wishes to expand its borders, and 9hxq-g is one of its targets. they have set up a major base of operations in 3gd6-8 and are slowly destroying all opposition to their forces, while their peons build their new starbases. the biggest hindrance to their plans is in my-w1v. a gigantic mining colony, along with a trading hub, is located there and the inhabitants are extremely afraid of what might happen to them should sansha declare ownership of their solar-system. they have assembled a sizable fleet of amarr and ammatar ships to protect their assets, and prevent the sansha's nation from expanding their sovereignty into 9hxq-g. \""
"the sansha's nation wishes to expand its borders, and 9hxq-g is one of its targets. they have set up a major base of operations in 3gd6-8 and are slowly destroying all opposition to their forces, while their peons build their new starbases. the biggest hindrance to their plans is in my-w1v. a gigantic mining colony, along with a trading hub, is located there and the inhabitants are extremely afraid of what might happen to them should sansha declare ownership of their solar-system. they have assembled a sizable fleet of amarr and ammatar ships to protect their assets, and prevent the sansha's nation from expanding their sovereignty into 9hxq-g. v-3 local chat in a nutshell."
"alts being something mechanics should discourage, not encourage, if only because goddamnit no oen wants to work with people anymore, everyone's on the \"lul may as well have 2-3 accounts and do it myself\" trip."
"what? and make it easy for them? the effort you put into getting into the higher skills and better ships is what makes them so awesome. imma' hafta' -1 this. if you can't spend the time to do it right, don't do it."
"it already exist. there are special implants you can only use in your first month or so. but you get them only for promo purposes i believe.search for celebral accelerator"
"if isboxing gives you no advantage to alt-tabbing to control other accounts, why pay for it?"
"could a dev or csm member please respond to this thread? we managed to get overwhelming support for this request and we would like to know that our concerns are being heard."
"why cant they have these little tidbits be boxes that appear while your in warp there, but once your on grid with whatever triggers it, it autocloses? that would make sense and be convenient"
"-1. best message nathe sansha's nation wishes to expand its borders, and 9hxq-g is one of its targets. they have set up a major base of operations in 3gd6-8 and are slowly destroying all opposition to their forces, while their peons build their new starba"
"+1this is my first forum post. better make it count."
"1.0"
"yes plx"
"+1 yes please"
"1.0"
"1.0"
"+1 and remember, this fix could fix other issues if the problem is localized and solved now."
"+1 \"the sansha's nation wishes to expand its borders, and 9hxq-g is one of its targets. they have set up a major base of operations in 3gd6-8 and are slowly destroying all opposition to their forces\" sansha is all talk no action, it's old news."
"i propose this as browsing experience is boosted using ad block plus. there is a block function for exactly this sort of thing. you should be able to import and export chat blocklists and view who is blocked. at the very least you should be able to export block list to see who is on it."
"it significantly improves screen space utilization when running multiple accounts, helps with managing cpu threads and using the correct gpu if you're running multiple monitors on separate cards, and makes launching clients and managing account/overview settings easier."
"until ccpgames will make a better worded company policy towards programs like isboxer in their tos/eula and are willing and able to enforce these new wordings, hopefully in the fall this year, i do not see the company acting on the current situation.banning isboxed accounts will hurt, the company through less plex being bought from the market to fuel multiple accounts, and it could hurt the price of stuff ingame, compressed ore prices will go up and there for t1/t2 modules / ships, except plex prices though"
"plex prices will always go up.i use isboxer for the screen and resource management functions. i can do just as well without it and sometimes i do go without it cause i'd rather spend the money on something else.*snip* removed reply to a deleted post. isd ezwal."
"the sansha's nation wishes to expand its borders, and 9hxq-g is one of its targets. they have set up a major base of operations in 3gd6-8 and are slowly destroying all opposition to their forces, while their peons build their new starbases. the biggest hindrance to their plans is in my-w1v. a gigantic mining colony, along with a trading hub, is located there and the inhabitants are extremely afraid of what might happen to them should sansha declare ownership of their solar-system. they have assembled a sizable fleet of amarr and ammatar ships to protect their assets, and prevent the sansha's nation from expanding their sovereignty into 9hxq-g."
"the sansha's nation wishes to expand its borders, and 9hxq-g is one of its targets. they have set up a major base of operations in 3gd6-8 and are slowly destroying all opposition to their forces, while their peons build their new starbases. the biggest hindrance to their plans is in my-w1v. a gigantic mining colony, along with a trading hub, is located there and the inhabitants are extremely afraid of what might happen to them should sansha declare ownership of their solar-system. they have assembled a sizable fleet of amarr and ammatar ships to protect their assets, and prevent the sansha's nation from expanding their sovereignty into 9hxq-g."
"1.0"
"ccp pls"
"the sansha's nation wishes to expand its borders, and 9hxq-g is one of its targets. they have set up a major base of operations in 3gd6-8 and are slowly destroying all opposition to their forces, while their peons build their new starbases. the biggest hindrance to their plans is in my-w1v. a gigantic mining colony, along with a trading hub, is located there and the inhabitants are extremely afraid of what might happen to them should sansha declare ownership of their solar-system. they have assembled a sizable fleet of amarr and ammatar ships to protect their assets, and prevent the sansha's nation from expanding their sovereignty into 9hxq-g."
"so did you know that the sansha's nation wishes to expand its borders, and that one of its targets is 9hxq-g? or how about that their base of operations is in 3gd8, and they're building more? and that they're slowly destroying everyone? if not, then how about that a random massive mining colony in myw1v is a massive hindrance, and the people there are afraid? possibly, you might have learned that they've made a pretty massive fleet to protect themselves. and more importantly, did you know they've spent years telling us they've done this exact same thing? ccp pls nerf, news op!"
"1.0"
"i need dis ccp."
"1.0"
"+1!!7o"
"as a member of test, i wish to inform you that extremely valuable gas clouds have been discovered in the pegasus constellation which have created a gold rush. ore was quick to claim 'ownership' as the constellation borders its sovereign space, but the serpentis and the syndicate, as well as multiple entrepeneurs from the gallente federation, have all claimed their own piece of the pie. inevitably collisions have occurred and the constellation has become a sort of 'warzone' between various groups of greedy claimants.honor is a fools prize. [i]glory is of no use to the dead.[/i] be a man! post with your main! ~vas'avi community manager"
"1.0"
"i support this endeavor."
"this message is entering my nightmares.ccp please fix+1"
"yes please. if the news was relevant to some rp stuff going on in intergalactic summit, then i'd understand. but those poor sansha are dieing by the thousands and this billboard does nothing but anger their attackers even more :("
"+1oh please!"
"don't make us riot again ccp.. you know we will"
"+1the sansha's nation wishes to expand its borders, and 9hxq-g is one of its targets. they have set up a major base of operations in 3gd6-8 and are slowly destroying all opposition to their forces, while their peons build their new starbases. the biggest "
"+1devs, plz"
"+1:ccp:"
"+1the sansha's nation wishes to expand its borders, and 9hxq-g is one of its targets. they have set up a major base of operations in 3gd6-8 and are slowly destroying all opposition to their forces, while their peons build their new starbases. the biggest "
"+1also remove all the other warp popups"
"please, make it stop..."
"1.0"
"yes, this is annoying, please get rid of it or make it optional after the first view."
"+1 7o make it happen plz"
"+ 1 ccp fix plz"
"+1[x] do not show this message again?"
"+1the sansha's nation wishes to expand its borders, and 9hxq-g is one of its targets. they have set up a major base of operations in 3gd6-8 and are slowly destroying all opposition to their forces, while their peons build their new starbases. the biggest "
"someone should go to eve vegas and walk around saying it to people.\"hey, nice to meet you\"\"the sansha's nation wishes to expand its borders, and 9hxq-g...\""
"ccp> \"hey, nice to meet you\"you> \"whats up?\"ccp> \"do you have a moment to talk about the lord and savior of the sansha's nation?\"you> \"no go away\"ccp> \"but exciting things are happening in 9hxq-g\"you> \"i don't care, i've already heard about you wanting to expand your borders...ain't going to happen...leave me alone i have to eat dinner now\"ccp> \"but you see, the sansha's nation wishes to expand its borders, and 9hxq-g is one of its targets. you> \"i know, i said i had hea...\"ccp> \"they have set up a major base of operations in 3gd6-8 and are slowly destroying all opposition to their forces, while their peons build their new starbases. you> \"seriously dude, get off my porch or i'm calling the cops!\"ccp> \"the biggest hindrance to their...\"you> \"the biggest hindrance will be my foot up your a...\"ccp> \".. plans is in my-w1v. a gigantic mining colony, along with a trading hub, is located there and the inhabitants are extremely afraid of what might happen to them should sansha declare ownership of their solar-system.\"you> \"that is it...come here you pencil neck\" -grabs ccp news reader-ccp> -gagging- \"...er....they ha....ve assem....bled a sizable fleet of amarr and .....ammatar ships to protect their assets, agggkafdlsjkaf\"you> \"problem solved, now...where is my shovel?\""
"what's a ccp?"
"1.0"
"so, webbing the freighter as a corp-mate doesn't activate criminal/suspect status? or do you have to be in a particular state (same fleet, in a duel...?)seems a bit close to being an exploit to me.would be interesting to have specific 'navigation assist' modules or something (like tugboats!) that are designed to have positive effects."
"you need to be in the same player corp, which means you can aggress your corp mates and not create a flag.therefore you can web a freighter and it will jump into warp far quicker and no, it's not an exploit.you can dual of course, but that takes a little more work and can create issues.destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"i make this forum post following my reddit post from yesterday:"
"this subject is not going to go away and its something that the people who have been playing eve for a long time really want. we want ccp to open up new systems, i dont care if you can only access the systems with frigates or a whole new race is found but we badly need more space to expand. i would like to see the amount of systems double of a 5 year period to allow people once again to actually warp through an empty system in 0.0 again."
"when did ccp remove wardecs, ganking, duels, awoxing, the market, contracts, mining, missions, exploration etc from high sec?"
"hi,i understand the need to update and maintain the software and hardware. however, in my time zone (u.s. eastern time zone), i only have two times per day to play eve: right around currently scheduled dt and after work. ccp's recurring and extended dt's, at the same time each day, unduly harm players in similar situations. solution: why can't ccp either put their \"a\" team on maintenance to make it go faster; or if they already do and it just takes them a long time to perform the necessary tasks, can't they at least alternate with another timeslot and spread the pain around?thank you"
"#firstworldproblemsgo read a book or something instead.also, obvious troll is obvious.server maintenance takes as long as it takes. especially with a system as complex as eve's. they're not exactly changing the oil in a ford here. just be glad you aren't austrailian. they have to deal with downtime during their primetime - every day."
"yes, i am a bit frustrated not to receive more feedback from csm members or ccp devs (but in another hand, i understand you can all be busy with other things, no problem).it's just that the last message i received from a ccp dev dates back to december 2012... when ccp arrow replied:"
"we have a great deal of ideas and suggestions regarding the overview from players and most of the developers want to tackle it sooner rather than later. however, many of the developers that could take on such a project, revamping one of the most vital ui's in the game, have been working on the new industry revamp for the past few months. the same group of developers has a plan to iterate on the industry ui once it has been released next week to ensure it is the best it can be.once that is out of the way, many of us would love to look at doing a revamped overview, but we need to discuss it with stakeholders and make sure it fits with the plans of eve development teams. if it becomes a thing a team would take on, they would need to do extensive research and prototyping and run multiple sisi deployments before considering replacing the current one.so as much as i would like to promise you the world, this is the reality we live in and doing things any other way or rushing things would not have the outcome anyone wants.ccp arrowccp arrow | director of user experience | eve online | @ccp_arrow"
"this definitely would be beneficial to incursion runners as well as anyone who produces ships or transports as a neutral for war plagued corporations.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"not having to jump 30+ systems to get your logi because your battleship isn't needed..... *swoons*"
"i also agree the pop up fluff messages get very old......"
"i have yet to find this rumored trade hub in my-w1v. i bet -a- cloaked it."
"agree. i also would love to be able to group things with the overview.. like a \"folder\" so you could plop things like wrecks or drones in it, so you wouldn't have to change or create tabs for them. just mouse over the sub-group and anything in that \"folder\" would pop up in a window, move mouse away and it would go away."
"just gunna leave this heresuper kestrel"
"all we ask is that you guys are looking into it! =)"
"after all the discussion i've read, it remains that ten accounts can accomplish no more than ten other accounts given the same number and types of ships with equivalent fits and skills operating in the same environments over the same amount of time.that leaves the crispy piece of chapped skin inflamed over not the number of accounts or the total time it takes for either set of ten ships to accomplish the same outcome, but chafed skin only comes into play when the number of players involved is mentioned.1. if ten ice mining ships came into a belt and mined out the belt, does it really matter to the person who came to the belt too late if it was done by ten mining ships or by ten other mining ships?2. does it really matter if the belt was cleaned out in the same amount of time by one set of ten mining ships or a different set of ten mining in the same exact amount of time, give or take a few seconds? 3. would it really matter if that belt was eaten by ten accounts or a different set of ten accounts?4. would it really matter if each of the ten ships in both sets of ten would just sit idly by not doing anything until the pilot of each of those ships used a keyboard or mouse to send the correct command to the ships in each set of ten to keep moving the mining operation forward?5. would it really matter if the owner of each account for each ship from one of the two sets of ten ships was at a movie or asleep and the ten mining ships went about efficiently reading their scripts while the afk player was not even in the same zip code as the computer sending commands to the ten ships?6. would the description of behaviors in number five be fair to the ten mining ships whose account owner was present in the belt and without the entering of commands by keyboard or mouse to control each of the ships in the game and making decisions about the actions and movements of the ten ships?please weigh in on the 6 scenarios stated above. i believe it would be interesting."
"isboxer can still accomplish more than 10 multi boxed alt+tab accounts.1) 1 person with isboxer bomber squad can nuke complete fleets solo, it's impossible with multiboxing alt+tab2) 10 isboxer ratting ships have an constant alpha strike equal to the gun cycling time, it's impossible with multiboxing alt+tab. the result is a much more higher income. you never will reach the damage output at all like with isboxer, the factor \"rep ability of target\" is irrelevant. one-shot-kills with pressing a single key.3) 10 isboxer gate camping gang has a constant alpha strike equal to the gun cycling time. logis in the enemy fleet can be useless because the have zero chance to rep anything. with alt+tab delay reps are able to hold because the damage comes in lower4) you can combine different account onto the same screen with different tasks. for example logis on the same screen, tackle and alpha strike on the same screen, tackle, ecm, alpha on the same screen.you don't play 10 individual accounts with isboxer, you play 1 accounts with a factor 10."
"in reading the eula i found an interesting little piece:\" ...an amendment alters a material term of the eula that is unacceptable to you, you may, as your sole and exclusive remedy, terminate the eula and close your accounts by: (a) clicking the \"decline\" button when you are prompted to review and agree to the amended eula; by your choice of not accepting isboxer when ccp did, the above may apply to you.your quote:\"you don't play 10 individual accounts with isboxer, you play 1 accounts with a factor 10\" tells me you have not used or have very little experience using isboxer. i rarely use it beyond logging in and moving a fleet, and in moving fleets, i have found some ships will arrive at a gate after i pressed the command for jump and i'd screwed up and left that ship behind. when i finally counted ships and found i was one or two short, they had followed my command to move to a gate two or three from the top of two different lists; one in the system i just left and on in the system where i wanted and thought all the ships were. i was navigating by memory and did not take the time to be sure each ship's overview contained only gates, i had a destination in each overview and i was sorting each overview by the gates. when that happened to me and i to0ok a headcount of the ships arriving at a gate that was not so busy, i'd often find the slow ship about 8 jumps away and blown to kingdom come. i learned to over come that mistake, so the increased factor you mentioned can also count the number of ways you can screw up.i'm sure it works better for others who take a great deal of time in learning the nuances of it's use, but it is no piece of cake and certainly not a just a factor applied to an equation that is always good.the bottom line seems to be, not how many accounts, not the length of time when one is pitted against ten ships with ten players or ten accounts with one player pushing buttons and moving a mouse to control the ships, it is all about player to player. ccp looks for equanimity between accounts, not between players. i can vote using each account, i can petition using each account, i am given a christmas gift for each account and each account started with 5000 isk and a crappy ship. i can simultaneously mine with each account with or without using isboxer, but i always have to be present and i always have to initiate each move any ship or module in any slot will take whether i am boxing or bouncing from window to window. nothing about it is automatic. i would not touch it with a ten foot pole if it were.of course you and every other player may do as you wish, but i ask you to examine if it is jealousy that another player may be more productive or a true belief that isboxer violates the eula and tos, even though it has had to be hashed and rehashed in iceland probably many more times than i can imagine.i hope you and every one else who reads this finds success in your future endeavors and you embrace every advantage of every game mechanic that is acceptable to ccp. don't ever tell me you are breaking the rules or let me see you breaking them or you will get a she ton of petitions about it."
"your comment and problems with different kind of ships doing differnet things shows me only that you have no clue about how to manage things. and you are right, your advantages with isboxer are very limited.but anyways, time to create a legal bomb squad."
"1) playing in window mode i can click in taskbar, f1, repeat pretty damn fast and have last window be squad leader to warp squad. a little timing and coordination is all you need.2 and 3) can do same with drones.4) proves you've not looked into isboxer. isboxer performs the same mouse/keyboard actions over multiple clients. this isn't commands, it is actions. all overviews, window locations, hud locations, sizes, everything has to be identical or it won't work right. therefore you cannot run tackle, ewar, and damage off the same screen because the actions to perform these commands are not the same.yes, isboxer lets you control multiple identical ships from a single interface. no, isboxer does not give you an overpowered advantage. if you make one mistake, your cost for the mistake is multiplied. the advantage you get is only slightly more than if you ran eve in window mode and spent 20-30 minutes practicing your mouse clicks and keystrokes to perform the same actions.i'm sure ccp did not arbitrarily decide to let isboxer remain. i'm sure a lot of thought went into the decision because no other software close to it is allowed. add to all this the fact that you can dump a few hundred dollars into inexpensive hardware and get the exact same results. surplus government computers are cheap and a simple google search will provide hardware ways to repeat the commands. p.s. i, personally, don't use isboxer."
"because you could carry both! and a mission runner and pvp frig for shenanigans. the possibilities are one of the things that make me keep pushing this. also, for the pirate types, imagine the tears of popping one and it dropping a fully fit faction bs or marauder.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"it would be nice if cpp had proper people not snobby know it all gm's. in my business customers rule that way you don't lose them. i would venture that eve is losing more old die hard fans, the ones that put lots money into keeping people at cpp employed."
"post your lossmail"
"when i was running a restaurant we had a saying, \"the customer thinks they are right... educate them.\"methinks you just do not like the answer you got and/or can't wrap your head around why your preconcieved notions of the world are not being satisfied.i am also not seeing an idea or propsal here... just a rant."
"the manticore is a sb it is a retrofitted kestrel specificly designed to house and launch unguided ordinance.all 4 sb hulls look vastly different to thair parent hulls"
"i endorse this product and/or service.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"really ? you wanna tell me that you are able to do a complete squad bomb run in windowed mode ? warp in as squad, decloak, throw bomb and warp out ? hopefully the enemy has no light tackle, otherwise it will be a one time job, every second counts to leave the field. btw, how have you solved the problem that ships aligne away from the warp direction after landing when they get no command instant after landing ? with moving targets, and in pvp targets normally move every second counts, every misangle of the warp in direction destroys your focused bomb damage you have with 10 player controlled bombers or isboxer.but yeah, drones are not guns for a good reason. be efficient, use guns. 10 accounts with a rof gun cycling time alpha are that what you get with isboxer. nothing else, nothing less. without isboxer you have a hard time delay, 1 second per account is realistic if you are well trained as you told us. so 10 seconds to get back to the first account. wow, the first macharial has still shot 2 bullets. but yeah .... btw, have you ever used drones for sniping gates ? with tornados you can bounce around, with drones you are sticked to a position. with tornados you can fire on land, with assisted drones, holy crap, you have first to assist them to the gunner with several mouseclicks. ah no, target is gone, no assisted drone alpha needed anymore. isboxer alpha from 10 tornados would be a wet dream in this situation to shoot full dps with every ship after seconds without any delay.same for ratting/incursions. nobody wants frigates in close range so best strategie is to blow them up in a single alpha on range. switching costs time and the frigs get in close range because of all the delay, isboxer is ony alpha shot at once. boom boom boom, tackle dead at range.to get all clients identical takes 1 minute with all overviews, chatchannels and so on and yes, it is possible to create a new ui ( i know people will scream again because \"it is only a cutted screen from different screens\"). you can \"place\" everything you need on one screen and get the ability to do different tasks from different shiptypes. just look the videos for incursion runner setups, dps + logis. same is possible for pvp, same is possible for bomber squads -> command bomber with probes, rest dps. ******* simple.and yes, if you do a mistake alot of **** can die ... same like in multi box modus with alt+tab when you try to find your logis fast enough to get reps. thats the only point without any difference. hm, okay, it's a lie for pve stuff. you will use much more expensive stuff in pve with isboxer because it is much more saver to operate with only just one single screen with all different kinds of ships (normally dps + logi).about hardware solutions, it is an isboxer thread. hardware solutions or other software is not really better but thats another topic."
"you failed to address any thing i wrote except an example of what happened to me when i thought multiboxing was as easy as you seem to thinki it is and then criticized my managerial skills.my managerial skills are so bad that i can win a vanguard mission in lo or null with eight ships fitted for a vg incursion and a reserve fleet fitted for pvp standing off to warp in and run off or destroy any fleet which comes into the mission after i have started it. i always scan and never go in to contest a site, but will not be chased out of a site and never have been.ccp seeks equality for accounts not people. each of everyone's accounts can vote in csm elections, gets a christmas gift, can petition, can post likes on forums, costs a plex to play, got 5000 isk and a crappy ship.you continue to hold out the example of having a race between a single mult-boxer with multiple accounts and a single player without multi-boxer with multiple accounts. you are pitting player against player and not account against account. your argument is as valid as complaining that your three accounts with rookie ships cannot win against three supers. rookie ships are allowed, supers are allowed and get your brain wrapped around this - multiboxers are allowed as long as they do not provide automation, stored key strokes and alll the other things that come along with bots, nothing happens with a ship in a multiboxed fleet untill a human presses a key or maneuvers a mouse. bots operate from a script when the \"player\" is afk getting laid or on a waterski vacation in the persian gulf.pit a multi-boxer with ten accounts & ten ships against ten players with each having a single account and if all else is equal - training, equipment, etc, the two teams of ships will basically accomplish the same amount in the same amount of time - they are equal because the multiboxer will be pressing one key at about the same time as each of the individual players will be pressing the same key.. if you take a single ship on a single account from the non- boxer and from the boxer with the same assignment, such as mine five veldspar asteroids in a full belt each account will perform nearly the same given they both have the same skills and ships and modules. the boxer player using boxer commands will not have an advantage over the non boxer account as they will be pressing the same keys at about the same times. add another player with single nonboxer account and another account belinging to the boxer and do the experiment again. the two teams will finish at about the same time. keep doing that and at some point the boxer account will not be able to perform as quickly as the same number of single player accounts each on a different computer. even if the boxer has multiple computers which are comparable to each of the single player computers, the boxer will eventually slow the hair you are splitting is not a hair for which ccp has a concern for how well it is split.it is time to stop using isboxer as the universal term for all multi-boxing software. it is like calling every computer an ibmthe op called for a an uprising of the csm against multiboxing, but what has happened is the sound of crickets and many supporting multi-boxing or ar at least not finding it in contravention with the eula.. are you familiar with the term luddite?oh wait, you are a crusader fighting for eve to be played the way it oughta be played - according to you.i've already given you cordial wishes for god luck and happiness in another post, which went unnoticed i guess, so that is taken care of. oh look, don quixote, a windmill!"
"in theory you can but it would require weeks if not months of daily work to get it working well and even then a minor system lag missclick or any number of other things would break the setup so badly you'd be forced into exiting and restoring the settings from a save folder. i have a feeling this fellow knows this but can't be arsed to spend the time to even get a somewhat decent setup working or he'd of done it already. i wish him the best of luck with his bomber fleet because there's already whole threads on the isboxer forums trying to figure out how to make bomber fleets work. it's possible but you have to have save points already setup and hope your enemy is stupid.this is assuming that the eve's ui doesn't decide to stick a ui element to your mouse when you click or any number of stupid things that eve tends to do. the more clients you run the higher the chance you're going to get a screw up that desynchs the whole thing."
"yes. yes you can. it's really not that hard with a little brain-power usage.there are actually plenty of other programs out there that do some of the same functions as isboxer. none of them that i've seen do the exact same eve-related tweaks that isboxer does, which gives it a competitive advantage over our little niche."
"also, thanks to this thread i'm now curious and plan on trying isboxer myself and seeing if i like it. @op: if this thread was an attempt to make others not use isboxer, i think it failed."
"i have removed some rule breaking posts and those quoting them. as always i let some edge cases stay.please people, keep it on topic and above all civil!the rules:4. personal attacks are prohibited. commonly known as flaming, personal attacks are posts that are designed to personally berate or insult another forum user. posts of this nature are not beneficial to the community spirit that ccp promote and as such they will not be tolerated.5. trolling is prohibited. trolling is a defined as a post that is deliberately designed for the purpose of angering and insulting other players in an attempt to incite retaliation or an emotional response. posts of this nature are disruptive, often abusive and do not contribute to the sense of community that ccp promote.26. off-topic posting is prohibited. off-topic posting is permitted within reason, as sometimes a single comment may color or lighten the tone of discussion. however, excessive posting of off-topic remarks in an attempt to derail a thread may result in the thread being locked, or a forum warning being issued. isd ezwal community communication liaisons (ccls)"
"ccp already have proper gms, and they're not snobby know-it-allsso problem solved! thanks csm"
"was just watching the match between gunnar nelson and zak cummings in the ufc and from the start of the matchit was aparent that the v from eve was missing, and at the end of the match the e<U+FFFD>s were hanging loose.so it is my request that the csm pressure ccp to buy gunnar new shorts."
"good morning, i was wondering what ccp's thoughts are on the following:1. one of the more interesting issues about the market is the inability to see who is selling or buying until after they purchased from you, or after you've purchased from them. any chance the ccp will consider it a \"little thing\" and put seller/buyer title in the market information?2. this goes hand in hand with point number one. is ccp willing to give corporations/alliances more control of their own sov control markets by giving them the ability to ban individuals/corporations/alliances from buying and/or selling in their markets. for example, suppose you have a light blue alliance, and while they are good at fighting, they aren't so good at controlling a few of their more.. industrial/carebear types, who don't appear to be helping you out with their presence. so, you cut only those who have been abusing your friendship. it makes sense that the corporation that controls the station would have the ability to specifically control who buys and sells."
"what problem will this fixwho will it help and how?"
"it should be noted:if ccp did add who you're buying from/selling to, to the market, it's not like it would let you buy/sell with someone else. you can't pick orders. just buy from the lowest sell order, or sell to the highest buy order.as for 2, block them from docking?"
"heres reality, and how it functions in any business that actually gives a damn about being around in 10 years.customers dont rule, customers dont know anything, customers are idiots. you nod and smile, correct them when they are blatantly wrong (because doing otherwise will have them coming back and blaming you for the screwups they do because you said they were \"right\"), and when they get pissy about your decisions, you remind them knowing more about the subject than them is your job, and they can either listen to what you say, or go do/buy/make whatever it is they want/need on their own, and laugh as they fail miserably.more on topic, just because people whine doesnt mean ccp should throw all integrity or consistency with how they write and follow their rules out the window to \"appease\" the crybabies. if someone has a problem they want solved, they are free to do it within ccp's existing ruleset. in this the gm's do fine, they follow the rules to the letter, to the best of their ability.of course, the hilarious part of this whole thing is you think spending massive amounts of money on \"real \" would change the outcome of anything, since would still have to go to the gm's who would go to whatever relevant head of whatever they need to clarify for (if their is even anything to clarify) just to tell the pointless representative that they need to parrot the response the gm would have given anyways."
"so which game mechanic did you learn about this week?"
"crius bring the removal of slots, along with reasons to move among systems to produce stuff. teams give reasons for people to pull together into hubs. in high sec most production-centric systems have many stations with dozens of available offices. this is not the same for nullsec.with crius our player-dropped outpost bonuses are changing. amarr outposts now can be upgraded to give reductions in material efficiency. due to the cost of upgrading outposts, alliances will likely end up with a few production hubs. because of the material efficiency bonuses, the tier 3 and tier 2 would be factory and plant upgrades in whichever order is preferred for that system. this leaves the t1 slot for a possible office upgrade. this bring the number of available slots in an amarr outpost to 26.26 slots for an expensive production system is simply not enough. northern associates has 336 corporation. goonswarm federation has 288. brothers of tangra has 225. pblrd has 113. provibloc has countless un-allianced corporations active within their space. most of these corporation are small groups of players or individual players with a need to utilitze a corp hangar. i know i'm not the only player that uses an alt corp to manage multiple production pilots.when crius hits and players in nullsec begin producing more goods locally, we're suddenly going to have a lot of reason to converge in a production system, but will be incredibly limited by the number of office slots, and managing blueprints for multiple pilots on the same account is an incredible headache without an office in your production station.csm needs to lean on ccp to expand the number of available offices in outposts to accommodate the increase in local production in nullsec. with the limitation of 1 station per system, and a total cost of roughly 80 billion isk to build and upgrade an amarr outpost to t3, these outposts should come with more offices. more offices also gives alliances a way to tax members, which provides another form of bottom-up income stream."
"i'm pretty sure that \"office slots in a world where there are no longer industry and science slot restrictions\" is something that's been said lately to ccp."
"hello ccp arrow. i understand that it can take a long time for a big game such as eve, to see changes being really added. i can understand that.it seems that for some reason, i thought you were more numerous in the ccp development team. that's why, without any feedback from the ccp or csm members, i started to think, that my idea to add the smart filters and the quick filter box into the overview has been forgotten. sorry if i looked like a weeping dog ;)"
"cpp wont ban isboxer for simple reason that they don't give a hoot about the individual player scraping up funds to pay for one account. they like the guy who pays for 5 accounts to win eve! isboxer is cheating because you are getting an advantage over someone who isn't running it. you can sugar coat it all you want and twist the words but one person controlling 5 or more accounts with one press of a button has an advantage."
"well, that would be your choice, which is important to have. oddly enough, i disagree with your sentiment. i think if people knew who they were buying from, they would likely be a bit more selective about their purchases. maybe you'll be more likely to purchase a product from a corp member over someone you don't know. or maybe you'll refuse to buy a cheaper product from someone you don't like because you're on opposite sides of the war, or you just think he's a d***.now, you need that first part, in order to effectively do the second. as a station owner you should have quite a few tools available for dealing with various internal issues. having the ability to ban pilots from either buying or selling (or both) in the local market would allow a station owner to have more direct control over what is available to the people wants. it is all about choice, and tools to make those choices."
"it will fix a strange lack of choice on behalf of players in deciding who they wish to purchase from. maybe not a problem, but it could be classified as a \"little\" annoyance."
"you can't choose who you buy from. you can only choose how much you pay, the order with the lowest sell price is always sold first, regardless of the price you choose to pay. if your idea went ahead, the only way to avoid buying stuff from the person with the lowest listed price would be to go and buy from a different station."
"u basically can deny acces to station of u own sov, its one of the perks over npc null. or u work with pre fitted allaince contracts on ships even corp if u have tooi would as providence nrds love to tax by standing though, so that guests pay more .so tax by standing would myabe help u also?"
"unless you're proposing a change to the market that goes significantly beyond 'show who each order belongs to' the only way to be selective is to go to another station, or not buy something.to be clear: it is not possible to select which order to interact with. you always buy from the lowest sell, regardless of which you select, and how much isk you put in."
"i see what you are saying.. so, shouldn't that be fixed as well?"
"skelee, your post is a bit sketchy, so its hard for people to identify or help. now it yells to me your frustrated but i cant help you since we dont know the content"
"say, mynna, arent you in the csm, maybe you could......"
"so what's the timeframe then? crius hits tomorrow. office revamp happens....eventually. there needs to be some kind of solution to bridge the time between."
"ofcourse we will, the next csm council meet in iceland will focus on handling your request too the csm with the utmost priority. in the mesntime maybe you can help with sowing some alternatives toghter, lets the people off the eve universe vote over it, snd show us the final results so csm doesnt waste any more time on more trivial things like the upcomming industrial release."
"gunnar nelson is one of the best p4p fighters on the planet in the biggest mma organisation there is. there were 10,000 people in attendance all chanting his name and hundreds of thousands of fans of the sport watching the event on tv.it totally amazes me that the v was missing and that the es were falling off and i think this should be taken seriously.the eve logo is in the prime position and sponsors will pay more for that. with the rate he is going im sure that space will be bought by another company with more money and better glue.you get 5 seconds of the big banner that the corner men hold but a possibility of 25minutes with the shorts.i don't think ccp know what they have with gunnar and i hope they put more effort in next time."
"nice one, for a second i thought u ment local chat tabs, alos nice, but this one yeah also"
"excellent idea +1"
"i think it would be a better idea to allow the yearly remap to stack to at least one in reserve."
"why would they do that when this way they can just blow you off if there is a major problem? in game issues i can understand being handled through petitions, but major stuff they don't want to actually deal with. i had a character stolen off of one of my accounts and all i was told is that nothing can be done. missing character, sorry nothing we can do, won't even tell you how. contact corporate and they just tell you to file a petition so that they can ignore you. the bottom line is they won't do it because they don't have to. they don't really care about you or your problems. they just want you to keep playing, i mean paying. you leave and there are others in line behind you. it's not how it should be but that's how it is."
"ew drones are completely useless. between stacking penalties, durability issues, and sig radius they are a complete mess. in some cases the stats are so bad that they do not even make sense. for example, how is it that a thorax with a sig radius of 120 can hold 10 small warrior web drones that each have a sig radius (110) that is almost equal to the sig radius of the whole cruiser? and this is just one example. we end up with a drone that does almost nothing, is very difficult to miss, and can be destroyed very easily.these ew drones are in terrible need of a rebalance to make them useful and i hope you all will agree."
"+1 default overview settings are terrible."
"+1 not sure why many of the ships look like 2 different ships superglued together but this has always bothered me."
"1.0"
"pi alts is cheating. having more then one account is cheating. having more time to play is cheating. having in game friends is cheating. having a good corp is cheating. reading guides is cheating. using google to find game information is cheating. having prior experience in the game is cheating.all of those are cheating according to you as those who have those things have an advantage over those that don't.welcome to life. it's never fair."
"the ganking community thanks you for your support."
"this was exactly my thought....call it a window, but basically just have it load the exterior of the station with the station being the ship view. unmovable, but at least a view of outside. no one could then \"block the camera\" haha, and it gets people using wis for when it is eventually? useful. right now, as someone pointed out, it is 4gb of bloat on my computer and the client. thank you for all the constructive posts and keeping this thread alive."
"one, quit bullshitting, there are a lot of empty null systems, ive been in them over the weekend. you just want new \"good isk systems\" with \"no one in them\", which is impossible as long as those systems are so deep in blue territory (which they al;ways will be) that they can be safely farmed, thus attracting the hordes.not only that, but ccp has already stated their intention of player-made stargates with possible dynamic new systems at some point afterwards (player made stargates being a confirmed incoming feature shortly after sov rework in a eayr or two, with dynamic systems possible at some point down the road)"
"the great wildlands are thataway -->"
"adding space for the sake of space will not mean much, tons of empty space out there, . adding space that serves a purpose and adds to your game play is a different subject ofcourse. like you mentioned there are a ton of ideas how such new space would look like, some thigns poeple mentioned1. sub caps only2. limited inhabitants3. no local4. thunderdomes/themparcs5. to far to jump caps in, no stations possible as no planet moons.6. sleeper infested normal null space7. fixed incursion space8. jove9..10..and so on. the issue is investing in time and money, versus pay off in both happy players and balance"
"simply adding more sov space right now would be to gift the existing 2 blocs with more space to rent out.some more npc space would be good though - the north badly needs an npc region equivalent to curse, with loads of npc stations with clone facilities and easy access to empire. mordus is an obvious candidate here. guristas maybe as well, although they already have venal (far from empire, few stations, very few cloning stations)"
"you have my full support. ccp, just grab whichever popular overview pack you like, trim the fat a bit, and set it as default."
"are you high? ccp actively encourages multiboxing with their power of 2 program... they obviously like the idea."
"next you'll want to ban people for being better at you than this game because they have an advantage. or banning people who have an iq over 50 because they have an advantage.everyone with more money, power, intelligence, and willpower has an advantage over you. but you don't see me complaining about it because i can."
"i like how eveybody on here thinks for me ans makes assumptions? what are you goon pets :)i actually got my ship ship back, only took 4 gms, and some attention to detail. i just don't like the way they communicate when you send a petition.\"according to eula .. blah blah\" same thing everytime.btw, i know my game mechanics and don't need help losing ships, i lose them on my own quite nicely!however, there have been a few times where i lost a ship and i know it wasn't my fault. i have got some ships back nut it's like pulling teath.example ,i lost my sb on my way to join a fleet when i was docking to get a mod. the station shot me because i tackled a ship outside the station. i sent petition with my log and loss mail. cpp \"according to eula \" there was nothing wrong on on the server side we will not reimburse. however, after reading the reply i said look at my ship, i didn't have any tackle mods in my mids! 2 weeks later i got my ship back. . only took 2 gms and 3 mails back and forth. all they had to do is look at my ship fitting first time.the last petition cpp are wrong but if nothing on the sever end i accept and take it like a man."
"to be fair... your op smacked of ranting and that never goes over well on the forums here.oh well... it has been resolved so there is no point in chewing you out further.but i will say this for future reference: in low-sec any offensive mod, weapon or not, will cause gate guns to shoot if you use them first. even if you use them \"defensively.\"people who operate mostly null-sec (such as you) sometimes forget that.fly dangerously."
"compleatly agree: ew drones (with exception to ecm) are compleatly broken.my fix:make all ewar drones stationary with optimals and max ranges to agress at.small drones agress out to 25km - optimal is 15km falloff to 25km.medium drones agress out to 40km - optimal is 30km falloff out to 40km.heavy drones agress out to 60km - optimal is 45km falloff out to 60km.the drones will be buffed in resistance profiles as they are not stationaryeffect v t1 ewar modsecmsmall 20% of t1 multispec jammer (t2 30%)med 50% of t1 multispec jammer (t2 60%)large 80% of t1 multispec jammer (t2 90%)neutralisersmall 2/3 of t1 small neutraliser (t2 100%)med 2/3 of a t1 med neutraliser (t2 100%)large 2/3 of a t1 large meutraliser (t2 100%)sensor dampsmall 15% of unscripted t1 sensor dampener (t2 25%)med 35% of unscripted t1 sensor dampener (t2 45%)large 55% of unscripted t1 sensor dampner (t2 65%)tracking disruptersmall 20% of unscripted t1 tracking disrupter (t2 35%)med 30% of unscripted t1 tracking disrupter (t2 45%)large 40% of unscripted t1 tracking disrupter (t2 55%)stasis webifire.small 5 % speed reduction (t2 7.5%)med 7.5% speed reduction (t2 10%)large 10% speed reduction (t2 12.5%)these drones will be operational out to 100km (by this i mean that they are not subject to drone control range inside 100kmif the pilot gets more than 150km from the drone it will go idle and must be scooped and relaunched.these drones will auto agress (if set to agressive) if they have not been given a legal target.they are affected by mobile micro jump drive beaconsmy corpies sugested alterations:perhaps a different approach could work like:-damp drones orbit at 25km or something and damp with crazy strength, as you described, but are really slow. this makes them useful against big ships, not against small ones that already have ****** -web drones should be crazy fast, but don't orbit, sitting right next to a target, easy to kill. buff their web strength.-tracking disruption drones should orbit the closest and the fastest out of all the drones, but have to be really close to work properly.-ecm drones should legitimately be stationary sentries only, i agree with that. if they have the ability to break locks, they should be the easiest ******* ones to kill.-target painter drones should have a wide optimal, allowing them to paint almost as soon as they are launched, and are happy at about 5km from the target. i have no idea how they currently work because i'm not a ******* idiot and have never used them.-neut drones should be disgustingly slow, but massive hp. larges need to be viable for knocking out battleships, but none of them should be able to seriously affect frigates in any way."
"simple peace of graphic and rp law:graphic: look at where the hanger is in a station. there are 1000s om meaters between your ship hanger and the outer hull of a station. there is no way that your tiny assigned quaters that over look your hanger space are able in any way to extend to the outer hull of any given station.law: the outer portions of a station are reserved for factional and corperate dignitaries and comercial/social areas of the structure. (just like the upper ring of ds9) . what i would like to see added to cq:a corperate office 'instance' for corperate/alliance meating (with limited acces to reduce load and lag in these instances)ability to walk from your hanger to your cargo bay and see all that precious loot you have gathered in storage containersability to enter an aminitys room that gives acces to npcs that will do various station tasks:repairscintific agentmission agenttradercustoms officerfw repand so on"
"a nice little bandaid there for the severed limb that is drone operation and ui: there needs to be an entire expansion pass on these little bad boys key fixes:--ui--drone behavural updates--drone skill reworks (half done)--ew drones to be majurly fixed--ecm drones to be nerfed --faction/sentient drones reballenced (making intergrated/augmented drones viable)to mention only a small portion of what needs fixing"
"grp content: i want to see (in the vein that you are sugesting)multiple objectives in a given mission (minim obj completion requirement):you must compleat xyz in a missioneach obj gives a seperate reward when compleate (handed to agent)obj could be to :-hack x/y/z-kill xxx npc-mine xxx ore in pocket to deny mats to hostile entity-kill various overseers rewards range from isk & lp to faction cosmos items (depending of various factors)"
"just add pirate stations to low already. people really understate how hard it is to dislodge an entrenched farming force in null when bubbles and bombs are taken in to account."
"please, pretty please."
"1.0"
"1.0"
"1.0"
"1.0"
"1.0"
"1.0"
"1.0"
"+1pls remove this from the ge-8jv gate or at lest a tick box to not show again"
"this is very annoying. please either remove or add a checkbox to not display this message."
"1.0"
"i 7o this. it's really annoying."
"1.0"
"these people are over reacting.please add galactic news to every gate in catch on both sides as it makes the game more immersive . undock pop ups would be nice too."
"i don't mind getting the ingame message.... i just loathe how the message is delivered. it is a big popup in the middle of the screen that demands your immediate attention. this information is not important enough to warrant such a prominent display. the message really should be delegated to the local window, perhaps as colored chat similar to mission messages."
"+1 kill it!"
"1.0"
"1.0"
"1.0"
"1.0"
"this is a disgrace.ccp. why so badturn the messgae off, please"
"+1 please remove me from the sansha spam news"
"-1i hate the ******* \"+1\" comments, they are worthless spam. **** you all.also i like the message, it's funny."
"just wanted to add my support to this issue; a tool/function that enables players to seek out and destroy afk cloakers in systems. the exact mechanics are not interesting, just that this way of playing eve has a counter and that it has a risk attached to the award (of afk cloaky camping systems)"
"this is in balance because the risk, which you perceive as being zero, is being matched by the reward potential, which cloaked players perceive as also being zero.in typical events, no side has benefit or risk present with the exception of an error happening. competition being based on one player making a mistake is stretching a bit too far, i think, since the bar to overcome is simply not screwing up.you can't really compete, when your actions are meaningless without your opponent first having a failure.to give either side more leverage, you must grant balancing leverage to the other.upgrading local to eliminate all afk influence what if local chat changed, hunting the cloaked..."
"i disagree, it is not in balance. the reward is (as an example) denial of an enemy systems usage without any active playing. all you have to do is log on after dt, and then leave your computer for 23 hours until next dt. rinse repeat, for days, weeks, months. without any active playing or any risk of ever beeing caught. people can easily script that so they dont have to be at the compter to restart their clients (probably they do this, just look at how common it is that the afk-cloakers log on just as the server goes up, even though it might be in the middle of the night or the middle f the work-day for some tz:s!)i like hunting for ratters and hotdropping them! thats fun! i like counterdropping hotdroppers - even more fun! i like that playstyle! but i dislike the afk playstyle of system denial and that there is no counter to it. dont want counters to cloakers that are playing actively, no need for that! it's the 24/7 afk cloakers this game needs a counter to!so i endorse the original post in this thread and lay my voice on the suggestion to add a counter to afk cloakers."
"you are pointing at an intangible element as the benefit.the benefit to the cloaked player being implied amounts to some sense of satisfaction, which being intangible is difficult to measure.it is not unheard of, for players to possibly mount a fake threat in a system, so that they can harvest the pve resources with no competition.their allies keep away, and the hostiles see it as already camped, causing both to move on for better opportunities elsewhere.this so-called denial of usage relies as much on the defender as the hostile, as the defender must do two things for this to occur:1. credit the hostile with a threat at level x, where x is the number of ships expected to support their attack.2. by choice or lack thereof, not match the perceived threat with a defensive response in space, but rather remain in dock.the cloaked player whom you vilify here has no control over this, and in demonstrated examples cannot even be verified as actually being present beyond an unmonitored game client logged in by an automated setup.(to use your example specifically)if you believe that you should be able to hunt and fight this cloaked pilot, which i support you doing, it requires an equal opportunity to be granted in the favor of the cloaked player for balance.upgrading local to eliminate all afk influence what if local chat changed, hunting the cloaked..."
"given the rmt potential of \"fixing\" it, no."
"yep... there's no more to say, really"
"while i don't disagree that ewar drones need reworked, i had to address this.sig radius does not directly translate to actual size. the game follows a great deal of submarine warfare principles that way.meaning, that sig radius is about electronic footprint, not actual size. an electronic warfare drone is probably very \"messy\", for lack of a better term, with it's signal to noise ratio."
"no. just remove wis from the client, i could use the free hdd space."
"hi folks, i guess i'd best start with a few disclaimers; firstly i know that this concept isn't a new idea as such, new ideas are rare and i am not very smart. secondly i don't even know if this is a *good* idea, it came into my head and it's better written down than not so flame away, of course constructive feedback is appreciated more than a single sentence rebuttal. thirdly, i don't have all the answers you're looking for, this is a first sketch not some master plan i have been working on for several years. that's just the way it goes.the current state of moon miningmoon mining occupies a peculiar aspect of eve, it's the sole source of t2 manufacturing conponents and is a rather passive method of obtaining them requiring the input of pos fuel in exchange for extracting a set amount of moon goo in return. occasionally a rarer r64 or r32 moon is fought over but aside from that it's a case of put in fuel, take out goo. so what's the issue with this, why does this proposal have to happen?well to clarify this proposal doesn't *have* to happen, it's not going to 'save eve' etc. etc. it's just a cool idea of an alternative way to get moon goo which is, as stated above, in no way new. the issues as i perceive them is that the obtaining of t2 components isn't accessible without military might, being granted pos roles and running a pos. in other words it's a pain in the arse and inaccessible for your average line industrialist to approach t2 production, forcing them into t1 production effectively, which is pretty boring.the actual proposal bitafter a short period of thought it's come down to this:- reduce the 'passive' moon goo output by an amount. this ensures that tower mining, which would produce the majority of t2 components still, is lucrative still, given the potentially limited supply of goo.- create a new deployable module, the moon mining hub. (unoriginal boring name, i'm sure someone can think of a better one).this new module is anchored on a moon instead of a pos. the module would allow the active mining of that particular moon, however the goo would be extracted in the form of inpure goo, that needs refining to get the actual moon goo. specific moon goo cannot be targeted, all the available products are extracted into the goo. the amount of moon goo that can be extracted is of course limited by the 'adundance' of the moons minerals, prehaps abundance 1 would allow 1.5 times the amount of the goo to be extracted daily compared to when the moon is pos mined. this creates some competition for the best moonsthe new module would allow the active mining of moons and would be limited to 2 per a system. it would create a warpable beacon once deployed. the structure would have a considerable amount of ehp and be reinforcable before being destroyed. once reinforced the moon cannot be mined. the module would be deployable in low sec systems and lower, including worm holes.- the mechanics of moon mining. of course moon mining deserves at the very least an appropriate mining module, and prehaps a new ship. after obtaining these the player must be within a certain distance of the module to mine the moon (further than prehaps 50 km disrupts the moon analysis and prevents moon mining occuring.) then the player can target the moon and mine away.so i guess that's all i have to say, i think it's got interesting options for gameplay play anyways. feel free to debate the numbers which just got shoved in there *because*, point out how i just described ring mining word for word and post any links to old threads i couldn't be bothered to find and necro. i hope i've started some fires going anyways, fly safe."
"why thank you!i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"+1 to that!"
"1.0"
"1.0"
"+1 pls get rid of this. i like lore and all, but this is pretty ******* terrible."
"+1 it is so annoying pls remove or at least give us the option"
"the sansha's nation wishes to expand its borders, and 9hxq-g is one of its targets. they have set up a major base of operations in 3gd6-8 and are slowly destroying all opposition to their forces, while their peons build their new starbases. the biggest hindrance to their plans is in my-w1v. a gigantic mining colony, along with a trading hub, is located there and the inhabitants are extremely afraid of what might happen to them should sansha declare ownership of their solar-system. they have assembled a sizable fleet of amarr and ammatar ships to protect their assets, and prevent the sansha's nation from expanding their sovereignty into 9hxq-g."
"sir, english is not my native language and i had problems understandinging what you meant, i'm sorry! i do now.i see your point here, that the hunted afk cloaker, that quite possibly has been at his grandmother for a full 22:59 since last dt after having started up his afk cloaky alt in a system, and thus not even is at home, should also have a means of detecting that he is beeing counter-hunted. i can support that. thats a good thing! desireable that it requires the afk player to be active to detect that he/she is beeing hunted, it should not be easily automated by outside scripts etc! if you log on, cloak and go afk while at your grandmothers, there should be a threat to your ship. if you stay at grandmother (i.e. afk) that threat should prevail, until you start playing actively again. beeing with grandmother should be a bit uncomfortable - in strict eve-terms ofc!but absolutely, some kind of indication of the counter-hunt of the afk cloaker would be fine, thats a good suggestion!i don't see any need for hunting actively playing cloakers though, i only see a need to hunt afk cloakers."
"cloaked = not in localsolves the problem"
"pppffftttttt!!!! seraph it is not that simple, i wish it was.however on to other things, looking at it from one element of the issue, threat projection. with the changes in isotope size and consumption, cost has gone high.so far from my experience this has not slowed down the larger blops fleets nor the mainstream alliance hot drops. however where i am i do not have the opportunity to measure the effect on solo and small gang hunters?as this change had similar suggestions in the beginning of this thread, i hope that you seraph, and nikk give your insight on the effect of this change on the subject or threat projection as it applies to cloaked pilots."
"yes, yes, it would! how simple and crisp isn't that solution! with that functionality afk cloaky \"gaming\" will have a possible counter opening up a new \"trade\" for anti-hunters. leaving your alt perma-afk-cloaked in a system for months and months will not be totally risk-free as it is today. i congratulate you on that superb idea and i hope both csm and ccp sees this clearly and implements it swiftly!"
"you do understand that would make all areas of space very similar to wh space. this gives an over atvantage to cloaked pilots, who then can go where ever when ever with no risk of being detected making rather impossible to catch them except when they first enter a system(picture a shooting gallery where the cloaked pilot is the shooter and all pve ships are the little balloons on the wall waiting to be popped) please understand i am not totally against this, if you give an equal opportunity to the other side to be able to detect/hunt/defend against this i would be ok. however my good friend seraph only suggest removing local totally without a counter."
"i was beeing sarcastic, as i'm sure our good seraph was too. i.e. i meant the opposite of what i wrote. i'm sure he was meaning the opposite of what he wrote too, i.e. beeing sarcastic!of course removing local has nothing to do with the problem of afk cloakers having no counter. this thread was about cloaky game-play. removing local i suppose would be another thread somewhere.eve online needs a mechanism for players to impose a threat to afk cloakers."
"i've been thinking about this problem for a while, and one idea crossed my mind. its beauty is in that it can to great extent preserve current functionality of main cloaking vessels, still giving a potential victim solid chance to evade cloacked hotdroppers - if said victim is vigilant enough.the idea involves creating of 2 modes of operation for covert ops cloaking device.the first mode is very similar to what we have now - you can freely warp around and use any propulsion or purely defensive modules which don't involve locking targets, but you can't initiate said locking until you stay in this mode, even if you already uncloaked and sensor recalibration timer went off (we could allow for locking environmental objects, though, to not disrupt such rescource gathering activities like exploration or mining). you can't either use any cynoshural field generators, even covert one, or any weapon system. in this mode you cannot be \"scanned down\" by any \"cloaker busting\" scan system this tread has came up with.in the second mode it allows you to initiate locking the same way you could do it under current game rules (meaning, after uncloaking recalibration timer starts, and after it went off you can lock on your target; sbs and blops don't need to wait for recalibration, though). you can also use both types of cynofield generators now. but in that mode your presence becomes obvious to all pilots in d-scan range (~14,4au) through new d-scan indicator \"cloaking vessel(s) detected in vicinity\" (a humble orange lamp which lights up on pressing \"scan\" button if some cloacker activated 2nd cloaking mode nearby will suffice). it won't say you neither distance to this cloaking vessel, nor direction (narrow beam and distance brute forcing techniques won't work here). it also won't give you a hint about numbers of those cloackers or their ship types. it just means that somewhere within 14,4 au somebody switched to 2nd cloaking mode.other consequency of switching to 2nd mode is that you become a subject to any kind of \"cloaking vessel's scan mechanics\" this thread has came up with. so if you decided to go from afking to proactive playing, you should expect your \"victim\" will try to find and get you. and it won't allow you to be indefinetly afk-cloaked and ready to hotdrop anyone anytime you want. - if you afking in 2nd mode, you are asking for free pod-jump to your clone station.transition from 1st to 2nd mode should take some meaningfull time, lets say, 1-3 minutes, and you will appear on d-scan the moment you initiated it, not the moment you completed it. it gives enough time to vigilant victim to see something strange on its d-scan and seek salvation while assailant is still in the middle of transition between those cloacking states.edited: but it will be even more intresting contest if \"hunter\" could get some method of checking is his \"pray\" diligently scans her surrounding, or not. like some kind of radar system which registers any dscan attempts in dscan range (dscan probably implies active radar system, so it should radiate some energy that can be registered by other party, lore-wise). so you can wait for some oblivious victim in passive mode, just checking this \"d-scan meter\", or you can study her \"d-scan pressing patterns\" and find some holes in them, in which you could switch to active mode and get her.this new feature could be made available only to \"inherently cloaking\" vessels (and mb even only when they are actually cloacked), like covops, recons etc. so hunter can register each victim's dscan attempt, but victim - can't."
"i really just have no sympathy for people playing the game for ratting. i'm sorry i just find it impossible to have any sort of empathy and when anyone says \"wah wah someone is shooting me\" i can't find myself caring. i've never really done pve aside from some basic lowsec belt ratting here and there waiting for a target to show up. i just can't bring myself to care."
"the facts are such that world of eve offers only one solid source of ingame currency - pve, ratting, to be exact (you won't get isks from mining roids or from relic sites). it is where all isks come from. in current age of srp many stoped thinking about where all those ships they spoon fed with are coming from and from which source come isks to buy them. the answer is pve. even if no one in your alliance do it, it just means someone somewhere just did it for you. he bought tools to do that from some industry corp, paying them with isks he got from bounties and sleeper loot. and those industrial corp bought moongoo from your ceo with that currency, which allowed him to buy ships for srp to work.sorry to chewing it down like that, many seems fail to understand this trivia."
"no i understand industry and moon mining and all of that. but to me nobody has a \"right\" to rat. you get to rat if you can outsmart the hunters.ratters = preypvpers = predatorsthat someone is making it hard for you to shoot red crosses, does not tug on my heart strings. i don't care, it isn't important. player interaction is... actual player interaction, not this non sense to hamstring people that actually play the game and pvp."
"i think with current afk cloacking mechanics it's too easy for predator to do its job. this one i just can't get, btw. just look how negative are reactions of hardcore part of the playerbase to any other afk activitiy - afk mining, afk-hauling.. afk bonus seeding, afk carrier ratting but when it comes to afk cloaking - blams! dont you dare ever again!!1smells like hypocricy for me. or just egocentrism/infantilism dunno.if you want to be a proud predator - than be it. be active and ready to bite,atk. or to protect yourself if you \"victim\" will dare to come to your burrow. if you want to hide in some dark coner in total security - than you should get rid of those claws, you don't need them, at least for the moment."
"ahh finally something we can agree on.however i really wish you would put your knowledge of game mechanics and cloaky pvp tactics to answer the questions that have been put to you."
"fixed' is the key word there.it suggest that it should be changed. tbh, i don't think it should be."
"why not?"
"warrior sw-300 has 25 shield, 50 armour, 60 hull, 110m sig.warrior i has 64 shield, 96 armour, 144 hull, 25m sig.doesn't seem right."
"no body else has ideas like this so that those that are stuck in station can do things?"
"again \"afk cloaking\" is a symptom of local. because when you show up, people dock up in or warp to a pos. so they sit there and wait until you don't care about local anymore. that's the only reason. nobody \"afk cloaks\" wormholes. people pop in, look for targets and hunt. in effect you cannot hunt in k-space because of local."
"no, this is only a half-truth. afk-cloacking is also a symptom of gankbear desease too. gankbear is a pvp carebear that doesn't want to put any effort at all to search for targets and can't stay the risk to his reputation/kb isk efficiency/vanity/etc and because of that he will hang in local indefinetly untill he will find a target he can take down without any chance it will be able to fight back or run away - preferably playing in tz when it won't be helped by any allies. then he will hotdrop. gankbears won't afk-cloak in wh because you can't hotdrop here and have to station your gankteam in this very system, for first - what means you lose coverage; for the second, gankbear is also absolutely dependent on local and too afraid to act in an uncertain situation - which is dayly reality in wh.thats also shows while afk-cloaking is another issue of power projection problem and must be attended if ccp really wants to give smaller groups some space to act in nulls. afk-cloaking gives almost all initiative to the attacker, allowing him to choose the time most suitable for him. the only way to combat it is to have some fast reacting support force which will always be ready to come to your rescue - which means you have to belong to or be in something big. smaller entity can't do a thing about that, aside from stopping all operations in the end. some combintation of game mechanics which will make covert hotdrops harder to pull while allowing for scan those afk-cloakers who don't play actively down will give 'victim\" and \"hunter\" some equality, forcing both actually compete each with other.and by getting rid of local you won't solve a thing, until you will give some substitution to players which allow them to protect them in some manner proactively. if you just remove it you again will give all the initiative to the attacker which effectively will disrupt all smaller and even medium entities' operations here (wh dwellers are able to operate by placing so called \"eyes\" all over their place - which is horrible game approach, imo - and as a result of logistical difficulties anyone willing to get them will face, especially inability to hotdrop them anytime), and you won't get any targets - because gankbears will still be there, happily afk-cloaking and ready to hotdrop the same way thay did it before, but now with the last method allowing their victims little protection gone. no one will be there to gank anymore, aside from members of well organised powerblocks, may be.there is no need to get rid of local to make fights come to afk-ganker, actually. make him scannable and you bet many will be delivered to your doorsteps - and thats actually the last thing those pips want to happen.i personally don't mind if local is substituted for some advanced scanner which shows you some hints without getting you actuall info about anyone in the system - but only if this will really allow me to be warned about imminent threats and act accordingly.the real issue is not with local chat but with power projection and ability to easly initiate covert hotdrops at almost a zero risk for attacker in nulls. afk-cloaking and ease of jump drive travel in k-space are what makes it happen."
"i hardly ever rat either, and when i do it's to lure hotdoppers to drop me so we can counter-drop them. i'm not so full of myself (like others are in this thread) that i look down on those that do rat! let them play eve the way they want, and let us others play the way we want!i want to open up a possibility for player to counter afk cloakers! not because i want to rat freely, but because i like to outsmart the hunters, and i want their fancy ships in killmails! if they are so stupid they leave the computer, they should have a threat on them!i admire thos who hunt actively, thats a real sport! but afk cloaking for weeks to make ratters careless is not to be admired at all, thats just to simple and no sport at all. gank-bears - thats a brlliant term! they risk nothing, it requires no skills and no intelligence, just some extra accounts of neutral alts that can light a cyno, cloak and use a scram.eve online needs a mechanism for players to impose a threat to afk cloakers. period."
"for the sake of argument, let's say you were given the means to hunt cloaked ships.and they gained nothing in exchange, for losing this protected isolating mode.you see the player name appear in local. you are now alerted to start your hunting tools, in case they are cloaked.you are at a gate camp. no i am not implying you can see the gate cloak, but you know many ships use a cloak to evade camps.it makes sense these cloak hunting tactics would be used here.bubblecamps would become effective at stopping most cloaked traffic.a nulli t3, like an inty, could still evade some bubblecamps, but as a slower to align ship would be exposed far more than before.they would be reduced in use as a result, to the point of becoming trivial as a presence.only an inty could slip by reliably. as a non-sustainable threat that can be broadcast over intel channels, inties rely on these channels not warning players in downstream systems.so, the net effect would rely on the defending alliance screwing up by not placing bubbles with the cloak hunting tools, and / or not sustaining an intel channel to guard against the possible remaining threat from inties.the safety level operating pve within null sov would jump up, creating a need only to maintain shepherds at gate camps. their little pve sheep would then be safe from the bad bad wolves.anything cloaked, assuming it got past the gate camps somehow, could be cleared by simply seeing the new name in local, and hunting it down.remaining possible threat? blobs.since they are numbingly easy to report in intel, they can be evaded just as easily. pve assets become entrenched, with null players only risking ships by choice.would this be your version of balanced?upgrading local to eliminate all afk influence what if local chat changed, hunting the cloaked..."
"i'm sorry to intervine, but what do you think about my piece which tries to tackle this particular problem? with this approach cloackers won't lose their ability to cloak in total security, they will lose only ability to attack out of total surprise as it will make cloacked hotdrops more hard to pull, giving some time window for vigilant enough victim to react. i would like some input on these as i've been thinking about the problem for a while too.here it is:"
"we could even unbind this new indicatior from d-scan range and allow it to light up if anywhere in the system somebody gone to 2nd mode. attacker can benefit from it too - now victim can't even approximately tell how close he to her at any given moment, he can be anywhere in the system, or 10km from victim's location."
"afk cloakers - that's what we are after! not people flying cloaked ships actively! there the current functionality is sufficient i'd say, no need to touch that! eve online needs a mechanic for players to impose a threat to afk cloakers. a f k c l o a k e r s! we want their fancy ships in killmails, thank you!"
"how about a grid-wide doomsday that asks your permission to blow you up, with a 60 second timer. don't say \"no\" in time, then you die."
"no sorry you don't get to have tools that make your ratting easier. you want to deal with your attacker, set up bait. he hot drops you with 20 redeemers, have your own guys on stand by to. terms like \"gankbear\" doesn't do anything but try to shift blame."
"how about a recalibration of your sarcasmometer?"
"he's referring to the fact that an ew drone would be blasting electromagnetic noise that would make it easier to target. effectively making its signature radius larger. a real world example would be the f22, who's sig radius (for radars, atleast) is claimed to be about the size of a golf ball. slap on a ecm pod, and that radar signature would bloom dramatically."
"to one up this, why not just have a client-side update that will mark the 'last know status' of a drone as damaged, or even better, simply copy/paste the 'last known' shield/armor/hull of the drone?i mean, you could literally print screen that little block of the ui and paste it next to the drone in the bay and i'd be happy."
"okay, let us adress something.your 10 vs 10 example.isboxer fleet- no command calls needed because you as fc will do them by yourself. zero time delay for aligning, locking, shooting, warping, whatever ...- fire is always an alpha in the same server time frame. it is not delayed between the accounts so no chance to place a rep cycle for the enemy logistics, same for logistics + you can group all reppers onto a single button to get max reps in the same server time frame- the rate of fire is ecaxtly the roi of your guns = highest possible damage for the complete fleet10 people fleet- time delay because the fc has to tell 9 people the command and broadcast targets or alignment points. there is a time delay for every pilot of some seconds (server will add some time because of the server time frames)- fire command is always delayed, somebody is pressing the button at zero, somebody else a second later, the third 1.1 second later and he ends up in the next server time frame equal to 2 seconds, fourth guy has a ****** ping because he lives l.a. and the fc has pressed the button at -1 seconds. fire is delayed over four seconds .... enough time for a lucky rep cycle.- your roi depends on the people and is delayed for the resons above.your example looks really equal to both ?but yeah, keep explaining me that such things are equal.btw., you shouldn't be to sure with your interpretation with the eula, ccp will never tell you that a third party software is fine with the eula. if you don't belife me, just open a petition."
"no they actually don't. bots use stolen credit cards and make fraudulent purchases costing ccp money. if you weren't a complete idiot and actually did your homework, you'd already know that."
"if you have to 'scrape funds' together to play the game, then you had really best rethink your life priorities."
"1.0"
"1.0"
"1.0"
"i love this concept. it makes all the bullshit small fights defending your system actually consequential provided you win a majority of the encounters. you could literally farm gankers to increase the sovereignty of your system. it also creates an united alliance incentive to protect ratters and miners from hotdroppers, as they not only protect the current sovereignty level but they also could score big if they hit a big hot dropping fleet. if there's a way to make ccp follow this thread, by god i'll find it."
"that was meant to be quoted for the last person that replied to me."
"i agree there should not be tools in the game that make certain activities easy or easier! you are perfectly right there! and where such tools exist in the game that make life simple and easy they should be changed so that the easy part is countered with a certain amount of hardship and risk, possible for other players to impose! such an existing area today in the game is afk cloaking! that is so easy, my 5 year old son could handle it; he can start the client, hit the cloak-button and then play with his lego the rest of the day, and thus performing a rather perfect afk cloaing activity! he could go on doing that for ever and ever and ever just like a gankbear (5-year olds like to repeat simple things as you know. \"again!\" \"again!\"). he is just brilliant, my 5 year old son, and could easily be one of the best afk cloakers in this game (the competition is not so mature..haha...)!i just can't find it in myself to admire these gankbears! what's to admire really? it's so simple it does not belong in eve online!the people who should be admired are those who use the more difficult ways of performing hotdrops - cloaky scouts to actively seek out their preys, they fly around using the dotlan or eq. map looking in the systems with the most ratting-activity, they \"bomb-rush\" systems to catch dazed and un-aligned ratters in belts, they log of in system in a hub waiting 30 minutes and then log on again trying to catch guys that don't pay attention to intel. they use spies to scout out ratters, and then log on their cyno-alt. they scout out transport routes and map their opponents work, and then place warp bubbles between the pos and the station to catch lazy freighter-pilots that are so rich they dont care anymore and never change their way of flying. thes admireable hotdroppers are hard to catch, but if you try hard you can outsmart them. but it takes effort, skills, intelligence and time. and that's what makes it fun to hunt those guys! but afk cloaking is for 5 year olds. simple has no place in eve online! gankbears have a too easy life!you guys that oppose this suggestion, you are free to have your oppinions. but i sense there is no real substance behind your \"arguments\" other than you despice ratters and dislike a splendid term (\"gankbear\") by trying to argu that it shifts blame (really seraph! really!). or you ridicule the suggestion by saying we should have a \"system-wide doomsday\" etc etc. these are all signs that you have no real arguments, you squirm and troll your way around the suggestion that would require you to actually play eve online and use intelligence while playing! i find that highly amusing, bring moar tears pls! ratter-tears are beautiful, i love them! but hotdropper-tears are magnificient! i want them, also in-game pls!if we are to have a more sound discussion; could you describe in what way afk cloaking is essential for your hotdropping playstyle? why could you not be succesful using the more \"challenging\" ways i gave some examples of above? i'm sure you can continue your hotdrops without afk cloaking, it will only require a bit more wits because we will hunt you not only when you play intelligently, using the means seraph described above, but also when you \"play\" eve without actually playing eve, the way a 5-year old could play eve - when you afk cloak.eve online needs a mechanism for players to impose a threat to afk cloakers.your turn, gankbears. sound arguments please. or moar gankbear tears!"
"one more time for you, very simple.afk cloaking exists because local exists. if i show up in your system, you dock up or come in a ship a soft low tank cloaky ship cannot fight."
"no, you have missunderstood me. i want afk cloakers to have a risk of losing their ship. i don't see any need to touch the existing ways cloaks work, as you describe that would disturb the balance. only afk cloakers*. nothing else. if you are actively flying your cloaked ship around in system and between systems, my suggestion is that works as it does now. no changes needed. but afk cloakers* that log on, cloak up, and then never touch their client for hours upon hours, until directly after next dt when they log on, cloak up and so on. thats despicable, to easy, has no risk to it and should be changed by ccp so we can hunt them down and destroy them.a f k c l o a k e r s , can't stress that enough! afk."
"i soak up those meta-tears greatfuly! thank you!sorry serpah, i don't see the arguments here either. i want to know how a little risk to your afk cloaked ship would be so \"dangerous\"? don't you agree it is totally risk-free today? don't you agree that eve should have risks to all situations? you just don't have any sound arguments to why there should be no counter to afk cloakers! it amuses me enormously!i want to be able hunt you when you leave your soft low tank ship afk cloaked! i want you to see that i'm looking for afk cloaky ships and be able to force you to actively play! i take a risk in hunting you, because you will have a cyno. and if you know i will hunt you, you will use other ships that can withstand a bit of a beating so your cyno can live long enogh for you to bridge in someting that suprises me! you might be tricking me by faking beeing afk when in fact you have 24 blackops waiting! i want to have that adrenaline-kick when i light my cyno and we see who has brought the best fleet in for the fight! would it not be splendid game-play! the ultimate pvp! we all risk something and much fun will be had!if you are flying that low tank cloaky actively, fine with me! i dont want to be able to find you. if you need to go to your grandmother, safe-log in a safespot off scan! but afk cloak - there should be a risk to it!gankbearing is not playing eve. it's 5-year olds gamestyle. and you have no arguments against it, just stating the obvious \"it is this way because it is this way\". i want to change the way it is because there should never be any risk-free playing in eve. i do want to change ship when you come in a cloaky ship! but i want to change to a ship that can hunt you down if you afk cloak. there should always be a counter to everything.eve online needs a mechanism for players to impose a threat to afk cloakers.argumnets seraph, arguments!"
"ok, while you did not say this directly, your response has indicated the key element of this issue is intel.you want to know that the cloak equipped pilot is actually online and attentive. not simply connected to the game while their name is still persisting in local chat.i would go so far as to assume, that since you seem to be asking for this awareness, you also feel you are entitled to know.(not yanking on your chain, just pointing out a detail)the problem with this tactic, is that pve players use it in reverse, and your request would empower them in two ways.1. fake predator / scarecrow.i mentioned already, that it is a tactic usable by pve players to fly a kite. if you knew that a hostile showing in system had to be active, you would at once either retreat or reship into a combat craft.the real owner, your so-called buddy who is blue or green to you in a pve ship, is claiming they know a detail that let's them avoid combat, or they are so good at fighting that they survive. they are isking up mining and ratting while you avoid the same to be safe. and depending on context, they can take your share of the isk doing it.(limited spawns, or limited amount of high value asteroids)2. the pos sitting pve player waiting for local to clear.i can't say how many times i have seen booster alts or others sitting in a pos, for hours or days on end.these guys stay online, numbing hunters to their presence this way, and go active when it looks safe.unless a hunter actually sees them at a npc spawn or roid field, they can easily assume they are parked as usual at the pos, and move on without delay.knowing a hunter had to be active, would mean that they had even more opportunities to stroll out than before, boosting the success and participation of this tactic.upgrading local to eliminate all afk influence what if local chat changed, hunting the cloaked..."
"this boosts the intel regarding threat levels on one side, without giving anything meaningful to the other.you know they are effectively afk if you can't scan them, and for the near trivial effort of repeat scanning every minute or so, you can be warned before they can sneak up on you too.the owner of the cloaked ship cannot remain in hunting mode indefinitely while cloaked, as even a simple presence lamp can let the d-scan triangulate you down and lock you given enough time.... like say the amount of time an afk player is at work or asleep. even if they had their ship moving, it would still be in either a straight line or an orbit around an object on grid.both can be compensated out if patient, and these players would have nothing better to do... since pve would feel unsafe.upgrading local to eliminate all afk influence what if local chat changed, hunting the cloaked..."
"i think there are many ways to make afk cloakys possible to find, that would not let the hunter know if the afk cloaky is afk or not. also naturally the cloaker should be able to see he/she is beeing searched for. unless he/she is in fact afk, that would be a bit weird.as for the pos-sitting interdiction nullified belt- botter, like we have in fountain, reported many times without ccp caring, i agree; they should be delt with and should have no benefits. there are obvious ways to handle that in a game design aswell."
"it would not matter if you knew they were afk, since the perception and effect on the cloaked player's side would be that they had to leave if they could not compensate for the tactics hunting them.pausing pve activity briefly, is trivial to enough players that this would effectively neutralize cloaked threats.the cloaked threat becomes insignificant when it is not practical to sustain, in this context.since neither small groups or large blobs, (of pvp combat ships), are practical to threaten pve assets in null, thanks to gate camps and intel channels...what remains if the cloaked ships cannot manage a sustained presence?the net effect of reduced threat to pve play in null, will make the game less interesting thanks to less interaction.how will ccp balance the peaceful systems so that players find them interesting to play in?oh, i am not talking about someone botting.i am talking about someone afk sitting in a friendly system, so that a hostile that patrols will get used to seeing them listed in local.after being seen repeatedly, and tracked down to sitting in an invulnerable pos each time, the hostile becomes more likely to ignore that name in local when they see it next time.this gives increased reaction time to the pve player should they actually go active, and represents a possible intel channel reporter blowing the cover of the hostile as well.these two aspects make pos sitting a tactic for adoption by afk players, like the flip side of the cloaking tactic.upgrading local to eliminate all afk influence what if local chat changed, hunting the cloaked..."
"once again - the game needs a mechanism to allow players to impose a threat to afk cloakers. why should there exist a risk-free play style that allows people to hide safely wihtout playing actively for days and days, weeks and weeks? if you want to hunt ratters, even today you wont get the alert ones, you will get the lazy, inactive and unintelligent ratters, and the afk ratters. keep on killing them by all means! . you will have the same effect without afk cloaking though. there is no need for afk cloaking in the game. it promotes the same playstyle as the ratters use, it's despicable and those using it should have a risk of getting caught!there are no doubt other mechanisms in eve online that would need an iteration or two, like safe-poses etc. but the subject of this particular thread was cloaky gameplay, and i think afk cloakers should not live risk-free! i want them to play actively, or stand a risk of loosing their ships."
"but, you are not offering anything as a balance aspect for this increased chance of losing the cloaked side's ships.this situation is often viewed as a stalemate for a very good reason. neither side makes any progress against the other, and both remain intact as a result.you want one side to exclusively have a disadvantage here.as such, that would shift the balance in favor of the other side.if we wanted null sov to actually be a safe place to pve, we would have gates that actually lock, and block out entry the same way a pos has a reinforce timer. a blob could break through it the same way.the game makes it harder for hostiles to penetrate sov null space, not impossible.changing things as you describe would make this even harder.upgrading local to eliminate all afk influence what if local chat changed, hunting the cloaked..."
"so you yourself admit you want to shoot afk pilots. and you are calling others gankbears? look who is talking."
"what dark drifter said. +1"
"in reality there's unexpected delays because individual clients lagged without you realizing it so part of your fleet warped off properly and the other part is in a different system now. or even better one or more of your clients bugged and stuck the overview to the mouse (happens a lot sometimes) throwing off your entire ui till you can log off all your clients restore settings from a backup and then log back in and resetup each client. or while you were panic fighting you accidently clicked a little too far up so your overviews are completely out of synch resulting in part of your fleet shooting yourself. you wonder why you're suddenly taking so much damage... the only way to avoid that is to use the in game tagging system while making all movements slow and precise which at that point you're slower then a normal fleet in delays.sometimes it can be a pain to just warp your fleet through highsec. the unreliable nature of ccp's ui and the unpredictability of system/isp lag can cause a lot of problems with repeaters.just once more in case you missed it. you cannot move quickly with an isboxer fleet. if you do you will have issues as clients desynch. when you're playing only one account you can issue commands many many times faster without worry. trying to do that with an isboxed fleet is suicide.unless of course you don't tag and your overview decides to be silly. even when you sort them properly clients will desynch. even in vanguards i find some of my ships shooting the wrong romi randomly. in an ideal situation yes you can do perfect alpha. so can player fleets via the same method.i have no idea what program you are using to put all your reps on one button. that sounds like an illegal macro program. anyway the logistics comment is irrelevant as i have a nkey rollover keyboard that allows me to press as many buttons as i want at the same time. i can hit 7 reps at the same time without any program. if you have anything resembling a real time delay then your fc and fleet is bad bad bad. ts/mumble/vent/jabber and more allow for almost instant communication. if you're using tags you're just as fast as an isboxer fleet with none of the risks..fire command is just as delayed as with the isboxer setup above since shooting yourself is bad and stuff. the rest of your complaint is irrelevant as you're assuming the isboxer player has a magical computer with no system lag with a magical connection next to ccp while you give the non isboxer fleet a bunch of handicaps."
"i offer afk cloakers to not be afk and play actively as a tactic to avoid beeing detected and killed. i offer them the existing functionality of safelogging when afraid of the imposed risk of afk cloaky detection. i also described a potential trick of pretending to be afk while not being afk, where much exiting gameplay could be had. counter-counter-counter-drops! :-) and finally there is no need in the game for afk cloaking, you can reach any of your goals by the multitude of other \"tools\" available allready in the game! it just requires that you are active and not afk.you seem to mix up cloaked with afk cloaked! i dont see the need to change anything in the game concerning cloaked functions, only there is a need for a mechanic in eve online for players to impose a threat to afk cloakers, because there should be no risk-free way of hiding for weeks and weeks by only logging on and hitting cloak-button after dt.and seraph - your consistant lack of arguments amuses me greatly! you have absolutely nada that supports your aversion to the suggestion, other than the potential threat to your current risk-free playstyle. your fear of a fight shines through! and you squirm and troll more and more! thats hillariuosly fun!"
"really doesn't mean much coming from some nullbear in fa whose pvp experience is \"orbit anchor, lock primary, f1.\" so being afk cloaked (which btw someone that's afk can't harm you) is bad because no one can get you but being afk in station and completely safe is ok. honestly let's just speak the truth here. you want to do your pve in peace. if you wanted to fight cloakers, you'd set bait and fight them. there is no way to \"interact afk cloakers\" without messing with cloaking to the point where it's crap. why should all the advantages go to the big guys with the stations defending? give the little guy a chance to pick his fights before you can blob him."
"these gankbear tears are the best i've had for a long while! you should do your homwork better.so seraph, once again your arguments are based on nothing: the suggestion comes from someone who can not pvp and therefore is not worth anything. says the guy who afk cloaks up... i am part of svea rike, the largest all-swedish nullsec pvp corp in eve. we love to pvp be it in small-gangs or coalition fleets and we are very active. blobbing? absolutely, thats fun too! if we are good or not is up for others to decide, we dont brag or think high of ourselves and we certainly have lots to learn. you are welcome to visit us, and we'll have nice fights anyday without blobbing! maybe you can teach us to afk cloak, seems extremely difficult!as for ratting - no. i dont. it's boring! when i need isk i market-trade. i dont care for the small or big guys, i want eve to be full of risks and ways for players to go after eachothers, but actively. not afk cloaked up in a system for a week or two! unintelligent gameplay like that should have a high risk attached to it! in what way does the removal of that hamper the small guys? or are you just afraid a pvp-noob will kill your sb when you eat at grandmothers? thats pathetic! as for safeness in stations you have a point, there should not be any safe places in eve, but this thread was about cloaky gameplay. im sure there is a thread for that somewhere.and afk cloakers cant harm, thats stating the obvious again! i dont mind getting harmed! you do mind getting harmed though! but why shoud there be such a safe way and why are you so afraid of some risk, if you are so good at pvp as you imply? why not just safe-log or play actively instead? no, you are a gankbear afraid your 100% safe playstyle will be removed and that you will have to work to get kills. and you dislike risks.eve online needs a mechanism for players to impose a threat to afk cloakers. seraphs lack of arguments (\"whine, they can dock, whine, you cant pvp but i can by staying afk cloaked without risk for weeks, whine, tears, whine\" etc) proves this in it self."
"where is the increased risk to the pve player?your suggestion does nothing more than increase the chances a cloaked player could be shot at, by a more capable opponent.or they could leave, if they cannot maintain a level of defense requiring active play.the consideration that they came to attack pve assets is not only disregarded, but set back considerably as a potential.when i jump into an exhumer, i do not want a science fiction version of a farming game.i feel that the idea that the only defense is to have pve players avoid, or be spared contact with cloaked play, diminishes both sides.upgrading local to eliminate all afk influence what if local chat changed, hunting the cloaked..."
"only the afk player should have that risk. not the active cloaky player.as i have described before, this would also open up a possibility for players to act afk when they are not, there will be a continued and new risk for the pve player if he/she opts to search for that afk cloaker that has been sitting in the best ratting system for 3 weeks. not that i think the type of ratter who fall for afk cloakers is the type of player that would go after said afk cloaker. but for the sake of argument!the players that gets killed by afk cloakers are the same people getting killed by any type of surprise attacks/ganks in eve allready today. adding a risk to afk cloaking will not change that, and all afk cloakers would have the same number of kills anyway using other tools. but the fact that you can log on and hit cloak once every 24 hours and be perfectly safe for months is not a sound game mechanic as it promotes unintelligent and lazy gameplay without any risk. said i would not suggest any concret mechanism, as there are others better at that than me, but lets try to make this more specific. why not a specific probe launcher with specific probes that would hamper any pve ship fitting making it silly to fit , forcing pve players to reship. also the probes would take loong time to finish scan, maybe like moon probes or worse. they would not be effective on cloakers that warp around. they should be easy to detect on dirscan ofc.the common hotdropper or cloaky pilot could easily aviod these probes by playing actively moving around regularly, but not to often, maybe once every 20-30 minutes. if grandmother calls and offers lunch, the acive cloaky pilot safelogs out of scan or repositiones to another safer system. the afk cloaker would risk getting caught while asleep after that enormous lunch at grandmother in the middle of his tz night.there is no such thing as a free lunch. even at grandmother, where lunch is free, you have to listen to grandmother! and risk your 25 m isk sb, because in eve online afk cloaking should be subject to a certain risk!"
"this is entirely disingenuous, the only question i have remaining is whether you are aware of it.pve players in sov null, where this has impact, are only relevant to being affected by afk cloaking if they avoid all attempts at combat.if they are interested in fighting, or simply not afraid to operate with a hostile for whatever reason, the cloaked player has zero negative impact on them.they often want that hostile there, to spice up an otherwise dull asteroid or npc grind.keep in mind the foundation of this game, interaction.we make isk, so that it can be spent on advancing our interaction, and as such is considered as a valid target for other players.when you put in place something requiring preparation, that preparation becomes translated into leverage against your opponents.you have the bigger ship, with the better weapons, and the more powerful ammunition. this gives you an advantage in the fight.your opponent is also seeking an advantage, so if they know you are saving up isk to kill them more effectively, they are allowed and encouraged to stop you if they can.sov null space has player supported protections in place. extremely effective ones at that, which has led many players to the wild assumption that they must own the space with their name on it.all they own is the right to lock out the non-allied players from docking in certain outposts, or building a pos locally. that is it.this leverage is very successful, because other players must rely on staging outside of this controlled area.then, to reach the controlled area they either need massive forces to overcome gate camps, or cleverness.massive force, or blobs, can't reach pve targets. as is obvious, they simply leave before the massive force can reach them.as eve is not simply a blob vs blob game, but a very complex set of options for both sides, threatening your enemy and hurting their means to build ships and weapons is a needed tactic.if we neuter cloaking tactics further than they already are, we will entrench even further the big blocks in sov, as only blob vs blob tactics will remain on the table.i believe this to be bad for the game.upgrading local to eliminate all afk influence what if local chat changed, hunting the cloaked..."
"want to know something funny? i don't really afk cloak. but if you do get rid of it i suppose nullbears like yourself, hidden behind dozens of blue systems, blue allies and blue stations will be safe from a big bad bomber pilot because they probably won't want to fly out 70 jumps into 0.0 only to watch you dock up. the ability to be afk while cloaked is necessary because they need to have timing to fight you. a bomber is a soft target that can only deal with other soft targets. again you just want to do your carebearing in peace, and it is you who has no argument. \"something needs to be done\" whine whine whine. set up bait, learn to pvp."
"this is in no way meant to be a <U+FFFD>fix now<U+FFFD> post. probably none of these ideas are new but i think it<U+FFFD>s important to keep them in talk.one of the favorite arguments to why 0.0s population is not higher is: most of the systems are junk. that is a true observation. most of the systems in 0.0 have low true-sec and are therefore limited to what they can yield in terms of rats and ores, the things your 0.0-grunt is making his living with.the plea to change 0.0 mechanics to make those systems more viable is usually the <U+FFFD>more<U+FFFD> approach. the systems needs better rats and better ores otherwise people can<U+FFFD>t make enough money and will not live there. ccp tried this approach in 2010s dominion expansion with the introduction of infrastructure-hubs and sov-upgrades. upgrading your system increases its yield in terms of more anomalies and more ore-belts. it created a system that mainly produces junk. having 40 anomalies in a system is pointless when you only want to pick 2 to fly. again we plead for <U+FFFD>more<U+FFFD>. more havens, more sanctums. and the plea was heard again when hubs become a decent third option for the lower true-sec systems.since then many development cycles have passed and at some point ccp will have to tackle 0.0 and sov again. and i would like to advertise another way. we need <U+FFFD>movement<U+FFFD>. a system where you try to make everything equally good has no movement in it. when your resources are endless, stagnation becomes unpreventable as everyone becomes content with their share of the resource distribution. null-sec needs to become fluid again and to do it resources need to become fluid. not only moon minerals, a powerful conflict driver in the past, but also resources the 0.0-grunt has available to him.unlocking true-sec is an important step in this. a system that has seen little to no activity in it will increase in true-sec until it hits -1.0. increasing the amount of value you can harvest from it. a system that has seen major activity over a period of time will drop in true-sec until it hits 0.0. this goes against completely against the system that is currently in place, which increases yield the more you are active in the system. it resembles more the situation in wormhole-space where anomalies don<U+FFFD>t respawn instantly and a system that has seen no activity will have a lot more anomalies available. and by now, some people probably think that i want to nerf everything until 0.0 becomes a desolate wasteland with a few gold nuggets in-between. but i haven<U+FFFD>t put a single digit to any of the variables. all i said was about a change in mechanics, leaving it open what a 0.0-system should yield compared to a -1.0. my personal opinion is that one system should feed more than the 4 ratters in sanctums/havens but this would require a pve overhaul that i don<U+FFFD>t want to be discussed in this topic.forum-defense aside, a fluent resource system gives you many options. for example: you could exploit the land for everything in a short amount of time and then move on to the next or you could stay and manage the systems true-sec amongst your space, possibly giving you increased efficiency compared to the hit and run method. it cuts out expected income from moons. if you get unlucky and don<U+FFFD>t get enough from moons you either have to periodically conquer more moons (which comes with cost of war) or start cutting corners. in general: making the resource system fluid puts pressure on people to move with it .the mechanic itself should be independent from sov. a new sov-system could increase efficiency or dampen effects, but it should not stop depletion of resources by spawning new ones.of course this mechanic does not destroy the rental empires and huge 0.0 blobs and a huge empire feels the effects of the system a lot less than a smaller regional power, but i don<U+FFFD>t think resource mechanics are a way to break the blobs. if you take the resources away from them you wont have anything left for the descendants to work with, when the dust of crumbling empires settles. anyways, dealing with resources in 0.0 is half of the job. it closely connects with sov and i hope ccp tackles both subjects."
"if u run, run on your own merits, rather then pointing at others, acuse them of things u know little about. run on strenghts of the things u represent, rather then point fingersi am a first time csm member and am certainly not goon nor n3 affiliated. i am highly impressed how the current csm members from blocks represent eve and its future. i see goon csm members promoting changes that would them no good in the shirt term, but benefit a game as a whole. i see them debate hard, work hard. i see csm members spend countless hours on thr past crius change, crunching numbers, spreadsheets, working for a change focused on industry, as a platform for eve s future. with seagull ponting at changes in null sec i can tell you thr amount of open ideas, block or non block arr all focused on eve s future, not what block u came from. a dead eve holds no blocks, not even pixelsdont reform for the sake of it, run cause u represent people and ideas that a majority feels u represent best, then u get votes.goodluck on your campaign"
"this could really change how pvp is handled in eve defiantly worth looking into"
"i have to say i agree with isboxer being advantage to one guy over many. having an alt booster or two? thats fine, yet even there people talk about on grid boosters. having alts mean you have to alt+tab to other window or have more screens to use those alts. having isboxer is just too easy. this is multiplayer game, what is the point having massive multiplayer game where one guy can have 10+ characters with almost perfect sync and therefore for others the whole multiplayer effect is kinda deleted?its not that bad yet but imagine if there would be a corp (and it might happen sooner or later) where few people would isbox 20+ characters. you chould have 200 man pvp fleet with just 10 people running it. i don't know how about you, but i play games so i can pvp and i don't like the idea of being in a fleet with other people, all of them dedicating theirs free time to a game they love and yet they can get smashed by one guy simply because of a program.we all understand that ccp likes money, they are a company after all. but i've played quiet a few mmos and all mmos with botting or multiboxing were by a lot of players i've met considered bad, not worth theirs time because there is no meaing to play against something when you stand almost no chance. when i started to play mmos most people didn't have alts and than it was growing and growing, changing some games i've played by that a lot towards more farming and solo like games. like i said, now there is not so many of them, but if it would grow isboxers will probably become a problem which won't help ccp attract new players at all it would most likely deter them from playing.eve is known for a wonderful and live universe with many possibilities, for big fights, for politics, economy etc. let it be known for that in the future as well and not for one guy rolling over many with just few clicks."
"thanks forums for killing my responses.you agree because you're a dumbass. because you - like many others - assign multiboxers magical properties and lack of handicaps that are present for everyone.according to you, a normal person is handicapped by lack of synchronization, lag, system unresponsivness, latency issues, random disconnects, random socket closures, client crashes and plain old miss-clicks.multiboxers using isboxer however are safe from all those things apparently and they win battles with a single click. well, it's not that simple.have you tried isboxer with 26+ toons so you can rightfully claim it's \"too easy\" ? if you have tried and found it's not instant plex pinata, then you've already failed in your wrong assumption that isboxer is the magical wand that transforms your legion of accounts into an active and coherent contribution to the bad aspects of this game. - if you haven't, then you're talking out of your arse. see above.the point of having a massive multiplayer game is so multiple people from all four winds can geet together and do fun things. even us multiboxers like to get together, mine in super-massive fleets and do other stuff that people like you just don't understand. and our dedication and hard work is well rewarded. and we pay ccp the same as you do. one plex per account. it's not like we get chars with bazillion of sp and free of charge. we have to skill them up just like you do. facing the same problems. everything in eve costs isk and since there's just one toon actually providing the funds, guess what?why do you think it's going to be bad? there are whole corporations and alliances out there who are built out of just people who multibox toons. and there are fleets out there (not necessarily pvp, since multiboxing isn't as rewarding in pvp as it is in industry-mining-pi) consisting of 200+ characters with reality of only 10 people behind them. and why is that bad? have you seen the size of the universe eve is based in? have you even explored it towards its edges? over 50% of so called \"claimed space\" is empty and devoid of life. nobody forces you to hang around us who multibox. go out there, make a glorious time for youself or your friends. nobody is preventing you from carving out your own piece of destiny.saying you've played \"quite a few mmos\" and saying you haven't encountered multiboxing is talking out of your anus. i've played multiple mmo's and wherever multiboxing was permitted, i've done it. so have others.however, people who multibox (by using isboxer or not) don't dissuade new players from continuing to play. it's the under-dregs of society in eve & lack of a helping hand on the side of eve that does that quite well. funny how multiboxers are blamed for deterring new players, but none of that blame is put at the feet of scammers, thieves, pirates, gankers and awoxers.i have a feeling you're butt-hurt becuse you by yourself aren't willing to dedicate so much of your free time and money, to have a fun and better experience at this game. and that makes you angry.quit whining and learn to play?"
"i said i have encountered multiboxing, and mostly only people who think its ok is the people doing it.now thieves, pirates, scammers, gankers and awoxers are in real life as well. yet they can't clone themselves to whatever numbers they want.i think you seem to feel threaten by people who do not like what you are doing, your easier way of making isks, pvping etc. and i don't feel butt-hurt i'm simply stating my opinion. i've never liked too much multiboxing since i've seen it can make bad changes to the games i've played. i bet if i'd be using isbox i'd be fine with ti and defending it as you do.p.s. if by learning to play you mean use a program which can make me do the same as 10 or more other players, thats not learning how to play, thats learning how to \"cheat\" the multiplayer to play it solo. no thank you."
"it's blatantly obvious that you and some people in this thread have never tried to use isboxer. you really should try it some day. i guarantee you'll find the reality of multiboxing to be nothing like the fantasy put forth by you and others like you. hours/days/weeks/months are spent setting up uis tweaking settings, overviews and control schemes. the frustration of realizing that a window stuck to the cursor on one of the clients despite everything being pinned. the joy of lag causing one or more of your cursors to be off target. the joy of sending half your fleet the wrong direction because you clicked a little too quickly. the realization that you have to do everything much slower then normal so you don't end up killing yourself horribly. etcetcetcif you want to have a real discussion about isboxer and other repeaters you first need to acknowledge the reality of their usage.edit : btw my first real mmo was trade wars and even in that game people had alts. every single game i've played online has had alts... you're deluding yourself if you think that alts are a new thing or that they are a problem.if you really think that alts are causing games to focus on farming then you really are new to the scene. try playing uo or lineage2 or any number of old school mmos. everquest was called evercrack for a reason.. those were real farming games and guess what.... eve is from the same era."
"guess what i played lineage 2 and ragnarok online without alts for a long time. i made them only because everyone had them and therefore i couldn't find any support characters to level with. and sure i had groups of people i played with but many of them were finding solo with alt better. i'm just not a fan of many alts and multiboxing, nothing can change my mind in this matter.and no i won't try something i don't want others to use. :) though i've seen plenty videos on it, have read some stuff and met couple isboxing fleets. and alts are not new thing today, but when i was playing back than only few people had them. than it spread and i've noticed the changes.and btw, if isboxer would be so bad to use and you would lose your fleet sending it wrong way why would people use it? because it doesn't happen as often i guess as huge isk income or very unfair pvp. but i guess today pvp is player vs program."
"leveling in lineage 2 without a buffbot was stupid. fortunately there were plenty of prophets and such who were willing to sell their buffs in leveling areas. ro on the other hand was easily playable with no alts but yet many many were made. in ro the support characters were stupid hard to level solo (same for lineage 2 in those days) so unless you have friends or a good guild you wouldn't run into many leveling solo. hell my guild on chaos had guild support characters that trusted members of the guild could log in on at any time (usually hocus mage/bard/dancer/etc).i knew people with +10 accounts in the first years of eve. just because you didn't notice them and/or didn't know what to look for back then doesn't mean they weren't there.i watched videos and read many a website on brain surgery. does that mean i can operate on you now? watching and reading is one thing but actually doing is a whole other experience.isboxer has many downsides but generally i can work around them well enough to keep my stuff alive. then again i can almost play my fleet without the usage of a repeater. the upsides are strong though such as superior client resource management and such.as for pvp an isboxer fleet is at a disadvantage in almost every situation as long as the non isboxer fleet isn't being absolutely stupid. as for \"unfair pvp\" well that's the goal of almost every single pvper out there. people don't really want a fair fight. they want the illusion of a fair fight that they win. some people are even honest enough to admit that they don't even want the illusion they straight up fight only when it's fair to them. you're never going to get rid of unfair pvp and blaming boxers for that is silly."
"giving afk cloaking such a high importance and implying it to be \"the final bastion\" against the blue doughnut and blob warfare is extremely far-fetched and clearly not a serious meant argument. the frustration of the current state of sov-mechanisms shines through in that argument, and i can sympathize with it because we all feel the same - something should be done about it. and something is cooking at ccp, so lets see what happens! but keeping afk cloaking without risk is not what is needed to fix eve. if it was eve would not be broken in the first place.seraph, you finally had an argument! good! timing, it's all about timing. i agree. and i think there should be a possibility to disrupt that timing, if you afk cloak. if you want to achieve timing in your decloak-targeting-scram-covertcyno-bob-kill chain, you can still do that but you have to work a bit more; check d-scan everyv30 minutes and warp to a new safespot if you see afk-cloaky-detection-probes out. safelog when you go to sleep, or fly home. thats all. not to hard, eh?!afk cloaking without risk has no place in eve since there should always be a risk when playing eve. those who can not achieve what they are acheiving today without afk cloakingdeserve to have their afk cloaked ships killed.i'm more convinced than ever that eve online needs a mechanism for players to impose a threat to afk cloakers!"
"want to talk about risk? where is the risk of you hiding behind 80 systems of blues while you sit in your afktar ratting away? please get out of here with your nonsense delusions. i'm not going to fly 80 systems into your territory to watch you dock up until i have to leave because of some stupid in game timer or whatever mechanism you want to put in place so you can go back to ratting. all these threads do is serve as a hall of shame for nullbears to whine and cry about something ccp will never change nor should they ever.want to know what the mechanism is to hunt an afk cloaker? bait. learn to do it."
"this.it has been repeatedly proven that pve players can avoid patrol styled hostiles, who simply sweep through constellations.if the intel channels did not warn them, then seeing a hostile name in local served that need.are some pve players caught, despite sincere efforts?no.they were either afk, and an unmonitored client was encountered, or they screwed up by never made proper efforts to begin with.in simplest terms, any pve player can avoid a hostile entering their system if they do it right.to imply the secondary tactic, camping the pve player in their own system, requires some kind of limitation without a balancing aspect, that only makes pve even safer than before.by asking that cloaked player to leave, you are effectively telling them that the stalemate won't be broken, so can they please leave for no reason.after all, if they could use this camping to successfully catch you, that would validate it as a successful tactic.so, a new game is created:are they really there?option 1: no, feel free to pve in safety.option 2: yes, and they might catch you.you want to believe option 1, but you are so afraid of option 2, that you are posting here to get rid of it entirely.upgrading local to eliminate all afk influence what if local chat changed, hunting the cloaked..."
"it has been repeatedly proven that pve players can avoid afk cloakers to. that still does not justify that a risk free afk cloaking should stay. trust me, you will get kills by having your bob team ready with a few hunters roaming in cloakys, playing actively. those who use afk cloakers are lazy and deserve to get killed just as much as the lazy ratters!like this one: hotdropped paladin ratter without afk cloaker"
"i don't recall asking that afk cloaking should be kept in the game at all, particularly risk free.maybe you assumed i meant it should?i did point out that it served a purpose, regardless of how mad it makes you.i want genuine risk for both sides, while you seem to be arguing for one side exclusively.you say: that cloaked ship has no risk, and this is wrong.i am saying: that pve player who can effectively avoid all hostile contact, they are also wrong.we can both link kill mails showing how both sides have suffered losses.i can provide links to lottery results showing how people beat those odds too.none of these links would take you to a practical method of achieving a win, in either context.upgrading local to eliminate all afk influence what if local chat changed, hunting the cloaked..."
"i say that afk cloaked ships has no risk and that it should change. we might misunderstand eachother, ill try to be more clear and read more carefully. links are for seraph, he thinks im a ratter and that i know nothing about hotdropping or baiting and counterdropping hotdroppers. i know one or two things, but i'm the first to admit i have lots more to learn!"
"i have played on both sides of this fence, and while noone can claim to read the minds of the devs, i have found both sides to be more than capable of avoiding risk.they both have the ability to cherry pick encounters, one by staying cloaked, the other by remaining docked or behind pos shields.neither trusts the other not to hot drop, so a straight fight is often avoided as a result.if a change is applied to only one side, then the other will be affected to the opposite degree.(we know they are in that most frustratingly ultimate form of balance, called a stalemate, currently)i think we need a solution that gives both sides more risk, in exchange for a path to resolving these stalemates in a realistic time frame.upgrading local to eliminate all afk influence what if local chat changed, hunting the cloaked..."
"if i can't be afk while cloaked, then you can't be afk in your station or pos."
"bump +1"
"i would personally say the yes, ccp /support tickets, needs a bit of a touch up. however i also believe that this post if you want it to be effective, to be constructed critically, and professionally, otherwise you will get troll comments because you made yourself available by s***posting.#deletetheweak"
"keep ignoring how a server works, you really don't understand what i am talking about or you just ignoring it.but, you start complaining about \"problems with the thrid party software\" .... yeah, you don't even understand how the internet works and lag from different clients spread out in the world. but yeah, unimportant for you because you are only one client with one ip. you keep ignoring that exactly this is your main advantage for the perfect alpha.i know how isboxer works and when i read all your replys i really know that you have no clue how to use it propper. for you it is just a nice window management application, nothing more, nothing less."
"wow, apparently the anti-isboxers are just as bad as the nerf-ganking group. all i've read from this thread is this:anti-isboxer: whaaa, unfair, whine, advantage, whimper, ban, cry, make people play the way i want them tothe 'let people play how they want' group: here's how you're wrong.anti-isboxer: whaaa, unfair, whine, advantage, whimper, ban, cry, make people play the way i want them tothe 'let people play how they want' group: here's how you're wrong.anti-isboxer: whaaa, unfair, whine, advantage, whimper, ban, cry, make people play the way i want them tonope, no more. i rage quit this thread.you can haz all my posts for this thread."
"this here little idea could be a boon to incursion runners, manufacturers, neutral haulers and the pirates that kill the above. keep the support rolling to keep it at the top and in view of all. we need more player created content, and this could pave the way for more. thanks to present supporters, and let's get this idea spread like wildfire!i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"please upvote if you like this idea.problem: pve fits for exploration are unsuitable for pvp because you must \"waste\" slots on hack/archeology modules.solution: merge hack/archeology functionality into existing pvp modules such as webs, scrams, tps, tds, etc.implementation: simply remove hacking and archeology modules and instead move their functionality into existing pvp modules.skills affecting hacking and archeology could affect the migrated function.container to hack? scram or td it.container to analyze? web or tp it.someone attacking you? use all the mids."
"found your problem bro:"
"whoa, pve content is part of pvp!?!?!dude, whatever you've been smoking, you need to share."
"i started eve online in 2008 after having created the biggest guild on my server in wow. i quit wow because my son was born and my guild members couldn't understand why i took a break for a few months. it was time to find a more mature crowd. from there i tenaciously, and ecstatically climbed the steep learning curve of eve online, and the more i learned the more there was to learn. after having made so many mistakes i started to meet with success from time to time. my goals began to take shape and i was hooked.my corp history is pretty long, i followed my pirate friend around quite a bit then turned my attention towards the rank and file of null-sec. learned allot, got into some massive fights, watched the northern coalition crumble, good times! from there i joined an rp corp, pretty neat actually. then wh corp, good money, but gawd was it boring when i was the only person on. back out to null, whole lot of, <U+FFFD>nope don't want to deal with this **** again,<U+FFFD> started to take hold. went back to high-sec and started my own corp, i had heard dust 514 was coming out soon and it was time to prepare a foundation to bring dust and eve together in one organization and position myself and my members to take full advantage of whatever may come.i bought a ps3 even though i had an xbox 360 so i could play dust, bought my way into the beta as soon as that became an option. i don't have a ton of money, but hey i'm a ccp fanboy! i had a blast with dust, i couldn't wait for orbital bombardments, i couldn't wait to join an alliance and start conquering planets with the combined arms of space, air, and ground combat. i gathered up a goodly size of members who shared my vision, joined an alliance who also became passively interested in my goals, and we all watched closely as things developed. i had good members, good leaders came from those members, on both dust and eve sides, and the corporation i had developed was a force to be reckoned with on either side, but the dust eve connection was not getting much bigger over time.eventually the goals began to change on both sides. my eve members wanted to make more of an impact, we set up a pos and started turning a profit. my dust members wanted to do pc battles, we began merccing ourselves out. corp chat always had people in it, but there was no common ground between my eve side and my dust side so these people didn't have much use for each other beyond a little small talk from time to time. the point of contention came with taxes of all things. we raised taxes to 10% to pay for eve bills and put it to use paying bonuses out in faction battles in dust which became even more of an incentive when those battles started paying only in lp. 10% is chump change in eve, but in dust it feels pretty significant and my leadership on both sides couldn't change those taxes to meet their needs without screwing the other side.moral was waning and i had to do something to try and unify the corp, keep it in one piece until ccp's master plan was unleashed. then each side would be of great use to each other and taxes would be a small detail. poco's became conquerable and i went for it. even got in a spat over one that resulted in a huge fight. fun times until the corp we attacked bought some mercs of their own. they achieved a pyrrhic victory and should get a return on their investment in 5 years or so. my corp split from the alliance they were in. the eve side wanted to see new horizons and the dust side really wasn't restricted in any way by what alliance we were in or what area of operation we chose.the new expansions came out for eve and dust and they had no new additions to the dust/eve link, the corp came apart at the seams and i spent a huge amount of my time for about three days sorting people out and surgically amputating my corp into two separate fully functional groups with surprisingly minimal loss of members. out of an 80 man corp we had two, each just under 40 members.those two corporations are still alive and well, they are doing what works for them and i have stepped out of leadership although i still retain my title in both. the eve corp went to null-sec, the dust corp is an enjoyable low drama corp who sometimes lends members to pc battles. project legion sounds like it will suffer from many of the same fundamental problems dust does, eve's sandbox components are still largely in control of null tyrants, and project valkyrie will be exclusive to oculus rift, which i do not intend to buy. i'm disappointed to say, i'm painfully losing interest in my favorite hobby of the last 6 years. also, i have been cheating on you with other games this whole time..."
"i can haz your stuff?"
"tl;dr: ...honestly, i have no idea. i read the whole thing and i can't find a pithy way to sum it up. meh. actually, meh pretty much sums it up."
"strongly agree - if the server calculation is a load issue make it client side. maybe when the drone returns to ship it saves it's hull/armor/shield stats locally.i don't know if we necessarily would then need the color coding, we could just move drones around into the existing groups if we knew their condition. put all the broken ones into your 'borken drone' group."
"i agree with your message and will not be voting for you because the pasta menace threatens to drown us all in a bolognaise sauce of 420 no scope pwnage. down with the power blocs!"
"you seem genuine albeit naive as i once was. i appreciate your input but i will persist in what i feel is right."
"have fun being a joke everyone's tired of hearing."
"genuine and naive is what got me in csm"
"if that were true i would have won a long time ago."
